[[Estate (law)]]

CATEGORIES: Law

An estate, in common law, is the net worth of a person at any point in time alive or dead. It is the sum of a person's assets – legal rights, interests and entitlements to property of any kind – less all liabilities at that time.

[[Parkchester, Bronx]]

CATEGORIES: The Bronx, Neighborhoods of New York City

Parkchester is a planned community originally developed by the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and located in the central Bronx, New York City.

[[Yorktown Heights, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in New York (state)

Yorktown Heights is a Census-designated place in the town of Yorktown in Westchester County, New York. The population was 1,781 at the 2010 census.

[[MIT Lincoln Laboratory]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Defense

The MIT Lincoln Laboratory, located in Lexington, Massachusetts, is a United States Department of Defense federally funded research and development center. It is used to help advanced technology to problems of national security. 

The Laboratory gives a technical base for military electronics ranging from radars to reentry physics. 

[[Sugar Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s action movies, 1974 horror movies, American action movies, American horror movies, Blaxploitation movies

Sugar Hill is a 1974 American blaxploitation action horror movie directed by Paul Maslansky and starring Charlie Robinson, Marki Bey, Robert Quarry, Zara Cully, Don Pedro Colley, Big Walter Price. American International Pictures had previously experimented blaploitation horrors with Blacula (1972) and its sequel Scream Blacula Scream (1973).

[[National Hispanic Institute]]

CATEGORIES: Organizations based in the United States

The National Hispanic Institute (NHI) is an international nonprofit organization. Its focus is the future leadership in the global Hispanic community.  It was founded in 1979 in Texas with the mission of serving the future leadership needs of the United States via the Hispanic/Latino community. NHI became the largest Latino youth organization in the United States.  NHI is now an international organization with over 85,000 alumni worldwide.

[[Lorenzo de Zavala]]

CATEGORIES: 1788 births, 1836 deaths, Mexican politicians

Manuel Lorenzo Justiniano de Zavala y Sanchez (October 14, 1788 – November 15, 1836), known simply as Lorenzo de Zavala, was a Mexican physician, politician, diplomat and author. Zavala was the interim Vice President of the Republic of Texas in 1936.

[[Chinese virus]]

Chinese virus or China virus may refer to:

[[Standing Rock Indian Reservation]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in North Dakota

The Standing Rock Reservation  (Íŋyaŋ Woslál Háŋ/inyan bosdata) is located in North Dakota and South Dakota in the United States. It is where the "Hunkpapa and Sihasapa bands of Lakota Oyate and the Ihunktuwona and Pabaksa bands of the Dakota Oyate" live. The sixth-largest Native American reservation in land area in the US, Standing Rock includes all of Sioux County, North Dakota, and all of Corson County, South Dakota.

[[Dakota Access Pipeline protests]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in the United States

The Dakota Access Pipeline protests, also called by the hashtag #NoDAPL, were grassroots movements that began in early 2016 in reaction to the approved construction of Energy Transfer Partners' Dakota Access Pipeline in the northern United States. 

The pipeline was projected to run from the Bakken oil fields in western North Dakota to southern Illinois, crossing beneath the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, as well as under part of Lake Oahe near the Standing Rock Indian Reservation. 

Many in the Standing Rock tribe and surrounding communities considered the pipeline and its intended crossing beneath the Missouri River would cause harm to the region's drinking water, as well as to the water supply used to irrigate surrounding farmlands. The construction was also seen as a direct threat to ancient burial grounds and cultural sites of historic importance.

Almost 500 people were arrested during the protests.

[[Brand New Congress]]

CATEGORIES: Bernie Sanders

Brand New Congress is an American political action committee formed by former staffers and supporters of the Bernie Sanders 2016 presidential campaign to elect hundreds of new congressional representatives who supported the campaign's political platform.

[[Brewster McCloud]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 comedy movies, 1970s fantasy movies, American fantasy-comedy movies, Movies directed by Robert Altman

Brewster McCloud is a 1970 American fantasy comedy movie directed by Robert Altman and produced by Lou Adler. It stars Bud Cort, Sally Kellerman, Michael Murphy, Shelley Duvall, Corey Fischer, Stacy Keach, Jennifer Salt, Harvey Keitel and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[MoveOn]]

CATEGORIES: Political organizations based in the United States

MoveOn (formerly known as MoveOn.org) is a progressive public policy advocacy group and political action committee. It was formed in 1998 in response to the impeachment of President Bill Clinton by the U.S. House of Representatives. MoveOn.org has raised millions of dollars for liberal candidates in the United States.

[[Democracy for America]]

CATEGORIES: Organizations based in the United States

Democracy for America (DFA) is a progressive political action committee, headquartered in South Burlington, Vermont. It was founded by former Democratic National Committee Chair Howard Dean in 2004. DFA works for public awareness campaigns on many issues of public policy, trains activists, and provides funding directly to candidates for office. The organization has more than a million members in the United States and internationally.

[[The Looney Tunes Show]]

CATEGORIES: English-language television programs

The Looney Tunes Show is an American animated sitcom produced by Warner Bros. Animation that ran from May 3, 2011 through August 31, 2014 on Cartoon Network. The series consists of two seasons each containing 26 episodes, and features characters from the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies theatrical cartoon shorts updated for the 21st century.

[[Union Square, Manhattan]]

CATEGORIES: Manhattan

Union Square is a historic place surrounding neighborhood in Manhattan, New York City, located where Broadway and the former Bowery Road – now Fourth Avenue – came together in the early 19th century.

[[Mother, Jugs & Speed]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 comedy movies, American black comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Peter Yates

Mother, Jugs & Speed is a 1976 American black comedy movie directed by Peter Yates and stars Bill Cosby, Harvey Keitel, Raquel Welch, Allen Garfield, Larry Hagman, Bruce Davison, Toni Basil. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Merriam-Webster]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States

Merriam-Webster, Inc., is an American company that publishes reference books and is especially known for its dictionaries.

In 1831, George and Charles Merriam founded the company as G & C Merriam Co. in Springfield, Massachusetts. 

In 1964, Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc., bought Merriam-Webster, Inc., as a subsidiary. The company created its current name in 1982.

[[Dave Brat]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Virginia, Businesspeople from Detroit, Michigan, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan, United States representatives from Virginia, US Republican Party politicians

David Alan Brat (born July 27, 1964) is an American politician and businessman. He is a member of the Republican Party. He was the U.S. Representative for Virginia's 7th congressional district from 2014 to 2019.

Brat became known when he beat House Majority Leader Eric Cantor in the district's 2014 Republican primary. Brat's primary victory over Cantor made him the first primary challenger to beat a sitting House Majority Leader.

Brat lost his reelection bid in 2018 to Democrat Abigail Spanberger.

[[Working Families Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States

[[No Mercy (1986 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 action movies, 1986 crime movies, 1986 thriller movies, 1980s crime thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, Movies directed by Richard Pearce

No Mercy is a 1986 American action crime thriller movie directed by Richard Pearce. It stars Richard Gere, Kim Basinger, Jeoren Krabbé, George Dzundza, Terry Kinney, Ely Pouget and was distributed by TriStar Pictures.

[[AJ Tracey]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, English singer-songwriters, English rap musicians, Black British musicians, Grime music artists, Living people, Singers from London

Ché Wolton Grant (born 4 March 1994), more commonly known by his stage name AJ Tracey, is an English rapper, singer, songwriter and record producer from Ladbroke Grove, London.

He rose to fame in 2016. He was listed in The Guardian's list of "best new acts to catch at festivals in 2016".

[[Fahrenheit 11/9]]

CATEGORIES: 2018 movies, American documentary movies, Donald Trump

Fahrenheit 11/9 is a 2018 American political documentary by filmmaker Michael Moore about the 2016 United States presidential election and presidency of Donald Trump. The movie had its world premiere on September 6, 2018, and was released in the United States on September 21, 2018, by Briarcliff Entertainment.

It made $6.7 million worldwide. It received mostly positive reviews, with website Rotten Tomatoes saying that "Fahrenheit 11/9 finds Michael Moore in fine fighting form, delivering a political call to action that ranks among his most effective works".

[[Knock Down the House]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 movies, Netflix movies, 2010s feminist movies

Knock Down the House is a 2019 American documentary movie directed by Rachel Lears. It is about the primary campaigns of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Amy Vilela, Cori Bush and Paula Jean Swearengin, four progressive Democrats supported by Justice Democrats and Brand New Congress who ran for Congress in the 2018 midterm elections.

The movie had its world premiere at the 2019 Sundance Film Festival on January 27, 2019, and it was released on May 1, 2019 by Netflix.

[[Aitch (rapper)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 births, Living people, English rap musicians, People from Manchester, Grime music artists

Harrison Armstrong (born 9 December 1999), better known by his stage name Aitch, is an English rapper and grime MC from Manchester.

He has supported rappers such as Cadet and Wiley on tour. The name "Aitch" derives from the pronunciation of the letter 'h', the first letter of his given name.

[[J Hus]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, Black British musicians, English singer-songwriters, English rap musicians, Singers from London, Living people

Momodou Lamin Jallow (born 26 May 1996), better known by his stage name J Hus, is an English rapper, singer, songwriter and model of Gambian descent from Stratford, London.

Jallow was born in London and grew up in the Stratford district of the city. He eventually moved to Peterborough in Cambridgeshire. He is of Gambian descent and was raised by his mother, who emigrated to England when she was 25 years old. He was raised as a Muslim and is of ethnic Fula heritage. In June 2018, he was arrested in Stratford and charged with carrying a knife in public. Hours after he was released from prison in April 2019, he made a surprise appearance on stage at Canadian rapper Drake's concert in London.

[[The Iceman Cometh]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on plays

The Iceman Cometh is a 1973 American drama movie directed by John Frankenheimer and based on the 1939 play of the same name by Eugene O'Neill. It stars Lee Marvin, Robert Ryan, Jeff Bridges, Fredric March, Bradford Dillman.

[[Baby Blue Marine]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 drama movies, 1970s war movies, American drama movies

Baby Blue Marine is a 1976 American World War II drama movie directed by John D. Hancock and produced by Aaron Spelling, Leonard Goldberg. It stars Jan-Michael Vincent, Richard Gere, Bruno Kirby, Art Lund, Adam Arkin, Michael Conrad, Dana Elcar, Allan Miller and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Reflections in a Golden Eye (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by John Huston

Reflections in a Golden Eye is a 1967 American drama movie directed by John Huston and based on the 1941 novel of the same name by Carson McCullers. It stars Elizabeth Taylor, Marlon Brando, Brian Keith, Julie Harris, with Robert Forster and Harvey Keitel in their movie debuts. It was distributed by Warner Bros.. and was unsuccessful at box office.

[[Kid Blue]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s western movies, 1973 movies, American western movies

Kid Blue is a 1973 American western movie directed by James Frawley and starring Dennis Hopper, Warren Oates, Peter Boyle, Ben Johnson, M. Emmet Walsh. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox

[[Murder of John Lennon]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 in the United States, 1980s in New York (state), 1980s murders in the United States, 20th century in Manhattan, Assassinations in the United States, Crime in New York City, December events, John Lennon, Murders by firearm in New York

On the 8 December 1980, musician John Lennon was shot and killed by Mark David Chapman. It happened outside the Dakota in the Upper West Side of Manhattan, New York City. Chapman lived in Hawaii and had travelled to New York to kill Lennon. Chapman said he was annoyed at how lazy Lennon's lifestyle was and was also annoyed about that Lennon had said The Beatles were "more popular than Jesus". 

Chapman was arrested soon after the shooting and was charged with murder. Chapman pleaded guilty to Lennon's murder and was sentenced to 20-years-to-life in prison. Chapman could have had parole ten times since 2000, but was never accepted. He is still in prison today.

[[O Lucky Man!]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 comedy movies, 1973 drama movies, 1970s comedy-drama movies, 1970s fantasy movies, British comedy-drama movies, British fantasy movies

O Lucky Man! is a 1973 British fantasy comedy drama movie directed by Lindsay Anderson. It stars Malcolm McDowell, Ralph Richardson, Rachel Roberts, Helen Mirren, Arthur Lowe, Dandy Nichols, Warren Clarke, Bill Owen, James Bolam, Brian Glover, Edward Judd, Edward Peel, Margot Bennett and was distributed by Warner Bros.. It was second of Mick Travis trilogy that started with if.... (1968) and finished with Britannia Hospital (1982).

[[Your Ticket Is No Longer Valid]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 drama movies, 1980s erotic movies, Canadian drama movies

Your Ticket Is No Longer Valid is a Canadian erotic drama movie directed by George Kaczender and based on the 1975 novel of the same name by Romain Gary. It stars Richard Harris, George Peppard, Jennifer Dale, and Jeanne Moreau

[[Battle Beyond the Stars]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s science fiction movies, 1980s western movies, 1980 action movies, American science fiction movies, American western movies, American action movies, English-language movies, Movies composed by James Horner, American independent movies

Battle Beyond the Stars is a 1980 American science fiction western movie directed by Jimmy T. Murakami and screenplay by John Sayles. It stars George Peppard, Robert Vaughn, Richard Thomas, John Saxon, Sybil Danning and it was distributed by New World Pictures.

[[PolitiFact]]

CATEGORIES: Organizations based in the United States

PolitiFact.com is a nonprofit project operated by the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida, with offices there and in Washington, D.C. It began in 2007 as a project of the Tampa Bay Times (then the St. Petersburg Times), with reporters and editors from the newspaper and its affiliated news media partners reporting on the accuracy of statements made by elected officials, candidates, their staffs, lobbyists, interest groups and others involved in U.S. politics. 

[[Ammakandakara]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Ammakandakara is a village in Adoor Municipality in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India.

The Chennampallil Sree Dharma Shasta and Devi temple are situating at the centre of the village.

[[Zorro, The Gay Blade]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s adventure movies, 1981 comedy movies, 1980s LGBT movies, American adventure movies, American comedy movies, Mexican movies, Movies directed by Peter Medak

Zorro, The Gay Blade is a 1981 American Mexican adventure comedy movie directed by Peter Medak and stars George Hamilton, Lauren Hutton, Ron Liebman, Brenda Vaccaro. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for one Razzie in 1982.

[[Angadi]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Angadi is a village in Ranni Taluk, Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India.

[[Angadickal]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Angadical  is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India.

[[The Only Game in Town (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by George Stevens

The Only Game in Town is a 1970 American drama movie directed by George Stevens in his last movie before his death in 1975 and stars Elizabeth Taylor, Warren Beatty. The screenplay is based on the play of the same name by Frank D. Gilroy was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Conservative Party of New York State]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States, Politics of New York

The Conservative Party of New York State is a political party founded in 1962. The Party was founded due to conservatives not liking the Republican Party in New York. 

Since 2010, the Conservative Party has held "Row C" on New York ballots—the third-place ballot position, directly below the Democratic and Republican parties because it received the third-highest number of votes of any political party in the 2010, 2014, and 2018 gubernatorial elections.  

[[Pipra Dixit]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in India

Pipra Dixit is a medium sized village in Salempur tehsil of Deoria district, Uttar Pradesh. the village has total population of 1,477 as per 2011 Population Census of India.

[[Generation Z]]

CATEGORIES: Cultural anthropology

Generation Z (or Gen Z for short) is the group of people born between 1997 and 2012. Gen Z is the generation after Millennials and before Generation Alpha. Most members of Generation Z have used digital technology since a young age and are well known with the Internet and social media. Most members of Generation Z are the children of Generation X.  

Other proposed names for the generation included iGeneration, Gen Tech, Gen Wii, Homeland Generation, Net Gen, Digital Natives, Plurals, and Zoomers.

[[Keezhuvaipur]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Keezhuvaipur is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state in India.

[[Kozhencherry East]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kozhencherry East is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state in India.

[[Tornillo, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Texas

Tornillo (t tor) is a census-designated place (CDP) and border town in El Paso County, Texas, United States. The population was 1,568 at the 2010 census. It is part of the El Paso Metropolitan Statistical Area. 

[[Child care]]

CATEGORIES: Lifestyles

Child care, otherwise known as day care, is the care and supervision of a child or multiple children at a time, whose ages range from six weeks to thirteen years. 

Child care is the action or skill of looking after children by a day-care center, nannies, babysitters, teachers, maids, etc. Child care providers can be children's first teachers. Quality care from a young age can have a huge impact on the future successes of children. The main focus of childcare is on the development of the child, whether that be mental, social, or psychological.

[[Save the Tiger]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by John G. Avildsen

Save the Tiger is a 1973 American drama movie directed by John G. Avildsen and screenplay by Steve Shagan from his novel of the same name. It stars Jack Lemmon, Jack Gilford, Laurie Heineman, Norman Burton, Harvey Jason and was distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was nominated for 3 Oscars and won one Oscar for Lemmon at the Academy Awards in 1974.

[[Character Map]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft software

Character Map is a tool made for Microsoft Windows operating systems. It lets people see characters in a font. It can also be used to see what alt code is used for a character, and it can be used to copy and paste characters.

The tool is useful for putting in special characters. The Advanced view button can be used to switch between different encodings: Windows, DOS, and Unicode. Characters can be sorted by Unicode categories. The tool only supports the first Unicode plane, the Basic Multilingual Plane.

Character Map can be opened by using the command-line interface or the Run command by typing 'charmap'.

[[Modern Monetary Theory]]

CATEGORIES: Economic theories

Modern Monetary Theory or Modern Money Theory (MMT) or Modern Monetary Theory and Practice (MMTP) is a macroeconomic theory and practice that sees the practical uses of fiat currency in a public monopoly from the issuing authority, normally the government's central bank. 

MMT says that the government could use fiscal policy to achieve full employment, creating new money to fund government purchases.

[[America (magazine)]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines

America is a national weekly magazine published by the Jesuits of the United States and headquartered in Manhattan. It has news and opinion about Catholicism and how it relates to American politics and cultural life. 

It has been published continuously since 1909, and is also available online. It has been seen as liberal-leaning publication, and has been described by The Washington Post as "a favourite of Catholic liberal intellectuals".

[[The Seven-Ups]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s action movies, 1973 crime movies, 1970s mystery movies, American action movies

The Seven-Ups is a 1973 American action crime mystery movie directed by first time director Philip D'Antoni and stars Roy Schedier, Tony Lo Bianco, Larry Haines, Richard Lynch, Joe Spinell. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[RuPaul's Drag Race]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 television series debuts, Emmy Award winning programs, American reality television series, English-language television programs

RuPaul's Drag Race is an American reality competition television series produced by World of Wonder and VH1. The show is about RuPaul in the search for "America's next drag superstar." RuPaul plays the role of host, mentor, and head judge for this series.

RuPaul's Drag Race has spanned twelve seasons and inspired the spin-off shows RuPaul's Drag U and RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars. The show has become the highest-rated television program on Logo TV, and airs internationally. The show earned RuPaul four consecutive Emmys (2016 to 2019) for Outstanding Host for a Reality or Reality-Competition Program. The show itself was awarded as a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Reality-Competition Program in 2018 and 2019.

[[Angamoozhy]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Angamoozhy is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state in India.

[[Anicadu]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Anicadu is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state, India.

[[Aranmula]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Aranmula is a town in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state, India.

[[Arukalickal]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Arukalickal is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state, India.

[[Aruvappulam]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Aruvappulam is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state, India.

[[List of districts of India]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of India, Geography-related lists, India-related lists

A district  (zilā) is an administrative division of an Indian state or territory. 2020 there are a total of 736 districts, up from the 640 in the 2011 Census of India and the 593 recorded in the 2001 Census of India.

[[Dan Walters]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2020 deaths, American crime victims, American police officers, San Diego Padres players, Sportspeople from Maine

Daniel Gene "Dan" Walters (August 15, 1966 – April 23, 2020) was an American professional baseball player. He was born in Brunswick, Maine. He played as a catcher in Major League Baseball for the San Diego Padres in the 1992 and 1993 seasons. In 84 career games, he had 64 hits in 273 at-bats, with a .234 batting average. 

After baseball, Walters became a police officer with the San Diego Police Department. He became paralyzed from the neck down after a 2003 shooting. He died, aged 53, from problems caused by his injuries in San Diego on April 23, 2020.

[[Yorktown, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New York

Yorktown is a town on the northern border of Westchester County, New York. It is a suburb of the New York City metropolitan area. It is about 38 north of midtown Manhattan. The population was 36,081 at the 2010 U.S. Census.

[[Claude Evrard]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2020 deaths, French movie actors, French stage actors, French television actors, French voice actors, People from Versailles

Claude Evrard (29 July 1933 – 20 April 2020) was a French actor. He was born in Versailles, France. His best known roles were in Circus Angel, Le Distrait and If the Sun Never Returns. His last movie role was in the 2017 drama Back to Burgundy. He also starred in the 1990s television series Les Cinq Dernières Minutes.

Evrard died on 20 April 2020 in Clamart, France at the age of 86.

[[The Great White Hope (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 movies, 1970s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Martin Ritt

The Great White Hope is a 1970 American biographical romantic drama movie directed by Martin Ritt and based on the Howard Sackler play of the same name. It stars James Earl Jones, Jane Alexander, Hal Holbrook, Chester Morris and distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for two Oscars at the Academy Awards in 1971.

[[Bartender]]

CATEGORIES: Employment

A bartender (also known as a barkeep, barman, barmaid, bar chef, tapster, mixologist, alcohol server, cocktologist, flairman or an alcohol chef) is a person who creates and serves alcoholic or soft drink beverages behind the bar,  in a licensed establishment. Bartenders also usually have the supplies and inventory for the bar. A bartender can generally mix classic cocktails.

Bartenders are also usually responsible for confirming that customers meet the legal drinking age requirements before serving them alcoholic beverages. In certain countries, such as Canada, the United Kingdom, and Sweden, bartenders are legally required to refuse more alcohol to drunk customers.

[[I Never Sang for My Father]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 drama movies, American drama movies

I Never Sang for My Father is a 1970 American drama movie directed by Gilbert Cates and based on the 1968 play of the same name by Robert Anderson. It stars Melvyn Douglas, Gene Hackman, Estelle Parsons, Dorothy Stickney, Lovelady Powell and was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was nominated for three Oscars at Academy Awards in 1971.

[[Initial]]

CATEGORIES: Typography

In a written or published work, an initial or drop cap is a letter at the beginning of a word, a chapter, or a paragraph that is larger than the rest of the text. The word is comes from the Latin initialis, which means standing at the beginning.  An initial is often several lines in height and in older books or manuscripts. In some cases a name or title can be long so the initials would shorten them.

Examples include: JFK, FDR, AOC, TDK, NYC, USA, KUWTK, EU, etc.

[[Val de Drôme]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Val de Drôme is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2017 and consists of the former communes of Sept-Vents (the seat), Dampierre, La Lande-sur-Drôme and Saint-Jean-des-Essartiers.

[[Rich Hacker]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Cancer deaths in Illinois, Montreal Expos players, Sportspeople from Illinois, People from Belleville, Illinois

Richard Warren Hacker (October 6, 1947 – April 22, 2020) was an American Major League Baseball player, base coach and scout. Hacker was born in Belleville, Illinois. He played 16 games for the Montreal Expos in the 1971 season as a shortstop. He had a .121 batting average, with four hits in 33 at-bats. Hacker coached the St. Louis Cardinals from 1986 to 1990 and the Toronto Blue Jays from 1991 to 1993.

Hacker died of leukemia in Fairview Heights, Illinois on April 22, 2020 at the age of 72.

[[Five Easy Pieces]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 drama movies, American drama movies

Five Easy Pieces is a 1970 American drama movie directed by Bob Rafelson and stars Jack Nicholson, Karen Black, Susan Anspach, Sally Struthers, Toni Basil. It was nominated for four Oscars at the Academy Awards in 1971.

[[Glen Carbon, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois

Glen Carbon is a village in Madison County, Illinois, United States, 19 northeast of St. Louis. The population was 12,934 at the 2010 census.

[[Maquoketa River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Iowa

The Maquoketa River is a tributary of the Mississippi River, about 150 long, in northeastern Iowa in the United States. 

Its watershed covers 1694 within a rural region of rolling hills and farmland southwest of Dubuque. 

It is not to be confused with the Little Maquoketa River. The river and its tributaries mark the border of the Driftless Area of Iowa. The name comes from Maquaw-Autaw, which means "Bear River" in Meskwaki.

[[Le Hom]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Le Hom is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2016 and consists of the former communes of Thury-Harcourt (the seat), Caumont-sur-Orne, Curcy-sur-Orne, Hamars and Saint-Martin-de-Sallen.

[[Diary of a Mad Housewife]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 comedy movies, 1970 drama movies, 1970s comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies

Diary of a Mad Housewife is a 1970 American comedy drama movie directed by Frank Perry and based on the 1967 novel of the same name by Sue Kaufman. It stars Carrie Snodgress, Richard Benjamin, Frank Langella, Peter Boyle, Alice Cooper and was distributed by Universal Pictures. It was nominated for Best Actress at the Academy Awards in 1971.

[[Alex & the Gypsy]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 comedy movies, American comedy movies

Alex & the Gypsy is 1976 American comedy movie directed by John Korty and stars Jack Lemmon, Geneviève Bujold, James Woods, Robert Emhardt, Titos Vandis. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Basilan (province)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s establishments in the Philippines, 1973 establishments in Asia, Provinces of the Philippines, Island provinces of the Philippines

The Province of Basilan (Chavacano: Provincia de Basilan; Tausug: Wilaya' sin Basilan; Yakan: Wilayah Basilanin) is an island province of the Philippines that is found in the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region. The capital is Lamitan City. The province was created on December 27, 1973.

Basilan Island is the largest and northernmost of the major islands of the Sulu Archipelago. It is just off the southern coast of the geographic Zamboanga Peninsula.

The former capital is Isabela City.

[[Ainsworth, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Ainsworth is a city in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Brown County.

[[For Pete's Sake (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Peter Yates

For Pete's Sake is a 1974 American screwball comedy movie directed by Peter Yates and stars Barbra Streisand, Estelle Parsons, Michael Sarrazin, Molly Picon. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Bananas (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 comedy movies, 1970s LGBT movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Woody Allen

Bananas is a 1971 American comedy movie directed by Woody Allen (who also stars) and starring Louise Lasser, Carlos Montalban, Natividad Abascal, Allen Garfield, Sylvester Stallone, René Enríquez, Miguel Ángel Suárez. It was distributed by United Artists.

[[Chalappally]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Chalappally is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state, India.

[[Kansai Ki-in]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 establishments in Japan, Board games, Culture, Non-profit organizations of Asia, Go organizations

The Kansai Ki-in (関西棋院, i.e., Kansai Go Association) is an organization for the game of Go in Japan, which was founded in 1950 at Osaka. It is not as large as the Nihon Ki-in based in Tokyo, but it also gives diplomas to strong players and maintain their professional player system as the Nihon Ki-in does. They also hire professional players as same as the Nihon Ki-in (with different rules and age restrictions).

[[Chandanapally]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Chandanapally is a village in the Kodumon subdivision in Pathanamthitta district of Kerala, India. The town is famous for Chandanappally Valiyapally and St.George Catholic Church 

[[Young Winston]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s war movies, 1972 drama movies, British biographical movies, British war movies, British drama movies, Movies directed by Richard Attenborough

Young Winston is a 1972 British biographical drama movie about the early years of Winston Churchill. It was directed by Richard Attenborough and starring Simon Ward, Robert Shaw, Anne Bancroft, Jack Hawkins, Ian Holm, Anthony Hopkins, Patrick Magee, Edward Woodward, John Mills. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures and was nominated for three Oscars at the Academy Awards in 1973.

[[Chathanthara]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Chathanthara is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[The Sidelong Glances of a Pigeon Kicker]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 comedy movies, American comedy movies

The Sidelong Glances of a Pigeon Kicker (also known simply as Pigeons) is a 1970 American comedy movie directed by John Dexter and based on the novel of the same name by David Boyer. It stars Jordan Christopher, Jill O'Hara, Kate Reid, Robert Walden, Sylvester Stallone, Melba Moore and was distributed by Metro-Golden-Mayer.

[[What's Up, Doc? (1972 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s romance movies, 1972 comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies

What's Up, Doc? is a 1972 romantic screwball comedy movie directed by Peter Bogdanovich and starring Barbra Streisand, Ryan O'Neal, Madeline Kahn, Kenneth Mars, Michael Murphy, Sorrell Booke, Sylvester Stallone, Randy Quaid. It was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[The Adventure of Sherlock Holmes' Smarter Brother]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 comedy movies, 1975 mystery movies, American comedy movies, American mystery movies, British comedy movies, British mystery movies

The Adventure of Sherlock Holmes' Smarter Brother is a 1975 American British mystery comedy movie directed by first time director Gene Wilder (who also stars) and starring Madeline Kahn, Marty Feldman, Dom DeLuise, Roy Kinnear, Mel Brooks. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Red breasted parakeet]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Asia, Parrots

The red breasted parakeet or moustached parakeet (Psittacula alexandri) is among the more widespread species of the genus and is the species which has the most geographical variations.

[[Chathenkary]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

 Chathenkary  is a village in Pathanamthitta district in the state of Kerala, India.

[[Pallas's fish eagle]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Asia, Accipitriformes

Pallas's fish eagle (Haliaeetus leucoryphus), also known as Pallas's sea eagle or band-tailed fish eagle, is a large, brownish sea eagle. It breeds in the east Palearctic in Kazakhstan, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Mongolia, China, India, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Bhutan. It is listed as endangered on the IUCN Red List.

Apparently, this species achieved its current, essentially land-locked distribution peculiar among sea-eagles due to the collision of Indian Plate with Eurasia. Although the exact timing is not well resolved, it is quite certain that Pallas's fish eagle is a descendant of those sea-eagles which inhabited the northwestern Bay of Bengal when it was a shallow straits separating mainland Asia from India, which still was an island at that time.

[[Sleeper (1973 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 science fiction movies, 1973 comedy movies, American science fiction movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Woody Allen, Dystopian movies

Sleeper is a 1973 American science fiction comedy movie directed by Woody Allen (who also stars) and starring Diane Keaton, John Beck, Bartlett Robinson, Jackie Mason. It was distributed by United Artists.

[[Phayre's leaf langur]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Asia, Old World monkeys

The Phayre's leaf langur (Trachypithecus phayrei), also known as Phayre's monkey, is a species of Lutung native to Southeast Asia including Northeast India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Thailand, Laos,  Vietnam and China. It spends most of life in  trees and feeds on leaves of many tree species.

[[Un Juego de Huevos]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 video games, Platform games, Video games

Un Juego de Huevos is a 2D platform video game that was only created for the Zeebo by Swedish studio Fabrication Games. It is the first video game based on Una Película de Huevos, a popular movie from the Mexican animation company Huevocartoon. The game came out on April 19, 2010 in Mexico. A version with Portuguese text called Um Jogo de Ovos came out in Brazil in August, 2010.

The game features all the main characters from Una Película de Huevos, including Toto, Willy, Confi, Serp, Cuache and Tlacua, voiced by the same actors used in the movie. The story is also based on the film, but follows a different plotline. Un Juego de Huevos is the first video game based on a Mexican license. The goal of the game is to explore and battle through a series of increasingly difficult challenges. The game contains 25 levels, 5 battles with bosses and 10 unlockable levels of competition. One or two players can play in cooperative or competitive modes.

A package consisting of a Zeebo system, the game, a keyboard and a Huevocartoon DVD was launched in Mexico with a promotional price of $1999 pesos, along with a merchandising campaign in some department stores.

[[Bataan (province)]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Bataan (b; Lalawigan ng Bataan bataʔan; Lalauígan ning Bataan) is a province of the Philippines. It is in the Central Luzon region. The capital is Balanga.

[[Doctor Detroit]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 comedy movies, American comedy movies, American independent movies, Movies directed by Michael Pressman

Doctor Detroit is a 1983 American comedy movie directed by Michael Pressman and stars Dan Aykroyd, Howard Hesseman, Lynn Whitfield, Fran Drescher, Donna Dixon. It was the first Dan Aykroyd worked following the death of his friend John Belushi and was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Batanes]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines, Island provinces of the Philippines

Batanes (Provinsiya nu Batanes; Lalawigan ng Batanes, bɐˈtanes) is an archipelagic province in the Philippines that is found in the Cagayan Valley region. It is the northernmost province in the country, and also the smallest, both in population and land area. The capital is Basco located on the island of Batan.

The island group is about 162 north of the Luzon mainland and about 190 south of Taiwan, separated from the Babuyan Islands of Cagayan Province by the Balintang Channel, and from Taiwan by the Bashi Channel.

[[Utaro Hashimoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1994 deaths, Japanese Go players

Utaro Hashimoto was a 9-dan professional Go player since 1922. He is also known as the founder of Kansai Ki-in, and he was educated by Kensaku Segoe (with Go Seigen).

[[Young Doctors in Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 comedy movies, 1980s sex comedy movies, 1980s teen comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Garry Marshall

Young Doctors in Love is a 1982 American comedy movie directed by first time director Garry Marshall. It stars Michael McKean, Sean Young, Saul Rubinek, Harry Dean Staton, Hector Elizondo, Pamela Reed, Michael Richards, Dabney Coleman, Taylor Negron and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Occidental Mindoro]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Occidental Mindoro (Kanlurang Mindoro, Natungdan ka Mindoro, Laud nga Mindoro, Mindoro Occidental) is a province of the Philippines. It is in the MIMAROPA region. The capital is Mamburao.

[[The Driver]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 thriller movies, 1970s crime movies, American crime thriller movies, Movies directed by Walter Hill

The Driver is a 1978 American crime thriller movie directed by Walter Hill and stars Ryan O'Neal, Bruce Dern, Isabelle Adjani. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Marinduque]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines, Island provinces of the Philippines

Marinduque (maɾinˈduke) is an island province of the Philippines. It is in the MIMAROPA region. The capital is the municipality of Boac.

[[Deal of the Century]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by William Friedkin

Deal of the Century is a 1983 American comedy movie directed by William Friedkin and stars Chevy Chase, Sigourney Weaver, Gregory Hines, Richard Libertini, Wallace Shawn, Ray Manzarek. It was distributed by Warner Bros. and was poorly received at the box office.

[[Wathena, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kansas, Doniphan County, Kansas

Wathena is a city in Doniphan County, Kansas, United States. As of the 2010 census, 1,364 people live in Wathena.

[[Zap! Snowboarding Trix]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 video games, Sega Saturn games, Sports video games, Video games developed in Japan

Zap! Snowboarding Trix is a snowboarding video game in the Zap! series. It was made by Atelier Double and published by TV Tokyo and Pony Canyon for the Sega Saturn in 1997. It was only released in Japan. It is followed by Zap! Snowboarding Trix'98.

[[The Lords of Flatbush]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 drama movies, 1970s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies

The Lords of Flatbush is a 1974 American coming of age drama movie directed by Martin Davidson and starring Sylvester Stallone, Perry King, Henry Winkler, Susan Blakely, Armand Assante. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Love and Death]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Woody Allen

Love and Death is a 1975 American comedy movie directed by Woody Allen (who also starred) and starring Diane Keaton, James Tolkan, Harold Gould, Zvee Scooler, Aubrey Morris, Jessica Harper. It was distributed by United Artists.

[[The Killer Elite]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 movies, 1970s action movies, 1970s thriller movies, American action movies, American thriller movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Sam Peckinpah

The Killer Elite is a 1975 American action thriller movie directed by Sam Peckinpah and based on the Robert Syd Hopkins novel Monkey in the Middle. It stars James Caan, Robert Duvall, Burt Young, Bo Hopkins, Arthur Hill, Tiana Alexandra and it was distributed by United Artists.

[[Inserts (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 drama movies, British drama movies

Inserts is a 1975 British drama movie directed by John Byrum and stars Richard Dreyfuss, Jessica Harper, Bob Hoskins, Veronica Cartwright. It was distributed by United Artists and was a box office disappointment. The movie is rated NC-17 by the MPAA.

[[Chester railway station]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s establishments in England, 1848 establishments in Europe, Railway stations in England, Chester

Chester railway station is a mainline railway station in the Newtown area of Chester in Cheshire, England.

The station, and the majority of trains that stop there, is managed by Transport for Wales. However, Avanti West Coast, Northern Trains and Merseyrail trains also stop at the station. 

Between 1875 and 1969, the station was known as Chester General to distinguish it from the now closed Chester Northgate. 

[[Souleuvre-en-Bocage]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Souleuvre-en-Bocage is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2016 and consists of the former communes of Beaulieu, Le Bény-Bocage (the seat), Bures-les-Monts, Campeaux, Carville, Étouvy, La Ferrière-Harang, La Graverie, Malloué, Montamy, Mont-Bertrand, Montchauvet, Le Reculey, Saint-Denis-Maisoncelles, Sainte-Marie-Laumont, Saint-Martin-des-Besaces, Saint-Martin-Don, Saint-Ouen-des-Besaces, Saint-Pierre-Tarentaine and Le Tourneur.

[[Not3s]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, English singer-songwriters, British rap musicians, English rap musicians, Black British people, Black British musicians, People from London, Living people, Singers from London, English musicians, British musicians

Lukman Olanrewaju Odunaike (born 17 April 1998), better known by his stage name Not3s (pronounced Notes), is an English rapper, singer-songwriter and actor from Hackney, London. He is of Yoruba descent, an ethnic group that inhabits western Africa but mainly Nigeria and Benin. 

Notable Not3s songs include, "My Lover" and "Fine Line". Both of those songs are collaborations with Mabel. His breakthrough song, "Addison Lee", has been described as a viral hit and achieved a lot of popularity for him. The song, which takes its name from the London taxi firm, achieved so much popularity that the artist was invited to the company's Christmas party in KOKO to perform the song.

[[Mabel (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, English singer-songwriters, People from Malaga, People from London, Living people, Singers from London, English musicians, Swedish musicians, Spanish musicians, British musicians

Mabel Alabama-Pearl McVey (born 19 February 1996), known by her stage name Mabel, is an English singer and songwriter based in London. 

She is the daughter of Swedish singer Neneh Cherry and English record producer Cameron McVey. Her step-grandfather is American jazz trumpeter Don Cherry. She is the half-sister of singer Marlon Roudette.

Mabel's career began in 2015 with her debut single, "Know Me Better". In May 2017, she released "Finders Keepers", a song featuring English rapper Kojo Funds, which reached the Top 10 of the UK Singles Chart. Later the same year, she released her debut EP "Bedroom", as well as a mixtape, "Ivy to Roses". In 2018, she was featured on "Ring Ring" alongside American rapper Rich the Kid and English DJ Jax Jones.

In January 2019, she was nominated for British Breakthrough Act at the 39th Brit Awards. On 7 June 2019, she released "Mad Love", the second single from her debut studio album, High Expectations. The song debuted at number 18 in the UK, later peaking at number 8.

[[Shohreh Aghdashloo]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, American movie actors, Iranian actors

Shohreh Aghdashloo (شهره آغداشلو) (born Shohreh Vaziri-Tabar; May 9, 1952) is an Iranian-American actress. Her first major part was in 1977 on the movie The Report. She became well-known for her part in House of Sand and Fog which she was considered for Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. Aghdashloo currently has a starring role in The Expanse. In 2013, she wrote a book about herself called The Alley of Love and Yellow Jasmines.

[[Kudensee]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein, Steinburg (district)

Kudensee is a municipality of the district Steinburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany.

[[Brebel]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein

Brebel (Bredbøl) is a former municipality of the district Schleswig-Flensburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. On 1 March 2018, it is part of the municipality of Süderbrarup.

[[Ahlefeld]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein

Ahlefeld is a former municipality of the district Rendsburg-Eckernförde, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. On 1 March 2008, it was merged with Bistensee to form the new municipality of Ahlefeld-Bistensee.

[[Ahlefeld-Bistensee]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s establishments in Germany, 2008 establishments in Europe, Municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein

Ahlefeld-Bistensee is a municipality of the district Rendsburg-Eckernförde, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. It was created on 1 March 2008 from the former municipalities Ahlefeld and Bistensee.

[[Bäk]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein

Bäk is a municipality of the district Lauenburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany.

[[Mason County, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Washington (state), 1854 establishments in the United States, Washington (state) counties

Mason County is a county in Washington in the United States. The county seat is Shelton. 60,699 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[San Juan County, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Washington (state), 1873 establishments in the United States, Washington (state) counties

San Juan County is a county in Washington in the United States. The county seat is Friday Harbor. 15,769 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Skagit County, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Washington (state), 1883 establishments in the United States, Washington (state) counties

Skagit County is a county in Washington in the United States. The county seat is Mount Vernon. 116,901 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Ruy López de Segura]]

CATEGORIES: Chess players

Ruy López de Segura was a Spanish chess player, author, and priest who invented the Ruy Lopez chess opening.

[[Stevens County, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Washington (state), 1863 establishments in the United States, Washington (state) counties

Stevens County is a county in Washington in the United States. It is along the Canada–US border. The county seat is Colville. 43,531 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Elvis (disambiguation)]]

Elvis Presley (1935-1977) was an American singer and actor, commonly known as Elvis.

Elvis may also refer to:

[[Snipping Tool]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft software, Graphics software

Snipping Tool is a screenshot tool that is made by Microsoft. It is a part of Windows Vista and later Windows operating systems. It can take a screenshot of an open window, rectangular areas, free-form areas, or all of the screen. Snipping Tool also has simple editing tools, like different colored pens, an eraser, and a highlighter.

A delay option was added to Snipping Tool on June 2015. The delay option lets the program wait from 0 to 5 seconds before making a screenshot. It was replaced on October 2018 by a similar program, Snip & Sketch.

[[Dries Holten]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, Dutch singers, Dutch writers, Songwriters

Dries (Andres) Holten (30 January 1936 – 15 April 2020) was a Dutch singer-songwriter. He represented the Netherlands at the 1972 Eurovision Song Contest alongside Sandra Reemer. After he and Reemer broke up Holten formed a new group with Rosy Pereira and called it Rosy & Andres. In 1980 Holten final group was of him and Ria Shield Meyer. He was born in Cimahi, Dutch East Indies.

Holten died on 15 April 2020 of cancer in Oostrum, Netherlands at the age of 84.

[[Norbert Blüm]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2020 deaths, German politicians, Deaths from sepsis

Norbert Blüm (21 July 1935 – 23 April 2020) was a German politician. He was federal legislator from North Rhine-Westphalia, chairman of the CDU North Rhine-Westphalia (1987–1999), and minister of labor and social affairs from 1982 to 1988. His slogan "The pension is safe" ("Die Rente ist sicher") has been remembered. He was a member of the German Bundestag from 1972 to 1981 and from 1983 to 2002. 

Blüm was born in Rüsselsheim am Main, then Nazi Germany. Due to a sepsis he was paralyzed in arms and legs since 2019. He died on 23 April 2020 in Bonn, Germany at the age of 84.

[[Abdullah al-Hamid]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Saudi Arabian people, Poets, Human rights activists

Abdullah Hamid Ali al-Hamid (عبد الله حامد علي الحامد) or Abu Bilal (12 July 1950 – 24 April 2020) was a Saudi poet, Arabic professor, human rights activist and a co-founder of the Saudi Civil and Political Rights Association (ACPRA). He was in prison many times for supporting the creation of a constitutional monarchy in Saudi Arabia. He was born in Buraidah, Saudi Arabia. 

In 2018, he was awarded the Right Livelihood Award, together with other jailed activists and Waleed Abulkhair for "their visionary and courageous efforts, guided by universal human rights principles, to reform the totalitarian political system in Saudi Arabia."

al-Hamid was hospitalized after being electrocuted while in prison in Riyadh on 9 April 2020. He died of a stroke while in a coma on 24 April 2020, aged 69.

[[Dimitri Diatchenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American video game actors, Actors from San Francisco

Dimitri Diatchenko (April 11, 1968 – April 21, 2020) was an American actor and musician. He was born in San Francisco, California. He was known for playing Russian villain roles. His best known roles were as Russian henchmen in Get Smart and Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull. He also played Yuri in Chernobyl Diaries.

Diatchenko was found dead in his home in Coral Gables, Florida on April 21, 2020 of a heart attack, aged 52.

[[Mircea Mureșan]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Romanian movie directors

Mircea Mureșan (11 November 1928 – 24 April 2020) was a Romanian movie director. He directed 22 movies, beginning in 1961. Mureșan won the prize for Best First Work at the 1966 Cannes Film Festival for the movie Răscoala. He also directed Blestemul pământului, blestemul iubirii and Toate pînzele sus.

Mureșan died on 24 April 2020 in Râmnicu Vâlcea, Romania at the age of 91.

[[Lynn Faulds Wood]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2020 deaths, BBC people, Scottish journalists, Deaths from stroke, ITV presenters, People from Glasgow, Scottish television presenters

Lynn Faulds Wood (25 March 1948 – 24 April 2020) was a Scottish television presenter and journalist. She was born in Glasgow. She was known for her works on TV-am, BBC Breakfast Time, Watchdog, GMTV and Watchdog: Test House. She worked for the BBC and ITV. 

Wood died on 24 April 2020 of a stroke, aged 72.

[[Regency (brandy)]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic spirits

Regency is a Thai brandy brand from Singha Corporation. It is the company that produce the beer Singha. The brandy is moderately successful.

[[Xipaya language]]

CATEGORIES: Brazil

Xipaya (or Shipaja or Xipaia) is a language used by people in Pará, Brazil. It is one of the 70 Tupian languages of South America. 

[[Babylonian numerals]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

Babylonian cuneiform numerals were written in cuneiform, using a wedge-tipped reed stylus to make a mark on a soft clay tablet which would be exposed in the sun to harden to create a permanent record.

The Babylonians, who were famous for their astronomical observations, as well as their calculations (aided by their invention of the abacus),  used a sexagesimal (base-60) positional numeral system inherited from either the Sumerian or the Eblaite civilizations. Neither of the predecessors was a positional system (having a convention for which 'end' of the numeral represented the units).

[[Ilocos Norte]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Ilocos Norte (Amianan nga Ilocos) is a province of the Philippines. It is in the Ilocos region. The capital is Laoag City.

[[Hamel, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois

Hamel is a village in Illinois in the United States.

[[Coal Valley, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois

Coal Valley is a village in Illinois in the United States.

[[Ascoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Loiret

Ascoux is a French commune. It is in the Loiret department.

[[Guimaras]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines, Island provinces of the Philippines

Guimaras ɡimaˈɾas (Kapuoran sang Guimaras; Probinsiya kang Guimaras; Lalawigan ng Guimaras) is an island province of the Philippines. It is in the Western Visayas region. The capital is Jordan.

[[Tekamah, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Tekamah is a city in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Burt County.

[[National symbols of India]]

CATEGORIES: National symbols of India

The modern Republic of India (Hindi:भारत के राष्‍ट्रीय चिन्ह); has several official National symbols including a historical document, a flag, an emblem, an anthem, a memorial tower as well as several national heroes. All the symbols were picked up at various times. The design of the national flag was officially adopted by the Constituent Assembly just 21 days before Independence, on the 24th of July in 1947. There are also several other patriotic symbols including the national animal, bird, fruit, flower and tree... have all been selected carefully to project the image of India at its best. They are chosen to reflect Indian culture and beliefs and also the positive at - tributes often associated with Indian traditions respectively.

[[Burwell, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Burwell is a city in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Garfield County.

[[Sawyerville, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois

Sawyerville is a village in Illinois in the United States.

[[Anthony Edwards]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American television producers, American television directors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Movie producers from California, Actors from California, People from Santa Barbara, California, Living people

Anthony Charles Edwards (born July 19, 1962) is an American actor and director. He is most widely known for his role as Dr. Mark Greene on the first eight seasons of ER, for which he received a Golden Globe award and six Screen Actors Guild Awards, and was nominated for four consecutive Primetime Emmy Awards. Additionally, he has appeared in various movies and television shows, including Top Gun, Zodiac, Miracle Mile, Revenge of the Nerds, Planes, Northern Exposure and Designated Survivor.

[[Michael Chiklis]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American video game actors, American voice actors, American television producers, Boston University alumni, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Actors from Massachusetts, Living people, People from Lowell, Massachusetts

Michael Charles Chiklis (born August 30, 1963) is an American actor, television director and television producer. He is best known for his role as LAPD Detective Vic Mackey on the FX police drama The Shield, for which he won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series in 2002, and was nominated in 2003. He is also known for playing Commissioner Tony Scali on the ABC police drama The Commish, The Thing in two Fantastic Four movies, and Jim Powell on the ABC science-fiction comedy-drama No Ordinary Family. Additionally, he co-starred as Vincent Savino in the CBS crime drama Vegas. In 2014 Chiklis joined the cast of American Horror Story for its fourth season, American Horror Story: Freak Show. The following year he was cast as Nathaniel Barnes, in the second season of Gotham, as a series regular.

[[Scavenger Hunt]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 comedy movies, American comedy movies

Scavenger Hunt is a 1979 American comedy movie directed by Michael Schultz and stars Richard Benjamin, James Coco, Ruth Gordon, Cloris Leachman, Roddy McDowall, Robert Morley, Tony Randall, Richard Mulligan, Meat Loaf, Vincent Price, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Stephen Furst, Julie Anne Haddock. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and suffered from bad reviews.

[[Andy Kindler]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, American stand-up comedians, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Actors from New York City, Comedians from California, Comedians from New York City, Jewish American comedians, Living people

Andy Kindler (born October 16, 1956) is an American comedian from Queens, New York.

[[Majority government]]

CATEGORIES: Government, Democracy

A majority government is when a ruling party (or multiple ruling parties) has more than half the seats in a legislature. This is different from a minority government, when the party with the most seats in a legislature has less than half the seats, and a coalition government, when multiple different parties work together to govern. Usually when elections happen, the parties try to win a majority government. This is because majority governments let them pass all their legislation.

Sometimes, when parties have a very stable coalition for a very long time, people call it a majority government. One example of this is in Australia, where the Liberal and National have parties have worked together in a coalition for several decades.

[[John and Mary (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 drama movies, 1960s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Peter Yates

John and Mary is a 1969 American romantic drama movie directed by Peter Yates and based on the novel of the same name by Mervyn Jones. It stars Dustin Hoffman, Mia Farrow, Tyne Daly, Olympia Dukakis, Stanley Beck, Michael Tolan and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[No Place to Hide (1973 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 thriller movies, American thriller movies

No Place to Hide is a 1973 American political thriller movie directed by Robert Allen Schnitzer and starring Sylvester Stallone. In 1990, the film was re-edited, this time as a comedy film  titled A Man called Rambo.

[[The Onion Field (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 drama movies, 1970s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies

The Onion Field is a 1979 American crime drama movie directed by Harold Becker and based on the 1973 novel of the same name by Joseph Wambaugh. It stars James Woods, John Savage, Ted Danson, Franklyn Seales, Priscilla Pointer, Ronny Cox, Christopher Lloyd, and was distributed by Embassy Pictures.

[[Cagayan Valley]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines

Cagayan Valley is an administrative region in the Philippines. It is also known as Region II. It is in the northeastern part of Luzon Island. The capital is Tuguegarao City.

It has five provinces: Batanes, Cagayan, Isabela, Nueva Vizcaya, and Quirino.  

Most of the region is in a large valley, between the Cordilleras and the Sierra Madre mountain ranges. The Cagayan River flows from the Caraballo Mountains to the Luzon Strait. The region includes the Babuyan Islands and Batanes Islands to the north.

[[Daylesford, Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Victoria (Australia)

Daylesford is a town in Victoria, Australia. It is in the foothills of the Great Dividing Range, within the Shire of Hepburn,  and about 108 kilometres north-west of Melbourne. The town was first settled in 1852 as a gold-mining town. There were 2,548 people living in Daylesford in 2016.

The area around the town, including Hepburn Springs to the north, is known for its natural spring mineral spas. Over 80 per cent of Australia's sparkling mineral water is found in this area.

Daylesford is one of Australia's few spa towns. Many people visit for the spas, as well as the restaurants and galleries. It is also the filming location for the third season of The Saddle Club.

The area was the home of the Djadja Wurrung Aborigines. Farmers began to move into the district in 1838. In 1848, Irish immigrant John Egan took up land on the future town site then known as Wombat Flat. He and a party of searchers found gold in 1851 on land now covered by Lake Daylesford. This started a local gold rush. More gold was found around the area. The town site was surveyed and founded in 1852. At first the town was called Wombat, and later renamed Daylesford.

In 1859 there were 3400 people digging for gold. The post office opened on 1 February 1858  and a telegraph office was opened in August 1859. Daylesford was declared a municipality in 1859 and a borough in the early 1860s.

By the 1860s all the alluvial gold had been found. Large mines were built to get the gold that was found underground in the quartz reefs. Mining continued until the 1930s. In later years Daylesford became associated as being a fashionable spa resort, this ended during the Great Depression. In the 1990s it became fashionable again.

The Daylesford Magistrates' Court closed on 1 January 1990.

[[Calabarzon]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines

Calabarzon is an administrative region in the Philippines. It is also known as Southern Tagalog Mainland or Region IV-A. It is on Luzon island. The capital is Calamba.

The region has five provinces: Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Rizal, and Quezon. There is also one independent city: Lucena.

[[Bicol Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines

The Bicol Region is a region of the Philippines. It is also known as Region V. The regional center and largest city is Legazpi City.

Bicol has six provinces. Four are on the Bicol Peninsula mainland – Albay, Camarines Norte, Camarines Sur, and Sorsogon. Two are the island provinces of Catanduanes and Masbate.

Mayon is the tallest volcano in the region. Mount Bulusan is the other active volcano in the region.

[[Western Visayas]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines

Western Visayas is an administrative region in the Philippines. It is also known as Region VI. The regional center is Iloilo City.

It has six provinces: Aklan, Antique, Capiz, Guimaras, Iloilo and Negros Occidental. There are also two independent cities: Bacolod City and Iloilo City. Western Visayas has the islands of Panay and the smaller Guimaras, as well as several outlying islands. It also includes the western half of the island of Negros.

[[Eastern Visayas]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines

Eastern Visayas is an administrative region in the Philippines. It is also known as Region VIII. The regional center is Tacloban.

There are three main islands: Samar, Leyte and Biliran. The region has six provinces, one independent city and one highly urbanized city. The provinces are Biliran, Leyte, Northern Samar, Samar, Eastern Samar, Southern Leyte. The cities are Ormoc and Tacloban.

The region is known for its famous landmark, the San Juanico Bridge.

[[Zamboanga Peninsula (Administrative Region)]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines

Zamboanga Peninsula  is an administrative region in the Philippines. It is also known as Region IX. The regional center is Pagadian.

The region has three provinces (Zamboanga del Norte, Zamboanga Sibugay and Zamboanga del Sur) and two cities (Isabela City and Zamboanga City).

[[Northern Mindanao]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines

Northern Mindanao is an administrative region in the Philippines. It is also known as Region X. The regional center is Cagayan de Oro.

It has five provinces: Bukidnon, Camiguin, Misamis Occidental, Misamis Oriental, and Lanao del Norte.

[[Davao Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines

Davao Region is an administrative region in the Philippines. It is also known as Region XI. Its regional center is Davao City. 

There are five provinces: Davao de Oro, Davao del Norte, Davao del Sur, Davao Oriental, and Davao Occidental.

[[Soccsksargen]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines

Soccsksargen (sometimes stylised as SOCCSKSARGEN) is an administrative region of the Philippines. It is also known as Region XII. The regional center is Koronadal.

There are four provinces and 1 city. They are South Cotabato, Cotabato, Sultan Kudarat, Sarangani and General Santos. 

Mindanao River is in the region. It empties into the Illana Bay of the larger Moro Gulf.

[[Caraga]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines

Caraga is an administrative region in the Philippines. It is also known as Region XIII. It is on the northeastern part of the island of Mindanao. Butuan is the regional administrative center.

There are five provinces: Agusan del Norte, Agusan del Sur,  Dinagat Islands, Surigao del Norte, and Surigao del Sur.

[[Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines, 1980s establishments in the Philippines, 1989 establishments in Asia, 2010s disestablishments in Asia, 2019 disestablishments

The Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao was an autonomous region of the Philippines. It was in the Mindanao island group of the Philippines.

There were 5 provinces: Basilan (except Isabela City), Lanao del Sur, Maguindanao, Sulu, and Tawi-Tawi. It was the only region that had its own government.

[[Bangsamoro]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines, 2010s establishments in the Philippines, 2019 establishments

The Bangsamoro is an autonomous region in the southern Philippines. It is officially named the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao or BARMM.

It replaced the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao in 2019.

The region includes Lake Lanao, one of the 17 most ancient lakes in the world. The Sulu archipelago region includes the Turtle Islands Wildlife Sanctuary (a UNESCO tentative site), Bongao Peak, and the Basilan Rainforest.

[[Cordillera Administrative Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines, 1980s establishments in the Philippines, 1987 establishments in Asia

Cordillera Administrative Region  is an administrative region in the Philippines. It is on the island of Luzon. The regional center is Baguio.

It was created on July 15, 1987. There are 6 provinces: Abra, Apayao, Benguet, Ifugao, Kalinga and Mountain Province.

Mount Pulag, the highest mountain in Luzon, is in the region. Rivers include the Chico River, Abulog, and Siffu River. Tourist sites include Banaue Rice Terraces, Cassamata Hill National Park, and Balbalasang-Balbalan National Park.

[[Peter Neil Galgut]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, British people

Dr. Peter Neil Galgut, PhD is a British periodontist and lecturer based out of London, England. Galgut was named UK National Dentist of the Year Award in 2010 and in 2013. Galgut has published several peer reviewed research papers on Periodontology.

[[One More Train to Rob]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s western movies, 1971 movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Andrew V. McLaglen

One More Train to Rob is a 1971 American western movie by Andrew McLaglen and starring George Peppard, Diana Muldar, John Vernon, France Nuyen, Soon-Tek Oh, Hal Needham. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[The Executioner (1970 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 thriller movies, 1970s spy movies, British spy movies, British thriller movies, Movies directed by Sam Wanamaker

The Executioner is a 1970 British spy thriller movie directed by Sam Wanamaker and starring George Peppard, Joan Collins, Judy Geeson, Charles Gray, Nigel Patrick, Keith Michell. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures. 

[[Cannon for Cordoba]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 movies, 1970s western movies, 1970s romance movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Paul Wendkos

Cannon for Cordoba is a 1970 American romantic western movie directed by Paul Wendkos and starring George Peppard, Pete Duel, Giovanna Ralli, Raf Vallone, Francine York, Hans Meyer. It was distributed by United Artists.

[[International Science and Engineering Fair]]

CATEGORIES: Competitions

The  Regeneron International Science and Engineering Fair (ISEF) is an annual science fair in the United States, and is owned and administered by the Society for Science & the Public a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization based in Washington, D.C.,. 

[[Pretty Poison (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 comedy movies, 1968 thriller movies, American comedy movies, American thriller movies, Cult movies

Pretty Poison is a 1968 American black comedy movie. It was directed by Noel Black. The movie is based on the novel She Let Him Continue by Stephen Geller. It stars Anthony Perkins, Tuesday Weld, Beverly Garland, and Clarice Blackburn. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It is a cult movie.

[[Ebrahim Amini]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2020 deaths, Iranian politicians, Critics

[[Captain Tom Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2021 deaths, British military personnel of World War II, British philanthropists, People from Yorkshire, British centenarians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom, Deaths from pneumonia

Captain Sir Thomas Moore (30 April, 1920 – 2 February, 2021), popularly known as Captain Tom, was a former British Army officer. He was known for his philanthropic work. Moore was in India and the Burma campaign during the Second World War. He later became an instructor in armoured warfare.

[[Grandma Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, American comedians, People from Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Deaths from fractured hip

Frances Lee Strong (May 29, 1934 – April 24, 2020), better known by her stage name Grandma Lee, was an American stand-up comedian. Lee was a contestant on the fourth season of America's Got Talent. She was born in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

In 2009, she participated on the reality series America's Got Talent. Although she made it to the top 10, she was in the bottom 5 and was eliminated from the competition in the finale on September 16, 2009. She told People, "My material is based on the truth. I won’t say a cuss word or anything to jeopardize myself. I can do clean or edgy."

Strong died on April 24, 2020 at an assisted living facility in Jacksonville, Florida from problems caused by a broken hip, aged 85.

[[Stefan Lippe]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2020 deaths, German businesspeople, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Switzerland

Stefan Lippe (October 11, 1955 – April 24, 2020), was a German insurance manager. He was the CEO of Swiss Re from 2009 until 2012. He then co-founded Acqupart Holding AG, where he was Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Acqufin AG. He also co-founded Paperless Inc. He became an AXA Director in 2012 and Chairman of the AXA Audit Committee in 2013.

Lippe died on April 24, 2020 of COVID-19-related problems, aged 64.

[[The Statler Brothers]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Award winners, American country musicians, American gospel musicians, Johnny Cash, Musicians from Virginia

The Statler Brothers (sometimes simply referred to The Statlers) were an American country music, gospel, and vocal group. The quartet was formed in 1955 performing locally and, in 1964, they began singing  backup for Johnny Cash until 1972.

Don Reid sang lead; Harold Reid, Don's older brother, sang bass; Phil Balsley sang baritone; and Lew DeWitt sang tenor and was the guitarist of the Statlers before being replaced by Jimmy Fortune in 1983 due to DeWitt's ill health. 

DeWitt continued to perform as a solo artist until his death on August 15, 1990, from heart and kidney disease. On April 24, 2020, Harold Reid died after a long battle with kidney failure.

[[The Squad (United States Congress)]]

CATEGORIES: 2018 in the United States, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez

The Squad is the informal name for a group of four progressive women elected in the 2018 midterm elections in the United States House of Representatives. It is made up of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Mondaire Jones of New York, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts, Cori Bush of Missouri and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan. All are people of color under 50, have been supported by the Justice Democrats and are in the left wing of the Democratic Party.

The group has been said to represent the diversity of a younger political generation inspired by the Bernie Sanders's 2016 presidential campaign. Ocasio-Cortez named the group the "Squad" name in an Instagram post a week after Election Day, 2018.

During the 2020 Democratic primaries, it has been said that Jamaal Bowman, Cori Bush, and Marie Newman, all of whom won Democratic primaries after running against incumbent members of the House of Representatives, as well as Mondaire Jones, who initially challenged an incumbent and subsequently won the primary after she announced her retirement, could join the Squad in 2021.

[[Hiram Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1945 deaths, Deaths from cerebral thrombosis, Governors of California, United States senators from California, American progressives, Politicians from Sacramento, California, US Republican Party politicians

Hiram Warren Johnson (September 2, 1866spaced ndashAugust 6, 1945) was an American progressive Republican politician.

He was the 23rd Governor of California from 1911 to 1917 and a United States Senator from 1917 to 1945. He was also Theodore Roosevelt's running mate in the 1912 presidential election on the Progressive (also known as the "Bull Moose") ticket.

Johnson unsuccessfully ran for the Republican presidential nomination in 1920 and 1924 and supported Democrat Franklin D. Roosevelt in the 1932 presidential election. 

Johnson supported many of the New Deal programs but came to oppose Roosevelt as his presidency grew longer. Johnson remained in the Senate until his death in 1945 from cerebral thrombosis.

[[Hemostasis]]

CATEGORIES: Blood

Hemostasis or haemostasis is a process to prevent and stop bleeding, meaning to keep blood within a damaged blood vessel (the opposite of hemostasis is hemorrhage). 

It is the first stage of wound healing. This involves coagulation, blood changing from a liquid to a gel. Intact blood vessels are important to moderating blood's tendency to form clots.

The word hemostasis (ˌ, sometimes ˌ) uses the combining forms hemo- and -stasis, New Latin from Ancient Greek αἱμο- haimo- (akin to αἷμα haîma), "blood", and στάσις stásis, "stasis", yielding "motionlessness or stopping of blood".

[[Wound healing]]

CATEGORIES: Blood, Skin

When person is wounded, the tissue at the wound is damaged. Many organisms can replace this damaged tissue with new tissue. This occurs in several steps, and is generally known as tissue healing, or wound healing.  

In undamaged skin, the epidermis (surface layer) and dermis (deeper layer) form a protective barrier against the external environment. When the barrier is broken, biochemical events repair the damage. This process is divided into predictable phases: blood clotting (hemostasis), inflammation, tissue growth (proliferation), and tissue remodelling (maturation). Blood clotting may be seen as part of the inflammation stage instead of a separate stage.

In general, after the wound is fully healed, a scar will remain. Even after the scar has appeared remodelling processes take place. It can take a very long time until this scar has reached its final form.

Sometimes complications from wound healing can occur. A common one is infections during the healing process, which will lead to more scars or larger ones. 

This process is not limited to humans, but it does not apply to organisms with a hard exoskeleton such as arthropods.

[[Devanand Konwar]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2020 deaths, Governors of Tripura, Governors of West Bengal

Devanand Konwar (1943 – 25 April 2020) was an Indian politician. In 2009, he became the Governor of West Bengal and Bihar. In 2010, he retired as West Bengal Governor. In 2013, he retired as Bihar Governor to become Governor of Tripura. He retired in 2014.

Konwar died on 25 April 2020, aged 77.

[[Ernest Courant]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2020 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, German physicists, German centenarians, American physicists, American centenarians, American educators, Scientists from New York

Ernest Courant (March 26, 1920 – April 21, 2020) was a German-born American physicist. He was important for the creation of modern large-scale particle accelerator concepts. 

His most notable discovery was his 1952 work with Milton S. Livingston and Hartland Snyder on the Strong focusing principle, a critical step in the development of modern particle accelerators like the synchrotron. 

Courant was a member of the National Academy of Sciences. He worked at Brookhaven National Laboratory. 

He turned 100 in March 2020 and died the following month.

[[Stony Brook, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in New York, Census-designated places in New York (state)

Stony Brook is a hamlet and census-designated place (CDP) in the Town of Brookhaven in Suffolk County, New York. The population was 13,740 at the 2010 census.

[[Brookhaven, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New York

The Town of Brookhaven is the most populous of the ten towns of Suffolk County, New York, United States. It is part of the New York metropolitan area. It is about 50 miles from Manhattan. It is the largest of New York State's 932 towns by area (when water area is included), and the second most populous after the Town of Hempstead. In the 2010 census, the population was 486,040 people.

[[Mahendra Kumar]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2020 deaths, Indian activists, Political activists, Indian criminals, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Mahendra Kumar (1973 – 25 April 2020) was an Indian activist. He was in charge of the Karnataka branch of the Bajrang Dal, an Indian Hindu youth organisation. He was said to have been involved in the 2008 Christian attacks in Karnataka on 14 September 2008. 

He said he was in jail for 42 days in Mangalore before being released on conditional bail by Karnataka High Court. He was a critic of the Bharatiya Janata Party calling it a regime to "save the government from further embarrassment after the church attacks and on instructions from the Sangh Parivar leaders."

Kumar died on 25 April 2020 of a heart attack, aged 47.

[[Joel Rogosin]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American television producers, American television writers, Screenwriters from Los Angeles, California

Joel Rogosin (October 30, 1932 – April 21, 2020) was an American television producer and screenwriter. He was known for producing such television series as 77 Sunset Strip, The Virginian, Ironside, Magnum, P.I., and Knight Rider from the 1960s to the 1990s. He was nominated for two Primetime Emmy Awards for his work on Ironside in 1970 and 1971, and received his third Emmy nomination for producing Magnum, P.I. in 1983. He was born in Los Angeles, California.

Rogosin died on April 21, 2020 in Los Angeles of COVID-19, aged 87.

[[E-mail attachment]]

CATEGORIES: E-mail

An e-mail attachment is a computer file that is sent along with an e-mail message. The user can attach one or more files to any e-mail message. E-mail attachments are a simple method to share documents and images. A paper clip icon is usually used to signify an attachment.

[[Polymorphic code]]

CATEGORIES: Malware

Polymorphic code is computer code that is able to change itself, but also keep the exact instructions. The code can change every time it is run. Polymorphic code is sometimes used by computer viruses, worms and other malware so that they can hide from antivirus software.

[[Sobekneferu]]

CATEGORIES: Pharaohs

Sobekneferu (sometimes called "Neferusobek") was a pharaoh of Egypt between 1806 to 1802 BC. She ruled after Amenemhat IV died. She was the last ruler of the Twelfth Dynasty of Egypt. Her name means "the beauty of Sobek."

[[To Beast or Not To Beast]]

CATEGORIES: Lordi albums, 2013 albums

To Beast or Not To Beast is an album released by Lordi. It was released on 1 march 2013.

[[Chekkulam]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Chekkulam is a village in Kozhencherry, Pathanamthitta District, Kerala State, India.

[[Chengara]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Chengara is a small village in Pathanamthitta district in Kerala.  The nearest towns to chengara are Konni which is of about 6 km and Pathanamthitta which is of about 10 km. Konni medical college is just 3 km away from the village.

[[Chenneerkara]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

 Chenneerkara  is a village in Pathanamthitta district in the state of Kerala, India. 

[[Riverton, Utah]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Utah

Riverton is a city in Salt Lake County, Utah, United States. As of the 2010 census, 38,753 people live in Riverton.

[[Batangas (province)]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Batangas, officially the Province of Batangas (Lalawigan ng Batangas bɐˈtaŋgɐs), is a province of the Philippines located in the Calabarzon region in Luzon. Its capital is the city of Batangas.

[[Biliran]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines, Island provinces of the Philippines

Biliran (Lalawigan sa Biliran; Waray-Waray: Probinsya han Biliran) is an island province of the Philippines. It is in the Eastern Visayas region. The capital is Naval.

[[Benguet]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Benguet (beŋˈɡet; Ibaloi: Probinsya ne Benguet; Probinsia ti Benguet; Luyag na Benguet; Lalawigan ng Benguet) is a province of the Philippines located in the southern tip of the Cordillera Administrative Region in the island of Luzon. The capital is La Trinidad.

[[Whatcom County, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Washington (state), 1854 establishments in the United States, Washington (state) counties

Whatcom County is a county in Washington in the United States. The county seat is Bellingham. 201,140 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Whitman County, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Washington (state), 1871 establishments in the United States, Washington (state) counties

Whitman County is a county in Washington in the United States. The county seat is Colfax. 44,776 people lived there at the 2010 census. The county was created on November 29, 1871.

[[Landrecht, Germany]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein, Steinburg (district)

Landrecht is a municipality of the district Steinburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany.

[[Sankt Margarethen, Germany]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein, Steinburg (district)

Sankt Margarethen is a municipality of the district Steinburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. As of 31 December 2018, 820 people lived there.

[[Stördorf]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein, Steinburg (district)

Stördorf is a municipality of the district Steinburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany.

[[Bekdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein, Steinburg (district)

Bekdorf is a municipality of the district Steinburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. The river Bekau flows through Bekdorf.

[[List of British national symbols]]

CATEGORIES: National symbols, United Kingdom

State symbols of the United Kingdom, is a list of the National symbols of the United Kingdom, its constituent countries (England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland). Each separate entry has its own set of unique Symbols respectively. UK things which are emblematic, representative or otherwise characteristic of Great Britain or British culture. Some are established, official symbols; for example, the Royal Arms of England, which has been codified in heraldry. Other symbols may not have official status, for one reason or another, but are likewise recognised at a National or International level.

[[Ray Hnatyshyn]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2002 deaths, Governors General of Canada, People from Saskatoon, Privy Councillors (Canada), Members of the House of Commons of Canada

Ramon John Hnatyshyn (Роман Гнатишин Roman Hnatyshyn) CAN QC(Can) QC(Sask) FRHSC(hon) (March 16, 1934 – December 18, 2002), known as Ray Hnatyshyn, was a Canadian politician who was the 24th Governor General of Canada. Before this, he was a Member of Parliament (MP) in the House of Commons of Canada for over 14 years.

Hnatyshyn was born in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. He was elected to the House of Commons for the first time in the 1974 federal election. He was part of the cabinet of two different Prime Ministers, Joe Clark and Brian Mulroney. He was chosen by Queen Elizabeth II to replace Jeanne Sauvé as the Governor General in 1989. He was sworn in on January 29, 1990. He was replaced as Governor General in 1995 by Roméo LeBlanc.

Hnatyshyn died on December 18, 2002.

[[Sega Touring Car Championship]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 video games, 1997 video games, 1998 video games, Sega arcade games, Sega Saturn games, Windows games, Racing video games, Video games developed in Japan

Sega Touring Car Championship is a racing video game. It was made and published by Sega for the Sega Model 2 arcade machine in 1996, for the Sega Saturn in 1997 and for personal computers in 1998.

[[Androscoggin County, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Maine, 1854 establishments in the United States, Maine counties

Androscoggin County is a county in the state of Maine, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 107,702. The county seat is Auburn.

[[Hancock County, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: 18th-century establishments in Maine, 1789 establishments in the United States, Maine counties

Hancock County is a county in the state of Maine, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 54,418. The county seat is Ellsworth.

[[Université Laval]]

CATEGORIES: Quebec City, Colleges and universities in Canada, 1852 establishments, 1850s establishments in Canada

Université Laval is a French-language public research university. It is in Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. It was created in 1852 by a royal charter by Queen Victoria.

The Séminaire de Québec was very important in setting the university up. They were the ones that funded the university and led it. This is why the name "Laval" comes from the Séminaire's founder, François de Laval.

[[Sheila Copps]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Politicians from Ontario, Deputy Prime Ministers of Canada, Privy Councillors (Canada), Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Ontario

Sheila Copps CAN (born November 27, 1952) is a Canadian former politician. She was the deputy Prime Minister of Canada from 1993 to 1997. She was also a Member of Parliament (MP) in the House of Commons of Canada and a Member of Provincial Parliament (MPP) in the Ontario Legislative Assembly. While Jean Chrétien was Prime Minister, she was a member of his cabinet.

Copps tried to become the leader of both the Ontario Liberal Party and the federal Liberal Party but she failed both times.

[[A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 comedy movies, 1980s sex comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Woody Allen

A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy is a 1982 American comedy movie directed by Woody Allen (who also stars) and based on the 1955 Ingmar Bergman's Smiles of a Summer Night. It stars Mia Farrow, José Ferrer, Julie Hagerty, Tony Roberts, Mary Steenburgen, Michael Higgins and distributed by Warner Bros. The movie was nominated for one Razzie in 1983.

[[Play It Again, Sam (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Herbert Ross, Movies based on plays

Play It Again, Sam is a 1972 American comedy movie directed by Herbert Ross and based on the 1969 play of the same name by Woody Allen (who also stars). It stars Diane Keaton, Tomy Roberts, Susan Anspach, Jerry Lacy, Jennifer Salt and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Hide in Plain Sight]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 drama movies, American drama movies

Hide in Plain Sight is a 1980 American drama movie directed by James Caan (who also starred) and based on the novel of the same name by Leslie Waller. It stars Jill Eikenberry, Robert Viharo, Kenneth McMillan, Danny Aiello, Danny Clennon, Beatrice Winde, Josef Sommer and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[The Front]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 comedy movies, 1976 drama movies, 1970s comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies directed by Martin Ritt

The Front is a 1976 American comedy drama movie directed by Martin Ritt and written by Walter Bernstein. It stars Woody Allen, Zero Mostel, Danny Aiello, Michael Murphy and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Dan Croll]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, English singer-songwriters, English pop singers, English rock musicians, People from Staffordshire, Living people, English musicians, Musicians from Liverpool, Musicians from Stoke-on-Trent, British musicians

Daniel Francis Croll (born 18 July 1990) is an English singer-songwriter from Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire who is currently based in Liverpool, Merseyside.

[[The Long Goodbye (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 crime movies, 1973 thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, Movies directed by Robert Altman

The Long Goodbye is a 1973 American crime thriller movie directed by Robert Altman and based on the 1953 novel of the same name by Raymond Chandler. It stars Elliott Gould, Sterling Hayden, Nina Van Pallandt, Jim Bouton, Mark Rydell, Arnold Schwarzenegger and was distributed by United Artists.

[[Benishangul-Gumuz Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Ethiopia

Benishangul-Gumuz is a region in Ethiopia. The capital city is Assosa. The name of the region comes from two local ethnic groups – Berta (also called as Benishangul) and Gumuz.

[[Madeon]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, DJs, Singer-songwriters, French songwriters, French musicians, People from Nantes, Living people

Hugo Pierre Leclercq (born 30 May 1994), better known by his stage name Madeon, is a French DJ, record producer, musician, singer and songwriter from Nantes, Brittany who is currently based in Los Angeles, California, United States.

Leclercq initially came to widespread public attention through a video he uploaded to YouTube, "Pop Culture", where he performed a mash-up of 39 different popular songs in real-time using a Novation Launchpad. The video received millions of views in its first few days of release.

His first EP, The City, was released in 2012.

[[Dire Dawa]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Ethiopia, 1900s establishments in Africa, 1902 establishments

Dire Dawa is one of two chartered cities in Ethiopia. The other chartered city is Addis Ababa, the capital. It is divided administratively into two woredas, the city proper and the non-urban woreda of Gurgura.

It is on the Dechatu River. The western outskirts of the city are on the Gorro River.

The Dire Dawa University was created in 2006.

[[Subdivisions of Ethiopia]]

CATEGORIES: Ethiopia

Ethiopia is administratively divided into regional states and chartered cities, zones, woreda (districts) and kebele (wards).

[[Stafford railway station]]

CATEGORIES: 1830s establishments in England, 1837 establishments, Railway stations in England, Staffordshire

Stafford railway station is a mainline railway station that serves the market town of Stafford in Staffordshire, England. It is situated on a the junction of the Trent Valley line branch of the West Coast Main Line and the Rugby–Birmingham–Stafford line.

The station is the second busiest in Staffordshire, the busiest being Stoke-on-Trent.

[[Gambela Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Ethiopia

Gambela is a region in Ethiopia. The capital city is also named Gambela.

It is between the Baro and Akobo River. Gambela National Park covers about 15% of the land.

The region is divided into:

[[Harari Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Ethiopia

Harari is a region in Ethiopia. The capital city is Harar. It is the homeland of the Harari people.

[[Somali Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Ethiopia

The Somali Regional State is a region in Ethiopia. The capital city is Jijiga.

[[Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s establishments in Africa, 1994 establishments, Regions of Ethiopia

Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Region  is a region in Ethiopia. It is also known as SNNPR. The capital city is Awasa.

[[Arthur Fry]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, American inventors, Scientists from Minneapolis, Minnesota

Arthur Fry (born 19 August 1931) is a retired American inventor and scientist. He is known as the co-creator of the Post-it Note. In 2010, Art Fry was added into the National Inventors Hall of Fame. He was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

[[Fairmont, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota, County seats in Minnesota

Fairmont is a city in and the county seat of  Martin County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 10,666 at the 2010 census.

[[Tigray Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Ethiopia

The Tigray Region is a region in Ethiopia. The capital city is Mekelle. Tigray is the homeland of the Tigrayan, Irob and Kunama peoples.

Tigray has 1 international airport and 4 commercial airports. The international airport is Alula Aba Nega Airport. The 4 commercial airports are Shire Airport, Humera Airport, Dansha Airport, and Axum Atse Yohannes 4th Airport.

[[Joseph S. Pulver Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2020 deaths, American novelists, American editors, American poets, Writers from New York, People from Schenectady, New York, Deaths from COPD

Joseph S. Pulver Sr. (July 5, 1955 – April 24, 2020) was an American horror novelist, editor and poet. Pulver Sr. was born in Schenectady, New York. Pulver started his publishing career in the early 1990s. His works focused from Robert Wiene's The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari to H.P. Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos and Robert W. Chambers' "King in Yellow". His best known works were Nightmare's Disciple and The Orphan Palace.

Pulver Sr. died at a German hospital of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on April 24, 2020 at the age of 64.

[[Jocelyn Barrow]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, BBC people, British educators, British activists, Politicians from London, Trinidad and Tobago people, 2020 deaths

Dame Jocelyn Anita Barrow GBR (15 April 1929 – 9 April 2020) was a British educator, community activist and politician. She was the Director for UK Development at Focus Consultancy Ltd. She was the first black woman to be a governor of the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) and was founder and Deputy Chair of the Broadcasting Standards Council.

[[Gasoline additives]]

CATEGORIES: Fuel

Gasoline additives increase gasoline's octane rating or act as corrosion inhibitors or lubricants, thus allowing the use of higher compression ratios for greater efficiency and power.

[[Miguel Ángel Troitiño]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish educators, Spanish writers, European geographers, 1947 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Spain

Miguel Ángel Troitiño Vinuesa (1947 – 21 April 2020) was a Spanish geographer. He was a professor of human geography at the Complutense University of Madrid (UCM). He was an expert in cultural tourism and heritage preservation. He was born in El Arenal, Ávila, Spain.

He died of COVID-19 on 21 April 2020 in Madrid.

[[Duverger's law]]

CATEGORIES: Voting, Law

In political science, Duverger's law holds that plurality-rule elections (such as first past the post) structured within single-member districts tend to favor a two-party system, whereas "the double ballot majority system and proportional representation tend to favor multipartism".https://www.google.com/search?source=hp&ei=lRulXryMAsilmAXp97vQDg&q=duverger%27s+law+simple+definition&oq=duverger%27s+law+sim&gs_lcp=CgZwc3ktYWIQAxgBMgIIADICCAA6BAgAEAo6CAgAEBYQChAeUN4FWP0tYKI9aABwAHgBgAHxA4gB7g-SAQk2LjQuMS4xLjGYAQCgAQGqAQdnd3Mtd2l6sAEA&sclient=psy-ab

[[Novo-Ogaryovo]]

Novo-Ogaryovo is an estate near Moscow. Since 2000, it has been the residence of Vladimir Putin.

[[The Paper Chase (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books

The Paper Chase is a 1973 American coming of age drama movie. It was directed by James Bridges. The movie is based on the 1971 novel by John Jay Osborn Jr.. Actors include: Timothy Bottoms, Lindsay Wagner, John Houseman, Blair Brown, James Naughton, and Graham Beckel. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. 

It was nominated for three Oscars at the Academy Awards in 1974. Houseman won for Best Supporting Actor. There was a 1978 television series based on the movie. 

[[Savage Harvest]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 action movies, 1980s adventure movies, 1981 horror movies, American horror movies

Savage Harvest is a 1981 American action adventure horror movie directed by Robert L. Collins and starring Tom Skerritt, Michelle Phillips, Anne-Marie Martin, Derek Partridge, Arthur Malet and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Newman's Law]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 crime movies, 1974 thriller movies, American crime thriller movies

Newman's Law is a 1974 American crime thriller movie directed by Richard T. Heffron and starring George Peppard, Eugene Roche, Roger Robinson, Louis Zorich, Abe Vigoda, David Spielberg, Kip Niven and was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[The Marriage of a Young Stockbroker]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 comedy movies, 1971 drama movies, 1970s romance movies, 1970s comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies

The Marriage of a Young Stockbroker is a 1971 American romantic comedy drama movie directed by Lawrence Turman and based on novel of the same name by Charles Webb. It stars Richard Benjamin, Joanna Shimkus, Adam West, Elizabeth Ashley and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[R. P. M.]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Stanley Kramer

R. P. M. is a 1970 American drama movie directed by Stanley Kramer, written by Erich Segal and starring Anthony Quinn, Ann-Margaret, Gary Lockwood, Paul Winfield, Graham Jarvis. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[AtariAge]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, 1998 establishments

AtariAge is a website that is mostly about classic Atari video games. It features gaming news, historical archives, discussion forums, and an online store. It was founded in 1998.

Atari Age is named after the 1982–84 Atari Age magazine. AtariAge also features a searchable database of many things related to Atari video games, including manuals, packaging art, estimated rarity, screenshots, reviews and more, and also an Atari Age magazine archive. A community of homebrew developers for Atari and other classic video game systems is also hosted. Some homebrew games AtariAge published first have been included in official video game compilations, such as Activision Anthology.

[[Slaughterhouse-Five (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 science fiction movies, 1972 comedy movies, American science fiction movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on books

Slaugherhouse-Five is a 1972 American science fiction comedy movie directed by George Roy Hill and based on the novel of the same name by Kurt Vonnegut. It stars Michael Sacks, Ron Leibman, Eugene Roche, Valerie Perrine, Kevin Conway, Roberts Blossom and was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Summer Rental]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 comedy movies, 1980s adventure movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Carl Reiner

Summer Rental is a 1985 American comedy movie directed by Carl Reiner and starring John Candy, Joey Lawrence, Rip Torn, Karen Austin, Kerri Green, John Larroquette. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Plain text]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats, Writing

Plain text is textual data. It represents characters of readable material. Plain text is fairly limited because it cannot contain any formatting commands. It is often stored in a plain text file.

[[Summer School (1987 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 comedy movies, 1980s teen comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Carl Reiner

Summer School is a 1987 comedy movie directed by Carl Reiner (who also stars) and starring Mark Harmon, Kirstie Alley, Courtney Thorne-Smith, Dean Cameron. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Neelamperoor Padayani]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals in Asia, Kerala

Neelamperoor Padayani is a Padayani conducting in Neelamperoor Palli Bhagavathi Temple in Neelamperoor, Alappuzha district, Kerala, India.

[[First Monday in October]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 comedy movies, 1981 drama movies, 1980s comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Ronald Neame

First Monday in October is a 1981 American comedy drama movie directed by Ronald Neame and based on the play of the same name by Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee. It stars Walter Matthau, Jill Clayburgh, Barnard Hughes, Jan Sterling in her final feature movie role and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Charley Varrick]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s action movies, 1973 crime movies, 1973 thriller movies, American thriller movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Don Siegel

Charley Varrick is a 1973 American crime action thriller movie. It was directed by Don Siegel. Actors include: Walter Matthau, Andrew Robinson, Joe Don Baker, John Vernon, Felicia Farr. It was distributed by Universal Pictures. The movie is based on the novel The Looters by John H. Reese.

Matthau won the 1974 British Academy of Film and Television Arts Awards for Best Actor in Charley Varrick. In addition, Frank Morriss was nominated for the 1974 BAFTA Award for Best Editing.

[[Earthquake (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s adventure movies, 1974 drama movies, American adventure movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Mark Robson

Earthquake is a 1974 American adventure drama movie. It was directed by Mark Robson. Actors include Charlton Heston, Ava Gardner, George Kennedy, Walter Matthau, Geneviève Bujold, Richard Roundtree, Lloyd Nolan, Lorne Greene, and Kip Niven. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

The movie was nominated for 4 Oscars at the Academy Awards in 1975. It won for Best Sound. It also received a Special Achievement Academy Award for Visual Effects.

[[Breaking Away]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 comedy movies, 1979 drama movies, 1970s comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Peter Yates

Breaking Away is a 1979 American comedy drama movie. It was directed by Peter Yates. Actors include: Dennis Christopher, Dennis Quaid, Daniel Stern, Jackie Earle Haley, Paul Dooley, and Barbara Barrie. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

The movie was nominated for 5 Oscars in 1980.  It won for Best Original Screenplay. An unsuccessful TV series was made in 1980.

[[History of the World, Part I]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Mel Brooks

History of the World, Part I is a 1981 American comedy movie written and directed by Mel Brooks. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

Mel Brooks also plays 5 roles: Moses, Comicus the stand-up philosopher, Tomás de Torquemada, King Louis XVI, and Jacques. The large group of actors includes: Madeline Kahn, Dom DeLuise, Harvey Korman, Cloris Leachman, Gregory Haines, Sid Caesar, Orson Welles, Spike Milligan. 

The movie was nominated for Worst Picture at the 1981 Stinkers Bad Movie Awards. Roger Ebert gave the movie two stars out of four.

[[Hex (1973 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 horror movies, American horror movies, American western movies

Hex is a 1973 American western horror movie. It was directed by Leo Garen. It starred Keith Carradine, Cristina Raines, Scott Glenn, Gary Busey, Hilary Thompson, and Dan Haggerty. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

Hex played at the Atlanta Film Festival on September 8, 1973. It won the festival's Golden Jury Award. Norman Mailer considered Hex one of the top-ten best movies of 1973.

[[Kolmogorov–Smirnov test]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

The Kolmogorov–Smirnov test is a test from statistics. This test is done either to show that two random variables follow the same distribution, or that one random variable follows a given distribution. It is named after Andrey Kolmogorov and Nikolai Smirnov.

[[Kennebec County, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: 18th-century establishments in Maine, 1799 establishments in the United States, Maine counties

Kennebec County is a county in the state of Maine, in the United States. As of the 2010 census,  the county's population was 121,581. The county seat is Augusta, the state capital. The county was created on February 20, 1799.

[[Knox County, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Maine, 1860 establishments in the United States, Maine counties

Knox County is a county in the state of Maine, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 39,736. The county seat is Rockland.

[[Yaka language (Kivu)]]

CATEGORIES: Languages without Glottolog code, Niger-Congo languages

Yaka is a minor Bantu language. It is spoken by some people in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. They mostly live on the north shore of Lake Kivu.

[[Made for Each Other (1971 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 comedy movies, 1970s romance movies, American romantic comedy movies

Made for Each Other is a 1971 American romantic comedy movie directed by Robert B. Bean and stars Paul Sorvino, Renee Taylor, Joseph Bologna, Olympia Dukakis, Candice Azzara, Louis Zorich. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Dreamer (1979 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 drama movies, American drama movies

Dreamer is a 1979 American sports drama movie directed by Noel Nosseck and starring Tim Matheson, Susan Blakely, Jack Warden, Owen Bush, Pedro Gonzalez Gonzalez, Morgan Farley. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Norma Rae]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 drama movies, American drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Martin Ritt

Norma Rae is a 1979 American political drama movie directed by Martin Ritt and starring Sally Field, Beau Bridges, Ron Leibman, Pat Hingle, Barbara Baxley. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and nominated for 4 Oscars and won 2 Oscars at the Academy Awards in 1980.

[[Brenac]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Aude

Brenac is a former commune. It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the commune of Quillan.

[[Caudeval]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Aude

Caudeval is a former commune. It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Val-de-Lambronne.

[[Conilhac-de-la-Montagne]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Aude

Conilhac-de-la-Montagne is a former commune. It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Roquetaillade-et-Conilhac.

[[Argeliers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Argeliers is a commune of 2,139 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Argens-Minervois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Argens-Minervois is a commune of 347 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cahuzac, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cahuzac is a commune of 32 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Pech-Luna]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Pech-Luna is a commune of 75 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Quillan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Quillan is a commune of 3,258 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. On 1 January 2016, the former commune of Brenac became a part of the commune of Quillan.

[[Armissan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Armissan is a commune of 1,520 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Arques, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Arques is a commune of 254 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Port-la-Nouvelle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Port-la-Nouvelle is a commune of 5,567 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Arquettes-en-Val]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Arquettes-en-Val is a commune of 79 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Artigues, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Artigues is a commune of 73 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Arzens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Arzens is a commune of 1,238 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Aunat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Aunat is a commune of 67 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Auriac, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Auriac is a commune of 43 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Axat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Axat is a commune of 547 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Azille]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Azille is a commune of 1,144 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Badens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Badens is a commune of 785 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Bages, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Bages is a commune of 803 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Bagnoles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Bagnoles is a commune of 308 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Per Olov Enquist]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Swedish novelists, Swedish journalists

Per Olov Enquist (23 September 1934 – 25 April 2020) was a Swedish author. He worked as a journalist, playwright and novelist. He became well-known around the world with his novel The Visit of the Royal Physician (1999). His awards include Nordic Council Literature Prize (1968), Dobloug Prize (1988), Nelly Sachs Prize (2003) and Swedish Academy Nordic Prize (2010). Some of his works have been translated from Swedish to English by Tiina Nunnally. 

Enquist was born in Hjoggböle, a village in present-day Skellefteå Municipality, Västerbotten. He died on 25 April 2020 in Vaxholm of multiple organ failure. He was 85.

[[Baraigne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Baraigne is a commune of 174 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Battle of Lade]]

CATEGORIES: Battles

The Battle of Lade was a naval battle which occurred in 494 BC. It was fought between an alliance of the Ionian cities (joined by the Lesbians) and the Persian Empire of Darius the Great. The Persians won the revolt and this led to the end of the war.

[[Barbaira]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Barbaira is a commune of 750 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Belcaire]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Belcaire is a commune of 394 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Belcastel-et-Buc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Belcastel-et-Buc is a commune of 58 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Belflou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Belflou is a commune of 121 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Belfort-sur-Rebenty]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Belfort-sur-Rebenty is a commune of 26 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Bellegarde-du-Razès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Bellegarde-du-Razès (Belagarda) is a commune of 238 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Belpech]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Belpech is a commune of 1,273 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Giulietto Chiesa]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2020 deaths, Former MEPs, Italian journalists, MEPs for Italy, Writers from Piedmont

Giulietto Chiesa (4 September 1940 – 26 April 2020) was an Italian journalist, author, lecturer and politician. He was born in Acqui Terme, Piedmont. He served as a member of the European Parliament from 2004 to 2009.

Chiesa died on 26 April 2020 at the age of 79.

[[Belvèze-du-Razès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Belvèze-du-Razès is a commune of 868 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Belvianes-et-Cavirac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Belvianes-et-Cavirac is a commune of 255 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Kauko Juhantalo]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Finnish politicians

Kauko Johannes Juhantalo (28 April 1942 – 26 April 2020) was a Finnish politician. He was a member of the Centre Party. He served as a member of the Parliament of Finland many times (1979–1993, 1995–1999, 2003–2007, 2015–2019). He was also Minister of Trade and Industry from 1991 to 1992.

Juhantalo was born in Kankaanpää, Satakunta. He died of cancer on 26 April 2020, two days before his 78th birthday.

[[Belvis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Belvis is a commune of 160 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Berriac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Berriac is a commune of 954 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Bessède-de-Sault]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Bessède-de-Sault is a commune of 47 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[La Bezole]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

La Bezole is a commune of 44 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Bizanet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Bizanet is a commune of 1,685 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Bize-Minervois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Bize-Minervois is a commune of 1,185 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Blomac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Blomac is a commune of 227 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Bouilhonnac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Bouilhonnac is a commune of 227 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Bouisse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Bouisse is a commune of 100 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Bouriège]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Bouriège is a commune of 127 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Bourigeole]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Bourigeole is a commune of 51 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Le Bousquet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Le Bousquet is a commune of 44 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Boutenac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Boutenac is a commune of 721 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Plaigne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Plaigne is a commune of 116 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Bram, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Bram is a commune of 3,204 people (2017). It is in Occitanie in the Aude department in south France.

[[Brézilhac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Brézilhac is a commune of 174 people (2017). It is in Occitanie in the Aude department in south France.

[[Spearman, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Spearman is a city in the U.S. state of Texas.

[[Brousses-et-Villaret]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Brousses-et-Villaret is a commune of 344 people (2017). It is in Occitanie in the Aude department in south France.

[[Fa, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Aude

Fa is a former commune. It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Val-du-Faby.

[[Fred the Godson]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American rap musicians from New York, American DJs, American hip hop musicians, Musicians from New York City, African-American rappers

Frederick Thomas (February 22, 1985 – April 23, 2020), known as Fred the Godson, was an American DJ and rapper. He was born in The Bronx, New York City. In the early-2010s, he released two mixtapes; his debut was Armageddon in 2010, featuring samples of the Notorious B.I.G., Busta Rhymes, Waka Flocka Flame and Cam'ron. His second release, City of God, was one of a series for DJ Drama’s Gangsta Grillz, and featuring P. Diddy, Pusha T and Raekwon.

Between 2011 and 2020, Thomas released music and performed regularly, guest DJ-ing on New York radio station Hot 97, and worked with artists including Pusha T, Jadakiss, Cam’ron, and Raekwon. He produced two additional mixtapes in 2020, Training Day in January with Jay Pharoah, and Payback, released March 20, 2020.

On April 6, 2020, Thomas was diagnosed with COVID-19 and later suffered from asthma and kidney failure. He died from the infection on April 23, 2020 in The Bronx, aged 41.

[[Val-du-Faby]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 establishments in France, Communes in Aude

Val-du-Faby is a commune of 562 people (in the year 2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2019 and consists of the former communes of Fa and Rouvenac.

[[Rouvenac]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Aude

Rouvenac is a former commune. It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Val-du-Faby.

[[Gueytes-et-Labastide]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Aude

Gueytes-et-Labastide is a former commune. It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Val-de-Lambronne.

[[Montlaur, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Aude

Montlaur is a former commune. It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Val-de-Dagne.

[[Pradelles-en-Val]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Aude

Pradelles-en-Val is a former commune. It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Val-de-Dagne.

[[Roquetaillade]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Aude

Roquetaillade was a commune. It was in Occitanie in the Aude department in south France. On 1 January 2019, it became part of the new commune Roquetaillade-et-Conilhac.

[[Ricardo Brennand]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2020 deaths, Brazilian businesspeople, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil

Ricardo Coimbra de Almeida Brennand (27 May 1927 – 25 April 2020) was a Brazilian businessman, engineer and  art collector. In 2002 he founded the Ricardo Brennand Institute, which includes the world's largest private collection of Frans Post paintings, and was the 17th highest-rated museum in the world according to TripAdvisor in 2014. He was born in Cabo de Santo Agostinho, Brazil.

Brennand died on 25 April 2020 of COVID-19 in Recife, Brazil at the age of 92.

[[Val-de-Dagne]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 establishments in France, Communes in Aude

Val-de-Dagne is a commune of 739 people (2017). It is in Occitanie in the Aude department in south France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2019 and consists of the former communes of Montlaur and Pradelles-en-Val.

[[Fré Vooys-Bosma]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2020 deaths, Aldermen of the Netherlands, Dutch councillors, Dutch women politicians, Labour Party (Netherlands) politicians, Politicians from The Hague

Fré Vooys-Bosma (30 September 1926 – 25 April 2020) was a Dutch politician. Vooys-Bosma became the first female Labour Party councilor in The Hague in 1982. She retired in 1990.

Fré Vooys-Bosma died in The Hague on 25 April 2020, aged 93.

[[Brugairolles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Brugairolles is a commune of 273 people (2017). It is in Occitanie in the Aude department in south France.

[[Kim Chungyum]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2020 deaths, Ambassadors to Japan, South Korean politicians

Kim Chung-yum (김정렴; 3 January 1924 – 25 April 2020) was a South Korean politician. Working for President Park Chung-hee, he was the longest serving chief presidential secretary in South Korean history from 1969 to 1979. He also was Minister of Finance and Minister of Commerce and Industry from in 1966 and from 1967 to 1969. From 1979 to 1980, he was an Ambassador to Japan. Kim was a member of the Democratic Republican Party.

Kim died on 25 April 2020, aged 96.

[[Tomás Balcázar]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2020 deaths, Mexican footballers

Tomás Balcázar González (May 4, 1931 – April 26, 2020) was a Mexican footballer. He played as a forward. He played at club level for C.D. Guadalajara from 1948 to 1958 and internationally for Mexico from 1953 to 1954. Balcázar was born in Guadalajara, Mexico.

Balcázar died on April 26, 2020 in Guadalajara, aged 88.

[[Graeme Watson (cricketer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2020 deaths, Cancer deaths in Australia, Australian cricketers, Australian rules footballers, Sportspeople from Victoria (Australia)

Graeme Donald Watson (8 March 1945 – 24 April 2020) was an Australian cricketer. He played in five Tests and two One Day Internationals (ODIs) from 1966 to 1972. He was born in Kew, Victoria. He played for the national team from 1966 to 1972. He also played 18 games of Australian rules football for Melbourne in the Victorian Football League (VFL) in 1965 and 1966.

Watson died on 24 April 2020 of cancer, aged 75.

[[Les Brunels]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Les Brunels is a commune of 273 people (2017). It is in Occitanie in the Aude department in south France.

[[Bekmünde]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein, Steinburg (district)

Bekmünde is a municipality in Steinburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany.

[[Bugarach]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Bugarach is a commune of 228 people (2017). It is in the Occitanie in the Aude department in south France.

[[Lincoln County, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: 18th-century establishments in Maine, 1760s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, Maine counties

Lincoln County is a county in the state of Maine, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 34,457. The county seat is Wiscasset.

[[Bukidnon]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Bukidnon (Lalawigan sa Bukidnon; Binukid and Higaonon: Probinsya ta Bukidnon) is a province of the Philippines. It is in the Northern Mindanao region. The capital of this province is Malaybalay.

[[Eastern Samar]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Eastern Samar (Waray-Waray: Sinirangan Samar; Sidlakang Samar) is a province of the Philippines. It is in the Eastern Visayas region. The capital is Borongan.

[[Occipital bone]]

CATEGORIES: Bones

The occipital bone is a bone at the lower back of the skull. At the base of the skull (and the occipital bone) there's a large opening, called foramen magnum, where the spinal chord passes into the skull. 

[[Josephine Hull]]

CATEGORIES: 1877 births, 1957 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Actors from Massachusetts, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, People from Newton, Massachusetts, Academy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Marie Josephine Hull (née Sherwood; January 3, 1877 – March 12, 1957) was an American actress. She won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for the movie Harvey (1950). 

Hull died on March 12, 1957, aged 80, from a cerebral hemorrhage in The Bronx.

[[Harvey (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 comedy movies, 1950 drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Henry Koster, American comedy-drama movies

Harvey is a 1950 American comedy-drama movie based on Mary Chase's play of the same name, directed by Henry Koster. It starred James Stewart and Josephine Hull. The movie is about a man whose best friend is a six-foot-3.5 in. invisible rabbit named Harvey. 

[[Peggy Dow]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Actors from Louisiana, Actors from Mississippi, Actors from Tulsa, Oklahoma, American movie actors, American television actors, American philanthropists

Peggy Dow (born Peggy Josephine Varnadow; March 18, 1928) is an American philanthropist and actress. She was born in Columbia, Mississippi. 

Dow made nine movies, most notably as Nurse Kelly in Harvey (1950), and as Judy Greene in Bright Victory (1951). She also starred as Laura in Reunion in Reno and as Ellen in You Never Can Tell (both 1951).

[[Columbia, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mississippi, County seats in Mississippi

Columbia is a city in Marion County, Mississippi. The population was 6,582 as of the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Marion County.

[[Charli D'Amelio]]

CATEGORIES: People from Norwalk, Connecticut, Living people, American children, 2004 births, American TikTokers, American YouTubers, American dancers

Charli Grace D'Amelio (born May 1, 2004) is an American social media personality and dancer. As of October 11, 2020, she has over 96 million followers on the video sharing app TikTok. She has been called the "reigning queen of TikTok" by the New York Times.

[[All That Jazz]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 drama movies, 1970s musical movies, American musical movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Bob Fosse

All That Jazz is a 1979 American musical drama movie directed by Bob Fosse and starring Roy Scheider, Jessica Lange, Leland Palmer, Ann Reinking, Cliff Gorman, John Lithgow, Anthony Holland, C. C. H. Pounder, Wallace Shawn. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for 9 Oscars and won 4 Oscars at the Academy Awards in 1980.

[[Indo-Islamic architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural styles, Islamic architecture, Architecture of Pakistan

Indo-Islamic architecture (sometimes called Indo-Persian architecture) is a type of architecture and engineering from the Indian subcontinent. Some parts of this type of architecture is similar to architecture from West and Central Asia. In history, Indo-Islamic architecture comes from the time when Islamic empires were in India. It began when Delhi became the capital of the Ghurid dynasty in 1193. Many different dynasties brought in different similarities with Persian and Turkic architecture.

[[American Go Association]]

CATEGORIES: Board games, Organizations based in the United States, Non-profit organizations of the United States, Sports organizations of the United States, 1935 establishments in the United States, Go organizations

The American Go Association (AGA) was founded in 1935, and it is responsible to promote and manage the board game of Go in the United States of America. It is also a member of the International Go Federation.

[[Special Achievement Academy Award]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories, 1972 establishments

The Special Achievement Award is an Academy Award. It is given for an achievement that makes an exceptional contribution, but for which there is no yearly award category.

[[1987 Burkinabé coup d'état]]

CATEGORIES: Coups d'état, History of Burkina Faso

The 1987 Burkinabé coup d'état was a coup d'état by the Burkina Faso Armed Forces. It happened on 15 October 1987. It was started by Captain Blaise Compaoré against the President Thomas Sankara, who was his friend. 

[[From Hell to Victory]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 drama movies, 1970s war movies, Italian drama movies, Spanish movies, French drama movies, Movies directed by Umberto Lenzi

From Hell to Victory (Italian: Contro 4 bandiere, French: De l'enfer à la victoire, Spanish: De Dunkerke a la victoria) is a 1979 Italian Spanish French World War II drama movie directed by Edmondo Amati and Umberto Lenzi. Actors include George Peppard, George Hamilton, Horst Bucholz, Ray Lovelock, Anny Duperey, Lambert Wilson, Jean-Pierre Cassel.

[[Hulk (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, English-language movies, 2000s superhero movies, American superhero movies, Hulk (Marvel Comics), Movies composed by Danny Elfman, Movies directed by Ang Lee, Movies produced by Avi Arad, Movies set in San Francisco, Movies set in the 1960s, Screenplays by James Schamus, Superhero drama movies, Universal Pictures movies

Hulk is a 2003 American superhero movie directed by Ang Lee. It was based on the Marvel character Hulk by Stan Lee. Hulk's main actors are Eric Bana, Jennifer Connelly, Sam Elliott, and Nick Nolte.

[[Lady Chatterley's Lover]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 drama movies, 1980s erotic movies, British drama movies, French drama movies, German drama movies

Lady Chatterley's Lover is a 1981 British French German erotic drama movie directed by Just Jaeckin and based on the 1928 novel of the same name by D. H. Lawrence. It stars Sylvia Kristel, Nicholas Clay, Shane Briant, Ann Mitchell, Elizabeth Spriggs, Anthony Head, Bessie Love and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s action movies, 2000s adventure movies, 2000 drama movies, 2000s fantasy movies, 2000 romance movies, Academy Award winners, American action movies, American adventure movies, American drama movies, American epic movies, American fantasy movies, American romance movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Epic movies, Martial arts movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Ang Lee, Screenplays by James Schamus, Peplum movies, Prequel movies, Taiwanese movies, Hong Kong movies, Chinese movies

Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon (臥虎藏龍) is a 2000 wuxia movie directed by Ang Lee and written by Wang Hui-ling, James Schamus and Tsai Kuo Jung, based on the Chinese novel by Wang Dulu. The film features an international cast of Chinese actors, including Chow Yun-fat, Michelle Yeoh, Zhang Ziyi and Chang Chen.

[[The Survivors (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Michael Ritchie

The Survivors is a 1983 American comedy movie directed by Michael Ritchie and starring Walter Matthau, Robin Williams, Jerry Reed, Kristen Vigard, John Goodman, Annie McEnroe, James Wainwright. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Eat Drink Man Woman]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 comedy-drama movies, Taiwanese movies, Movies directed by Ang Lee

Eat Drink Man Woman (飲食男女) is a 1994 comedy-drama movie. It was directed by Ang Lee. It starred Sihung Lung, Yu-wen Wang, Chien-lien Wu, and Kuei-mei Yang. The movie was released on 3 August 1994. It was both a critical and box office success.

In 1994, the movie received the Asia Pacific Film Festival Award for Best Film. In 1995 it received an Academy Award nomination for Best Foreign Language Film.

[[The Towering Inferno]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 drama movies, 1970s action movies, 1974 thriller movies, American action movies, American drama movies, American thriller movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by John Guillermin

The Towering Inferno is a 1974 American action drama thriller movie directed by John Guillermin and starring Paul Newman, Steve McQueen, William Holden, Fred Astaire, Susan Blakely, Richard Chamberlain, Jennifer Jones, Robert Vaughn, Robert Wagner, Dabney Coleman, O.J. Simpson, Susan Flannery. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and Warner Bros. and was nominated for 8 Oscars and won 3 Oscars at the Academy Awards in 1975.

[[Bijan Kumar Shill]]

CATEGORIES: Scientists, Bangladeshi people, 1961 births

Dr. Bijan Kumar Shill is a famous scientist, scholar, and teacher from Bangladesh who currently works at the Gonoshasthaya Kendra.

[[Handle with Care]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Jonathan Demme

Handle with Care is a 1977 American movie directed by Jonathan Demme and starring Paul Le Mat, Candy Clark, Bruce McGill, Roberts Blossom, Charles Napier, Ed Begley Jr., Harry Northup. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Phantom of the Paradise]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s musical movies, 1974 horror movies, 1974 comedy movies, American musical movies, American horror movies, American comedy movies, American independent movies

Phantom of the Paradise is a 1974 American rock musical horror comedy movie directed by Brian De Palma and is based on the novels of Gaston Leroux. It stars Rod Serling, William Finley, Paul Williams, Jessica Harper, Gerrit Graham. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was a box office failure and since become a cult movie and was nominated for one Oscar at the Academy Awards in 1975.

[[The House on Skull Mountain]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 horror movies, 1974 mystery movies, American horror movies

The House on Skull Mountain is a 1974 American mystery horror movie directed by Ron Honthaner. It stars Victor French, Janee Michelle, Xernona Clayton, Ella Woods, Mike Evans and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[John Ball (priest)]]

CATEGORIES: 1338 births, 1381 deaths, 14th century in England, English priests, English Roman Catholics, Executed English people, People excommunicated by the Catholic Church, People executed by hanging, People from Hertfordshire, Roman Catholic priests

John Ball (c. 1338 - 15 July 1381) was a Medieval Priest who clashed with the Archbishop of Canterbury after he started performing sermons against Work Service (Serfdom).

Ball was later freed by Wat Tyler and began to persuade peasants to join the Peasants Revolt. Ball was later killed after King Richard II after the Peasants Revolt was put to an end by the king.

[[The One and Only (1978 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Carl Reiner

The One and Only is a 1978 American sports comedy movie directed by Carl Reiner and starring Henry Winkler, Gene Saks, Kim Darby, William Daniels, Hervé Villechaize, Ed Begley Jr., Rowdy Roddy Piper. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[National Lampoon's Animal House]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by John Landis

National Lampoon's Animal House is a 1978 American comedy movie directed by John Landis and written by Ivan Reitman. It stars John Belushi, Peter Riegert, Tim Matheson, John Vernon, Kevin Bacon, Donald Sutherland, Bruce McGill, Tom Hulce, Karen Allen, Stephen Furst and it was distributed by Universal Pictures. It was spun off into the short lived TV series Delta House in 1979.

[[King of the Gypsies (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books

King of the Gypsies is a 1978 American drama movie directed by Frank Pierson and based on the 1975 novel of the same name by Peter Maas. It stars Eric Roberts, Susan Sarandon, Brooke Shields, Judd Hirsch, Shelley Winters, Annette O'Toole, Sterling Hayden and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Taps (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 drama movies, American drama movies

Taps is a 1981 American drama movie directed by Harold Becker and based on the 1979 novel Father Sky by Devery Freeman. It stars George C. Scott, Timothy Hutton, Ronny Cox, Sean Penn, Tom Cruise, Evan Handler and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Benjamin Hornigold]]

Benjaman Hornigold was a pirate who first was Edward Teach's captain and then a friend of Oliver Levasseur, a french pirate from Calais.

[[Mood swing]]

CATEGORIES: Human behavior

A mood swing is a quick change in mood. These can promote problem solving and in producing flexible forward planning. However, when mood swings are so strong that they become unhelpful, they may be the main part of a bipolar disorder.

[[Personal and possesive pronoun]]

CATEGORIES: Pronouns

Note: his and its can be possessive determiners or possessive pronouns. Look at the complete sentences to find out which function the pronoun has.

[[The Mad Adventures of Rabbi Jacob]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 comedy movies, French comedy movies, Italian comedy movies

The Mad Adventures of Rabbi Jacob (Les Aventures de Rabbi Jacob, lez‿avɑ̃tyʁ də ʁabi ʒakɔb) is a 1973 French Italian adventure comedy movie directed by Gérard Oury and stars Louis de Funès, Marcel Dalio, Suzy Delair, Claude Giraud, Renzo Montagnani, Xavier Gélin. It was distributed in the United States by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Laughing Policeman (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 crime movies, 1973 thriller movies, American thriller movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Stuart Rosenberg

The Laughing Policeman is a 1973 American police thriller movie directed by Stuart Rosenberg and based on the 1968 novel of the same name by Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö. It stars Walter Matthau, Bruce Dern, Louis Gossett Jr., Anthony Zerbe, Albert Paulsen, Joanna Cassidy, Gregory Sierra and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Cinderella Liberty]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 drama movies, 1970s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Mark Rydell

Cinderella Liberty is a 1973 American romantic drama movie directed by Mark Rydell and based on the novel of the same name by Daryl Ponicsan. It stars James Caan, Marsha Mason, Eli Wallach, Burt Young, Dabney Coleman, Bruno Kirby and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 3 Oscars at the Academy Awards in 1974.

[[Jupiter Hammon]]

CATEGORIES: 1806 deaths

Jupiter Hammon was a black slave and was one of the first published African American authors.

[[Buckypaper]]

CATEGORIES: Carbon compounds, Nanotechnology

Buckypaper is a thin sheet made from an aggregate of carbon nanotubes or carbon nanotube grid paper. The nanotubes are approximately 50,000 times thinner than a human hair. Originally, it was fabricated as a way to handle carbon nanotubes, but it is also being studied and developed into applications by several research groups, showing promise as vehicle armor, personal armor, and next-generation electronics and displays.

[[Melvin H. Evans]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1984 deaths

Melvin H. Evans

First Black Elected Governor of the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Born: 1917

Died:1984

Took Office: January 1970

Left Office: January 6, 1975

Political Party: Republican

[[Rouge]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 2002, Musical groups disestablished in 2006, Musical quintets

Rouge are a Brazilian pop girl group formed in 2002, through the SBT and Disney Channel talent show Popstars produced by RGB Entertainment. The group comprised singers Aline Wirley, Fantine Thó, Karin Hils, Li Martins (then known as Patrícia Lissah) and Lu Andrade.

The group's debut studio album, the best-selling self-titled Rouge (2002), sold more than 2 million copies in Brazil. The success of the album was boosted by the songs "Não Dá pra Resistir", "Beijo Molhado" and, mainly, "Ragatanga", which helped to establish the group on a national platform. Their follow-up album, C'est La Vie (2003) produced the singles "Brilha La Luna", "Um Anjo Veio Me Falar" and "Vem Cair na Zueira", sold over 1 million copies. After the departure of Andrade, the four remaining members continued and released the albums Blá Blá Blá (2004) and Mil e Uma Noites (2005). The group disbanded in June 2006, when the contract with Sony Music was not renewed.

Measures of their success include, have sold 6 million records sales, becoming the most successful pop girl group in Brazil and Latin America, Under the guidance of their mentor and entrepreneur, music producer Rick Bonadio, they embarked on sold-out tours throughout Brazil and several countries in Latin America, Europe and Africa. They were also stars of commercials and television programs, as well as the faces of various licensed products such as sticker albums, sandals and dolls.

On September 12, 2017, they reformed for a second time, this time as a five-members, to celebrate a fifteen-year birthday, embarked on a tour of sold-out shows all over Brazil, the 15 Anos Tour. In followed, he released his first unreleased song since 2005, "Bailando". And, on February 1, 2019 the fifth studio album, Les 5inq, was released.  On January 24, 2019, a new hiatus was announced for an indefinite time. It is unknown if Rouge will reunite after this new hiatus.

[[List of prime ministers of Nepal]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Nepal, Lists of prime ministers

The prime minister of Nepal is the chief executive and head of the government of Nepal. This is a list of prime ministers in Nepal

[[Wagon]]

CATEGORIES: Land vehicles

A wagon is a type of vehicle that has four wheels, it can be used to store things inside it, sometimes they can be used so people can sit in it. It can be pulled by a person or by animals.  

[[Jerry Mouse]]

CATEGORIES: Animated characters, Fictional mice and rats, Tom and Jerry

Gerald "Jerry" Mouse is one of the main characters in the Tom and Jerry. 

[[Province of New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century in North America, 18th century in New Jersey, Former British colonies

The first people to live on the land now known as New Jersey were the Delaware Indians. They lived here starting at least 10,000 years ago. Anywhere from 8,000 to 20,000 Delaware Indians lived in the area when the first Europeans arrived. Their name means "original people" or "genuine people." They spoke an Algonquian dialect.

Though they were considered one tribe, the Delaware Indians didn't act as one unified group. Instead, they lived in small communities made up mostly of extended family members. The men would hunt or fish during the day. Depending on the season they might search for clams off the Jersey shore or hunt in the woods. The women worked in the gardens. They grew squash, beans, sweet potatoes, and corn.

When the first explorers came, the Delaware Indians lived in parts of Delaware, New Jersey, and eastern Pennsylvania. Europeans called them the Delaware Indians.

[[Keizo Yamada]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2020 deaths, Japanese sportspeople, Olympians

Keizo Yamada was a Japanese long-distance runner. He won the 1956 edition of the Fukuoka Marathon. He represented Japan at the 1952 Summer Olympics, finishing in 26th place (2:38:11) and won the 1953 Boston Marathon. He was born in Akita.

[[Carlo Sabatini (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2020 deaths, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian voice actors, Actors from Rome

Carlo Sabatini (7 April 1932 – 10 April 2020) was an Italian actor. He was born in Rome. He was known for voice dubbing movie roles of Morgan Freeman and Sir Ian McKellen from English to Italian. He voiced dubbed Magneto in X-Men, X2, X-Men: The Last Stand, The Wolverine, and X-Men: Days of Future Past.

Sabatini died on 10 April 2020 in Rome, aged 88.

[[Lucas Neff]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Chicago, Living people

Lucas Neff (born November 7, 1985) is an American actor. He is best known for his lead role in the Fox sitcom Raising Hope, and starred on the CBS sitcom Carol's Second Act.

Neff was born and raised in the Andersonville area of Chicago, Illinois. He is of Irish and Jewish descent.

[[Gregg Binkley]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, American television actors, Actors from Kansas, People from Topeka, Kansas, Living people

Gregg Binkley (born March 20, 1963) is an American television actor. He is best known for his roles as Kenny James on the NBC sitcom My Name Is Earl and as Dan, the Del Taco spokesperson. He has also had guest spots on Gilmore Girls, Malcolm in the Middle, Sabrina, the Teenage Witch, Yes, Dear, The Drew Carey Show, Full House, and Wizards of Waverly Place.

[[Bruce Allpress]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, New Zealand movie actors, New Zealand television actors

Bruce Robert Allpress (25 August 1930 – 23 April 2020) was a New Zealand actor. He appeared in many television dramas and also presented on television and radio productions. In the mid-1980s, he was a regular on The Billy T. James Show, as well as featuring alongside Tommy Lee Jones in the pirate adventure movie Nate and Hayes. He was best known for his role as Aldor in the movie The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers.

Allpress died on 23 April 2020, aged 89, in Auckland six months after being diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

[[Alan Abel (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, American inventors, American educators, Musicians from Indiana, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States

Alan Abel (1928 – April 25, 2020) was an American percussionist, music educator, and inventor. He was the Associate Principal Percussionist of the Philadelphia Orchestra from 1959 until his retirement in 1997. He taught at Temple University beginning in 1972.  

Abel died on April 25, 2020 from COVID-19.

[[Thomas Huang]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2020 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Chinese scientists, Engineers from Illinois, American computer scientists, Scientists from Illinois

Thomas Shi-Tao Huang (t, June 26, 1936 – April 25, 2020) was a Chinese-born American electrical engineer and computer scientist. He was a researcher and professor emeritus at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC). Huang was one of the important scientist in computer vision, pattern recognition and human computer interaction. Huang was born June 26, 1936, in Shanghai, Republic of China.

[[Emilio S. Allué]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Spanish Roman Catholics, American Roman Catholics, Bishops, People from Boston, Massachusetts

Emilio Simeon Allué Carcasona, SDB (18 February 1935 – 26 April 2020) was a Spanish-American prelate of the Catholic Church. He was an auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Boston until his retirement in 2010. He was born in Huesca, Spain.

Allué died from COVID-19 in Boston on 26 April 2020, aged 85.

[[Big Al Carson]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American blues singers, Singers from New Orleans, Louisiana, American jazz singers, Musicians from New Orleans, Louisiana

Alton "Big Al" Carson (October 2, 1953 – April 26, 2020) was an American blues and jazz singer. He performed with his band, the Blues Masters, in New Orleans, and with other bands. He was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. He played tuba in addition to singing.  Carson performed and recorded with multiple jazz and brass bands in New Orleans, including under the leadership of Doc Paulin, Lars Edegran, and Dr. Michael White.

Carson died on April 26, 2020 at the age of 66 after a heart attack in New Orleans.

[[Gideon Patt]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2020 deaths, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, Jewish Israeli politicians, Likud politicians, People from Jerusalem

Gideon Patt (גדעון פת; 22 February 1933 – 26 April 2020) was an Israeli politician. He was born in Jerusalem. Patt was a member of the Knesset from 1970 to 1996. He was a Minister of Industry from 1979 to 1984 and Tourism in 1981 and again from 1988 to 1992. He was a member of Likud.

Patt died on 26 April 2020 in Jerusalem at the age of 87.

[[Henri Weber]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in France, Former MEPs, Jewish French politicians, MEPs for France, Polish Jews, Socialist Party (France) politicians

Henri Weber (23 June 1944 – 26 April 2020) was a French politician of Jewish-Polish descent. He was a Member of the European Parliament for the north-west of France from 2004 to 2014. He was a member of the Socialist Party (PS). From 1995 to 2004, Weber was a member of the French Senate. His father-in-law was politician Jean-Claude Servan-Schreiber.

Weber died on 26 April in 2020 in Avignon of COVID-19, aged 75.

[[Bernard Gersten]]

CATEGORIES: Tony Award winners, 1923 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in New York City, Businesspeople from Newark, New Jersey, Businesspeople from New York City

Bernard Gersten (January 30, 1923 – April 27, 2020) was an American theatrical producer. His career began in the 1960s through the early 2000s. He was born in Newark, New Jersey. From 1960 to 1978, Gersten worked with Joseph Papp as associate producer at the New York Shakespeare Festival. He was an executive producer of Lincoln Center Theater from 1986 until he retired in 2013. In 2013, he won a Special Tony Award.

Gersten died from pancreatic cancer in New York City on April 27, 2020, aged 97.

[[Ramon Jimenez Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: People from Manila, Filipino politicians, Filipino businesspeople, 1955 births, 2020 deaths

Ramon Reyes Jimenez Jr. (July 14, 1955 – April 27, 2020) sometimes known as Monet or Mon Jimenez, was a Filipino advertising businessman and politician. He was Secretary of Tourism from 2011 to 2016 during the presidency of Benigno Aquino III. He was born in Manila.

Jimenez died on April 27, 2020 in Manila, aged 64.

[[Tiede Herrema]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2020 deaths, Dutch businesspeople

Dr Tiede Herrema (21 April 1921 – 24 April 2020) was a Dutch businessman. He was kidnapped by the Provisional Irish Republican Army in 1975. He was born in present-day Utrecht.

In the 1970s, Herrema ran a wire factory, Ferenka, in the city of Limerick, Ireland. On the morning of 3 October 1975, having just left his home in Castletroy near Limerick, Herrema was kidnapped by two members of the Provisional Irish Republican Army. The kidnappers wanted the release of three IRA prisoners, including Rose Dugdale.

After a massive security operation, the kidnappers were eventually traced on 21 October 1975 to a house in Monasterevin, County Kildare. After a further two-week-long struggle, Herrema was released.

Herrema died on 24 April 2020, three days after his 99th birthday.

[[Rob Shick]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, National Hockey League, Referees

Rob Shick (born 4 December 1957 in Port Alberni, British Columbia) is a retired National Hockey League referee. He began his career with the 1985–86 NHL season. He retired in March 2009. 

[[Birbhum district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of West Bengal

Birbhum district is a district in West Bengal, India.

[[Central Division, Fiji]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Fiji

The Central Division is one of four divisions in Fiji. The capital of the division is Suva, which is also the capital of Fiji.

It has five provinces - Naitasiri, Namosi, Rewa, Serua and Tailevu. The division includes the eastern part of the largest island in Fiji, Viti Levu. There are also a few outlying islands, including Beqa.

[[Eastern Division, Fiji]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Fiji

The Eastern Division is one of four divisions in Fiji. The capital of the division is Levuka, on the Ovalau island. 

It has Kadavu Province, Lau Province, Lomaiviti Province and Rotuma. Other islands in the division include Kadavu, Gau, Koro, Nairai, Moala, Matuku, Vatu Vara, Naitaba, Mago, Cicia, Tuvuca, Lakeba, Vanua Vatu, Oneata, Vuaqava, Kabara, Moce, and Fulaga.

[[Northern Division, Fiji]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Fiji

The Northern Division is one of four divisions in Fiji. The capital is Labasa.

The Northern Division has three Provinces: Macuata, Cakaudrove, and Bua. It includes the entire island of Vanua Levu.

[[Western Division, Fiji]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Fiji

The Western Division is one of four divisions in Fiji. The largest city is Lautoka.

There are three provinces on Viti Levu. They are Ba, Nadroga-Navosa and Ra. It also includes a few outlying islands, including the Yasawa Islands, Viwa Island, and Mamanuca Islands.

[[Ba Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Ba is a province in Fiji. It is in the Western Division. It is on Viti Levu, Fiji's largest island. 

There were about 245,000 people living there in 2017, the most of any province. It covers a land area of 2634.

Ba Province includes the towns and districts of Ba, Magodro, Nadi, Nawaka, Tavua, Vuda and Vitogo.  The city of Lautoka and the Yasawa Archipelago are also in Ba Province.

[[Nadroga-Navosa Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Nadroga-Navosa is a province in Fiji. It is on Viti Levu, Fiji's largest island. The main town is Sigatoka. The province includes the Mamanuca Archipelago as well as Conway Reef.

The Sigatoka Sand Dunes, a World Heritage Site, is in the province. In July 1989, the dunes were made Fiji's first national park.

[[Ra Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Ra is one of the fourteen provinces in Fiji. It is in the Western Division. It is on Viti Levu, the largest island. The main town is Vaileka.

Ra has a land area of 1341 square kilometers. About 30,000 people lived there in 2017. There are 19 districts.

[[Macuata Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Macuata is one of fourteen  Provinces in Fiji. It is on the island of Vanua Levu in the Northern Division. The main town is Labasa.

Macuata has a land area of 2004 square kilometers. About 66,000 people lived there in 2017. The Province has 114 villages spread over 12 districts. 

[[Silent Circle (band)]]

CATEGORIES: German pop music groups, German pop singers

Silent Circle is a German eurodisco band formed in 1985 by Martin Tychsen and Axel Breitung. it features from German-language dubbed version Nutri Ventures uses the song called Touch In The Night as the main theme.

[[Cakaudrove Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Cakaudrove is a province in Fiji. It is on the island of Vanua Levu in the Northern Division. The province includes the islands of Taveuni, Rabi, Kioa, and many other islands in the Vanua Levu Group. The only major town is Savusavu.

It has a total land area of 2,816 square kilometers. About 50,000 people lived there in 2017.

[[Bua Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Bua is a province in Fiji. It is on the island of Vanua Levu in the Northern Division.

It has a land area of 1,379 square kilometers. About 15,500 people lived there in 2017.

[[Kadavu Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Kadavu Province is a province in Fiji. It is in the Eastern Division. It has Kadavu Island, Ono Island, Galoa Island, Dravuni Island, Matanuku Island, Buliya Island, Nagigia Island, and a few other islands.

Kadavu has a total land area of 478 square kilometers. About 11,000 people lived there in 2017. There are 9 districts.

Kadavu is home to the second-largest living organism on Earth, the Great Astrolabe Reef.

[[Lau Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Lau Province is a province in Fiji. The capital is Tubou, at the southern end of the island of Lakeba. Lau is in the Eastern Division. The province includes the Lau Islands. The island group has about 60 islands.

It has a total land area of 487 square kilometers. About 9,600 people lived there in 2017. 

[[Deliberative assembly]]

CATEGORIES: government

A deliberative assembly is a group of members (of any kind of bigger group) who use parliamentary procedure to make decisions.

[[Lomaiviti Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Lomaiviti Province is a province of Fiji. It is part of the Eastern Division. It is made up of the Lomaiviti Islands. The largest town is Levuka.

The province has a total land area of 41 square kilometers. About 15,600 people lived there in 2017.

[[Naitasiri Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Naitasiri is one of the 14 provinces of Fiji. It is on Viti Levu, Fiji's largest island. It is part of the Central Division.

Naitasiri has an area of 1,666. About 178,000 people lived there in 2017. The main town is Nasinu.

The Medrausucu mountain ranges are in the province.

[[Namosi Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Namosi is a province in Fiji. It is on Viti Levu, the largest island. It is part of the Central Division.

The province covers 570 square kilometers. About 7,800 people lived there in 2017. Namosi Province includes Namosi District, as well as the districts of Veivatuloa and Wainikoroiluva.

[[Rewa Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Rewa is a province in Fiji. It includes the capital city of Suva.

It has a land area of 272 square kilometers, making it the smallest province in Fiji. About 108,000 people lived there in 2017.

The province has nine tikina (or districts):

[[Serua Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Serua is a province in Fiji. It is on Viti Levu, the largest island of Fiji. It is part of the Central Division.

It has a land area of 830 square kilometers. About 15,400 people lived there in 2017. Serua includes Nuku District and Serua District.

[[Tailevu Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Fiji

Tailevu is a province in Fiji. It is on Viti Levu, Fiji's largest island. It is part of the Central Division. The main town is Nausori.

Tailevu has a land area of 755 square kilometers. About 64,500 people lived there in 2017. Tailevu has the districts of Bau, Nakelo, Verata, Wainibuka, and Sawakasa.

[[Victory Is Mine]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 movies, 1956 drama movies, Japanese movies, Movies directed by Seijun Suzuki

Victory Is Mine is a 1956 Japanese drama movie directed by first time director Seijun Suzuki and stars Kō Mishima, Shinsuke Maki, Sumiko Minami, Keiko Amaji. It was distributed by Nikkatsu.

[[Portapique]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Nova Scotia

Portapique is a small community in Nova Scotia, Canada in Colchester County.

In April 2020, it was one of the places where the 2020 Nova Scotia attacks happened, which was the deadliest massacre in Canadian history.

[[Gorakhpur]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Uttar Pradesh

Gorakhpur is a city in the north-eastern region of Uttar Pradesh state of India. It is the administrative headquarters of Gorakhpur district. The city is home to the Gorakhnath Math, a Gorakhnath temple. The city also has an Indian Air Force station, since 1963. According to 2011 Indian Census, Gorakhpur had a total population of 673,446, of which 353,907 were males and 319,539 were females.

[[Wentworth, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Nova Scotia

Wentworth is a community in Nova Scotia, Canada in Wentworth Valley in Cumberland County.

In April 2020, it was one of the places where the 2020 Nova Scotia attacks happened, which was the deadliest massacre in Canadian history. Four were killed in Wentworth.

[[Mata Hari (1985 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 drama movies, 1980s erotic movies, 1980s biographical movies, American drama movies

Mata Hari is a 1985 American erotic biographic drama movie directed by Curtis Harrington and stars Sylvia Kristel, Oliver Tobias, Christopher Cazonove. It was distributed by Cannon Pictures.

[[Debert]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Nova Scotia

Debert is an unincorporated community in Nova Scotia, Canada. It is in Colchester County. In 2006, 1,471 people lived here.

[[Enfield, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Nova Scotia

Enfield is a community that is 5 north of Halifax Stanfield International Airport in the Shubenacadie Valley in Nova Scotia, Canada. It is in both Hants and Halifax counties.

[[On the Right Track]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 comedy movies, American comedy movies

On the Right Track is a 1981 American comedy movie directed by Lee Philips and starring Gary Coleman, Kim Basinger, Norman Fell, Bill Russell, Lisa Eilbacher. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Pixote]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 movies, 1980s crime drama movies, 1980s LGBT movies, Brazilian movies, Movies directed by Héctor Babenco

Pixote: a Lei do Mais Franco (piˈʃɔtʃi a ˈlej du ˈmajʃ ˈfɾaku, lit. "Pixote (small child): The Law of the Weakest") is a 1981 Brazilian drama movie directed by Héctor Babenco and based on the novel A Infância dos Mortos (The Childhood of the Dead Ones) by José Louzeiro. It stars Fernando Ramos de Silva as the title character.

[[Bloodbath]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 horror movies, Spanish movies, Liechtenstein movies, Movies directed by Silvio Narizzano

Bloodbath, also known as Las Flores Del Vicio (English: The Flowers of Vice) and The Sky is Falling, is a 1979 Spanish Liechtenstein horror movie directed by Silvio Narizzano and starring Carroll Baker, Dennis Hopper, Richard Todd, Faith Brook.

[[Lloyd deMause]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2020 deaths, American historians, American psychologists, Writers from Detroit, Michigan, Scientists from Detroit, Michigan

Lloyd deMause (pronounced de-Moss; September 19, 1931 – April 23, 2020) was an American social thinker. He was known for his works in psychohistory. He did graduate work in political science at Columbia University. He became a psychoanalyst afterwards. He was the founder of The Journal of Psychohistory.

[[Suddenly, Last Summer]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 drama movies, American drama movies, British drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz

Suddenly, Last Summer is a 1959 British American psychological drama movie directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz and based on the play of the same name by Tennessee Williams. It stars Elizabeth Taylor, Katharine Hepburn, Montgomery Clift, Albert Dekker and was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was nominated for 3 Oscars at the Academy Awards in 1960.

[[Carlos Regazzoni]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2020 deaths, Argentine sculptors

Carlos Regazzoni (1 December 1943 – 26 April 2020) was an Argentine sculptor. Regazzoni was born in Comodoro Rivadavia, Chubut Province. He worked in Paris during the 1990s. He was invited to exhibit at the Cent ans de l'aéronautique française. Regazzoni returned to Argentina and founded a workshop in Buenos Aires. His works were often described as Dantesque and were compared to Salvador Dali.

Regazzoni died on 26 April 2020 in Buenos Aires, aged 76.

[[Robert Herbin]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Sportspeople from Paris, French footballers, French football managers

Robert Herbin (30 March 1939 – 27 April 2020) was a French football defender and manager. He was born in Paris. He played for Saint-Étienne and the national team. He managed Saint-Étienne and Red Star F.C. 93.

Herbin died on 27 April 2020 in Saint-Étienne, France of heart failure at the age of 81.

[[Troy Sneed]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American singer-songwriters, American gospel singers, Singers from Florida, Writers from Florida

Troy Lenard Sneed, Jr. (December 14, 1967 – April 27, 2020) was an American gosep singer-songwriter. He was born in Perry, Florida. 

He started his music career on November 7, 1999, with the release of Call Jesus by Malaco Records. His second album, Bless That Wonderful Name, was released by Savoy Records in 2001. The third album, A State of Worship, was released and was a hit with Billboard magazine Gospel Albums chart. His fourth release, In His Presence, was released in 2006. The fifth album from him, In Due Season, was released in 2009. He released the sixth album in 2011, My Heart Says Yes. His seventh album, All Is Well, released in 2012.

Sneed died on April 27, 2020 in Jacksonville, Florida of COVID-19, aged 52.

[[Jamilur Reza Choudhury]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2020 deaths, Bangladeshi people, Bangladeshi educators, Engineers, Researchers, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Jamilur Reza Choudhury (15 November 1943 – 28 April 2020) was a Bangladeshi civil engineer, professor, researcher, and educator. He was an Adviser (Minister) to Caretaker Government of Bangladesh (April–June 1996). He was the vice chancellor of BRAC University from 2001 to 2012 and of University of Asia Pacific from 2012 until his death. He was also the president of Bangladesh Mathematical Olympiad Committee from 2003.

He was awarded Ekushey Padak by the Government of Bangladesh in the category of science and technology in 2017. He was made a National Professor by the Government of Bangladesh in 2018.

Choudhury died on 28 April 2020 of heart attack in Dhaka, aged 76.

[[John E. Otto]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2020 deaths, Directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Politicians from Saint Paul, Minnesota

John E. Otto (December 18, 1938 – April 22, 2020) was an American government official. He was the Acting Director of the FBI in 1987.

Otto died on April 22, 2020 in Norman, Oklahoma at the age of 81.

[[Clyde Tolson]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1975 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Politicians from Missouri

Clyde Anderson Tolson (May 22, 1900 – April 14, 1975) was the second-ranking official of the FBI from 1930 until 1972. He is best known as the protégé and long time top deputy of FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover. He was Acting Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for one day in May 1972.

[[Laredo, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Laredo is a city in Grundy County, Missouri, United States. The population was 198 at the 2010 census.

[[L. Patrick Gray]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2005 deaths, Directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Politicians from St. Louis, Missouri, US Republican Party politicians

Louis Patrick Gray III (July 18, 1916 – July 6, 2005) was Acting Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) from May 2, 1972 to April 27, 1973. He was in charge of the initial investigation into the burglaries that sparked the Watergate scandal, which eventually led to the resignation of President Nixon. 

Gray was nominated as permanent Director by Nixon on February 15, 1973, but failed to win Senate confirmation. He resigned as Acting FBI director on April 27, 1973, after he admitted to destroying documents from Watergate.

Gray remained publicly silent about the Watergate scandal for 32 years, speaking to the press only once, near the end of his life.

[[Clarence M. Kelley]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1997 deaths, Directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Politicians from Kansas City, Missouri, US Republican Party politicians

Clarence M. Kelley (October 24, 1911spaced ndashAugust 5, 1997) was an American politician. He was the second Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation from 1973 to 1978.

[[Floyd I. Clarke]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, American lawyers, Living people, Politicians from Phoenix, Arizona

Floyd I. Clarke (born January 7, 1942) is an American politician and lawyer. He was acting director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) from July to September in 1993 during the Bill Clinton presidency.

[[Thomas J. Pickard]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Politicians from New York City, US Democratic Party politicians

Thomas Joseph Pickard (born January 6, 1950) is an American politician. He was an acting Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 71 days in the summer of 2001 following the resignation of Director Louis Freeh. He left the office a week before the September 11 attacks.

[[Louis Freeh]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, American lawyers, American judges, Politicians from Newark, New Jersey, US Republican Party politicians

Louis Joseph Freeh (born January 6, 1950) is an American attorney and former judge. 

He was the fifth Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation from September 1993 to June 2001. He was an Assistant United States Attorney and United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. 

A Republican, he worked for President Bill Clinton. 

[[Erin Babcock]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from uterine cancer, Politicians from Alberta, People from Edmonton

Erin Babcock (June 6, 1981 – April 25, 2020) was a Canadian nurse and politician. She was elected in the 2015 Alberta general election to the Legislative Assembly of Alberta, representing the electoral district of Stony Plain. Her term ended on April 16, 2019. Babcock was a member of the Alberta New Democratic Party.

Babcock was diagnosed with uterine cancer in May 2018. She died from the disease in Edmonton on April 25, 2020 at the age of 38.

[[Enter the Dragon]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 movies, 1970s action movies, American action movies, Hong Kong movies

Enter the Dragon is a 1973 Hong Kong American action movie directed by Robert Clouse and starring Bruce Lee, John Saxon, Jim Kelly, Ahna Capri, Angela Mao, Betty Chung, Bolo Yeung, Marlene Clark. It was distributed by Warner Bros..

It was the last movie Bruce Lee starred in before his death.

[[Burgundy School of Business]]

CATEGORIES: Education in France

Burgundy School of Business is an European higher studies establishment. The school is in 3 places, in Paris, in Lyon and in Dijon. It has been created in 1899. 

BSB is specialist in the fields of economics, social sciences and management.

[[Emperor of the North Pole]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s adventure movies, 1973 drama movies, American adventure movies, Movies directed by Robert Aldrich

Emperor of the North Pole is a 1973 American adventure drama movie directed by Robert Aldrich and stars Lee Marvin, Ernest Borgnine, Keith Carradine, Simon Oakland, Charles Tyner, Harry Caesar. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Soylent Green]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 science fiction movies, 1973 thriller movies, American science fiction movies, American thriller movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Richard Fleischer, Dystopian movies

Soylent Green is a 1973 American science fiction thriller movie directed by Richard Fleischer and loosely based on the 1966 novel Make Room! Make Room!. It stars Charlton Heston, Leigh Taylor-Young, Edward G. Robinson, Joseph Cotten, Brock Peters, Dick Van Patten and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[The Ups and Downs of a Handyman]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 comedy movies, British comedy movies

The Ups and Downs of a Handyman is a 1975 British erotic comedy movie directed by John Sealey and stars Barry Stokes, Sue Lloyd, Gay Soper, Bob Todd, Chic Murray, Harold Bennett. It was distributed by Cannon Films.

[[The Oregon Trail (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies

The Oregon Trail is a 1959 American western movie directed by Gene Fowler Jr. and Fred MacMurray, William Bishop, Nina Shipman, Henry Hull, John Carradine. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Ruth Langsford]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, British game show hosts, English television presenters, Living people

Ruth Langsford (also Holmes; born 17 March 1960) is an English television presenter. She is best known for presenting numerous shows such as This Morning, Gift Wrapped and How the Other Half Lives.

Langsford is also an anchor on ITV's lunchtime chat show Loose Women and presents Ruth Langsford's Fashion Edit on QVC. She took part in the fifteenth series of Strictly Come Dancing, where she came ninth. She was the longest female presenter of This Morning. Ruth was born in Singapore, Southeast Asia.

[[Alaska Passage]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Edward Bernds

Alaska Passage is a 1959 American drama movie directed by Edward Bernds and starring Bill Williams, Naura Hayden, Lyn Thomas, Leslie Bradley, Raymond Hatton. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Compulsion (1959 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s crime movies, 1959 drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Richard Fleischer

Compulsion is a 1959 American crime drama movie directed by Richard Fleischer and based on the 1956 novel of the same name by Meyer Levin. It stars Orson Welles, Dean Stockwell, Diane Varsi, E. G. Marshall, Bradford Dillman, Martin Milner, Edward Binns and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Last Embrace]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 movies, 1970s mystery movies, 1970s thriller movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by Jonathan Demme

Last Embrace is a 1979 American thriller movie directed by Jonathan Demme and based on the novel The 13th Man by Murray Teigh Bloom. It stars Roy Scheider, Janet Margolin, Christopher Walken, Sam Levene, Marcia Rodd, Charles Napier and was distributed by United Artists.

[[You're in the Navy Now]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Henry Hathaway

You're in the Navy Now is a 1951 American World War II comedy movie directed by Henry Hathaway and starring Gary Cooper, Jane Greer, Millard Mitchell, Eddie Albert, Charles Bronson, Lee Marvin, Ed Begley, Jack Warden, Jack Webb and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Zotz!]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 comedy movies, 1960s fantasy movies, American fantasy-comedy movies, American spy movies, Spy comedy movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by William Castle

Zotz! is a 1962 American fantasy comedy movie directed by William Castle and based on the 1947 novel by Walter Karig. It stars Tom Poston, Julia Meade, Jim Backus, Cecil Kellaway and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Law and the Lawless]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 movies, 1960s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by William F. Claxton

Law of the Lawless is a 1964 American western movie directed by William F. Claxton and stars Dale Robertson, Yvonne De Carlo, John Agar, William Bendix, Lon Chaney Jr., Rod Lauren, Richard Arlen, Bruce Cabot and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Key Exchange]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 romance movies, 1985 comedy movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies based on plays, 20th Century Fox movies

Key Exchange is a 1985 American romantic comedy movie directed by Barnet Kellman and based on the play of the same name by Kevin Wade. It stars Brooke Adams, Danny Aiello, Ben Masters, Kerry Armstrong, Annie Golden and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Into the Night]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 comedy movies, 1980s thriller movies, American black comedy movies, Movies directed by John Landis

Into the Night is a 1985 American black comedy thriller movie directed John Landis and stars Jeff Goldblum, Michelle Pfeiffer, Dan Aykroyd, David Bowie, Bruce McGill, Richard Farnsworth, Irene Papps, Clu Gulager, Kathryn Harrold. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Enemy Mine (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 drama movies, 1980s science fiction movies, American science fiction movies, American drama movies, German drama movies, Cult movies, Movies directed by Wolfgang Petersen

Enemy Mine is a 1985 American German science fiction drama movie directed by Wolfgang Petersen and based on the novella of the same name by Barry B. Longyear. It stars Dennis Quaid, Louis Gossett Jr., Brion James, Carolyn McCormick and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was a box office bomb and has since become a cult classic.

[[The Quiet Earth (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 movies, 1980s science fiction movies, New Zealand movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Geoff Murphy, Post-apocalyptic movies, Dystopian movies

The Quiet Earth is a 1985 New Zealand science fiction movie directed by Geoff Murphy and is loosely based on the 1981 novel of the same name by Craig Harrison. It stars Bruno Lawrence, Alison Routledge, Anzac Wallace.

[[Prizzi's Honor]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 comedy movies, 1985 drama movies, 1980s crime drama movies, American black comedy movies, American crime drama movies, Movies directed by John Huston

Prizzi's Honor is a 1985 American black comedy crime drama movie directed by John Huston and based on the 1982 novel of the same name by Richard Condon. It stars Jack Nicholson, Kathleen Turner, Anjelica Huston, Robert Loggia, William Hickey, C. C. H. Pounder, Stanley Tucci, Lawrence Tierney and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 7 Oscars, including Best Picture, Best Director and Best Actor with Huston winning for Best Supporting Actress in 1986.

[[Almost You]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 comedy movies, 1985 romance movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies

Almost You is a 1985 American romantic comedy movie directed by Adam Brooks and starring Brooke Adams, Griffin Dunne, Karen Young. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Postman Always Rings Twice (1981 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s erotic movies, 1981 thriller movies, American thriller movies, Movies based on books

The Postman Always Rings Twice is a 1981 American erotic thriller movie directed by Bob Rafelson and is the fourth adaption of the 1934 novel of the same name by James M. Cain. It stars Jack Nicholson, Jessica Lange, John Colicos, Anjelica Huston, Christopher Lloyd, John P. Ryan and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Psych-Out]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 drama movies, American drama movies, American independent movies

Psych-Out is a 1968 American drama movie directed by Richard Rush and stars Jack Nicholson, Susan Strasberg, Dean Stockwell, Bruce Dern, Max Julien, Strawberry Alarm Clock. It was distributed by American International Pictures.

[[Committee]]

CATEGORIES: government

A committee is a group of people that come together to do something or decide something. It is often part of a bigger deliberative assembly. A committee might have a special job to do for a specific topic.

[[List of United States House of Representatives committees]]

CATEGORIES: Committees of the United States House of Representatives, United States Congress

There are two main types of congressional committees in the United States House of Representatives, standing committees and select committees.

The current House committees were created from the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946. This bill decreased the number of House committees, and it changed the committees' jurisdictions.

[[United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary]]

CATEGORIES: Committees of the United States Senate, 1812 establishments in the United States

The United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary, also called the Senate Judiciary Committee, is a standing committee of 22 U.S. Senators whose job is to oversee the Department of Justice (DOJ), question people who have been chosen for executive and  judicial jobs, and review legislation.

It is also in charge of having meetings and investigating people the President chooses to be judges on the Supreme Court, the U.S. court of appeals, the U.S. district courts, and the Court of International Trade.

[[United States Senate Committee on Rules and Administration]]

CATEGORIES: Committees of the United States Senate, 1867 establishments in the United States

The Senate Committee on Rules and Administration, also called the Senate Rules Committee, is in charge of the rules of the United States Senate, administration of congressional buildings, monitoring elections and deciding whether or not the members should be there.

[[United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations]]

CATEGORIES: Committees of the United States Senate, 1816 establishments in the United States

The United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations is a standing committee of the United States Senate. It is in charge with leading foreign-policy legislation and debate in the Senate. The Foreign Relations Committee is in charge for overseeing (but not administering) and giving money to foreign aid programs as well as buying weapons and training for national allies. The committee is also in charge of questioning people chosen for important jobs in the Department of State. The committee looks at important treaties and legislation, ranging from the Alaska purchase in 1867 to the creation of the United Nations in 1945. It also in charge of people chosen for diplomatic jobs. They deal with U.S. interests with foreign countries.

[[United States House Committee on Financial Services]]

CATEGORIES: Committees of the United States House of Representatives, 1865 establishments in the United States

The United States House Committee on Financial Services, also called the House Banking Committee, is the committee of the United States House of Representatives that oversees the entire financial services industry, including the securities, insurance, banking and housing industries. The Financial Services Committee also oversees the work of the Federal Reserve, the United States Department of the Treasury, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and other financial services regulators.

[[Hebbville, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Hebbville (2006 pop. 780) is an incorporated village bordering the town of Bridgewater in Lunenburg County, Nova Scotia, Canada.

[[Kingston, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Kingston is a Canadian village  in Kings County on the north bank of the Annapolis River in the Annapolis Valley of Nova Scotia, Canada. As of 2016, the population was 3,093.

[[United States House Committee on Oversight and Reform]]

CATEGORIES: Committees of the United States House of Representatives, 1816 establishments in the United States

The Committee on Oversight and Reform is the main investigative committee of the United States House of Representatives.

The committee has broad jurisdiction and strong legislative authority, which makes it one of the most influential and powerful committees in the House. Its chairman is one of only three in the House that can make subpoenas without a committee vote or talking with the ranking member. However, recently, it has become common to not make a subpoena by themselves..

Carolyn Maloney (D-New York) became the acting chair of the committee after Elijah Cummings (D-Maryland) died on October 17, 2019; she was elected chair a month later.

[[Lawrencetown, Annapolis County]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Lawrencetown is a village within Annapolis County in the Annapolis Valley of Nova Scotia, Canada. The town was first settled in 1760 and named after Nova Scotia governor Charles Lawrence. 2016 the population was 516, a decrease of 17.4% over the previous five years.

[[New Minas]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

New Minas is a village located in the eastern part of Kings County in Nova Scotia's Annapolis Valley. As of 2011, the population was 5,135.

[[United States House Oversight Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties]]

CATEGORIES: Subcommittees of the United States House of Representatives

The Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties is a subcommittee within the United States House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

[[Port Williams, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Port Williams is a Canadian village in Kings County, Nova Scotia. It is located on the north bank of the Cornwallis River, named after Edward Cornwallis, first governor of Nova Scotia.  As of 2016, the population was 1,120.

[[United States House Oversight Subcommittee on Environment]]

CATEGORIES: Subcommittees of the United States House of Representatives

The Subcommittee on Environment is a subcommittee within the U.S. House of Representatives Oversight and Government Reform Committee. 

[[Pugwash, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Pugwash is a village in Cumberland County, Nova Scotia, Canada. It had a population of 736 as of the 2016 census.

[[United States House Financial Services Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and Financial Institutions]]

CATEGORIES: Subcommittees of the United States House of Representatives

The U.S. House Financial Services Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and Financial Institutions is a subcommittee of the House Committee on Financial Services.

[[United States House Financial Services Subcommittee on Investor Protection, Entrepreneurship and Capital Markets]]

CATEGORIES: Subcommittees of the United States House of Representatives

The U.S. House Financial Services Subcommittee on Investor Protection, Entrepreneurship and Capital Markets is a subcommittee of the House Committee on Financial Services.

[[River Hebert, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

River Hebert is a village on the River Hebert in Cumberland County, Nova Scotia, Canada.It is approximately 25 kilometres southwest of Amherst. As of 2006 the population was 543.

[[Hammerwich]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Staffordshire, Civil parishes in Staffordshire

Hammerwich is a small village and civil parish in Lichfield District, Staffordshire, England. It is south-east of Burntwood. About 700 people lived there in 2011.

[[St. Peter's, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

St. Peter's (Scottish Gaelic: Baile Pheadair; formerly known as "Santo Pedro", "Saint-Pierre", "Port Toulouse", and "St. Peters") is a small incorporated village  located on Cape Breton Island in Richmond County, Nova Scotia, Canada.

[[PEN Oakland awards]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 establishments in California, Awards

The PEN Oakland/Josephine Miles Literary Award is for U.S. multicultural writers. It is to "promote works by writers of all cultural and racial backgrounds and to educate both the public and the media as to the nature of multicultural work." It was created by PEN Oakland in 1991. It was named in honor of Josephine Miles. PEN Oakland was created in 1989. The award was called the "Blue Collar PEN Award" by The New York Times.

[[Tatamagouche]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Tatamagouche ˌ (Mi'kmaq: Taqamiju’jk) is a village in Colchester County, Nova Scotia, Canada.

[[Tiverton, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Tiverton is a small village located on the northeast tip of Long Island, Nova Scotia. Tiverton has a population of about 300 people. It was named for Tiverton, Devon. 

The main industry is lobster fishing, while a second, and growing industry, is tourism. The Bay of Fundy is known for whale watching, and Tiverton and the surrounding area offer several tours operating throughout the summer months. Another attraction is Balancing Rock, a large basalt column that appears to be balancing on its end on the southern shore just outside Tiverton.

[[Ernesto Nieto]]

CATEGORIES: People from Houston, Texas, Living people, 1940 births

Ernesto Nieto (born October 6, 1940) is the creator of the National Hispanic Institute. He has served as President since the organization's creation in 1979.

[[Westport, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Westport, Nova Scotia is a village in Digby County, Nova Scotia and it is located on Brier Island in the Bay of Fundy. As of 2016, the population was 218.

[[Kanifing (Gambia)]]

CATEGORIES: Local Government Areas of the Gambia

Kanifing is one of eight Local Government Areas in The Gambia. The municipality has the most people of any of the administrative districts in Gambia. It is immediately west of the City of Banjul. It includes Serrekunda, the largest urban area in the Gambia.

[[Spike protein]]

CATEGORIES: Viruses

A Spike protein or peplomer is a glycoprotein spike on the outside layer (or capsid) of a virus. When a virus attaches to a cell, these peplomers can only attach to certain receptors on the cell. They are very important for choosing which cell it attaches to and how infectious a virus is.

[[Brikama (Gambia)]]

CATEGORIES: Local Government Areas of the Gambia

Brikama is one of eight Local Government Areas in the Gambia. The headquarters of the Brikama LGA are at Brikama town. About 700,000 people lived there in 2013.

[[Mansa Konko]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Gambia, Local Government Areas of the Gambia

Mansa Konko is a town and Local Government Area in The Gambia. It is the capital city of the Lower River Region.

[[Kerewan (Gambia)]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Gambia, Local Government Areas of the Gambia

Kerewan is one of eight Local Government Areas (LGA) in the Gambia. It is north of the Gambia River. 

The city of Kerewan is the headquarters of the North Bank Region. In 2013 about 220,000 lived in the LGA. Of those, about 200,000 lived in the city.

[[Kuntaur (Gambia)]]

CATEGORIES: Local Government Areas of the Gambia, Cities in the Gambia

Kuntaur is one of eight Local Government Areas in the Gambia.

The town of Kuntaur is the last inland port for large ships. It had about 3,000 people living there in 2013.

[[Michael Robinson (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2020 deaths, Cancer deaths in Spain, Deaths from melanoma, English footballers, Spanish footballers, English television presenters, Irish television presenters, Irish footballers, English sports commentators, Liverpool F.C. players, Sportspeople from Leicester

Michael John Robinson (12 July 1958 – 27 April 2020) was an English-born professional footballer and sports commentator. He played as a striker.

Robinson was born in Leicester. He played in more than 300 official matches in England for five clubs, including Liverpool. He also played the last three seasons of his career in Spain with Osasuna. He represented the Republic of Ireland at international level.

Robinson retired in 1989. He became a Spanish citizen. He was also a television presenter. In December 2018, Robinson announced he had melanoma. He died in Marbella on 27 April 2020 at the age of 61.

[[Janjanbureh (Gambia)]]

CATEGORIES: Local Government Areas of the Gambia, Cities in the Gambia

Janjanbureh is one of eight Local Government Areas in the Gambia. 

The town of Janjanbureh is on MacCarthy Island in the Gambia River. It used to be named Georgetown.

[[Ozren Grabarić]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Croatian actors, People from Zagreb

Ozren Grabarić (born 17 July 1980) is a Croatian actor, member of the Gavella Theatre in Zagreb, often featured in TV series and in film. He is a professor at the Academy of Dramatic Art in Zagreb. He voiced Crane in the Croatian dub of the Kung Fu Panda films.

[[Basse (Gambia)]]

CATEGORIES: Local Government Areas of the Gambia

Basse is one of eight Local Government Areas in the Gambia. About 240,000 people lived there in 2013. It has a land area of 2,069.5 square kilometres.

[[Palatine bone]]

The palatine bone is a paired bone which forms part of the nasal cavity and hard palate. It is located between the maxilla and sphenoid bone. In simple terms it is locates on both sides of nose.

[[Local Government Areas of the Gambia]]

CATEGORIES: Local Government Areas of the Gambia

The Gambia is divided into eight local government areas. These are divided into 43 districts. 

[[Secondary color]]

CATEGORIES: Color

Secondary colors are colors made from two primary colors. In RYB, the secondary colors are orange, mixed from red and yellow, green, mixed from yellow and blue, and purple, mixed from red and blue. In RGB, the secondary colors are yellow, mixed from red and lime, cyan, mixed with lime and blue, and magenta, mixed from red and blue. The secondary colors from RYB are known as OGP, and from RGB, it is CMYK.

When mixed with primary colors, it makes a teritary color.

[[Tertiary color]]

CATEGORIES: Color

Teritary colors are colors mixed from primary colors, and secondary colors.

[[RGB]]

CATEGORIES: Color

RGB, also called additive color mixing, is a color coding using light, with red, green, and blue. It is used in a hexadecimal code (#RRGGBB), with the left two digits with red, the center with green, and the right with blue. There can only be a maximum 255 of each color.

[[Police impersonation]]

CATEGORIES: Crime

Police impersonation is when someone pretends to be a police officer. It is illegal in most countries.

[[Prime Minister of Serbia]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Serbia

The Prime Minister of Serbia (Serbian: Премијер Србије / Premijer Srbije), officially the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (Председник Владе Републике Србије / Predsednik Vlade Republike Srbije), is the Head of government of Serbia. The prime minister works for the Government, and sends it to the National Assembly the Government's Program.

The current Prime Minister, Ana Brnabić was nominated by the former Prime Minister and newly elected President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vučić and elected and appointed by the National Assembly on 29 June 2017. 

[[Dragutin Zelenović]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Educators, Prime Ministers of Serbia

Dragutin Zelenović (Драгутин Зеленовић; 19 May 1928 — 27 April 2020) was a Serbian educator and politician. He was rector of the University of Novi Sad. He was a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. He was the Prime Minister of Serbia in 1991. 

He was a professor at the Faculty of Technical Sciences and Rector of the University of Novi Sad (1987–89). 

He died on 27 April 2020 in Novi Sad, aged 91.

[[Tanjung Pinang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indonesia

Tanjung Pinang is the capital city of the Indonesian province of the Riau Islands. It covers a land area of 144.56 km2. With an estimated population of 209,280 as of 2018, it is the second largest city of the province, after Batam. Tanjung Pinang is a historic city of the Malay culture, serving as the capital of Johor Sultanate and Riau-Lingga Sultanate.

[[Syahrul]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Indonesia, Indonesian politicians, Indonesian educators, Mayors

Syahrul (August 30, 1960 – April 28, 2020) was an Indonesian politician, teacher, and member of the Great Indonesia Movement Party. He was the Mayor of Tanjung Pinang, and capital and second largest city in the Riau Islands, from September 21, 2018, until his death on April 28, 2020. He was Deputy Mayor of Tanjung Pinang from 2013 to 2018.

Syahrul died in April 2020 from COVID-19, aged 59.

[[Alexander Münninghoff]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2020 deaths, Chess players, Dutch journalists, Dutch sportspeople, People from Poznań

Alexander Münninghoff (13 April 1944 – 28 April 2020) was a Polish-born Dutch journalist and chess player. From 1974 to 2007, he worked for the Haagsche Courant. Münninghoff wrote among others many articles and books about chess sport. He was born in Poznan, Poland. In 1983 he won the Prijs voor de Dagbladjournalistiek and in 2015 he won the Libris Geschiedenis Prijs for his book De stamhouder.

Münninghoff died at his home in The Hague on 28 April 2020, aged 76.refhttps://www.denhaagcentraal.net/nieuws/alexander-munninghoff-76-overleden/

[[Harland Svare]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, American football linebackers, New York Giants players, Los Angeles Rams players, Deaths from respiratory arrest, Sportspeople from Minnesota

Harland James Svare (November 25, 1930 – April 4, 2020) was a American professional football player and coach.  Svare was a linebacker who played eight seasons with the Los Angeles Rams and New York Giants of the National Football League (NFL) from 1953 to 1960.  He was the Rams head coach from the 1962 season through 1965 and the San Diego Chargers head coach from 1971 through 1973. He was born in Clarkfield, Minnesota.

Svare died on April 4, 2020 of respiratory arrest in Steamboat Springs, Colorado at the age of 89.

[[Clarkfield, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota

Clarkfield is a city in Yellow Medicine County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 863 at the 2010 census.

[[Granite Falls, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota, County seats in Minnesota

Granite Falls is a city in Chippewa and Yellow Medicine counties in the State of Minnesota. The population was 2,897 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Yellow Medicine County.

[[Ronnie Earle]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2020 deaths, American lawyers, American judges, Politicians from Fort Worth, Texas, Politicians from Austin, Texas, US Democratic Party politicians

Ronald Dale Earle (February 23, 1942 – April 5, 2020) was an American Democratic politician and lawyer. He was born in Fort Worth, Texas. From 1977 to 2009, he was the District Attorney of Travis County, Texas. He was known for being the judge that prosecuted House Majority Leader Tom DeLay for money laundering.

Earle died on April 5, 2020 in Austin, Texas after a long-illness, aged 78.

[[Albert H. Wilkening]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, American generals, People from New York, People from Wisconsin

Major General Albert H. Wilkening (February 1, 1946 – April 8, 2020) was an American major general. He was an adjutant general of Wisconsin from 2002 to 2007. He was responsible for both the federal and state missions of the Wisconsin Army and Air National Guard and the Wisconsin Division of Emergency Management. 

In March 2003, Wilkening was appointed by Governor Jim Doyle as in charge of the Homeland Security Council in Wisconsin and to be the governor's homeland security advisor. He was born in Freeport, New York.

Wilkening died of pancreatic cancer in Wisconsin on April 8, 2020, at the age of 74.

[[Freeport, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

Freeport (officially The Incorporated Village of Freeport) is a village in the town of Hempstead, Nassau County, New York, US, on the South Shore of Long Island. The population was 43,713 at the 2010 census. 

[[Jim Doyle]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, American educators, Living people, American lawyers, Governors of Wisconsin, Politicians from Washington, D.C., US Democratic Party politicians

James Edward Doyle, Jr., (born November 23, 1945) is an American lawyer and politician. He is a member of the Democratic Party. He was the 44th Governor of Wisconsin from January 6, 2003 to January 3, 2011.

[[Marianne Lundquist]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Sweden, Swedish Olympians, Sportspeople from Stockholm

Ingrid Marianne Lundquist (later Grane, 24 July 1931 – 10 April 2020) was a Swedish freestyle swimmer. She was born in Stockholm. Lundquist won a bronze medal in the 4 × 100 m relay at the  1950 European Aquatics Championships. She competed at the 1948 and 1952 Olympics. 

Lundquist died on 10 April 2020 from COVID-19 in Stockholm, aged 88.

[[Lowell A. Reed Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, American lawyers, American judges, Politicians from Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians

Lowell A. Reed Jr. (June 21, 1930 – April 11, 2020) was an American politician and lawyer. He was a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania from 1988 to 1999. He was nominated by President Ronald Reagan. Reed Jr. was born in West Chester, Pennsylvania.

Reed Jr. died on April 11, 2020 in Jenkintown, Pennsylvania of Parkinson's disease-related problems, aged 89.

[[Jenkintown, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in Pennsylvania

Jenkintown is a borough in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, about 10 miles (16 km) north of Philadelphia.

[[Axel Berg (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2020 deaths, Norwegian footballers

Axel August Berg (8 July 1938 – 12 April 2020) was a Norwegian football winger. He played for Lyn between 1955 and 1965 and the national team from 1959 and 1961. 

Berg died on 12 April 2020, aged 81.

[[Elisabeth Berge]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2020 deaths, Norwegian politicians, Norwegian businesspeople

Elisabeth Berge (27 November 1954 – 13 April 2020) was a Norwegian businessperson and politician. She worked in the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy from 1981 to 1990. She then worked in Statoil from 1990 to 2004. Beginning in 2001, she was chief of communications. In 2004 she was appointed permanent under-secretary of State in the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy.

Berge died on 13 April 2020, aged 65.

[[Paul Ronty]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Rangers players, Sportspeople from Toronto

Paul Ronty (July 12, 1928 – April 22, 2020) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. Ronty started his National Hockey League career with the Boston Bruins in 1947.  He also played for the New York Rangers and Montreal Canadiens. He retired after the 1955 season. He was born in Toronto.

Ronty died on April 22, 2020 in Newton, Massachusetts at the age of 91.

[[Brian Stepanek]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, American stage actors

Brian Patrick Stepanek (born February 6, 1971) is an American actor. He was born in Cleveland, Ohio. He is known for his role as Arwin Hawkhauser on the Disney Channel Original Series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody and Brian on Brian O'Brian. He was also a Sector Seven Agent in the 2007 Michael Bay movie Transformers. He played Tom Harper on the Nickelodeon series Nicky, Ricky, Dicky & Dawn from 2014 to 2018.

[[Lynn Harrell]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Musicians from New York City

Lynn Harrell (January 30, 1944 – April 27, 2020) was an American classical cellist. He was born in New York City. Harrell made his recital debut in New York in 1971. He was the Music Director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic Institute from 1988 to 1992. From 1986 to 1993, he held the post of "Gregor Piatigorsky Endowed Chair in Violoncello" at the University of Southern California. 

Harrell died on April 27, 2020 in Santa Monica, California of cardiac arrest at the age of 76.

[[Francesco Perrone]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Italy, Italian Olympians

Francesco Perrone (3 December 1930 – 27 April 2020) was an Italian long-distance runner. He competed in the marathon at the 1960 Summer Olympics. Perrone was an athlete of the Gruppo Sportivo Fiamme Oro. He was born in Cellino San Marco, Italy.

Perrone died of COVID-19 on 27 April 2020 in Bari, Italy at the age of 89.

[[Mohammad Shariff (admiral)]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2020 deaths, Pakistani people, Military people

Admiral Mohammad Shariff (Urdu: ايڈمرل محمد شريف ; born 1920 – 27 April 2020NI(M), HI(M), SI(M), LM, HJ, SJ, SK), was a four-star rank admiral. He was an important figure in the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971. He was the Chief of Naval Staff from 1975 to 1979 and Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee from 1977 to 1980.

Shariff died on 27 April 2020, aged 99.

[[Kim Rhodes]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from Portland, Oregon, Singers from Portland, Oregon

Kimberly Rhodes (born June 7, 1969) is an American actress. She is known for her roles as Ensign Lydnsey Ballard in "Ashes to Ashes" episode of Star Trek Voyager, Cindy Harrison on two different soap operas, Another World and As the World Turns, and as Carey Martin in the Disney Channel sitcom The Suite Life of Zack & Cody and The Suite Life on Deck, She is also known for playing Sheriff Jody Mills on Supernatural.

[[Nur Yerlitaş]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Fashion designers, People from Istanbul

Nuray "Nur" Yerlitaş (11 August 1955 – 27 April 2020) was a Turkish fashion designer. She was born in Istanbul. She was a judge on the television reality show İşte Benim Stilim from 2015 to 2017. She started her career by selling accessories from Italy. In the following years she opened her own boutique and entered into designing business.

In August 2018, Yerlitaş was diagnosed with brain cancer. She died on 27 April 2020 at her home in Istanbul from the disease, aged 64.

[[Giacomo dalla Torre del Tempio di Sanguinetto]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from throat cancer, Princes and Grand Masters of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, People from Rome

Fra' Giacomo dalla Torre del Tempio di Sanguinetto (9 December 1944 – 29 April 2020) was an Italian nobility. He was the 80th Prince and Grand Master of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta in 2008 and again from 2017 until his death. 

His full title is His Most Eminent Highness Fra' Giacomo dalla Torre del Tempio di Sanguinetto, Prince and Grand Master of the Sovereign Military Hospitaller Order of St. John of Jerusalem, of Rhodes and of Malta, Most Humble Guardian of the Poor of Jesus Christ. He was born in Rome. 

Dalla Torre died on 29 April 2020 in Rome from throat cancer, aged 75.

[[List of Grand Masters of the Knights Hospitaller]]

CATEGORIES: Princes and Grand Masters of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta

This is a list of  Grand Masters of the Knights Hospitaller including their replacement Sovereign Military Order of Malta after 1798.

[[Adjara]]

CATEGORIES: Autonomous republics of Georgia (country), 1991 establishments in Europe

Adjara is a region of Georgia. Its official name is Autonomous Republic of Adjara. The capital city is Batumi, which is the 2nd largest city in Georgia.

The region is on the coast of the Black Sea near the foot of the Lesser Caucasus Mountains. About 333,953 people live there (2014).

There are 5 municipalities plus the city of Batumi. The five municipalities are:

[[Ludwig Hoffmann-Rumerstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Princes and Grand Masters of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, Austrian people

Fra' Ludwig Hoffmann von Rumerstein (born January 21, 1937) is an Austrian nobility. He was the interim Prince and Grand Master of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta in 2017. From 1994 to 2004 and again from 2014 to 2019, he was Grand Commander of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta. He was born in Innsbruck.

[[Ron Marlenee]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2020 deaths, United States representatives from Montana, People from Bozeman, Montana, US Republican Party politicians

Ronald Charles "Ron" Marlenee (August 8, 1935 – April 26, 2020) was an American Republican politician. He was  in the United States House of Representatives from Montana between January 3, 1977 to January 3, 1993. He represented MT. Marlenee was born in Scobey, Montana.

Marlenee died on April 26, 2020 in Bozeman, Montana of a short-illness, aged 84.

[[South Berwick, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine

South Berwick is a town in York County, Maine, United States. The population was 7,220 at the 2010 census.

[[York County, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: 1630s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 1636 establishments, Maine counties

York County is the southwesternmost county in the U.S. state of Maine. As of the 2010 census, the population was 197,131. Its county seat is Alfred.

[[Alfred, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine, County seats in Maine

Alfred is a town in York County, Maine, United States. As of the 2010 census, the town population was 3,019. Alfred is the seat of York County.

[[Guria]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Georgia (country)

Guria is a region in Georgia. The capital city is Ozurgeti. It is bordered by the eastern end of the Black Sea.

[[Auburn, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Maine, County seats in Maine

Auburn is a small city in south-central Maine, United States. The city is the county seat of Androscoggin County. The population was 23,055 at the 2010 census. Auburn and its sister city Lewiston are known locally as the Twin Cities or Lewiston–Auburn (L–A).

[[Ellsworth, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Maine, County seats in Maine

Ellsworth is a city in and the county seat of Hancock County, Maine, United States. The 2010 Census it had a population of 7,741.

[[Rockland, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Maine, County seats in Maine

Rockland is a city in Knox County, Maine, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the city population was 7,297. It is the county seat of Knox County. 

[[Wiscasset, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine, County seats in Maine

Wiscasset is a town in and the seat of Lincoln County, Maine, United States. The population was 3,732 as of the 2010 census. 

[[Penobscot County, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Maine, 1816 establishments in the United States, Maine counties

Penobscot County is a county in the U.S. state of Maine. As of the 2010 census, the population was 153,923. Its county seat is Bangor. Penobscot County is home to the University of Maine.

[[Piscataquis County, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Maine counties

Piscataquis County is a county located in the U.S. state of Maine. As of the 2010 census, its population was 17,535, making it Maine's least-populous county. Its county seat is Dover-Foxcroft.

[[Sagadahoc County, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Maine, 1854 establishments in the United States, Maine counties

Sagadahoc County (ˈ SAG) is a county in the state of Maine, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 35,293. The county seat is Bath.

[[Paris, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine, County seats in Maine

Paris is a town in and the county seat of Oxford County, Maine, United States. The population was 5,183 at the 2010 census.

[[Oxford County, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Maine, 1805 establishments in the United States, Maine counties

Oxford County is a county in the state of Maine, in the United States. As of the 2010 Census, the county had a population of 57,833. Its county seat is the town of Paris.

[[Belfast, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Maine, County seats in Maine

Belfast is a city in Waldo County, Maine, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the city population was 6,668.

[[Waldo County, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Maine, 1827 establishments in the United States, Maine counties

Waldo County is a county in the state of Maine, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 38,786. The county seat is Belfast. 

[[Machias, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine, County seats in Maine

Machias m is a town in and the county seat of Washington County in downeast Maine, United States. As of the 2010 census, the town population was 2,221. 

[[Imereti]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Georgia (country)

Imereti is a region of Georgia. The capital city is Kutaisi. It is along the Rioni River.

[[Washington County, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: 18th-century establishments in Maine, 1789 establishments in the United States, Maine counties

Washington County is a county located in the U.S. state of Maine. As of the 2010 census, its population was 32,856, making it the third-least populous county in Maine. Its county seat is Machias. 

[[South Paris, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places, Settlements in Maine

South Paris is a census-designated place (CDP) located within the town of Paris in Oxford County, Maine, in the United States.  The population was 2,237 at the 2000 census.

South Paris is located at 44 (44.221609, -70.514603).

[[Kakheti]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Georgia (country)

Kakheti is a region in Georgia. The capital city is Telavi. It include the Tsiv-Gombori mountain range and Alazani River.

The Georgian David Gareja monastery complex is partly in this province. There is a border dispute between Georgian and Azerbaijani authorities. Popular tourist attractions in Kakheti include Tusheti, Gremi, Signagi, Kvetra, Bodbe, Lagodekhi Protected Areas and Alaverdi Monastery. 

[[Kvemo Kartli]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Georgia (country)

Kvemo Kartli is a region in Georgia. The capital city is Rustavi.

Kvemo Kartli is divided into 6 municipalities and 1 special status city, Rustavi:

[[Mtskheta-Mtianeti]]

CATEGORIES: South Ossetia, Regions of Georgia (country)

Mtskheta-Mtianeti is a region (Mkhare) in eastern Georgia. The capital city is Mtskheta. The western part is controlled by the Republic of South Ossetia.

The region has five municipalities:

[[Racha-Lechkhumi and Kvemo Svaneti]]

CATEGORIES: South Ossetia, Regions of Georgia (country)

Racha-Lechkhumi and Kvemo Svaneti is a region in Georgia. The capital city is Ambrolauri. Part of the region is controlled by South Ossetia. Besides Ambrolauri, the region includes the municipalities of Lentekhi, Oni, and Tsageri.

The region has the historical provinces of Racha, Lechkhumi and Kvemo Svaneti. 

[[Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Georgia (country)

Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti is a region in Georgia. The capital city is Zugdidi.

The region is divided into:

[[Samtskhe-Javakheti]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Georgia (country)

Samtskhe–Javakheti is a region in Georgia. The capital city is Akhaltsikhe. It has the historical provinces of Meskheti, Javakheti and Tori.

The Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline, the South Caucasus natural gas pipeline, and the Kars–Tbilisi–Baku railway pass through the region.

The major tourist attractions are the cave monasteries of Vardzia, Vanis Kvabebi, Rabati Castle and Khertvisi fortress.

[[The Nebraskan]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Fred F. Sears

The Nebraskan is a 1953 American western movie. It was directed by Fred F. Sears. Actors include Philip Carey, Roberta Haynes, Wallace Ford, Lee Van Cleef, Richard Webb, and Dennis Weaver. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Shida Kartli]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Georgia (country), South Ossetia

Shida Kartli is a region in Georgia. The capital city is Gori. Part of the region is under South Ossetian control.

It is in a  lowland between the Greater and Lesser Caucasus. The Ksani River is in the east.

Shida Kartli is divided into the city of Gori, and 6 municipalities. The municipalities are:

[[Invaders from Mars (1953 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 movies, 1950s science fiction movies, American science fiction movies, Movies set on Mars

Invaders from Mars is a 1953 American science fiction movie. It was directed by William Cameron Menzies. Actors include Jimmy Hunt, Helena Carter, Arthur Franz, Morris Ankrum, Leif Erickson, Max Wagner, Walter Sande, and Hillary Brooke. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. There was a remake in 1986.

[[Mkhare]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Georgia (country)

A mkhare is a type of administrative division in the country of Georgia. It is usually translated as "region".

The regions are further divided into raionis (districts). There are 9 regions in Georgia.

[[House of Wax]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 movies, 1950s thriller movies, 1950s horror movies, American horror movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by Andre DeToth

House of Wax is a 1953 American horror thriller movie. It was directed by Andre DeToth. It is a remake of the 1933 movie Mystery of the Wax Museum (1933). Actors include Vincent Price, Frank Lovejoy, Phyllis Kirk, Carolyn Jones, Roy Roberts, and Charles Bronson. It was distributed by Warner Bros. It was remade in 2005 as House of Wax.

[[Cole Younger, Gunfighter]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies based on books

Cole Younger, Gunfighter is a 1958 American western movie. It was directed by R. G. Springsteen. The movie is based on the 1950 novel The Desperado by Clifton Adams. Actors include Frank Lovejoy, James Best, Abby Dalton, Jan Merlin, Frank Ferguson, and Ainslie Pryor. It was distributed by Allied Artists Pictures.

[[King of the Khyber Rifles (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 movies, 1950s adventure movies, American adventure movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Henry King

King of the Khyber Rifles is a 1953 American adventure movie. It was directed by Henry King. The movie is based on the 1916 novel of the same name by Talbot Mundy. The novel was also the basis of the 1929 movie The Black Witch. Actors include Tyrone Power, Terry Moore, Michael Rennie, Guy Rolfe, Richard Wyler, and John Farrow. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Eddy Pieters Graafland]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Eddy Pieters Graafland OON (5 January 1934 – 28 April 2020) was a Dutch football goalkeeper and football manager. He played for Ajax and Feyenoord and was part of Feyenoord's European Cup victory in 1970. He was born in Amsterdam. He earned 47 caps for the Netherlands national football team. He was thought to be one of the best Dutch goalkeepers ever. 

Pieters Graafland died on 28 April 2020 in Amsterdam, aged 86.

[[Ayutla, San Marcos]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Guatemala

Ayutla (aˈʝutla) is a municipality in the San Marcos Department of Guatemala. It is located along the Suchiate River natural border with Mexico in the southern part of the department.

[[Erik Súñiga]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Salvadoran politicians, Guatemalan politicians, Mayors

Erik Salvador Suñiga Rodriguez (19 November 1975 – 18 April 2020) was a Salvadoran-born Guatemalan politician. He was born in Nueva Concepción, El Salvador. From 2008 to 2019, he was Mayor of Ayutla, San Marcos.

In December 2019, the U.S. Treasury Department sanctioned Zúñiga as they believed that he was "a major drug trafficker" and that Zúñiga controlled a drug trafficking organization and supplied cocaine to the Sinaloa Cartel.

Súñiga died on 18 April 2020 of pancreatic cancer in Houston, Texas, aged 44.

[[Sinaloa Cartel]]

CATEGORIES: Sinaloa

The Sinaloa Cartel (Cártel de Sinaloa), also known as the Guzmán-Loera Organization, the Pacific Cartel, the Federation and the Blood Alliance, is an international drug trafficking, money laundering, and organized crime group established during the late 1980s. The cartel is in the city of Culiacán, Sinaloa, with operations in the Mexican states of Baja California, Durango, Sonora, and Chihuahua.  

The United States calls the Sinaloa Cartel "the most powerful drug trafficking organization in the world" and in 2011, the Los Angeles Times called it "Mexico's most powerful organized crime group." The group makes and sells opium, marijuana, heroin and cocaine. They also do human trafficking.

[[Gina Rodriguez]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1984 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American Christians, Actors from Chicago

Gina Alexis Rodriguez-LoCicero (née Rodriguez; born July 30, 1984) is an American actress. She is known for her role as Jane Villanueva in The CW satirical romantic dramedy series Jane the Virgin (2014–2019).

She also starred in Deepwater Horizon (2016), Ferdinand (2017), Annihilation (2018), Miss Bala (2019), and Someone Great (2019). 

Born in Chicago, she was raised in the Belmont Cragin neighborhood of the city.

[[Abbott and Costello Go to Mars]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s science fiction movies, 1953 comedy movies, American science fiction movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Charles Lamont

Abbott and Costello Go to Mars is a 1953 American science fiction comedy movie. It is directed by Charles Lamont. Actors include: Bud Abbott, Lou Costello, Mari Blanchard, Robert Paige, Dudley Dickerson, and Harry Shearer. The movie was distributed by Universal Pictures. 

[[The Black Cat (1934 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 movies, 1930s horror movies, American horror movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by Edgar G. Ulmer

The Black Cat is a 1934 American psychological horror movie. It is directed by Edgar G. Ulmer. The movie is based on the short story The Black Cat by Edgar Allan Poe. Actors include: Boris Karloff, Bela Lugosi, Harry Cording, David Manners, Julie Bishop, and Lucille Lund. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

This was the first movie with both Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi.

[[Häxan]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 movies, Swedish movies, Danish movies, 1920s horror movies, Silent movies, Movies directed by Benjamin Christensen

Häxan (Danish: Heksen) is a Swedish Danish movie. The English title is The Witches or Witchcraft Through the Ages. Benjamin Christensen wrote, directed and starred in the movie. Other actors include: Oscar Stribolt, Astrid Holm, Ib Schønberg, and Elith Pio. It was distributed by Skandias Filmbyrå.

[[Japanese War Bride]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by King Vidor

Japanese War Bride is a 1952 American drama movie. It is also known as East is East. It was directed by King Vidor. The movie stars Shirley Yamaguchi, Don Taylor, Cameron Mitchell, and Marie Windsor. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Branded to Kill]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 crime movies, 1967 thriller movies, Japanese movies, Movies directed by Seijun Suzuki

Branded to Kill is a 1967 Japanese crime thriller movie. It was directed by Seijun Suzuki. Actors include Joe Shishido, Koji Nanbara, Isao Tamagawa, and Annu Mari. It was distributed by Nikkatsu.

[[Rough Night in Jericho]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 movies, 1960s western movies, American western movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Arnold Laven

Rough Night in Jericho is a 1967 American western movie. It was directed by Arnold Laven. The movie is based on the novel The Man in Black by Marvin H. Albert, who also wrote the screenplay. It stars Dean Martin, George Peppard, Jean Simmons, Steve Sandor, and Don Galloway. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Tobruk (1967 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 drama movies, 1960s war movies, American drama movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Arthur Hiller

Tobruk is a 1967 American World War II drama movie. It was directed by Arthur Hiller. Actors included Rock Hudson, George Peppard, Nigel Green, Norman Rossington, and Guy Stockwall. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

Tobruk received an Academy Award nomination for Special Visual Effects in 1968.

[[Jinnat Ali]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladeshi people, 1996 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer

Jinnat Ali (1996 – 28 April 2020) was a Bangladeshi citizen. He was the tallest person in Bangladesh. When he was eleven, Ali's body suddenly started to grow unusually fast. His body continued to grow at the age of 23. His growth was caused by acromegalic gigantism, a condition caused by a tumor on his pituitary gland.

Ali died on 28 April 2020 of brain cancer in Chittagong, Bangladesh at the age of 23.

[[Robert Torti]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, American movie actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Robert Felix Torti (born October 22, 1961) is an American actor and singer. Torti was born in Van Nuys, California. His career began with his role as Jesus and Jack in both the New York City and Los Angeles stage productions of Reefer Madness.

He also played Kurt Martin on the Disney television series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody and The Suite Life on Deck.

[[Accident (1967 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 drama movies, British drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Joseph Losey

Accident is a 1967 British drama movie. It was directed by Joseph Losey.  The movie is based on the 1965 novel of the same name by Nicholas Mosley (who also stars). Other actors include Dirk Bogarde, Stanley Baker, Jacqueline Sassard, Michael York, Vivien Merchant, and Freddie Jones. It was distributed by London Independent Producers.

At the 1967 Cannes Film Festival, it won the award for Grand Prix Spécial du Jury.

[[Frankenstein Created Woman]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 movies, 1960s horror movies, British horror movies, Frankenstein movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Terence Fisher‏‎

Frankenstein Created Woman is a 1967 British Hammer horror movie. It was directed by Terence Fisher.  It is the fourth movie in the Hammer's Frankenstein series. Actors include Peter Cushing, Susan Denberg, Derek Fowlds, Barry Warden, Thorley Walters, Robert Morris, and Colin Jeavons. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Villain (1971 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 drama movies, 1970s crime drama movies, 1970s LGBT movies, British drama movies, Movies based on books

Villain is a 1971 British crime drama movie. It was directed by Michael Tuchner The movie is based on the 1968 novel The Burden of Proof by James Barlow. Actors include Richard Burton, Ian McShane, Nigel Davenport, Joss Ackland, Donald Sinden, Fiona Lewis, Tony Selby, and John Hallam. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[The Man with One Red Shoe]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 comedy movies, 1980s thriller movies, American comedy movies, American thriller movies

The Man with One Red Shoe is a 1985 American comedy thriller movie. It was directed by Stan Dragoti. It is a remake of the 1972 movie Le Grand Blond avec une chaussure noire. Actors include Tom Hanks, Dabney Coleman, Lori Singer, Jim Belushi, Carrie Fisher, Charles Durning, and David Ogden Stiers. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was a box office disappointment.

[[Hello-Goodbye]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 comedy movies, British comedy movies, Movies directed by Jean Negulesco

Hello-Goodbye is a 1970 British comedy movie. It was directed by Jean Negulesco. Actors include Michael Crawford, Genevieve Gilles, Curd Jürgens, Princess Ira von Fürstenberg, and Jeffry Wickham. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Far Country]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 movies, 1950s romance movies, American romance movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Anthony Mann

The Far Country is a 1954 American romantic western movie. It was directed by Anthony Mann. The movie stars James Stewart, Ruth Roman, Corinne Calvert, and Walter Brennan. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[The Yellow Mountain]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 comedy movies, 1954 drama movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies directed by Jesse Hibbs

The Yellow Mountain is a 1954 American western comedy drama movie. It was directed by Jesse Hibbs. Actors include Lex Barker, Mala Powers, Howard Duff, Leo Gordon, and William Demarest. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Don't Bother to Knock]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s thriller movies, 1952 movies, American thriller movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Roy Ward Baker

Don't Bother to Knock is a 1952 American psychological thriller movie. It was directed by Roy Ward Baker. The movie is based on the 1951 novel Mischief by Charlotte Armstrong. Actors include Marilyn Monroe, Richard Widmark, Enrique Peña Nieto, Elisha Cook Jr., Anne Bancroft, and Jeanne Cagney. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Yellow Canary]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 movies, 1960s thriller movies, American thriller movies, Movies based on books

The Yellow Canary is a 1963 American thriller movie. It was directed by Buzz Kulik. The movie is based on the novel by Whit Masterson. It stars Pat Boone, Barbara Eden, Steve Forrest, Jack Klugman, and Harold Gould. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[A Safe Place]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 drama movies, American drama movies, American independent movies

A Safe Place is a 1971 American drama movie. It was directed by Henry Jaglom. Actors include Orson Welles, Jack Nicholson, Tuesday Weld, Philip Proctor, and Francesca Hilton. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures. The movie did not make much money in ticket sales.

[[A Night in the Life of Jimmy Reardon]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books

A Night in the Life of Jimmy Reardon is a 1988 coming-of-age drama movie. It is also known as Aren't You Even Gonna Kiss Me Goodbye? The movie is directed and based on the novel by William Richert. Actors include River Phoenix, Ann Magnuson, Meredith Salenger, Matthew Perry, Ione Skye, Alison Goldfrapp, and Paul Kosol. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[James Roosevelt]]

James Roosevelt I (July 16, 1828 – December 8, 1900) was an American businessman, politician, horse breeder, and the father of Franklin D. Roosevelt, who became the 32nd president of the United States.

[[Economy of South Africa]]

CATEGORIES: Economy of South Africa

The economy of South Africa is the second largest in Africa, after Nigeria. South Africa is an upper-middle-income economy. South Africa's Gross Domestic Product almost tripled to peak at $400 billion in 2011. South Africa has a Population of 58,775,022 (2019 est.). the currency of south Africa is in South African rand and the Main industries are mining (South Africa is the world's largest producer of platinum).

[[Koriya district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of India

Koriya district, officially known as Korea district, is a district in the north-western part of the Chhattisgarh state in Central India. The administrative headquarters of the district is Baikunthpur.

[[Ghanim Al Muftah]]

CATEGORIES: Disability, Philanthropists, Qatari people, People with caudal regression syndrome

Ghanim Al Muftah (born, May 5, 2002) is a Qatar-born entrepreneur, motivational speaker, a social media celebrity, and a philanthropist, born in Qatar with Caudal Regression Syndrome. The United Nations – UN chose him as the official speaker, and he was also the Goodwill ambassador for ROTA. He was selected as the brand ambassador of Qatar Financial Centre Authority – QFC. He is the founder Gharissa Ice Cream, Association of Ghanim, and Ghanim AlMuftah Foundation.

[[Vaughan, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ontario

Vaughan is a city in Ontario, Canada, 335,000 people live there.

[[Maj Sjöwall]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from COPD, Writers from Stockholm

Maj Sjöwall (25 September 1935 – 29 April 2020) was a Swedish author and translator. She was born in Stockholm. She was best known for the work with her partner Per Wahlöö on a series of ten novels about the adventures of Martin Beck, a police detective in Stockholm. They also wrote novels separately. 

In 1971, the fourth of the Beck books, The Laughing Policeman won an Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America for Best Novel and was made into the movie The Laughing Policeman.

Sjöwall died on 29 April 2020 at a hospital in Landskrona, Sweden of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, aged 84.

[[Hema Bharali]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2020 deaths, Centenarians, Political activists, Feminists, Indian activists

Hema Bharali (19 February 1919 – 29 April 2020) was an Indian freedom activist, social worker, Sarvodaya leader and Gandhian. She was born in Assam, India. She was known for her works to the empowerment of women in India. The Government of India awarded her the fourth highest civilian honour of the Padma Shri, in 2005. She was involved with the Padayatra in connection with the Bhoodan movement and was a founder member of the executive council of the Central Social Welfare Board (CSWB).

Bharali died on 29 April 2020 in Assam, aged 101.

[[Eavan Boland]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Irish poets, Historians, Educators, Writers from Dublin

Eavan Frances Boland (24 September 1944 – 27 April 2020) was an Irish poet, author, and educator. She was a professor at Stanford University, where she had taught beginning in 1996. Her poems were about Irish national identity, and the role of women in Irish history. She was a recipient of the Lannan Literary Award for Poetry. Boland was born in Dublin. 

Boland died on 27 April 2020, aged 75, from a stroke.

[[Nick Kotz]]

CATEGORIES: Pulitzer Prize winners, 1932 births, 2020 deaths, Road accident deaths in the United States, American historians, American political writers, Journalists from Texas, Writers from San Antonio, Texas

Nathan "Nick" K. Kotz (September 16, 1932 – April 26, 2020) was an American journalist, author, and historian. He was born in San Antonio, Texas. He was best known for his 2005 book Judgment Days: Lyndon Baines Johnson, Martin Luther King Jr., and the Laws that Changed America talking about the roles of President Lyndon B. Johnson and Martin Luther King Jr. in the passage of the 1964, 1965, and 1968 civil rights laws. Kotz won a Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting in 1968.

Kotz was killed outside his farm on April 26, 2020 in Broad Run, Virginia after being hit by his car, aged 87.

[[Deaths in June 2020]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 deaths, June 2020 events

The following is a list of deaths that should be noted in June 2020. For deaths that should be noted before the month that the world is in, please see "Months". Individuals listed must have notability. Names under each date are noted in the order of the alphabet by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are noted here also if it is worth noting.

Each listing of a death must have a source. If no reference is included, the death notice will be removed. The following are the requirements of adding a name to the list in its order: name, age, where they came from, what the person is known for, cause of death (if known) and a source.

[[Deaths in July 2020]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 deaths, July 2020 events

The following is a list of deaths that should be noted in July 2020. For deaths that should be noted before the month that the world is in, please see "Months". Individuals listed must have notability. Names under each date are noted in the order of the alphabet by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are noted here also if it is worth noting.

Each listing of a death must have a source. If no reference is included, the death notice will be removed. The following are the requirements of adding a name to the list in its order: name, age, where they came from, what the person is known for, cause of death (if known) and a source.

[[Deaths in August 2020]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 deaths, August 2020 events

The following is a list of deaths that should be noted in August 2020. For deaths that should be noted before the month that the world is in, please see "Months". Individuals listed must have notability. Names under each date are noted in the order of the alphabet by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are noted here also if it is worth noting.

Each listing of a death must have a source. If no reference is included, the death notice will be removed. The following are the requirements of adding a name to the list in its order: name, age, where they came from, what the person is known for, cause of death (if known) and a source.

[[Deaths in September 2020]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 deaths, September 2020 events

The following is a list of deaths that should be noted in September 2020. For deaths that should be noted before the month that the world is in, please see "Months". Individuals listed must have notability. Names under each date are noted in the order of the alphabet by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are noted here also if it is worth noting.

Each listing of a death must have a source. If no reference is included, the death notice will be removed. The following are the requirements of adding a name to the list in its order: name, age, where they came from, what the person is known for, cause of death (if known) and a source.

[[Deaths in October 2020]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 deaths, October 2020 events

The following is a list of deaths that should be noted in October 2020. For deaths that should be noted before the month that the world is in, please see "Months". Individuals listed must have notability. Names under each date are noted in the order of the alphabet by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are noted here also if it is worth noting.

Each listing of a death must have a source. If no reference is included, the death notice will be removed. The following are the requirements of adding a name to the list in its order: name, age, where they came from, what the person is known for, cause of death (if known) and a source.

[[Deaths in November 2020]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 deaths, November 2020 events

The following is a list of deaths that should be noted in November 2020. For deaths that should be noted before the month that the world is in, please see "Months". Individuals listed must have notability. Names under each date are noted in the order of the alphabet by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are noted here also if it is worth noting.

Each listing of a death must have a source. If no reference is included, the death notice will be removed. The following are the requirements of adding a name to the list in its order: name, age, where they came from, what the person is known for, cause of death (if known) and a source.

[[Deaths in December 2020]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 deaths, December 2020 events

The following is a list of deaths that should be noted in December 2020. For deaths that should be noted before the month that the world is in, please see "Months". Individuals listed must have notability. Names under each date are noted in the order of the alphabet by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are noted here also if it is worth noting.

Each listing of a death must have a source. If no reference is included, the death notice will be removed. The following are the requirements of adding a name to the list in its order: name, age, where they came from, what the person is known for, cause of death (if known) and a source.

[[Jānis Lūsis]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Latvian people, Competitors in athletics, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Olympic bronze medalists

Jānis Lūsis (19 May 1939 – 29 April 2020) was a Latvian  athlete. He competed in javelin throw. In 2014 he was added into IAAF Hall of Fame. He competed in four Summer Olympics for the USSR team, winning bronze in 1964 Olympics, gold in 1968 Olympics and silver in 1972 Olympics. He was born in Jelgava, Latvia.

Lūsis died on 29 April 2020 in Ogre, Latvia of cancer, aged 80.

[[Tony Lloyd]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK), People from Manchester, British mayors, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2017–2019, UK MPs 2019–

Anthony Joseph Lloyd (born 25 February 1950) is a British Labour Party politician. He was elected as a Member of Parliament (MP) for Rochdale in 2017. Between 1983 and 1997, he was MP for Stretford. He then represented Manchester Central until 2012. Formerly Greater Manchester Police and Crime Commissioner between 2012 and 2017, and was interim Mayor of Greater Manchester between 2015 and 2017. 

Lloyd was Shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland between 2018 and 2020, resigning on 28 April 2020, to recover from COVID-19.

On February 15, 2021, he undertook support for Darya Chultsova, Belarusian political prisoner.

[[Nick Cordero]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, Actors from Hamilton

Nick Cordero (September 17, 1978 – July 5, 2020) was a Canadian actor. He appeared on Broadway in 2014 in the musical Bullets Over Broadway in the role of Cheech, for which he was nominated for the Tony Award and the Drama Desk Award. He also starred in the Off-Broadway production of The Toxic Avenger and as Dennis in Rock of Ages on Broadway in 2012 and on tour. In March 2016, he joined the Broadway production of Waitress, playing the role of Earl. On television, he played Victor Lugo in Blue Bloods.

In April 2020, Cordero was diagnosed with COVID-19. His right leg was amputated as a result of problems from his illness. On May 1, 2020, he had a lung damage and was given a tracheotomy.

Cordero died from problems caused by the infection on July 5, 2020 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, aged 41. 

[[Per Wahlöö]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 1975 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Swedish writers

Per Fredrik Wahlöö (5 August 1926 – 22 June 1975) was a Swedish author. He was perhaps best known for the works with his partner Maj Sjöwall on a series of ten novels about the adventures of Martin Beck, a police detective in Stockholm, published between 1965 and 1975. In 1971. He won an Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America. 

[[Mike Sullivan (governor)]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Wyoming, Politicians from Omaha, Nebraska, People from Casper, Wyoming, 1939 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States to Ireland, US Democratic Party politicians

Michael John Sullivan (born September 22, 1939) is an American lawyer and politician. He was the 29th Governor of Wyoming from 1987 to 1995, and United States Ambassador to Ireland from 1998 to 2001.

[[Jim Guy Tucker]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, American fraudsters, American lawyers, Governors of Arkansas, United States representatives from Arkansas, Politicians from Oklahoma City, US Democratic Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Arkansas

James Guy Tucker Jr. (born June 13, 1943) is an American lawyer and politician. He is a member of the Democratic Party. He was the 43rd Governor of Arkansas from 1992 to 1996 and a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1977 to 1979.

Tucker resigned the governorship after his conviction for fraud during the Whitewater affair.

[[Warrensburg, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, County seats in Missouri

Warrensburg is a city in Johnson County, Missouri, United States. The population was 18,838 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Johnson County. 

[[Posthumous award]]

CATEGORIES: Awards

A posthumous award is an award given after the recipient has died.

Many prizes, medals, and awards can be granted posthumously. Australian actor Heath Ledger, for example, won the Academy Award after his death in 2008. 

Military decorations, such as Hero of the Soviet Union or the Medal of Honor, are often given posthumously. Sports awards and titles can be awarded posthumously, for example 1970 Formula One champion Jochen Rindt, who died in a crash late in the season, but still had enough points to be named champion.

[[List of governors of Hawaii]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Hawaii

This is a list of people who were the Governor of Hawaii.

[[John D. Waiheʻe III]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Governors of Hawaii, Businesspeople from Hawaii, US Democratic Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Hawaii

John David Waiheokinae III (born May 19, 1946) is an American politician. He was the fourth governor of Hawaii from 1986 to 1994.  He was the first American of Native Hawaiian descent to be elected to the office from any state of the United States.

[[List of governors of Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Indiana

The Governor of Indiana is the chief executive of the U.S. state of Indiana. The governor is the head of the executive branch of Indiana's state government and is charged with enforcing state laws.

[[Trevor Cherry]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2020 deaths, English footballers, People from Huddersfield

Trevor John Cherry (23 February 1948 – 29 April 2020) was an English footballer and manager. He played as a defender.

Cherry was born in Huddersfield. He played for Huddersfield Town, Leeds United and Bradford City. He made a total of 27 international caps for the England national team. He was the third England international to be shown a red card. He later managed Bradford City from 1982 to 1987. While he was manager, Valley Parade, Bradford's home ground, was the scene of a fire. 56 people died, with at least 265 injured.

Cherry died on 29 April 2020 at the age of 72.

[[List of governors of Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Kentucky

The Governor of Kentucky is the head of the executive branch of Kentucky's state government. Here is the list of individuals who became Governor. 

[[Brereton C. Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Governors of Kentucky, Politicians from Ohio, Politicians from West Virginia, Businesspeople from Kentucky, Businesspeople from Ohio, Businesspeople from West Virginia, US Democratic Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Kentucky

Brereton Chandler Jones (born June 27, 1939) is an American politician. From 1987 to 1991, he was the 50th lieutenant governor of Kentucky and from 1991 to 1995, he was the state's 58th governor.

[[List of governors of Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Maryland

The governor of Maryland heads the executive branch of the government of the U.S. state of Maryland and is commander-in-chief of the state's military forces. The governor is the highest-ranking official in the state, and the constitutional powers of Maryland's governors make them among the most powerful governors in the United States.

[[William Donald Schaefer]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2011 deaths, Governors of Maryland, Mayors of Baltimore, US Democratic Party politicians, Deaths from pneumonia

William Donald Schaefer (November 2, 1921 – April 18, 2011) was an American politician. He was a Democrat. He was the 44th Mayor of Baltimore from December 1971 to January 1987, the 58th Governor of Maryland from January 21, 1987 to January 18, 1995. He also was the 32nd Comptroller of Maryland from January 20, 1999 to January 17, 2007.  

On September 12, 2006, Schaefer lost his reelection bid for a third term as Comptroller by Maryland Delegate Peter Franchot in the Democratic Party primary.

[[Catonsville, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Maryland

Catonsville is a census-designated place (CDP) in Baltimore County, Maryland, United States. The population was 41,567 at the 2010 census.

[[Gallipolis, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Gallipolis (ˌ GAL) is a chartered village in the U.S. state of Ohio and the county seat of Gallia County. The population was 3,641 at the 2010 census. 

[[Gallia County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1803 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Gallia County (pronunciation: GAL-yuh) is a county located in the U.S. state of Ohio. As of the 2010 census, the population was 30,934. Its county seat is Gallipolis.

[[List of governors of Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Minnesota

The following is a list of governors of the State of Minnesota and Minnesota Territory, United States.

[[List of governors of New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of New Hampshire

This is a list of governors of New Hampshire, in the United States.

[[List of governors of New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of New Jersey

The Governor of New Jersey is the head of the executive branch of New Jersey's state government and the commander-in-chief of the state's military forces.

[[Richard Codey]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Governors of New Jersey, State legislators of the United States, People from Orange, New Jersey, US Democratic Party politicians

Richard James Codey (born November 27, 1946) is an American Democratic Party politician. He was the 53rd Governor of New Jersey from 2004 to 2006. He was in the New Jersey Senate since 1982 and was the President of the Senate from 2002 to 2010. 

[[David Cowgill]]

CATEGORIES: American voice actors

David Maxwell Cowgill (born December 8, 1960) is an American voice actor.

[[List of governors of New York]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of New York

The governor of New York is the head of the executive branch of New York's state government and the commander-in-chief of the state's National Guard.

[[List of governors of North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of North Carolina

Here is the list of individuals who became the Governor of North Carolina.

[[List of governors of Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Tennessee

This is a list of people who have served as Governor of Tennessee.

[[List of governors of Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Texas

The governor of Texas is the chief executive of the U.S. State of Texas, the presiding officer over the executive branch of the Government of Texas, and the commander-in-chief of the Texas National Guard, the state's militia.

[[List of governors of Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Vermont

Here is the list of individuals who became the Governor of Vermont.

[[Jukka Rasila]]

CATEGORIES: Finnish actors, 1969 births

Jukka Rasila (born August 12, 1969) is a Finnish actor and voice actor.

[[List of governors of Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Virginia

The following is a list of the Governors of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

[[List of governors of Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Wisconsin

The Governor of Wisconsin is the head of the executive branch of Wisconsin's state government  and the commander-in-chief of the state's army and air forces.

[[List of governors of Puerto Rico]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Puerto Rico

The following list are the people who became the Governor of Puerto Rico.

[[Oghlan Bakhshi]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1993 births, Folk singers, Asian entertainers, Turkmenistan people, Folk musicians, Iranian singers, Iranian musicians

Oghlan Bakhshi (born Mohammad Geldi Geldi Nejad, in 1993, in Gonbad-e Kavus, Iran) is a Turkmen musician. He started learning music alongside his father, Adbol-Ghaffar Geldi Nejad, who was director of a musical school. He was taught by Chari Sahetmuradov, Akmurad Chariev, and Osman Gujimov.

[[Wave elections in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Elections in the United States

In political science, a wave election is one in which a political party wins a lot more than the other. In the United States, there is no agreement of how many wins are needed to be called a wave election.

Congressional incumbents in the United States have an advantage over challengers, but a wave election often helps challengers. This results in many more incumbents losing than usual during wave elections.

[[Clash by Night]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Fritz Lang

Clash by Night is a 1952 film noir drama movie. It was directed by Fritz Lang. The movie is based on the play of the same name by Clifford Odets. It stars Marilyn Monroe, Barbara Stanwyck, Robert Ryan, and Keith Andres. It was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures.

[[Brian Brown (Royal Navy officer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, British military people, People from Portsmouth

Admiral Sir Brian Thomas Brown, GBR (31 August 1934 – 27 April 2020) was a British senior Royal Navy officer. He was Second Sea Lord and Chief of Naval Personnel from 1988 to 1991. Brown was born in Fratton, Portsmouth.

Brown died on 27 April 2020, aged 85.

[[Michael Layard]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, British military people, British educators

Admiral Sir Michael Henry Gordon Layard, GBR (born 3 January 1936) is a retired senior Royal Navy officer. He was the Second Sea Lord from 1992 to 1995. He was Governor of Pangbourne College.

He studied at Pangbourne College and the Britannia Royal Naval College. Layard was commissioned into the Royal Navy in 1954. Layard became Commander of RNAS Culdrose in 1982.

[[2018 United States elections]]

CATEGORIES: Elections in the United States

The 2018 United States elections were held Tuesday, November 6, 2018. These midterm elections happened during the presidency of Republican Donald Trump. Thirty-five of the 100 seats in the United States Senate and all 435 seats in the United States House of Representatives were in the elections. Thirty-nine state and territorial governorships as well as many state and local elections were also in the elections.

Democrats net gained of 41 seats in the United States House of Representatives, gaining a majority in the chamber. This ended the control that the Republican Party had over the entire legislature. The Republican Party  kept control of the United States Senate, making a net gain of two seats and defeating four Democratic incumbents in states that had voted for Trump in 2016. In the state elections, Democrats gained seven state governorships, control of at least 350 state legislative seats, and control of six state legislative chambers.

The elections had the highest voter turnout seen in midterm elections since 1914. This election was believed to be a "blue wave" election for the House and the states, but not the Senate.

[[Belles on Their Toes (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Henry Levin

Belles on Their Toes is a 1952 American autobiographical comedy drama movie. It was directed by Henry Levin. It is the sequel to Cheaper by the Dozen. Actors include Myrna Loy, Jeanne Crain, Barbara Bates, Debra Paget, Robert Arthur, Carol Nugent, Tommy Ivo, Jimmy Hunt, and Anthony Sydes. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Pride of St. Louis]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Harmon Jones

The Pride of St. Louis is a 1952 American biographical drama movie. It was directed by Harmon Jones. It stars Dan Dailey, Joanne Dru, and Richard Crenna. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

The Pride of St. Louis was nominated for an Academy Award in 1953.

[[Retreat, Hell!]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 drama movies, 1950s war movies, American war movies, American drama movies, Movies set in North Korea, Movies directed by Joseph H. Lewis

Retreat, Hell! is a 1952 American Korean War drama movie. It was directed by Joseph H. Lewis. Actors include Frank Lovejoy, Richard Carlson, Anita Louise, Russ Tamblyn, Lamont Johnson, Dorothy Patrick, and Nedrick Young. It was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[Young Guns of Texas]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 movies, 1960s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Maury Dexter

Young Guns of Texas is a 1962 American western movie. It was directed by Maury Dexter. Actors include James Mitchum, Alana Ladd, Jody McCrea, Gary Conway, and Chill Wills. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Queen's Guards]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 drama movies, British drama movies, Movies directed by Michael Powell

The Queen's Guards is a 1961 British drama movie. It was directed by Michael Powell. Actors include Daniel Massey, Raymond Massey, Ursula Jeans, Frank Lawton, Robert Stephens, and Elizabeth Shepherd. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[2008 United States presidential election in Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: United States presidential elections, 21st century in Nebraska, 2008 in the United States, 2008 elections

The 2008 United States presidential election in Nebraska occurred on November 4, 2008. It was part of the United States´ general election that year. The Republican candidates were Arizona Senator John McCain and his running mate, Governor Sarah Palin of Alaska. The Democratic candidates were Illinois Senator Barack Obama, and his running mate, Delaware Senator Joe Biden. Although McCain won the statewide vote by a margin of 14.93%, Obama was given 1 electoral vote (McCain got 4). That made Obama the first Democrat to win an electoral vote in Nebraska since 1964.

The McCain won the popular vote statewide. However (as is the case in Maine), in Nebraska, two electoral votes are given to the winner of the statewide popular vote. The remaining electoral votes (in the case of Nebraska, which has five electoral votes, this means three) are distributed: one is appointed to the winner of each congressional district. In this case, Obama narrowly won the votes of Nebraska's 2nd Congressional District, and therefore, received an electoral vote.

[[Ambush at Cimarron Pass]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s western movies, 1958 movies, American western movies, 20th Century Fox movies

Ambush at Cimarron Pass is a 1958 American western movie directed by Jodie Copelan and stars Scott Brady, Clint Eastwood, Margia Dean, Irving Bacon and distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Young Lions]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 drama movies, 1950s war movies, American drama movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Edward Dmytryk

The Young Lions is a 1958 American World War II drama movie directed by Edward Dmytryk and based on the 1948 novel of the same name by Irwin Shaw. It stars Marlon Brando, Montgomery Clift, Dean Martin, Hope Lange, Barbara Rush, Maximillian Schell, Lee Van Cleef and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 3 Academy Awards in 1959.

[[Apache Rifles]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 movies, 1960s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by William Witney

Apache Rifles is a 1964 American western movie directed by William Witney and starring Audie Murphy, Linda Lawson, Ken Lynch, L. Q. Jones, Michael Dante. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Way West]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 movies, American western movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Andrew V. McLaglen

The Way West is a 1967 American western movie by Andrew V. McLaglen and based on the 1949 novel of the same name by A. B. Guthrie. It stars Kirk Douglas, Robert Mitchum, Richard Widmark, Sally Field, Lola Albright, Sam Elliott and distributed by United Artists.

[[The Viking Queen]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 movies, 1960s adventure movies, British adventure movies, Movies directed by Don Chaffey

The Viking Queen is a 1967 British Hammer adventure movie directed by Don Chaffey and stars Don Murray, Donald Houston, Adrienne Corri, Andrew Keir, Patrick Troughton, Sean Caffrey. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox

[[Jim Ryun]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, United States representatives from Kansas, American Olympic silver medalists, Sportspeople from Wichita, Kansas, Politicians from Wichita, Kansas, US Republican Party politicians

James Ronald "Jim" Ryun (born April 29, 1947) is an American politician and Olympic track and field athlete. He won a silver medal in the 1500 m at the 1968 Summer Olympics. Ryun later was in the United States House of Representatives from 1996 to 2007, representing Kansas' 2nd congressional district for the Republican Party.

[[James P. Gray]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, 2020 United States presidential candidates, American judges, American political writers, Politicians from Washington, D.C., Writers from Washington, D.C., Politicians from California, Writers from California, US Libertarian Party politicians

James Polin "Jim" Gray (born February 14, 1945) is an American jurist and writer.  He was the presiding judge of the Superior Court of Orange County, California. Gray was the 2012 Libertarian Party vice presidential nominee, as well as the party's 2004 candidate for the United States Senate in California. 

In 2012, Gray was nominated by Libertarian Party convention delegates as the running mate of former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson.

On April 13, 2020 Gray announced his plans to run for the Libertarian Party nomination for President with Larry Sharpe as his running mate in the 2020 presidential election.

[[COVID-19 testing]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic

COVID-19 testing can help find the SARS-CoV-2 virus. There are two types of test; one can find the virus (i.e. Polymerase chain reaction, also called PCR) and the other that can find antibodies produced in response to infection.

An accurate mortality rate of the disease and the level of herd immunity in the population can be found from the results of these tests. However, it is still not known how long immunity will last, and how effective it will be.

Due to limited testing, as of March 2020, no countries had reliable data of the virus.

[[Herd immunity]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

Herd immunity (also called herd effect, community immunity, population immunity, or social immunity) is a form of protection from infectious disease. This happens when a large percentage of a population has become immune to an infection, whether through previous infections or vaccination.

When many individuals have immunity, they do not spread the disease any more. This either stops or slows the spread of disease.

[[Buck O'Neil]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2006 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from bone marrow cancer, American baseball players, Sportspeople from Florida

Buck O'Neil (né John Jordan O'Neil Jr.; November 13, 1911 – October 6, 2006)  was an American first baseman and manager in the Negro American League, mostly with the Kansas City Monarchs.  He became the first African American coach in Major League Baseball. He was important in the creation of Negro Leagues Baseball Museum in Kansas City, Missouri.

On October 6, O'Neil died at the age of 94 due to heart failure and bone marrow cancer in Kansas City, Missouri.

[[Pooja Hegde]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Indian movie actors, Indian models, People from Mumbai, Indian beauty pageant winners

Pooja Hegde (born 13 October 1990) is an Indian model and actress. She was crowned as the second runner-up at the Miss Universe India 2010 competition. Her first movie was in the Tamil superhero movie Mugamoodi (2012). She then featured in the Telugu movies Oka Laila Kosam and Mukunda (2014). She also starred in Ashutosh Gowariker's Mohenjo Daro (2016) along with Hrithik Roshan.

[[Cherickal]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Cherickal is a village near Pandalam, Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Namrata Singh Gujral]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Indian movie actors, Indian television actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American movie actors, American television actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, Breast cancer survivors

Namrata Singh Gujral (born February 26, 1976) is an Indian-born American director, producer and actress. 

Her best known roles were in Training Day (2001), House of Sand and Fog (2003), Dragnet (2004), Family Law (2001), Passions (2001–2005), The Agency (2001–2002), The Agency (2001–2002), Mitsein (2009), Ultimate Survivor (2015), You Can Thrive (2016), and Destination Survival (2016) and 5 Weddings (2018).

Gujral is a breast cancer and lymphoma survivor.

[[Pandalam]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in India, Settlements in Kerala

Pandalam is a town in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India.

[[Danielle Campbell]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Models from Illinois, Actors from Illinois, People from Hinsdale, Illinois

Danielle Marie Campbell (born January 30, 1995) is an American actress. She is known for her starring roles as Jessica Olson in the 2010 Disney Channel Original Movie Starstruck, Simone Daniels in the 2011 Disney movie Prom, Davina Claire in the 2013 CW television drama series The Originals and Kayla Powell in the 2018 CBS All Access television psychological thriller series Tell Me a Story.

[[Cherukole]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Cherukole is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Chethakkal]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Chethakkal is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Danna Paola]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors, Mexican singers, Mexican models, Actors from Mexico City

Danna Paola Rivera Munguía (born 23 June 1995),  better known as  Danna Paola, is a Mexican actress, singer and model.

In 2004, she was chosen as the lead in the successful children's series, Amy, la niña de la mochila azul. She starred in multiple television series produced by Televisa.

In 2009, she was cast as "Patito" in Atrévete a Soñar, the Mexican remake of the popular Argentine children's telenovela, Patito Feo. 

In late 2010, she voiced "Rapunzel" for the Latin American Spanish-language dubbing of the Disney movie Tangled.

[[Chirappuram]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Chirappuram is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Chittar]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Chittar is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state, India. It is a Panchayat in the Ranni Taluk. Chittar was given the Nirmal Gram award from Pratibha Patil, the former President of India.

[[Chunkappara]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Chunkappara is a small town in the Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state, India. 

[[Edasserimala]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Edasserimala is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Elanthoor]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Elanthoor is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[The Comancheros (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 movies, 1960s western movies, American western movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Michael Curtiz

The Comancheros is a 1961 American western movie directed by Michael Curtiz. It was based on the 1952 novel of the same name by Paul Wellman. It stars John Wayne, Stuart Whitman, Lee Marvin, Nehemiah Persoff, Patrick Wayne, Bruce Cabot, Joan O'Brien and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Bad Sleep Well]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 drama movies, 1960s crime drama movies, Japanese movies, Movies directed by Akira Kurosawa

The Bad Sleep Well is a 1960 Japanese crime drama movie directed by Akira Kurosawa and stars Toshiro Mifune, Masayuki Mori, Tatsuya Mihashi, Kyōto Kagawa, Kō Nishimura. It was distributed by Toho.

[[North West Frontier (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 movies, 1950s adventure movies, British adventure movies, Movies set in India, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by J. Lee Thompson

North West Frontier (USA: Flame Over India; Australia: Empress of India) is a 1959 British adventure movie directed by J. Lee Thompson and stars Kenneth More, Lauren Bacall, Herbert Lom, Ursula Jeans, Wilfrid Hyde-White, I. S. Johar. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for 3 BAFTAS in 1960.

[[Tonight We Sing]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Mitchell Leisen

Tonight We Sing is a 1953 American biographical musical movie directed by Mitchell Leisen and based on the 1946 novel Impresario. It stars David Wayne, Ezio Pinza, Roberta Peters, Anne Bancroft, Tamara Toumanova and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Michael Seater]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Canadian television actors, People from Toronto

Michael Bruce Patrick Seater (born January 15, 1987) is a Canadian actor who is known for his roles as "Derek Venturi" in the Canadian series Life with Derek. He is close friends with his television co-star Ashley Leggat. He has one confirmed older brother. He is also a supporter of anti-bullying along with Ashley Leggat.

[[Streets of Rage 3]]

CATEGORIES: Beat 'em ups, 1994 video games, Sega Genesis games, Video games developed in Japan, Video game sequels, Streets of Rage

Streets of Rage 3 is a beat 'em up video game. It was released in Japan as Bare Knuckle III. In Europe it was titled Streets of Rage III. The game was made and published by Sega for the Sega Genesis in 1994.

It is the third game in the Streets of Rage series. It is a sequel to Streets of Rage 2 (released in 1992) and it is followed by Streets of Rage 4 (released in 2020).

[[Streets of Rage 4]]

CATEGORIES: Beat 'em ups, Windows games, Xbox One games, PlayStation 4 games, Nintendo Switch games, Video game sequels, Streets of Rage

Streets of Rage 4 is a beat 'em up video game. It was released in Japan and Asia as Bare Knuckle IV. It was made by Lizardcube, Guard Crush Games and Dotemu and published by Sega and Dotemu in 2020. The game can be run on Microsoft Windows, Xbox One, PlayStation 4 and Nintendo Switch.

It is the fourth game in the Streets of Rage series. It is a sequel to Streets of Rage 3.

[[City of Bad Men]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 movies, 1950s romance movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Harmon Jones

City of Bad Men is a 1953 American romantic western movie directed by Harmon Jones and starring Dale Robertson, Jeanne Crain, Richard Boone, Lloyd Bridges, Carole Matthews, Rodolfo Acosta. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Down Among the Sheltering Palms (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 comedy movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical comedy movies, Movies directed by Edmund Goulding

Down Among the Sheltering Palms is a 1953 American musical comedy movie directed by Edmund Goulding and starring David Wayne, Mitzi Gaynor, William Lundigan, Jane Greer, Gloria DeHaven. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Nanook of the North]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 movies, American documentary movies

Nanook of the North (also known as Nanook of the North: A Story Of Life and Love In the Actual Arctic) is a 1922 American silent documentary movie directed by Robert J. Flaherty set in the Canadian Arctic. It was one of the first twenty-five films included in the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress in 1989.

[[Anti-bullying legislation]]

CATEGORIES: Bullying

Anti-bullying legislation is a legislation that stops bullying. It’s purpose is to not let bullying happen in the first place and protect people who were affected by it. Some states and countries have these laws.

[[Foolish Wives]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 movies, 1920s drama movies, American drama movies, American silent movies

Foolish Wives is a 1922 American silent erotic drama movie. It was directed by Erich von Stroheim (who also stars) and starring Maude George, Miss DuPont, Mae Busch, Dale Fuller, Rudolph Christians. It was distributed by Universal Pictures. It was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress in 2008 as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".

[[The Last Metro]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 drama movies, 1980s romance movies, 1980s war movies, French romance movies, Movies directed by François Truffaut

The Last Metro (Le Dernier Métro) is a 1980 French romance movie directed by François Truffaut. It stars Gérard Depardieu, Catherine Deneuve, Jean Poiret, Jean-Louis Richard, Heinz Bennent, and Richard Bohringer. It was distributed by Gaumount and was nominated for Academy Award in 1981.

[[Paul Hunter]]

CATEGORIES: Deaths from stomach cancer, Cancer deaths in England, 2006 deaths, 1978 births, Snooker players

Paul Alan Hunter (14 October 1978 – 9 October 2006) was an English snooker player. He was a three-time Masters champion, winning the event in 2001, 2002, and 2004. He also won three ranking events. He won the Welsh Open in 1998 and 2002 and the British Open in 2002. He was highest ranked in 2004/05 at number four.

Hunter was compared to David Beckham being called the "Beckham of the Baize" because of his good looks and style. He died in 2006 due to cancerous tumours. He made a total of 114 century breaks, the highest a 146 in the 2004 Premier League.

[[Lady in the Iron Mask]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 movies, American adventure movies

Lady in the Iron Mask is a 1952 American adventure movie directed by Ralph Murphy. It is based on the last section of the novel The Vicomte de Bragelonne by Alexandre Dumas, père. It stars Louis Hayward, Patricia Medina, Alan Hale Jr., Judd Holdren and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Streets of Rage]]

CATEGORIES: Streets of Rage

Streets of Rage is a series of beat 'em ups. It was made and published by Sega for various consoles.

[[The Garden of Aunt Isabel]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 drama movies, Mexican movies

The Garden of Aunt Isabel (Spanish: El jardín de la tía Isabel) is a 1971 Mexican movie directed by Felipe Cazals. It stars Jorge Martínez de Hoyos, Claudio Brook, Ofelia Guilmáin, Gregorio Casal, Alfonso Arau, Claudio Obregón, Aarón Hernánn and was distributed by Películas Mexicanas.

[[Apolinar]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 drama movies, 1970s fantasy movies, Mexican movies

Apolinar is a 1972 Mexican fantasy drama movie directed by Julio Castillo and starring Aarón Hernán, Bertha Moss, Abel Woolrich, Ofelia Medina, Enrique Rocha, and Sergio Kleiner.

[[Vampire Circus]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 movies, 1972 horror movies, British horror movies, 20th Century Fox movies

Vampire Circus is a 1972 British Hammer horror movie directed by Robert Young and starring Adrienne Corri, Thorley Walters, Anthony Higgins, John Moulder-Brown, Lynne Frederick, Lalla Ward, Robin Sachs. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Lao script]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems, Lao language

Lao script is the writing system used to write the Korean language. It is based on the Chinese characters. Since the Japanese kana was also based on the Chinese characters, Lao script is very similar. Like Japanese, it is an alphabet, it has tone markers, and it has three classes of consonants that decides the tone of syllables. However, it is different from the Thai script because it has fewer consonants and the characters are much curvier than Thai, which are more angular. It also does not have the extra letters from Sanskrit and Pali like Thai does. The Lao script has 27 consonant letters, 7 consonant ligatures, 33 vowel markers, and 4 tone markers.

[[Khmer script]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems, Khmer language

Khmer script is the writing system used to write the Khmer, or Cambodian, language. The script is an abugida. It was the writing system that Thai and Lao are based on. However, Thai and Lao added tone markers to better suit their own languages, since Thai and Lao are tonal, while Khmer is not. 

One key feature that Khmer has, while Thai and Lao do not, is that consonant letters have subscript forms. Subscript forms are forms of consonant letters that are written underneath other letters. Similar to how different letters in the Latin alphabet have capital or lowercase forms that look different from each other, consonants in Khmer have standard and subscript forms. These are used to write consonant strings. For example, in the word Khmer (ខ្មែរ), the "kh + m" consonant string is written as ខ្ម. By themselves, the consonants that make up the "kh + m" cluster would be written as ខ and ម, but since the "m" consonant is the second part of a consonant string, it is written differently under the first consonant in the cluster ខ. So ្ម is the subscript form of  ម.

[[Arturo Mercado]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Mexican voice actors

Arturo Mercado (born December 7, 1940) is a Mexican voice actor.

[[Jacques Kazadi]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2020 deaths, Educators, Activists, African politicians

Jacques Kazadi (23 December 1936 – 23 April 2020) was a Congolese economist, professor, and politician. He was born in Luluabourg, Belgian Congo.

Kazadi taught at several universities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and abroad, including the University of Kinshasa and the University of Michigan. He was then appointed at the first black Dean of the Faculté des Sciences Économiques, and later the first President of the Council for the Development of Social Science Research in Africa (CODESRIA) from 1973 to 1976. CODESRIA is the largest organization of African social science workers on the continent.

During the 1970s, Kazadi became a member of the Popular Movement of the Revolution, ruling party of the one-party state regime instilled by Mobutu Sese Seko. He was Secretary of the Treasury until the National Conference of 24 April 1990, when he left the party.

Kazadi died on 23 April 2020 in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo at the age of 83.

[[Young Jessie]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2020 deaths, American singer-songwriters, American R&B singers, American rock singers, American jazz singers, Singers from Dallas, Texas, Writers from Dallas, Texas

Obediah Donnell "Obie" Jessie (December 28, 1936 – April 27, 2020) was an American R&B, rock and roll and jazz singer-songwriter.  He recorded as Young Jessie in the 1950s and 1960s. He was known for his solo career, work with The Flairs and for a short time, with The Coasters.  He later performed and recorded jazz as Obie Jessie. He was born in Dallas, Texas.

He died on April 27, 2020, aged 83.

[[The Quiller Memorandum]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s spy movies, 1966 drama movies, American spy movies, American drama movies, British spy movies, British drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Michael Anderson

The Quiller Memorandum is a 1966 American British spy drama movie directed by Michael Anderson and based on the 1965 novel The Berlin Memorandum by Elleston Trevor. It stars George Segal, Alec Guinness, Max von Sydow, Senta Berger, George Sanders, Philip Madoc and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 3 BAFTAS in 1967.

[[Bobby Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2020 deaths, American rock singers, American blues singers, Singers from Indianapolis, Indiana

Robert Alan Lewis (February 9, 1925 – April 28, 2020) was an American rock and roll and rhythm and blues singer. He was best known for his 1961 hit singles "Tossin' and Turnin'" and "One Track Mind". He was born in Indianapolis, Indiana.

He died on April 28, 2020, aged 95.

[[Riverdale, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois

Riverdale is a village and a south suburb of Chicago in Cook County, Illinois, United States. The population was 13,549 at the 2010 census.

[[Germano Celant]]

CATEGORIES: Italian art critics, Editors, Italian historians, 1940 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Italy, People from Genoa

Germano Celant (1940 – 29 April 2020) was an Italian art historian, critic and curator. He invented the term "Arte Povera" (poor art) in 1967 and wrote many articles and books on the subject. He was born in Genoa, Italy. 

[[Yahya Hassan]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, 2020 deaths, Danish poets, Critics, Political activists

Yahya Hassan (19 May 1995 – 29 April 2020) was a Danish poet and political activist. He was known for his criticism of Islam in Denmark. He was born in Aarhus, Denmark. His most known work, Yahya Hassan, as of 2013 was the best-selling debut poetry collection in Denmark. It printed in more than 120,000 copies (middle of 2015).

Hassan was found dead in his apartment in Aarhus on 29 April 2020, aged 24.

[[The Carpetbaggers]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Edward Dmytryk

The Carpetbaggers is a 1964 American drama movie directed by Edward Dmytryk and based on the novel of the same name by Harold Robbins. It stars George Peppard, Alan Ladd, Bob Cummings, Elizabeth Ashley, Lew Ayers, Leif Erickson, Carroll Baker, Martha Hyer and was distributed by Paramount Pictures. Steve McQueen appears in the 1966 prequel movie Nevada Smith.

[[Tony Allen (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from aortic aneurysm, Drummers, Composers, Songwriters, People from Lagos

Tony Oladipo Allen (July 20, 1940 – April 30, 2020) was a Nigerian drummer, composer, and songwriter. He lived and worked in Paris. Allen was the drummer and musical director of Fela Kuti's band Africa '70 from 1968 to 1979, and was one of the primary co-founders of the genre of Afrobeat music. He was born in Lagos.

Allen died on April 30, 2020 in Paris from an aortic aneurysm, aged 79.

[[Kundanika Kapadia]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Cancer deaths in India, Indian novelists, Feminist writers, Indian essayists

Kundanika Kapadia  (11 January 1927 – 30 April 2020) was a Gujarati novelist, story writer and essayist. She was born in Limbdi, Wadhwan State, British India but was raised in Gujarat. Snehdhan was her pen name. Parodh Thata Pahela (1968) was her first novel followed by Agnipipasa (1972). She wrote Sat Pagala Akashma (Seven Steps in the Sky, 1984).

Kapadia died on 30 April 2020 in Gujarat of colorectal cancer, aged 93.

[[The Innocents (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 movies, 1960s horror movies, British horror movies, Movies directed by Jack Clayton

The Innocents is a 1961 British psychological horror movie directed by Jack Clayton and based on the novella The Turn of the Screw by Henry James. It stars Deborah Kerr, Michael Redgrave, Peter Wyngarde, Pamela Franklin, Isla Cameron and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Museum of Arts and Design]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in New York City

The Museum of Arts and Design (MAD), based in Manhattan, New York City, collects, displays, and keep objects that talk/preserve historic craft, art, and design. In its exhibitions and educational programs, the Museum celebrates the creative process through which materials are crafted into works that defines contemporary life.  

[[North to Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 movies, 1960s western movies, American western movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Henry Hathaway

North to Alaska is a 1960 American western movie directed by Henry Hathaway and based on 1939 play Birthday Gift by Ladislas Fodor. It stars John Wayne, Stewart Granger, Ernie Kovacs and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Maryna Bazanova]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2020 deaths, Soviet sportspeople, Olympic bronze medalists

Maryna Bazanova (Марина Базанова, 25 December 1962 – 27 April 2020) was a Russian handball player. He competed for the Soviet Union in the 1988 Summer Olympics and for the Unified Team in the 1992 Summer Olympics. She won two bronze medalist. Bazanova was born in Omsk, Soviet Union.

Bazanova died on 27 April 2020 in Bremen, Germany at the age of 57.

[[Louis Cardiet]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2020 deaths, French footballers

Louis Cardiet (20 January 1943 – 28 April 2020) was a French professional footballer who played as a defender. He was born in Quimperlé, France. From 1965 to 1967, he played for the national team. From 1963 to 1973, Cardiet played for Stade Rennais F.C..

Cardiet died on 28 April 2020 at the age of 77.

[[Al Edwards (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2020 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Businesspeople from Houston, Texas, Politicians from Houston, Texas, US Democratic Party politicians

Albert Ely Edwards (March 19, 1937 – April 29, 2020) was an American politician and businessman. He was born in Houston, Texas. He was a member of the Texas House of Representatives from 1978 to 2007 and again from 2009 to 2011. Edwards was a member of the Democratic Party.

Edwards died on April 29, 2020 at the age of 83.

[[One Foot in Hell]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 movies, 1960s western movies, American western movies

One Foot in Hell is a 1960 American western movie directed by James B. Clark and stars Alan Ladd, Don Murray, Dan O'Herlihy, Karl Swenson, Rachel Stephens. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Alexander Fernando]]

CATEGORIES: Sri Lankan people, 2020 deaths, 1940 births, Sri Lankan movie actors, Stuntmen

Joseph Manuel Alexander Fernando (ඇලෙක්‌සැන්ඩර් ප්‍රනාන්දු Æleksænḍar Pranāndu; 25 August 1940snd29 April 2020) was a Sri Lankan actor and stunt director. He was known for his villain roles. Fernando acted in over 120 Sinhala movies. He was born in Kotahena, Ceylon. His best known roles were in Ahas Gauwa, Christhu Charithaya and in Supiri Balawatha.

Fernando died on 29 April 2020 in Colombo, Sri Lanka at the age of 79.

[[Chuni Goswami]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Indian footballers, Indian cricketers

Subimal Goswami (15 January 1938 – 30 April 2020), commonly known by his nickname Chuni Goswami, was an Indian international footballer and first class cricketer. He was born in Kishoreganj District , Bangladesh. He played 30 international matches representing India and scored 9 times for the team. He played Ranji Trophy for Bengal, captaining his team to the final of the tournament in 1971–72.

Goswami died on 30 April 2020 in Kolkata of cardiac arrest, aged 82.

[[Jordan Cox (rugby league)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, 2020 deaths, English rugby union players

Jordan Cox (27 May 1992 – 30 April 2020) was an English rugby league footballer. He was born in Hull, England. He last played for Doncaster. He had also played in the Super League for: the Hull Kingston Rovers, the Huddersfield Giants and the Warrington Wolves. 

He had also appeared for Newcastle Thunder, Halifax and the Sheffield Eagles outside of the Super League.

Cox died on 30 April 2020 in Hull at the age of 27.

[[Óscar Chávez]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, Mexican singer-songwriters, Folk singers, Mexican television actors, Mexican movie actors, Singers from Mexico City, Actors from Mexico City

Óscar Chávez (20 March 1935 – 30 April 2020) was a Mexican singer-songwriter and actor. He was born in Mexico City. He was popular during the 1960s and 1970s. His best known songs were "Por Ti" and "Macondo". He recorded many Mexican folk songs. 

Chávez died on 30 April 2020 of COVID-19 in Mexico City, aged 85.

[[Singapore Vikings FC]]

Singapore Vikings FC is an expatriate football club based in Singapore. The players are mainly made up of Danish players, mostly having played in professional, semi-professional or amateur division football in their native country. The Vikings are also well known for their aim to run 1000km in order to raise $20,000 for migrant workers in Singapore during the Covid-19 period.

[[The Captain's Table]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 comedy movies, British comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Jack Lee

The Captain's Table is a 1959 British comedy movie directed by Jack Lee and stars John Gregson, Peggy Cummins, Donald Sinden, Maurice Denham, Joan Sims, Oliver Reed, Reginald Beckwith. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Inn of the Sixth Happiness]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 drama movies, British biographical movies, British drama movies, Movies directed by Mark Robson

The Inn of the Sixth Happiness is a 1958 British biographical drama movie directed by Oscar nominated director Mark Robson and based on the 1957 novel The Small Woman by Alan Burgess. It stars Ingrid Bergman, Curt Jürgens, Robert Donat, Athene Seyeler, Moultrie Kelsall, Burt Kwouk and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Airport '77]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 thriller movies, American thriller movies

Airport '77 is a 1977 American thriller movie directed by Jerry Jameson and is the third movie in the Airport franchise. It stars Jack Lemmon, James Stewart, Lee Grant, George Kennedy, Christopher Lee, Robert Foxworth, Kathleen Quinlan, Olivia de Havilland and was distributed by Universal Pictures. It was nominated for 2 Oscars at the Academy Awards in 1978.

[[Rupert Scholz]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Politicians from Berlin

Rupert Scholz (born 23 May 1937) is a German politician. He was a member of the Christian Democratic Union. Scholz was born in Berlin. From 1988 to 1989, he was a member of Helmut Kohl's cabinet as German Federal Minister of Defence. From 1990 to 2002, he was a member of Bundestag.

[[Elavumthitta]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Elavumthitta is a town in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India.

[[Enadimangalam]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Enadimangalam is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Christian Schwarz-Schilling]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Austrian politicians, Austrian businesspeople, German politicians, German businesspeople, German philanthropists

Christian Schwarz-Schilling (born 19 November 1930) is an Austrian-born German politician, businessman and philanthropist. He was the 5th High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina from 1 February 2006 until 30 June 2007 and as the 2nd European Union Special Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina during the same period. He was born in Innsbruck, Austria.

[[Dorothee Wilms]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, German politicians

Dorothee Wilms (born October 11, 1929) is a German politician. She was born in Grevenbroich, Germany. From 1982 to 1987 she was the Federal Minister for Education and Science. From 1987 to 1991, Wilms was the Federal Minister for Inner-German relations.

[[Jürgen Schmude]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, German politicians

Jürgen Dieter Paul Schmude (born 9 June 1936) is a German politician. He was a member of the Social Democratic Party of Germany. He was born in Insterburg, Germany. 

Schmude was a member of the Bundestag from 1969 to 1990. He was the Minister of Education and Research of Germany from 1978 to 1981. From 1981 to 1982, he was the Minister of Justice. In 1982, he was also Minister of the Interior.

[[Andreas von Bülow]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, German politicians, German writers, People from Dresden

Andreas von Bülow (born July 17, 1937) is a German SPD politician and writer. He was born in Dresden. He has written books about 9/11 conspiracy theories. From 1980 to 1982, he was the Minister of Research and Technology. 

[[Karl-Hans Laermann]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, German politicians

Karl-Hans Laermann (born 26 December 1929) is a German politician. He was born in Kaulhausen, Germany. He is a member of the Free Democratic Party. From 1974 to 1998, he was a member of the Bundestag. From October to November 1994, he was Minister of Education and Research of Germany.

[[Onionhead]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 comedy movies, 1958 drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, World War II movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Norman Taurog

Onionhead is a 1958 American World War II comedy drama movie directed by Norman Taurog and based on the novel of the same name by Weldon Hill. It stars Andy Griffin, Walter Matthau, Felicia Farr, Erin O'Brien, James Gregory, Joey Bishop, Ainslie Pryor, Claude Akins and was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[Jerónimo Arango]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Mexican businesspeople

Jerónimo Julio Arango Arias (1927 — 4 April 2020) was a Mexican billionaire businessman. He was the co-founder of the Aurrerá supermarket chain. His net worth was estimated at US$4.6 billion in 2006 by Forbes. By 1991, Arango partnered with Wal-Mart, a move that eventually brought the Wal-Mart retail stores to Mexico.

Arango died of natural causes on 4 April 2020 at his home in Los Angeles.

[[Arminsyah]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2020 deaths, Road accident deaths, Indonesian politicians, Lawyers

Dr. Arminsyah (3 May 1960 – 4 April 2020) was an Indonesian lawyer and politician. He was born in Padang, Indonesia. From 2017 until his death, he was Vice Attorney General. For a short time in October 2019, he was Acting Attorney General.

Arminsyah was killed in a car crash in Jakarta on 4 April 2020, aged 59. 

[[The Deep (1977 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 movies, 1970s adventure movies, American adventure movies, British adventure movies, Movies with underwater settings, Movies directed by Peter Yates

The Deep is a 1977 American British adventure movie directed by Peter Yates and based on the novel of the same name by Peter Benchley. It stars Robert Shaw, Jacqueline Bisset, Nick Nolte, Eli Wallach, Louis Gossett Jr. and was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1978.

[[Klaus Töpfer]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, German politicians

Klaus Töpfer (born 29 July 1938) is a German politician. He was born in Waldenburg, Silesia. He is a member of the CDU. From 1998 to 2006, he was executive director of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).

[[Rudolf Seiters]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, German politicians

Rudolf Seiters (born 13 October 1937) is a German politician. He is a member of the CDU (Christian Democratic Union) party. Seiters was born in Osnabrück, Germany.

From 1989 to 1991, he was Federal Minister for Special Affairs and the Head of the Office of the German Chancellery. From 1991 to 1993, he was the Minister of the Interior. From 1998 to 2002, he was the Vice President of the German Bundestag. In 2003, he was elected President of the German Red Cross.

[[Los Olvidados]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 drama movies, 1950s crime movies, Mexican movies, Spanish-language movies, Movies directed by Luis Buñuel

Los Olvidados (los olbiˈðaðos, Spanish for "The Forgotten Ones"), known in the U.S. as The Young and the Damned, is a 1950 Mexican crime drama movie directed by Luis Buñuel and stars Alfonso Mejía, Stella Inda, Miguel Inclán, Roberto Cobo. It was Koch-Lorber Films.

[[Pour le piano]]

CATEGORIES: Classical music

Pour le piano (For the piano) is a suite for solo piano by Claude Debussy. Debussy composed it in 1901. Three movements are part of the suite, a prélude, a sarabande and a toccata. Ricardo Viñes first played it at the Salle Érard on 11 January 1902. Maurice Ravel created a version for orchestra of the middle movement.

The suite is regarded as Debussy's first mature piano composition. There are many recordings.

[[Lothar de Maizière]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of East Germany

Lothar de Maizière (də mɛˈzi̯ɛːɐ̯; born 2 March 1940) is a German Christian Democratic politician.  In 1990, he was the only democratically elected Prime Minister of the German Democratic Republic.

[[Friedrich Ebert Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1979 deaths, Mayors of Berlin

Friedrich "Fritz" Ebert Jr. (12 September 1894 – 4 December 1979) was a German politician and East German communist official. He was the son of Germany's first President Friedrich Ebert. He was the 1st Lord Mayor of East Berlin.

[[Günther Maleuda]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2012 deaths, German politicians

Günther Maleuda (20 January 1931 – 18 July 2012) was an East German politician. From 1989 to 1990 he was the President of the People's Chamber (East German Parliament). In 1994 he was elected as a (non-party) member of the Bundestag (German Parliament) on the PDS list. He stayed a member until 1998.

[[Carl-Dieter Spranger]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, People from Leipzig, Living people, German politicians

Carl-Dieter "Asslöch" Spranger (born 28 March 1939) is a German politician. He is a member of the CSU. Spranger was born in Leipzig. From 1991 to 1998, he was Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development of Germany.

[[Manfred Kanther]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany, Living people

Manfred Kanther (born 26 May 1939) is a German conservative politician. He was born in Schweidnitz, Silesia. He was Minister of the Interior of the Federal Republic of Germany from 1993 to 1998. He has been a member of the CDU.

[[The End (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 comedy movies, American black comedy movies

The End is a 1978 American black comedy movie. It was directed by and starred Burt Reynolds, with Sally Field, Dom DeLuise, Strother Martin, David Steinberg, Joanne Woodward, Norman Fell, Carl Reiner, and Kristy McNichol also starring. It was distributed by United Artists.

[[Edzard Schmidt-Jortzig]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Jurists, Politicians of the Free Democratic Party of Germany, Politicians from Berlin

Edzard Schmidt-Jortzig (born 8 October 1941) is a German jurist. He worked at University of Kiel. He is a member of the Free Democratic Party. He was German Federal Minister of Justice in the Cabinet Kohl V between 1996 and 1998. He was born in Berlin.

[[Jochen Borchert]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany, Politicians from Saxony-Anhalt, Members of the German Bundestag, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany

Jochen Borchert (born 25 April 1940) is a German politician. He was born in Nahrstedt, Stendal. Borchert is a member of the CDU. He was Minister of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection in Chancellor Helmut Kohl's cabinet from 1993 to 1998. From 1980 to 2009 he has been a member of the Bundestag.

[[Delano Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States, American lawyers, People from Lawrence, Kansas, Politicians from Kansas, Businesspeople from Kansas, US Democratic Party politicians, Kansas Democrats

Delano Eugene Lewis (born November 12, 1938) is an American attorney, businessman, and diplomat. He was the United States Ambassador to South Africa from 1999 to 2001 during the Bill Clinton presidency. He had roles at the Peace Corps and National Public Radio. He is the father of actor Phill Lewis.

[[Dakota Lil]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Lesley Selander

Dakota Lil is a 1950 American western movie. It is directed by Lesley Selander and stars George Montgomery, Rod Cameron, Marie Windsor, John Emery, Wallace Ford, Jack Lambert, and James Flavin. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Kanto Wanderer]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 movies, 1960s crime movies, Japanese movies, Movies directed by Seijun Suzuki

Kanto Wanderer is a 1963 Japanese yakuza movie directed by Seijun Suzuki and starring Akira Kobayashi, Chieko Matsubara, Daizaburo Hirata, Toru Abe, Hiroko Itō. It was distributed by Nikkatsu.

[[Ride a Crooked Trail]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 movies, 1950s romance movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Jesse Hibbs

Ride a Crooked Trail is a 1958 American romantic western movie directed by Jesse Hibbs and starring Audie Murphy, Walter Matthau, Gia Scala, Joanna Cook Moore, Henry Silva. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[The Outcasts of Poker Flat (1952 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 movies, American western movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by Joseph M. Newman

The Outcasts of Poker Flat is a 1952 American western movie directed by Joseph M. Newman and based on the 1869 short story of the same name by Bert Harte. It stars Anne Baxter, Dale Robertson, Miriam Hopkins, Barbara Bates, Cameron Mitchell.

[[Five Boys from Barska Street]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 drama movies, Polish movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Aleksander Ford

Five Boys from Barska Street (Piątka z ulicy Barskiej) is a 1954 Polish drama movie directed by Aleksander Ford and based on the 1952 novel of the same name by Kazimierz Koźniewski. It stars Aleksandra Śląska, Tadeusz Janczar, Andrzej Kozak, Tadeusz Łomnicki, Ludwik Benoit.

[[Broken Lance]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Edward Dmytryk, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies

Broken Lance is a 1954 American western movie directed by Edward Dmytryk and based on the 1941 novel I'll Never Go There Any More by Jerome Weidman. Actors include Spencer Tracy, Robert Wagner, Jean Peters, Richard Widmark, Hugh O'Brian and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 2 Academy Awards and winning one in 1955.

[[Bluebeard (1972 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 movies, 1970s serial killer movies, 1972 horror movies, French horror movies, German horror movies, Italian horror movies, Movies directed by Edward Dmytryk

Bluebeard is a 1972 Italian German French horror movie directed by Edward Dmytryk and based on the 1697 folk tale of the same name by Charles Perrault. It stars Richard Burton, Raquel Welch, Joey Heatherton, Sybil Danning, Jean Lefebvre and was distributed by Cinerama Releasing Corporation.

[[The Big Lift]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by George Seaton

The Big Lift is a 1950 American drama movie set in Berlin, Germany directed by George Seaton. It stars Montgomery Clift, Paul Douglas, Cornell Borchers, Bruni Löbel and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Ayiroor]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Ayiroor (Ayroor) is a village in the Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state, India. The Pamba River flows on the southern side of the village, making the soil around the village very fertile.

[[Enathu]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

 Enathu  is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India.

[[Enathu Bailey bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges, Transport in India

Enathu Bailey bridge was a Bailey bridge made by Indian Army through Kallada River in Enathu, Pathanamthitta district, Kerala.  The bridge is opened for public on 10 April 2017.The bridge is 54.50-metre-long 3.5 metres wide.

In September 2017, the Indian Army dismantle the Bailey bridge, after the maintenance Enathu Bridge got completed..

[[The Jackpot]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Walter Lang

The Jackpot is a 1950 American comedy movie directed by Walter Lang and starring James Stewart, James Gleason, Barbara Hale, Fred Clark, Alan Mowbray, and Natalie Wood. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Malayala Manorama]]

CATEGORIES: Malayalam-language newspapers, Asian news websites, National newspapers published in India, Newspaper companies of India, Mass media companies of India

Malayala Manorama is a daily newspaper in Malayalam published from Kottayam, Kerala, India by the Malayala Manorama Company Limited.

According to World Association of Newspapers, as of 2016, it was the fourteenth  most circulated newspaper in the world.

[[Night People (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 drama movies, American drama movies

Night People is a 1954 American drama movie directed by Nunnally Johnson. It stars Gregory Peck, Broderick Crawford, Anita Bjork, Buddy Ebsen, and Walter Abel. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1955.

[[The Adventures of Hajji Baba]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 movies, 1950s adventure movies, American adventure movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Don Weis

The Adventures of Hajji Baba is a 1954 American adventure movie directed by Don Weis and based on the 1824 novel The Adventures of Hajji Baba of Ispahan by James Justinian Morier. It stars John Derek, Elaine Stewart, Thomas Gomez, Rosemarie Bowe, Joanne Arnold and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Abominable Snowman (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 horror movies, 1950s fantasy movies, British fantasy movies, British horror movies, Movies directed by Val Guest

The Abominable Snowman (U.S. title: The Abominable Snowman of the Himalayas) is a 1957 British fantasy horror movie directed by Val Guest and stars Peter Cushing, Forrest Tucker, Maureen Connell. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Exerion]]

CATEGORIES: Shooter video games, 1983 video games, SG-1000 games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, MSX games, Video games developed in Japan

Exerion is a shooter video game made and published by Jaleco in 1983.

[[Throne of Blood]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 drama movies, Japanese movies, Movies directed by Akira Kurosawa

Throne of Blood is a 1957 Japanese historical drama movie directed by Akira Kurosawa and based on the William Shakespeare's play Macbeth. It stars Toshiro Mifune, Isuzu Yamada, Takashi Shimura, Akira Kubo, Kokuten Kōdō and was distributed by Toho.

[[Pork Chop Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s war movies, 1959 drama movies, American drama movies, War movies, Movies directed by Lewis Milestone, Movies set in South Korea

Pork Chop Hill is a 1959 American Korean War drama movie directed by Lewis Milestone and based on the 1956 novel by S.L.A. Marshall. It stars Gregory Peck, Rip Torn, Woody Strode, George Peppard, George Shibata, Martin Landau, Barry Atwater, Abel Fernandez, Biff Elliot, Harry Dean Stanton. It was distributed by United Artists. It was a minor box office hit.

[[Mayurbhanj district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Odisha

Mayurbhanj district is one of the 30 districts in Odisha, India. The main city is Baripada. Mayurbhanj has an area of 10418. In 2011, there were 2,519,738cn people living in Mayurbhanj district.

[[Thue et Mue]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Thue et Mue is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2017 and consists of the former communes of Bretteville-l'Orgueilleuse (the seat), Brouay, Cheux, Le Mesnil-Patry, Putot-en-Bessin and Sainte-Croix-Grand-Tonne.

[[Notre-Dame-d'Estrées-Corbon]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Notre-Dame-d'Estrées-Corbon is a commune in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2015 and consists of the former communes of Notre-Dame-d'Estrées (the seat) and Corbon.

[[Castine-en-Plaine]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Castine-en-Plaine is a commune. It is found in the Normandy region in the Calvados department in northwestern France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2019 and consists of the former communes of Rocquancourt (the seat), Hubert-Folie and Tilly-la-Campagne.

[[La Vespière-Friardel]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

La Vespière-Friardel is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2016 and consists of the former communes of La Vespière (the seat) and Friardel.

[[Cabrespine]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cabrespine is a commune of 176 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cailhau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cailhau is a commune of 266 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cailhavel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cailhavel is a commune of 132 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cailla]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cailla is a commune of 48 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cambieure]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cambieure is a commune of 304 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Campagna-de-Sault]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Campagna-de-Sault is a commune with 19 people living there in the year 2017. It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Campagne-sur-Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Campagne-sur-Aude is a commune of 581 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Camplong-d'Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Camplong-d'Aude is a commune of 367 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Camps-sur-l'Agly]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Camps-sur-l'Agly is a commune of 55 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Camurac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Camurac is a commune of 98 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Canet, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Canet is a commune of 1,778 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Capendu]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Capendu is a commune of 1,468 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Carlipa]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Carlipa is a commune of 340 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cascastel-des-Corbières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cascastel-des-Corbières is a commune of 221 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Gincla]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Gincla is a commune of 48 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montferrand, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montferrand is a commune of 565 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Sega AM2]]

CATEGORIES: Sega divisions and subsidiaries

Sega AM Research & Development No. 2, often abbreviated as Sega AM R&D No. 2 or Sega AM2 and known as SEGA-AM2 Co., Ltd., is a video game development division of the Japanese company Sega. It was founded by Yu Suzuki in 1985. Sega AM2 is best known for the Hang On, Out Run, Virtua Fighter, Daytona USA and Shenmue series.

AM2's first 3D game was Virtua Racing. It was published in 1992. It was followed by Virtua Fighter and Daytona USA.

[[Space Station Processing Facility]]

CATEGORIES: NASA, Buildings and structures in Florida

The Space Station Processing Facility (SSPF) is a factory building at the Kennedy Space Center's industrial complex.  

It was built in 1994 to make parts for the International Space Station and test them for launch. 

Today, the SSPF is used to make and process all of NASA's future space station components, such as the Lunar Gateway and resupply vehicles for International Space Station. 

The building has a total floor area of 42,000 sq meters, is four stories high, and contains two enormous cleanrooms that serve as the main manufacturing bay. The building also has a ballroom for lectures, meetings and dinner events; office space for laboratories and computers; a canteen (with a restaurant and refreshment area), and several visitor areas. Tours are free (included in the KSC visitor complex bus tour), and show many areas of the factory.

[[La Cassaigne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

La Cassaigne is a commune of 169 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cassaignes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cassaignes is a commune of 56 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Villemagne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Villemagne is a commune of 261 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Villeneuve-les-Corbières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Villeneuve-les-Corbières is a commune of 242 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Caunette-sur-Lauquet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Caunette-sur-Lauquet is a commune of 4 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Les Cassés]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Les Cassés is a commune of 295 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Castans]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Castans is a commune of 134 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Castelnau-d'Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Castelnau-d'Aude is a commune of 491 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Castelreng]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Castelreng is a commune of 207 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Caudebronde]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Caudebronde is a commune of 189 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Pomy, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Pomy is a commune of 59 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Martin-de-Villereglan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Martin-de-Villereglan is a commune of 363 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Caunettes-en-Val]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Caunettes-en-Val is a commune of 44 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Caux-et-Sauzens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Caux-et-Sauzens is a commune of 979 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cavanac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cavanac is a commune of 923 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Caves, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Caves is a commune of 875 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Conques-sur-Orbiel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Conques-sur-Orbiel is a commune of 2,525 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in southern France.

[[Le Clat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Le Clat is a commune of 21 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cazalrenoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cazalrenoux is a commune of 91 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Counozouls]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Counozouls is a commune of 48 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Molleville]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Molleville is a commune of 130 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fanjeaux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fanjeaux is a commune of 834 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Duilhac-sous-Peyrepertuse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Duilhac-sous-Peyrepertuse is a commune of 146 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cenne-Monestiés]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cenne-Monestiés is a commune of 401 people (2017). It is found in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cazilhac, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cazilhac is a commune of 1,648 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cépie]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cépie is a commune of 646 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Chalabre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Chalabre is a commune in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. In 2017, 1,118 people lived there.

[[Citou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Citou is a commune of 89 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Trèbes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Trèbes is a commune of 5,601 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Lasserre-de-Prouille]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lasserre-de-Prouille is a commune of 267 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Theodemer]]

CATEGORIES: 5th century deaths, Kings and queens

Theudemeres (thu du mers) was the king of the Franks in the Middle ages.

[[Wairoa]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in New Zealand

Wairoa is a small province in Northern Hawkes Bay, New Zealand. The population of Wairoa is 8680 as of the June 2018 Census.

[[Clermont-sur-Lauquet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Clermont-sur-Lauquet is a commune of 26 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[John Bryant (journalist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2020 deaths, British journalists, Editors, Writers from Somerset

John Bryant (1943 – 30 April 2020) was a British journalist. He was the editor of The Daily Telegraph from 2005 to 2007. He was also was editor of The European, editor of The Sunday Correspondent, deputy editor of The Times and executive editor of the Daily Mail. 

He helped create the London Marathon, with Chris Brasher. He was born in Haselbury Plucknett, Somerset, England.

Bryant died on 30 April 2020 in Surrey, aged 76.

[[Comus]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Comus is a commune of 43 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Conilhac-Corbières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Conilhac-Corbières is a commune of 917 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Escueillens-et-Saint-Just-de-Bélengard]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Escueillens-et-Saint-Just-de-Bélengard is a commune of 156 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Coudons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Coudons is a commune of 52 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Caunes-Minervois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Caunes-Minervois is a commune of 1,654 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Colfax, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois

Colfax is a village in Illinois in the United States.

[[David City, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

David City is a city in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Butler County.

[[Oeschebüttel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Schleswig-Holstein, Steinburg (district)

Oeschebüttel is a municipality of the district Steinburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany.

[[Cagayan]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Cagayan (Probinsia ti Cagayan; Provinsiya na Cagayan; Provinsiya ya Cagayan; Lalawigan ng Cagayan) is a province of the Philippines in the Cagayan Valley region in the northeast of Luzon Island, and includes the Babuyan Islands to the north. The capital is Tuguegarao.

[[Chung Hae-won]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers

Chung Hae-Won (정해원, 1 July 1959 – 1 May 2020) was a South Korean football striker and coach. He scored two goals to give South Korea national football team a 2–1 win over North Korea national football team. He played for the national team in 1978 and again from 1980 to 1990. He also played for Busan IPark from 1983 to 1990.

Chung died on 1 May 2020 of liver cancer in Seoul, aged 60.

[[Alytus County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Lithuania

Alytus County (Alytaus apskritis) is one of the 10 counties in Lithuania. The capital is the city of Alytus.

[[Augustine Mahiga]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2020 deaths, Ambassadors to the United Nations, Tanzanian people, African politicians

Augustine Philip Mahiga (28 August 1945 – 1 May 2020) was a Tanzanian CCM politician. He was the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Tanzania from 2015 to 2019. He was the Permanent Representative to the United Nations from 2003 to 2010. He was born in Dar es Salaam, Tanganyika.

Mahiga died on 1 May 2020 in Dodoma, Tanzania of a short-illness, aged 74.

[[Utena County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Lithuania

Utena County (Utenos Apskritis) is one of the 10 counties in Lithuania. The capital is Utena.

[[Benjamín Moreno]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2020 deaths, Spanish footballers, Deaths from heart failure

Benjamín Moreno (17 April 1955 – 1 May 2020), known simply as Moreno, was a Spanish footballer. He played as striker. From 1980 to 1985, he played for CD Leganés. Moreno was born in Guarromán, Spain.

Moreno died in Madrid of heart failure on 1 May 2020, aged 55.

[[In a Lonely Place]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 drama movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Nicholas Ray, Film noir

In a Lonely Place is a 1950 American romantic drama movie directed by Nicholas Ray and based on the 1947 novel of the same name by Dorothy B. Hughes. It stars Humphrey Bogart, Gloria Grahame, Frank Lovejoy, Martha Stewart, Robert Warwick and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[RNA vaccine]]

CATEGORIES: Infectious diseases, Virology, Immunization

Messenger RNA vaccines or mRNA vaccines is a type of vaccine that protects the body from certain viruses. Like all vaccines, mRNA vaccines increase the body's immunity so the patient is less likely to catch an infectious disease.

[[Harriet Craig]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Vincent Sherman

Harriet Craig is a 1950 American film noir drama movie directed by Vincent Sherman and based on the 1925 play Craig's Wife by George Kelly. It stars Joan Crawford, Wendell Corey, Allyn Joslyn, Lucile Watson and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Carl Værnet]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1965 deaths, Danish people, SS officers, Holocaust perpetrators

Carl Vaernet (born: April 28, 1893 in Copenhagen, Denmark, died on November 25, 1965, Buenos Aires, Argentina) was a doctor in the Buchenwald concentration camp.  He is infamous for doing barbaric medical experiments on gay prisoners. The these crimes were hidden from history for over 50 years. 

With help from the British military, he was not put on trial at Nuremburg. He escaped to Argentina where he is known to have lived openly until his death in 1965.

[[The Marrying Kind]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 comedy movies, 1952 drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies directed by George Cukor, Movies about divorce

The Marrying Kind is a 1952 American comedy drama movie directed by George Cukor and starring Judy Holliday, Aldo Ray, Ruth Gordon, Charles Bronson, Frank Ferguson, Madge Kennedy. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Astarte]]

CATEGORIES: Gods and goddesses

Astarte (Ashtoreth, also spelled Athtart, Ashtoreth, or Ashtart) is the Queen of Heaven to whom the Canaanites burned offerings and poured libations (Jeremiah 44). Astarte, goddess of war and sexual love, shared so many qualities with her sister, Anath, that they may originally have been seen as a single deity. Their names together are the basis for the Aramaic goddess Atargatis.

Astarte was a great goddess of the ancient Middle East and chief deity of Tyre, Sidon, and Elat, important Mediterranean seaports. Hebrew scholars now feel that the goddess Ashtoreth mentioned so often in the Bible is a deliberate conflation of the Greek name Astarte and the Hebrew word boshet, “shame,” indicating the Hebrews’ contempt for her cult. Ashtaroth, the plural form of the goddess’s name in Hebrew, became a general term denoting goddesses and paganism.

Astarte was worshiped in Egypt and Ugarit and among the Hittites, as well as in Canaan. Her Akkadian counterpart was Ishtar. Later she became assimilated with the Egyptian deities Isis and Hathor (a goddess of the sky and of women), and in the Greco-Roman world with Aphrodite, Artemis, and Juno.

Astarte is a Semitic queen, and sister of Isis.

[[Young Jesse James]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 movies, 1960s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by William F. Claxton

Young Jesse James is 1960 American western movie directed by William F. Claxton and stars Ray Stricklyn, Merry Anders, Robert Dix, Emile Meyer, Willard Parker, Rayford Barnes, Tyler McVey. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Manu Gavassi]]

Manoela Latini Gavassi Francisco (born January 4, 1993) is an Brazilain Singer, songwriter, actress, writer and directora

[[Cymose]]

CATEGORIES: Plants

Cymose inflorescence (cyme) is a type of flowering shoot. The first inflorescence develops from the growing region at the top of the flower stalk. The younger shoots flower on the sides. 

[[Hell and High Water (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 drama movies, American drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Samuel Fuller

Hell and High Water is a 1954 American Cold War drama movie directed by Samuel Fuller and stars Richard Widmark, Bella Darvi, Victor Francen, Cameron Mitchell, David Wayne. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1955.

[[The Gunfighter]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Henry King

The Gunfighter is a 1950 American western movie directed by Henry King and stars Gregory Peck, Karl Malden, Helen Westcott, Jean Parker, Millard Mitchell, Richard Jaeckel, Ellen Corby. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1951.

[[The Eagle and the Hawk]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies

The Eagle and the Hawk is a 1950 American western movie directed by Lewis R. Foster and stars John Payne, Rhonda Fleming, Dennis O'Keefe, Thomas Gomez, Fred Clark. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[2008 United States presidential election in Texas]]

The 2008 United States presidential election in Texas occurred on November 4 2008 as part of, that year's national election. John McCain won the election, winning the state's 34 electoral votes.

[[2008 United States presidential election in North Carolina]]

The 2008 United States presidential election in North Carolina took place as part of that year's national presidential election, This election took place on November 4, 2008. Barack Obama won, becoming the first Democrat to win North Carolina since Jimmy Carter in 1976. Obama was very narrowly elected, winning 49.7% of the vote. John McCain received 49.38% of the vote.

[[Under the Yum Yum Tree]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 comedy movies, 1960s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies

Under the Yum Yum Tree is a 1963 American romantic comedy movie directed by David Swift and based on the play of the same name by Lawrence Roman. It stars Jack Lemmon, Carol Lynley, Dean Jones, Edie Adams, Paul Lynde, Joy Harmon, Bill Bixby and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[The Yellow Rolls-Royce]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 comedy movies, 1964 drama movies, 1960s romantic comedy movies, 1960s romantic drama movies, British romantic comedy movies, British romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Anthony Asquith

The Yellow Rolls-Royce is a 1964 British romantic comedy drama movie directed by Anthony Asquith and stars Rex Harrison, Shirley MacLaine, Omar Sharif, Ingrid Bergman, George C. Scott, Jeanne Moreau, Art Carney, Edmund Purdom, Roland Culver, Riccardo Garrone. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and was nominated for 2 BAFTAS.

[[Kaunas County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Lithuania

Kaunas County is one of the ten counties of Lithuania. The capital city is Kaunas. On 1 July 2010, the county administration was ended.

[[Klaipėda County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Lithuania

Klaipėda County is one of the ten counties in Lithuania. The capital city is also named Klaipėda. It is the only county to have a coastline.

On 1 July 2010, the county administration was ended.

[[Marijampolė County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Lithuania

Marijampolė County is one of the ten counties in Lithuania. The capital is Marijampolė. On 1 July 2010, the county administration was ended.

[[Night Without Sleep]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 movies, 1950s mystery movies, 1950s thriller movies, American mystery movies, American thriller movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Roy Ward Baker

Night Without Sleep is a 1952 American mystery thriller movie directed by Roy Ward Baker and starring Gary Merrill, Linda Darnell, Hildegarde Neff, Hugh Beaumont. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Panevėžys County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Lithuania

Panevėžys County is one of the ten counties in Lithuania. The capital city is Panevėžys. On 1 July 2010, the county administration was ended. 

[[Šiauliai County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Lithuania

Šiauliai County is one of the ten counties in Lithuania. Its capital is Šiauliai. On 1 July 2010, the county administration was ended.

[[Tauragė County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Lithuania

Tauragė County is one of the ten counties in Lithuania. Its capital is Tauragė. On 1 July 2010, the county administration was ended.

[[Pal Joey]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by George Sidney

Pal Joey is a 1957 American musical movie directed by George Sidney and based on the 1940 play of the same name by John O'Hara. It stars Frank Sinatra, Rita Hayworth, Kim Novak, Bobby Sherwood, Barbara Nichols and was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was nominated for 4 Academy Awards in 1958.

[[The Queen of Babylon]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 drama movies, 1950s action movies, Italian drama movies, Movies directed by Carlo Ludovico Bragaglia

La cortigiana di Babilonia (English title: Queen of Babylon) is a 1954 Italian action drama movie directed by Carlo Ludovico Bragaglia and starring Rhonda Fleming, Ricardo Montalbán, Roldano Lupi, Carlo Ninchi, Tamara Lees. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Telšiai County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Lithuania

Telšiai County is one of ten counties in Lithuania. The capital city is Telšiai. On 1 July 2010, the county administration was ended.

[[Stagecoach to Fury]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by William F. Claxton

Stagecoach to Fury is a 1956 American western movie directed by William F. Claxton and starring Forrest Tucker, Mari Blanchard, Wallace Ford, Paul Fix, Wright King, Ellen Corby, Rayford Barnes. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Vilnius County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Lithuania

Vilnius County is one of 10 counties in Lithuania. The capital city is Vilnius. On 1 July 2010, the county administration was ended.

[[Erathu]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Erathu is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Eraviperoor]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

 Eraviperoor  is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India.

[[The War Wagon]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 movies, 1960s western movies, American western movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Burt Kennedy

The War Wagon is a 1967 American western movie directed by Burt Kennedy and based on the novel of the same name by Clair Huffaker. It stars John Wayne, Kirk Douglas, Howard Keel, Keenan Wynn, Bruce Dern, Bruce Cabot, Hal Needham and distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Erumakkadu]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Erumakkadu is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Ezhamkulam]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

 Ezhamkulam  is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India. It is located about 5 km from central Adoor.

[[Ezhumattoor]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

 Ezhumattoor is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India.

[[Gavi]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Gavi is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India. it is famous for its biodiversity and rain forests.

[[Iravon]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Iravon is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[The Quiet Man]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 comedy movies, 1952 drama movies, 1950s romantic comedy movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, Irish movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by John Ford

The Quiet Man is a 1952 American romantic comedy drama movie directed by John Ford and based on the 1933 short story of the same name by Maurice Walsh. It stars John Wayne, Maureen O'Hara, Barry Fitzgerald, Ward Bond, Victor McLaglen, Eileen Crowe, Mildred Natwick, Jack MacGowran and was distributed by Warner Bros.. It was nominated for 7 Oscars and won 2 at the Academy Awards in 1953.

[[Prescription for Murder]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 movies, 1950s crime movies, American crime movies, British crime movies

Prescription for Murder, also known as Rx Murder, is a 1958 American British crime movie directed by Derek Twist and based on the 1955 novel The Deeds of Dr. Deadcert by Joan Fleming. It stars Rick Jason, Lisa Gastoni, Marius Goring, Vida Hope, Nicholas Hannen, Frederick Leister, Patrick Waddington and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Blood Beach]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 horror movies, American horror movies, 1980s monster movies, American monster movies, English-language movies, American independent movies

Blood Beach is a 1980 American horror movie directed by Jeffrey Bloom and starring David Huffman, Marianna Hill, Otis Young, Burt Young, John Saxon.

[[Samuel Rivera]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American mayors, American criminals, People from Passaic, New Jersey, Politicians from New Jersey, US Democratic Party politicians

Samuel Rivera (1946 – May 1, 2020) was an American politician and criminal. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He was Mayor of Passaic, New Jersey from 2001 until 2008. 

On September 6, 2007, Rivera was indicted and arrested on charges of accepting bribes.  Rivera pleaded guilty to attempted extortion and resigned. He was sentenced to 21 months in prison. 

Rivera died on May 1, 2020 of problems caused by multiple strokes, aged 73.

[[The Zodiac Killer]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 thriller movies, 1970s serial killer movies, American thriller movies, American independent movies

The Zodiac Killer is a 1971 American thriller movie directed by Tom Hanson and stars Hal Reed, Bob Jones, Ray Lynch, Tom Pittman.

[[Ludwig (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 drama movies, 1970s LGBT movies, Italian drama movies, German drama movies, French drama movies, Movies directed by Luchino Visconti

Ludwig is a 1973 Italian French German biographical drama movie directed by Luchino Visconti and starring Helmut Berger, Romy Schneider, Trevor Howard, Silvana Mangano, Gert Fröbe, Helmut Griem, John Moulder-Brown, Heinz Moog.

[[Natalie Harrowell]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2019 deaths, British rugby league players

Natalie Harrowell (9 February 1990 – 10 December 2019) was an English rugby league player who played in the first-ever Women's Super League Grand Final in 2017. Harrowell played for Featherstone Rovers and was regarded as a "key member of the women's club team", she also held 3 caps for England Rugby League. She was admitted to the hospital with a virus and died during December 2019.

[[That Cold Day in the Park]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 drama movies, Canadian drama movies, Movies directed by Robert Altman, Movies based on books, American independent movies

That Cold Day in the Park is a 1969 Canadian suspense drama movie directed by Robert Altman and based on novel of the same name by Peter Miles. It stars Sandy Dennis, Michael Burns, Linda Sorenson, Susanne Benton, Luana Anders, Michael Murphy.

[[Thief (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 movies, 1980s crime thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Michael Mann

Thief is a 1981 crime thriller movie directed by Michael Mann and based on the 1975 novel The Home Invaders: Confessions of a Cat Burglar by Frank Hohimer. It stars James Caan, Tuesday Weld, Willie Nelson, James Belushi, Robert Prosky, William Petersen and was distributed by United Artists.

[[Travels with My Aunt (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s adventure movies, 1972 comedy movies, American adventure movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by George Cukor, Movies based on books

Travels with My Aunt is a 1972 American adventure comedy movie directed by George Cukor and based on the 1969 novel of the same name by Graham Greene. It stars Maggie Smith, Alec McCowen, Louis Gossett Jr., Cindy Williams, Robert Flemyng and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for 4 Oscars and won an Academy Award in 1973.

[[Bashu, the Little Stranger]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 drama movies, Iranian movies, Movies directed by Bahram Beizai

Bashu, the Little Stranger (باشو غریبه کوچک) is a 1986 Iranian drama movie directed by Bahram Beizai and starring Susan Taslimi, Parviz Poorhosseini. It was considered at the best film of the 1980's in Iranian cinema.

[[Heena Shahab]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, People from Bihar, Indian politicians, 1976 births

Heena Shahab is an Indian politician from the state of Bihar. She is a member of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) political party and wife of the Indin politician Mohammad Shahabuddin, a former member of parliament from Siwan district. Shahab is the current Leader of Opposition from Siwan Lok Sabha constituency.

[[Zealot]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish people

The Zealots were a group of Jews who lived about the same time as Jesus. The wanted to defeat the Romans, who were the rulers of Palestine at that time. They used violence to meet their goals. One of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus, named Simon, was a Zealot. The word "zealot" (not written with a capital letter) in modern English is used for any person who has a very strong idea about things and works hard to act upon their ideas. There are political and religious zealots but people can be "zealous" about other things also.

[[Operation Crossbow]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 thriller movies, British thriller movies, Movies directed by Michael Anderson

Operation Crossbow later re-released as The Great Spy Mission is a 1965 British World War II thriller movie directed by Michael Anderson and starring Sophia Loren, George Peppard, Trevor Howard, John Mills, Jeremy Kemp, Anthony Quayle, Tom Courtenay, Sylvia Syms, Maurice Denham, Richard Todd, Allan Cuthbertson. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Economic regions of Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Economic regions of Azerbaijan

Politically, Azerbaijan is divided into these economic regions:

[[Comigne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Comigne is a commune of 305 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cruscades]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cruscades is a commune of 926 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Couffoulens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Couffoulens is a commune of 601 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Coursan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Coursan is a commune of 5,908 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cournanel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cournanel is a commune of 714 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Courtauly]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Courtauly is a commune of 73 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[La Courtète]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

La Courtète is a commune of 45 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Coustaussa]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Coustaussa is a commune of 52 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. It has a ruined castle.

[[Corbières, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Corbières is a commune of 27 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Couiza]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Couiza is a commune of 1,111 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Coustouge]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Coustouge is a commune of 121 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cubières-sur-Cinoble]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cubières-sur-Cinoble is a commune of 96 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cucugnan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cucugnan is a commune of 123 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. The small village lies in a valley in the Corbières Massif, overlooked by the ruined Château de Quéribus.

[[Cumiès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cumiès is a commune of 36 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cuxac-Cabardès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cuxac-Cabardès is a commune of 911 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Cuxac-d'Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Cuxac-d'Aude is a commune of 4,030 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Davejean]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Davejean is a commune of 117 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Dernacueillette]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Dernacueillette is a commune of 41 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[La Digne-d'Amont]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

La Digne-d'Amont is a commune of 287 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Rourkela]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India

Rourkela is a district in Odisha.

[[La Digne-d'Aval]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

La Digne-d'Aval is a commune of 536 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Donazac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Donazac is a commune of 109 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Douzens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Douzens is a commune of 733 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Durban-Corbières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Durban-Corbières is a commune of 649 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Embres-et-Castelmaure]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Embres-et-Castelmaure is a commune of 152 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Villardonnel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Villardonnel is a commune of 498 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Escouloubre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Escouloubre is a commune of 73 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Espéraza]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Espéraza is a commune of 1,870 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Espezel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Espezel is a commune of 206 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[La Fajolle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

La Fajolle is a commune of 11 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fenouillet-du-Razès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fenouillet-du-Razès is a commune of 85 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Kadakkad]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kadakkad is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India.

[[Kadammanitta]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kadammanitta is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Kadampanad]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kadampanad is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India.

[[Kadapra]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kadapra is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state, India.

[[Great Commission]]

CATEGORIES: Christianity, Jesus Christ

Gospel JesusThe Great Commission in Christian belief is something that Jesus told his followers. This happened after His resurrection. Jesus told his Twelve Apostles to go all over the world and tell everyone about Him. The most well known version of the Great Commission is in Matthew 28:16 to 20. Jesus meets his followers on a mountain in Galilee. He tells them to make disciples of and baptize everyone in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit.

Earlier Jesus had sent out 70 of his followers to preach and heal, but only to the Jews. However, Jesus himself had healed some non-Jewish people before. At the beginning of his public work, Jesus spoke to His own people. After rising from the dead, he made it clear that His message was for everyone. This "commission" is very important to missionaries who believe that God wants them to go to every country in the world and preach about Jesus.

[[Montillières-sur-Orne]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Montillières-sur-Orne is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2019 and consists of the former communes of Trois-Monts (the seat) and Goupillières.

[[Noues de Sienne]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Noues de Sienne is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2017 and consists of the former communes of Saint-Sever-Calvados (the seat), Champ-du-Boult, Courson, Fontenermont, Le Gast, Le Mesnil-Benoist, Le Mesnil-Caussois, Mesnil-Clinchamps, Saint-Manvieu-Bocage and Sept-Frères.

[[Noyers-Missy]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France, 21st century disestablishments in France, 2010s disestablishments in Europe, 2017 disestablishments, Former communes in Calvados

Noyers-Missy was a short-lived commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2016 and consists of the former communes of Noyers-Bocage (the seat) and Missy. On 1 January 2017, it was merged into the new commune of Val d'Arry.

[[Laize-Clinchamps]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Laize-Clinchamps is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2017 and consists of the former communes of Laize-la-Ville (the seat) and Clinchamps-sur-Orne.

[[Moulins en Bessin]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Moulins en Bessin is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was established on 1 January 2017 and consists of the former communes of Martragny (the seat), Coulombs, Cully and Rucqueville.

[[Colomby-Anguerny]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Colomby-Anguerny is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2016 and consists of the former communes of Anguerny (the seat) and Colomby-sur-Thaon.

[[Ferran]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Ferran is a commune of 111 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Festes-et-Saint-André]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Festes-et-Saint-André is a commune of 206 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fontanès-de-Sault]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fontanès-de-Sault is a commune of 5 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fabrezan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fabrezan is a commune of 1,291 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fourtou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fourtou is a commune of 73 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fajac-en-Val]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fajac-en-Val is a commune of 38 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Terroles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Terroles is a commune of 17 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Julia-de-Bec]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Julia-de-Bec is a commune of 104 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Gaja-et-Villedieu]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Gaja-et-Villedieu is a commune of 292 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Galinagues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Galinagues is a commune of 35 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Marsa, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Marsa is a commune of 18 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Gardie, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Gardie is a commune of 121 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Gramazie]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Gramazie is a commune of 117 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Ginoles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Ginoles is a commune of 303 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Miracles of Jesus]]

CATEGORIES: Gospels, Jesus Christ

The miracles of Jesus are things the Bible and Qur'an say that Jesus did, that a person normally cannot do. Followers of those religions say, that Jesus did those things by the power of God.

The Gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke record many of these stories. The most common ones are healing people who are sick, blind, lame or deaf. In many cases, the sicknesses or other problems are said to be caused by demons. Jesus said, that he had power over the demons, and so He could stop their evil work. The enemies of Jesus told him to do miracles to show, that He had supernatural power, but He refused. However, for his followers, he did several miracles that showed His power. These included stopping a storm in the sea, walking on water and making a tree die.

In Islam, Jesus is said to have spoken from his cradle, made a clay bird come alive, and brought down from heaven a table full of food. Both the Qur'an and the Christian New Testament say, that Jesus brought some dead people back to life.

In the Gospel of John, only seven miracles are mentioned. John calls them "signs". Their purpose was to teach something about the power of Jesus, not just to help people. Two of the greatest miracles recorded are the Virgin birth of Jesus and the resurrection. The Qur'an also mentions the Virgin birth, but not the resurrection.

Gospel JesusThroughout history, many Christians have said that they have been healed by Jesus. Roman Catholic believers have many such stories. Some places, such as Lourdes, are places where sick people go to be healed by Jesus. Other Christians say that Jesus has healed them or done other miracles at large Christian meetings. Other Christians think that Jesus only did such things when he was on Earth. They do not believe that such miracles happen today.

[[Tumbleweed]]

CATEGORIES: Plants

Several plant species that grow in arid, steppe-like environments use the wind to propagate. The structure that is pushed by the wind is usually called tumbleweed. This structure will detatch from its root or stem and will roll on the ground. In most such species, the tumbleweed consists of the whole plant apart from the root system. Sometimes,  only  a hollow fruit or inflorescence detaches. Tumbleweed species occur most commonly in steppe and arid ecosystems, where  frequent wind and the open environment permit rolling easly.

Most  tissues of the tumbleweed structure are dead.  This needs to be the case,  because the structure needs to degrade and fall apart so that its seeds or spores can escape during the tumbling. Sometimes they  germinate after the tumbleweed has come to rest in a wet location. In this case, many species of tumbleweed open mechanically, releasing their seeds as they swell when they absorb water.

The tumbleweed diaspore disperses seeds. This stategy is not limited to the seed plants; some species of spore-bearing cryptogams—such as Selaginella—form tumbleweeds, and some fungi that resemble puffballs dry out, break free of their attachments and are similarly tumbled by the wind, dispersing spores as they go.

[[Greffeil]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Greffeil is a commune of 79 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Granès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Granès is a commune of 97 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Hounoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Hounoux is a commune of 136 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Joucou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Joucou is a commune of 35 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fonters-du-Razès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fonters-du-Razès is a commune of 79 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Ferrals-les-Corbières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Ferrals-les-Corbières is a commune of 1,192 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Ladern-sur-Lauquet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Ladern-sur-Lauquet is a commune of 266 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Lauraguel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lauraguel is a commune of 609 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Lignairolles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lignairolles is a commune of 43 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Loupia]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Loupia is a commune of 240 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Oliver Ortmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Hamburg, Cue sports players

Oliver Ortmann (born 11 June 1967) is a German pool player from Gelsenkirchen. Ortmann is a three-time world champion, winning the 1995 WPA World Nine-ball Championship and both the 2007 and 2010 Straight pool world championships. With 14 wins, he is one of the best players at the European Pool Championships. Ortmann is the second to Ralf Souquet on the Euro Tour, winning 14 events. Ortmann was the first player from Europe to win the U.S. Open Straight Pool Championship, in 1989.

He has been on Europe's team 8 times in the Mosconi Cup from 1994 to 2004. He was on the winning side in 1995 and 2002. With 44 German national medals, Ortmann is one of the best German pool players ever. In 1996, he was the first cue sports player to receive the Silbernes Lorbeerblatt, the highest sporting award given in Germany. Ortmann was put into the Straight Pool Hall of Fame in an August 2013 ceremony in New York City. The following year, he was entered into the Billiard Congress of America's Hall of Fame.

[[Félines-Termenès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Félines-Termenès is a commune of 117 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Luc-sur-Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Luc-sur-Aude is a commune of 246 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Dialan sur Chaîne]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Dialan sur Chaîne is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2017 and consists of the former communes of Jurques (the seat) and Le Mesnil-Auzouf.

[[Pecos, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Pecos is a city in the U.S. state of Texas.

[[Amou, Landes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Landes

Amou is a commune of 1,540 people (2017). It is in the region Nouvelle-Aquitaine in the Landes department in the southwest of France.

[[Bassemberg]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Bas-Rhin

Bassemberg is a French commune. It is in the Bas-Rhin department.

[[Open Season (1974 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 thriller movies, 1970s serial killer movies, British thriller movies, Spanish movies, Movies based on books

Open Season is a 1974 British Spanish thriller movie. It was directed by Peter Collinson. It is based on the book by David Osborn. Actors include Peter Fonda, Cornelia Sharpe, John Phillip Law, Alberto de Mendoza, and William Holden. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Dirty Mary, Crazy Larry]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 movies, 1970s action movies, American action movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by John Hough

Dirty Mary, Crazy Larry is a 1974 American action movie. It was directed by John Hough. The movie is based on the 1963 book The Chase by Richard Unekis. Actors include Peter Fonda, Susan George, Adam Roarke, Vic Morrow, and Kenneth Tobey. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Golden birdwing]]

CATEGORIES: Papilionidae

The golden birdwing (Troides aeacus) is a large tropical butterfly. It belongs in the family Papilionidae. It is found in Northeastern India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Burma, China, Thailand, Laos, Vietnam, Taiwan, Cambodia, peninsular Malaysia and Indonesia.

[[Hustle (1975 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 movies, 1970s crime movies, 1975 mystery movies, American mystery movies, Movies directed by Robert Aldrich

Hustle is a 1975 American crime movie. It was directed by Robert Aldrich. Actors include Burt Reynolds, Catherine Deneuve, Paul Winfield, Eddie Albert, Ernest Borgnine, Eileen Brennan, and Ben Johnson. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Vincent van der Burg]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2020 deaths, Catholic People's Party politicians, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Dutch lawyers, Dutch Roman Catholics, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, People from Zeist, Politicians from Utrecht (province)

Vincent Arthur Maria van der Burg (17 April 1945 – 29 April 2020) was a Dutch lawyer and politician. Van der Burg was born in Zeist. He was a member of the KVP, later changed into CDA. He was a member of Dutch House of Representatives from 1979 to 1998 (with interruptions in 1981 and 1982).

Van den Burg died in Zeist on 29 April 2020, aged 75.

[[Take a Hard Ride]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 movies, Italian movies, American western movies

Take a Hard Ride is a 1975 Italian American western movie. It was directed by Antonio Margheriti. Actors include Jim Brown, Lee Van Cleef, Fred Williamson, Jim Kelly, Dana Andrews, Barry Sullivan, Robert Donner, and Harry Carey, Jr. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Jan-Olof Strandberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2020 deaths, Swedish movie actors, Swedish stage actors, Actors from Stockholm

Jan-Olof Strandberg (9 September 1926 – 2 May 2020) was a Swedish actor. He appeared in 45 movies, beginning in 1947. His best known stage role was as Vladimir in Samuel Beckett's Waiting for Godot. He appeared in Erland Josephson's play Blomsterplockarna ("The Flower Pickers") at Dramaten. 

His best known movie roles were in Wild Birds (1955), Last Pair Out (1956), Ön (1966), Varning för Jönssonligan (1981), Flight of the Eagle (1982), Resan till Melonia (1989) and Faithless (2000).

Strandberg was born in Stockholm. He died on 2 May 2020, aged 93.

[[Ajay Kumar Tripathi]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in India, Indian politicians, Indian judges

Ajay Kumar Tripathi (12 November 1957 – 2 May 2020) was an Indian judge. He was a Judicial Member of Lokpal from 23 March 2019 until his death. He was also the Chief Justice of Chhattisgarh High Court from 7 July 2018 to 22 March 2019. Tripathi was born in Bihar. 

On 5 April 2020, Tripathi was diagnosed with COVID-19. He died in New Delhi on 2 May 2020 from the infection, aged 62.

[[Roger Horchow]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Cancer deaths in Texas, Theatre producers, Businesspeople from Cincinnati, Ohio

Samuel Roger Horchow (July 3, 1928 – May 2, 2020) was an American theatre producer and businessman. He was born in Cincinnati, Ohio. In 1992, he produced his first Broadway show, Crazy for You, for which he won the Tony Award for Best Musical. He also produced versions of Kiss Me, Kate, Curtains and Gypsy.

Horchow died in Dallas, Texas on May 2, 2020 of cancer, aged 91.

[[The Quiet Gun]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by William F. Claxton

The Quiet Gun is a 1957 American western movie. It was directed by William F. Claxton. The movie is based on the 1955 book Lawman by Lauran Paine. Actors include Forrest Tucker, Mara Corday, Jim Davis, Lee Van Cleef, and Kathleen Crowley. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Parliament of Catalonia]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Spain, Catalonia

The Parliament of Catalonia (Parlament de Catalunya, pəɾləˈmen də kətəˈluɲə; Parlamento de Cataluña; Parlament de Catalonha) is the unicameral legislature of the autonomous community of Catalonia. It is made-up of 135 deputies (diputats/deputats/diputados), who are elected every four years. The Parliament building is located in Ciutadella Park, Barcelona.

The most recent parliamentary elections were held on 21 December 2017. October 1st independence referendum results, the Parliament of Catalonia declared independence from Spain on 27 October 2017 with a vote of 70–10. In response, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy dissolved the Parliament and called for a snap regional election.

[[África Lorente Castillo]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Spain, Moroccan politicians, Political activists, Politicians from Barcelona

África Lorente Castillo (16 October 1954 – 1 May 2020) was a Moroccan-born Spanish politician and activist. She was born in Tangier, Morocco. She was a member of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Lorente Castillo was a supporter of Catalan independence. 

She was a member of the Catalan Parliament from 1984 to 1988. From 1987 to 2003, she was Deputy Mayor of Castelldefels.

Lorente Castillo died of COVID-19 on 1 May 2020 in Castelldefels, aged 65.

[[No Down Payment]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Martin Ritt

No Down Payment is a 1957 American drama movie. It was directed by Martin Ritt. The movie is based on the book of the same name by John McPartland. Actors include Joanne Woodward, Sheree North, Tony Randall, Jeffrey Hunter, Cameron Mitchell, and Barbara Rush. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Castelldefels]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Castelldefels (kəsˌteʎdəˈfɛls) is a city in the Baix Llobregat comarca, in the province of Barcelona in Catalonia, Spain, and part of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona. Its population was 65,954 in 2017.

[[8 Million Ways to Die]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 action movies, 1986 crime movies, 1986 thriller movies, 1980s crime thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Hal Ashby

8 Million Ways to Die is a 1986 American crime thriller movie. It was directed by Hal Ashby and produced by Oliver Stone. The movie is based on the book of the same name by Lawrence Block. Actors include Jeff Bridges, Andy Garcia, Rosanna Arquette, James Avery, Randy Brooks, and Alexandra Paul. It was distributed by TriStar Pictures.

[[The Enemy Below]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, American adventure movies, World War II movies, Movies based on books, Academy Award winning movies

The Enemy Below is a 1957 American World War II adventure movie. It was directed by Dick Powell. The movie is based on the book of the same name by Denys Rayner. It stars Robert Mitchum, Curt Jürgens, Theodore Bikel, and Frank Albertson. It won an Academy Award in 1958.

[[Princess of the Nile]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 movies, 1950s adventure movies, American adventure movies, Movies directed by Harmon Jones

Princess of the Nile is a 1954 American adventure movie. It was directed by Harmon Jones. Actors include Debra Paget, Jeffrey Hunter, Michael Rennie, Dona Drake, Michael Ansara, Edgar Barrier, and Wally Cassell. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Kaipattoor]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kaipattoor is a small town in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India. The village is under Vallicode Panchayat.

[[Kaithaparampu]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kaithaparampu is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Kalampala]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kalampala is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Kalanjoor]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

 Kalanjoor  is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India.

[[Kalleli]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kalleli is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Kallooppara]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

 Kallooppara  is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India. 

[[Simon Schenk]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Deaths from surgical complications, Swiss politicians, Swiss sportspeople

Simon Schenk (16 May 1946 – 1 May 2020) was a Swiss politician. He was born in Langnau im Emmental, Switzerland. He was a member of the Swiss People's Party. 

Schenk was a member of the National Council from 1994 to 2001. He represented the Canton of Bern.

He was also the coach of the Switzerland men's national ice hockey team.

Schenk died on 1 May 2020 of a stroke caused by heart surgery in Bern, aged 73.

[[Hit Man (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 action movies, Mexican movies, Spanish movies

Hit Man is a 1982 Spanish Mexican action movie. It was directed by José Antonio de la Loma. Actors include George Peppard, Max von Sydow, Jorge Rivero, Maud Adams, and Chuck Connors.

[[Idir]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary fibrosis, Algerian people, Singer-songwriters, Guitarists

Hamid Cheriet (in Kabyle language Ḥamid Ceryat; 25 October 1949 – 2 May 2020), better known by his stage name Idir or Yidir, was an Algerian singer-songwriter and guitarist He was born in Beni Yenni, Algeria. His best known album was A Vava Inouva (1976). His best known single was "Pourquoi cette pluie?" (2002). 

Idir died on 2 May 2020 in Paris of pulmonary fibrosis at the age of 70.

[[Matt Keough]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2020 deaths, American League All-Stars, Baseball players from California, Chicago Cubs players, Houston Astros players, New York Yankees players, Oakland Athletics players, St. Louis Cardinals players

Matthew Lon Keough ˈ (July 3, 1955 – May 1, 2020) was an American professional baseball player. He was born in Pomona, California.

He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) as a right-handed pitcher for the Oakland Athletics (1977–1983), New York Yankees (1983–1984), St. Louis Cardinals (1985), Chicago Cubs (1986) and Houston Astros (1986). From 1987 to 1990, he played for the Japanese baseball team Hanshin Tigers.

Keough died on May 1, 2020 at the age of 64.

[[Megan Pormer]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people

Megan Pormer is an iranian model, actress, doctor, television personality and cancer activist who has won Miss Dubai in 2019. She has been appeared in many magazine's cover including Cosmo, Vogue and Elle Arabia.   

[[Creully sur Seulles]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Creully sur Seulles is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2017 and consists of the former communes of Creully (the seat), Saint-Gabriel-Brécy and Villiers-le-Sec.

[[Ajitke Chattha]]

CATEGORIES: Gujranwala Division

Ajitke Chattha also spell as Ajit Kay Chattha and Ajitkay Chattha is a small village located in Wazirabad Tehsil, Gujranwala District, Punjab, Pakistan.

Ajitke Chattha has a population of over 1,100 and is located about 34.5 kilometres northwest of Gujranwala city via Kalaske Cheema-Gujranwala road. The population is over 100% Muslim. Most people in the village speak Punjabi, though almost all of them can also speak the national language of Pakistan, Urdu. English is spoken by the educated elite in the Ajitke Chattha. For all basic needs, people of Ajitke Chattha visit the nearest town Ali Pur Chatta. While No any facility is available in village else middle level education.

[[Le Castelet]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Le Castelet is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2019 and consists of the former communes of Saint-Aignan-de-Cramesnil (the seat) and Garcelles-Secqueville.

[[Saline, Calvados]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, 21st century disestablishments in France, 2010s disestablishments in Europe, 2019 disestablishments, Former communes in Calvados

Saline was a short-lived commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2017 and consists of the former communes of Troarn (the seat) and Sannerville. This merger was revoked by the administrative court, and on 31 December 2019 the former communes Troarn and Sannerville were recreated.

[[Les Monts d'Aunay]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Les Monts d'Aunay is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2017 and consists of the former communes of Aunay-sur-Odon (the seat), Bauquay, Campandré-Valcongrain, Danvou-la-Ferrière, Ondefontaine, Le Plessis-Grimoult and Roucamps.

[[Mainpuri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Uttar Pradesh

Mainpuri is the city in Mainpuri district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It is the administrative headquarters of Mainpuri district and is situated to the north-east of Agra and is 270 km from New Delhi. Mainpuri forms part of ancient legendary region of Lord Krishna's land called Braj.

[[Hathras]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Uttar Pradesh

Hathras is a city in Hathras district, in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It is the headquarters of the Hathras district that was created on 3 May 1997, by incorporating parts of: Aligarh, Mathura, Agra Districts, and Khair Tehsil.  It forms a part of Aligarh Division.

[[Valambray]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Valambray is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2017 and consists of the former communes of Airan (the seat), Billy, Conteville, Fierville-Bray and Poussy-la-Campagne.

[[Valorbiquet]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Valorbiquet is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2016 and consists of the former communes of Saint-Cyr-du-Ronceray (the seat), La Chapelle-Yvon, Saint-Julien-de-Mailloc, Saint-Pierre-de-Mailloc and Tordouet.

[[Fatehpur, Uttar Pradesh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Uttar Pradesh

Fatehpur is a city in the state of Uttar Pradesh, India. The city is between the rivers Ganga and Yamuna.

[[Terres de Druance]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Terres de Druance is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2017 and consists of the former communes of Lassy (the seat), Saint-Jean-le-Blanc and Saint-Vigor-des-Mézerets.

[[Malherbe-sur-Ajon]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Malherbe-sur-Ajon is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2016 and consists of the former communes of Banneville-sur-Ajon (the seat) and Saint-Agnan-le-Malherbe.

[[Val d'Arry]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Val d'Arry is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2017 and consists of the former communes of Noyers-Missy (the seat), Le Locheur and Tournay-sur-Odon.

[[Magrie]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Magrie is a commune of 528 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Malras]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Malras is a commune of 396 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Malviès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Malviès is a commune of 369 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mazerolles-du-Razès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mazerolles-du-Razès is a commune of 154 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mazuby]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mazuby is a commune of 25 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mérial]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mérial is a commune of 31 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Missègre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Missègre is a commune of 63 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montazels]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montazels is a commune of 560 people (2017). It is in the Aude department in the Occitanie region in the south of France.

[[Fontjoncouse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fontjoncouse is a commune of 131 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fendeille]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fendeille is a commune of 532 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fajac-la-Relenque]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fajac-la-Relenque is a commune of 50 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Les Ilhes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Les Ilhes is a commune of 52 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montfort-sur-Boulzane]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montfort-sur-Boulzane is a commune of 88 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montgradail]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montgradail is a commune of 47 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Monthaut]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Monthaut is a commune of 38 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montjardin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montjardin is a commune of 87 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Nébias]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Nébias is a commune of 246 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[The Strange One]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books

The Strange One is a 1957 American drama movie. It was directed by Jack Garfein. The movie is based on the book and play End as a Man. Actors include George Peppard, Ben Gazzara, Julie Wilson, Peter Mark Richman, Arthur Storch, and Pat Hingle. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 movies, 1960s science fiction movies, American science fiction movies, Movies with underwater settings, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Irwin Allen

Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea is a 1961 American science fiction movie. It was directed by Irwin Allen. Actors include Walter Pidgeon, Robert Sterling, Peter Lorre, Joan Fontaine, Barbara Eden, Michael Ansara, and Frankie Avalon. In 1964, a TV series was made based on the movie. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[A Face in the Crowd]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by Elia Kazan, Warner Bros. movies

A Face in the Crowd is a 1957 American drama movie. It was directed by Elia Kazan. The movie is based on the short story Your Arkansas Traveler by Budd Schulberg. Actors include Andy Griffith, Walter Matthau, Patricia Neal, Lee Remick, and Anthony Franciosa. It was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[A Generation]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 drama movies, 1950s war movies, Polish movies, World War II movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Andrzej Wajda

A Generation (Pokolenie) is a 1955 Polish World War II drama movie. It was directed by Andrzej Wajda. It is based on the book Pokolenie by Bohdan Czeszko. Actors include Tadeusz Łomnicki, Urszula Modrzyńska, Tadeusz Janczar, Ryszard Kotys, and Roman Polanski. 

This was the first movie of the "Three Wars" trilogy by director Andrzej Wajda. It was followed by Kanal and Ashes and Diamonds. 

[[Changsha Metro]]

CATEGORIES: Rapid transit systems, China

The Changsha Metro (officially s=; also called s=) is a rapid transit system in Changsha, which is the capital of Hunan province in China. The first metro line of it, Line 2, was opened on April 29, 2014. This made Changsha the 18th city in mainland China to open a rapid transit system.As of May 2020, three additional lines of it are under construction.

[[Young and Dangerous (1957 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by William F. Claxton

Young and Dangerous is a 1957 American drama movie. It was directed by William F. Claxton. Actors include Lili Gentle, Mark Damon, Edward Binns, Frances Mercer, and Connie Stevens. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Unknown Terror]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 horror movies, 1950s science fiction movies, American science fiction horror movies, Movies directed by Charles Marquis Warren

The Unknown Terror is a 1957 American science fiction horror movie. It was directed by Charles Marquis Warren. Actors include John Howard, Mala Powers, Paul Richards, and May Wynn. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[From Here to Eternity]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 drama movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on books, Academy Award winning movies, Movies directed by Fred Zinnemann

From Here to Eternity is a 1953 American World War II romantic drama movie. It was directed by Fred Zinnemann. The movie is based on the novel of the same name by James Jones. Actors include Frank Sinatra, Deborah Kerr, Donna Reed, Montgomery Clift, Burt Lancaster, Ernest Borgnine, Jack Warden, Philip Ober, and Mickey Shaughnessy. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was nominated for 13 Oscars and won 8 Academy Awards in 1954.

[[Arrest and trial of Jesus]]

CATEGORIES: Jesus Christ, Gospels

In Christianity, the Arrest and Trial of Jesus is an event that takes place in February/March of 30 AD, before the Death and Ressurrection of Jesus and after the Last Supper.

[[The Art of Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Norman Jewison

The Art of Love is a 1965 American comedy movie. It was directed by Norman Jewison. It was written by Carl Reiner (who also stars). Other actors include James Garner, Dick Van Dyke, Angie Dickinson, and Elke Sommer. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Up Periscope]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, World War II movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Gordon Douglas

Up Periscope is a 1959 American World War II romantic drama movie. It was directed by Gordon Douglas. The movie is based on the book of the same name by Robb White. Actors include James Garner, Harry Landers, Edmond O'Brien, Warren Oates, Andra Martin, Alan Hale Jr., and Frank Gifford. It was distributed by Warner Bros.

[[Yellowstone Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 movies, American western movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Gordon Douglas

Yellowstone Kelly is a 1959 American western movie. It was directed by Gordon Douglas. The movie is based on the book by Heck Allen. Actors include Clint Walker, Warren Oates, Edd Byrnes, Ray Danton, Claude Akins, and Gary Vinson. It was distributed by Warner Bros.

It was based on the real life Luther Kelly.

[[Niort-de-Sault]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Niort-de-Sault is a commune of 32 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Pauligne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Pauligne is a commune of 357 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Louis-et-Parahou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Louis-et-Parahou is a commune of 55 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Peyrefitte-du-Razès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Peyrefitte-du-Razès is a commune of 48 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[English Climate Emergency Education Act]]

CATEGORIES: United Kingdom law

The English Climate Emergency Education Bill was the first ever student-written education bill in the UK, it is a draft bill and has not been introduced to parliament.

[[Western Plateau]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Australia, Regions of Australia

The Western Plateau (sometimes referred to as the Australian Shield), is Australia's largest drainage division and is composed predominantly of the remains of the ancient rock shield of Gondwana. It covers two thirds of the continent; 2,700,000 square kilometres of arid land including large parts of Western Australia, South Australia, and the Northern Territory. For comparison, it is roughly the same size as the whole of continental Europe from Poland to Portugal. 

Rain rarely falls in this region and aside from a handful of permanent waterholes, surface water is absent at all times except after heavy rain. Most of the territory is flat sandy or stony desert with a sparse covering of shrubs or tussock grasses. Average rainfall varies from one area to another and is quoted at 100 to 350 mm per year (between 4 and 14 inches) but is highly unpredictable.

There are no permanent watercourses. The general trend is for run-off to flow inland, but there is insufficient rainfall to produce any marked drainage pattern.

[[Calvert County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties

Calvert County is a county in the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 88,737. Its county seat is Prince Frederick.

[[Peyrolles, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Peyrolles is a commune of 86 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Pieusse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Pieusse is a commune of 987 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Pomas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Pomas is a commune of 887 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Puilaurens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Puilaurens is a commune of 271 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Caroline County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties

Caroline County is a county in the U.S. state of Maryland on its Eastern Shore. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 33,066. Its county seat is Denton.

[[Puivert]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Puivert is a commune of 471 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Quirbajou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Quirbajou is a commune of 51 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Rennes-les-Bains]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Rennes-les-Bains is a commune of 205 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Rennes-le-Château]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Rennes-le-Château is a commune of 80 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Rivel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Rivel is a commune of 199 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Rodome]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Rodome is a commune of 124 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Feuilla]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Feuilla is a commune of 104 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fitou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fitou is a commune of 1,060 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Escales]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Escales is a commune of 465 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France, principally involved in viticulture.

[[Fleury, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fleury is a commune of 3,825 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Jourdanton, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Jourdanton is a city in the U.S. state of Texas.

[[Plattsmouth, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Plattsmouth is a city in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Cass County.

[[Floure]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Floure is a commune of 386 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fatehpur]]

Fatehpur, Fatepur, or Phattepur may refer to any of a number of places:

[[Marquein]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Marquein is a commune of 82 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Leuc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Leuc is a commune of 849 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Villemoustaussou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Villemoustaussou is a commune of 4,423 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Tourreilles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Tourreilles is a commune of 127 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Gada (weapon)]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism, Weapons

The Gada is a mace (a kind of club), which is one of the symbols of Hindu god Vishnu.

[[Communes of the Corse-du-Sud department]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of communes of France, Communes in Corse-du-Sud

The following is a list of the 124 communes of the Corse-du-Sud department of France.

[[Communes of the Guyane department]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of communes of France, Communes in French Guiana

The following is a list of the 22 communes of the Guyane overseas department of France.

[[Communes of the Haute-Corse department]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of communes of France, Communes in Haute-Corse

The following is a list of the 236 communes of the Haute-Corse department of France.

The communes cooperate in the following intercommunalities (as of 2018):

[[Communes of the Réunion department]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of communes of France, Communes in Réunion

The following is a list of the 24 communes of the Réunion (an overseas department of France).

[[Fontcouverte, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fontcouverte is a commune of 546 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fontiers-Cabardès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fontiers-Cabardès is a commune of 454 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fontiès-d'Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fontiès-d'Aude is a commune of 481 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Damascus University]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s establishments in Asia, 1923 establishments, Colleges and universities in Asia, Damascus

The University of Damascus (جامعة دمشق, Jāmi‘atu Dimashq) is the largest and oldest university in Syria, located in the capital Damascus  and has campuses in other Syrian cities. It was founded in 1923 through the merger of the School of Medicine (established 1903) and the Institute of Law (established 1913). Until 1958 it was named the Syrian University, but the name changed after the founding of the University of Aleppo. There are nine public universities and more than ten private ones in Syria. Damascus University was one of the most reputable universities in the Middle East before the war in Syria started in 2011.

The University of Damascus consists of several faculties, higher Institutes, intermediate institutes and a school of nursing. One of the institutions specializes in teaching the Arabic language to foreigners, which is the largest institution of its kind in the Arab world.

[[Labastide-Esparbairenque]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Labastide-Esparbairenque is a commune of 73 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fournes-Cabardès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fournes-Cabardès is a commune of 50 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[La Force, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

La Force is a commune of 222 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montclar, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montclar is a commune of 171 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Isabel Abedi]]

CATEGORIES: German people, German writers

Isabel Nasrin Abedi (born March 3, 1967 in Munich) is a German children's and youth book writer.

[[Carroll County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties

Carroll County is a county in the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 167,134. Its county seat is Westminster.

[[Dorchester County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties

Dorchester County is a county in the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 32,618. Its county seat is Cambridge. The county was formed in 1669 and named for the Earl of Dorset, a family friend of the Calverts (the founding family of the Maryland colony).

[[Cumberland, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Maryland, County seats in Maryland

Cumberland is a city in the U.S. state of Maryland. It is the county seat of Allegany County. As of the 2010 census, the city's population was 20,859.

[[Roquefeuil, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Roquefeuil is a commune of 289 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Garrett County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties

Garrett County is the westernmost county in the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the 2010 census, the population was 30,097, making it the third-smallest populous county in Maryland. Its county seat is Oakland.

[[Harford County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties

right|200pxHarford County is a county in the U.S. state of Maryland. The county had a population of 244,826 people during the 2010 census. Its county seat is Bel Air.

[[Howard County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties

Howard County is a county in the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 287,085. Its county seat is Ellicott City.

[[Kent County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties

Kent County is a county in the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 20,197, making it the smallest populous county in Maryland. Its county seat is Chestertown.

[[Queen Anne's County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties

Queen Anne's County is a county in the U.S. state of Maryland. The county had a population of 47,798 people in the 2010 census. Its county seat is Centreville.

[[Saint Mary's County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: 1630s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 1637 establishments, Maryland counties

Saint Mary's County is a county in the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 105,151. Its county seat is Leonardtown. The county was formed on January 24, 1637.

[[Somerset County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties

Somerset County is a county in the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 26,470. Its county seat is Princess Anne.

[[Talbot County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties

Talbot County is a county in the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 37,782. Its county seat is Easton.

[[Washington County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties

Washington County is a county in the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 147,430. Its county seat is Hagerstown.

[[Wicomico County, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Maryland, 1867 establishments in the United States, Maryland counties

Wicomico County is a county located in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of Maryland, on the Delmarva Peninsula. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 98,733. Its county seat is Salisbury. The county was named after the Wicomico River. It was created in 1867.

[[Hartington, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Hartington is a city in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Cedar County.

[[Imperial, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Imperial is a city in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Chase County.

[[Ginestas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Ginestas is a commune of 1,445 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Three Rivers]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American drama television series, 2010s American drama television series, English-language television programs

Three Rivers is an American medical drama TV series that ran on CBS from 2009 to 2010.

[[Bloodhounds of Broadway (1952 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 comedy movies, 1950s musical movies, American comedy movies, American musical movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by Harmon Jones

Bloodhounds of Broadway is a 1952 American musical comedy movie. It was directed by Harmon Jones. The movie is based on the story of the same name by Damon Runyon. Actors include Mitzi Gaynor, Mitzi Green, Scott Brady, Marguerite Chapman, and Wally Vernon. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was remade in 1989.

[[A Farewell to Arms (1957 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 drama movies, 1950s war movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, World War I movies, Movies based on books, American movie remakes, Movies directed by John Huston, Movies directed by Charles Vidor

A Farewell to Arms is a 1957 World War I romantic drama movie. It was directed by Charles Vidor. The movie is based on novel of the same name by Ernest Hemmingway. It is a remake of the 1932 movie of the same name. It stars Rock Hudson, Jennifer Jones, Vittorio De Sica, and Elaine Stritch. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. The movie was nominated for an Academy Award in 1958.

[[Gil Schwartz]]

CATEGORIES: American columnists, 1951 births, 2020 deaths, American novelists, Businesspeople from New York City, Journalists from New York City, People from New Rochelle, New York, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Gil Schwartz (May 20, 1951 – May 2, 2020), known by his pen name Stanley Bing, was an American business humorist and novelist. He wrote a column for Fortune magazine for more than twenty years. He also worked forEsquire magazine. He was the author of thirteen books, including What Would Machiavelli Do? and ''The Curriculum'.

Schwartz was senior executive vice president of corporate communications and Chief Communications Officer for CBS.

Bing was born in New York City. He was raised in New Rochelle, New York. Bing studied at Brandeis University. Schwartz died on May 2, 2020 at his home in Santa Monica, California from a heart attack. He was 68.

[[Prime Minister of Myanmar]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Myanmar

The Prime Minister of Myanmar is the head of the government of Myanmar and the chief executive authority of the national government. The prime minister is also the commander in chief of the Armed Forces.

The office ended on 30 March 2011, according to the current Constitution of Myanmar (adopted in 2008). It said that the president is both the head of state and head of government. however, the military coup of 2021 put the Chairman of the State Administration Council into the highest position. He is the de facto head of government, and the president is now the nominal head of state.

The office was created again on 1 August 2021 with Min Aung Hlaing forming a caretaker government.

[[Fire Down Below (1957 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, 1950s adventure movies, American adventure movies, British adventure movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Robert Parrish

Fire Down Below is a 1957 American British adventure movie. It was directed by Robert Parrish. The movie is based on the 1954 novel of the same name by Max Catto. Actors include Rita Hayworth, Jack Lemmon, Robert Mitchum, Herbert Lom, Edric Connor, Peter Illing, and Anthony Newley. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[President of Myanmar]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Myanmar

The president of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar (နိုင်ငံတော်‌ သမ္မတ) is the head of state and head of government of Myanmar.

The president is elected by members of parliament, not by the general population. The Presidential Electoral College, a three committee body, elects the president.

[[Khin Nyunt]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Generals, Prime Ministers of Myanmar

General Khin Nyunt (ခင်ညွန့်; kʰɪ̀ɰ̃ ɲʊ̰ɰ̃; born 11 October 1939) is a Burmese military officer and politician. He was the 9th Prime Minister of Myanmar from 25 August 2003 until 18 October 2004.

[[A Guide for the Married Man]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 comedy movies, American comedy movies

A Guide for the Married Man is a 1967 American comedy movie. It was directed by Gene Kelly. Actors include Walter Matthau, Inger Stevens, Sue Ann Langdon, Claire Kelly, Jayne Mansfield, Sid Caesar, Carl Reiner, Art Carney, Jack Benny, and Terry-Thomas. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Frederick Kroesen]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2020 deaths, American generals, American military personnel of World War II, American military personnel of the Korean War, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, People from New Jersey

Frederick James Kroesen, Jr. (February 11, 1923 – April 30, 2020) was a United States Army four-star general. He was born in Phillipsburg, New Jersey.

Kroesen was the Commanding General of the Seventh United States Army and the commander of NATO Central Army Group from 1979 to 1983, and Commanding General, United States Army Forces Command from 1976 to 1978. 

He also was Vice Chief of Staff of the Army from 1978 to 1979. He commanded troops in World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War.

Kroesen died on April 30, 2020 in Alexandria, Virginia, aged 97.

[[Richard Thomas (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning actors, 1951 births, American child actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American television directors, American television producers, Living people, Actors from New York City

Richard Earl Thomas (born June 13, 1951) is an American actor. He was born in New York City.

He is best known for his leading role as author John-Boy Walton in the CBS drama The Waltons, for which he won one Emmy Award and received nominations for another Emmy Award and two Golden Globe Awards. 

He also starred in Stephen King's miniseries It and played Special Agent Frank Gaad on FX's spy thriller series The Americans.

[[Welcome to Hard Times]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 movies, 1960s western movies, American western movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Burt Kennedy

Welcome to Hard Times is a 1967 American western movie. It was directed by Burt Kennedy. The movie was based on the book with the same name by E. L. Doctorow. Actors include Henry Fonda, Warren Oates, Janis Paige, Keenan Wynn, Lon Chaney Jr., Aldo Ray, and Janice Rule. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Barbara Barrie]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American novelists, Actors from Chicago, Writers from Chicago, Singers from Chicago

Barbara Barrie (born Barbara Ann Berman, May 23, 1931) is an American actress, singer and author. She was born in Chicago. She is best known for her role as Evelyn Stoller in Breaking Away. She was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 1979.

[[Aiglun, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Aiglun is a commune in southeastern France. It is in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region.

In addition to the village, the town has three other hamlets:

[[Allemagne-en-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Allemagne-en-Provence is a commune in southeastern France. It is in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region.

In addition to the village, the town has two hamlets:

[[Hans Conried]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1982 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, American voice actors, Actors from Baltimore, Maryland, Comedians from Maryland

Hans Georg Conried Jr. (April 15, 1917spaced ndashJanuary 5, 1982) was an American actor and comedian. He was born in Baltimore, Maryland.

Conried voiced George Darling and Captain Hook in Peter Pan (1953), Snidely Whiplash in Jay Ward's Dudley Do-Right cartoons, Professor Waldo P. Wigglesworth in Ward's Hoppity Hooper cartoons, and Professor Kropotkin on the radio and movie versions of My Friend Irma. 

He also appeared as Uncle Tonoose on Danny Thomas' sitcom Make Room for Daddy, and in multiple roles on I Love Lucy.

Conried died in Burbank, California on January 5, 1982 of a heart attack, aged 64.

[[Ben Hoekendijk]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2020 deaths, Christian writers, Dutch journalists, Dutch Protestants, Dutch sportspeople, Evangelists, Pentecostals, Sailors, Writers from Utrecht (province)

Ben Hoekendijk (30 June 1938 – 1 May 2020) was a Dutch speaker, evangelist and pastor. Hoekendijk was born in Baarn. He was the founder and director of the Opwekking Foundation. He was an important person in the Dutch Pentecostal movement.

After serious problems Hoekendijk applied himself to sea sailing and sports journalism. He wrote a lot of books about sea sailing.

Hoekendijk died in Harderwijk on 1 May 2020, aged 81.

[[Allons, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Allons is a commune in southeastern France. It is in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region.

Hamlets are:

[[Nancy Stark Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from ovarian cancer, American dancers, Writers from New York City

Nancy Stark Smith (1952 – May 1, 2020) was an American dancer. She was a founding participant in Contact Improvisation. Smith was born in New York City. 

She worked with many partners including Steve Paxton, Julyen Hamilton, Karen Nelson, and Mike Vargas.

In 1975, she founded Contact Quarterly, an international journal of dance and improvisation.

Smith died on May 1, 2020 from ovarian cancer in Florence, Massachusetts at the age of 68.

[[Will Theunissen]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2020 deaths, Dutch musicians, Guitarists, People from Nijmegen

Will Theunissen (30 June 1954 – 1 May 2020) was a Dutch guitarist. He was born in Nijmegen. Theunissen was the founder of the Jazz Rock band Elevator from Nijmegen, which was active in the 1970s.

Together with Frank Boeijen he was from the beginning part of the Frank Boeijen Groep, becoming notable in the 1980s.

His best known songs were Doe Iets, Zwart Wit and 1.000.000 Sterren of the album Kontakt (1984). They reached the Dutch Top 40.

Theunissen died in Tiel on 1 May 2020, aged 65.

[[Erik Tandberg (space educator)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2020 deaths, Norwegian scientists, Engineers, Norwegian television personalities, Norwegian educators, Writers from Oslo, Politicians from Oslo

Erik Tandberg (October 19, 1932 – May 2, 2020) was a Norwegian engineer, politician, author, television personality and space educator. He was born in Oslo, Norway. He worked with Norwegian Space Centre. Tandberg was a member of the City Council of Oslo for the Conservative Party from 1969 to 1989.

Tandberg died on May 2, 2020 in Oslo at the age of 87.

[[Tony Roberts (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Living people

David Anthony "Tony" Roberts (born October 22, 1939) is an American actor. He is known for his roles in six Woody Allen movies. His best known role was in Annie Hall.

[[Julie Cobb]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Julie Frances Cobb (born May 29, 1947) is an American actress. She was born in Los Angeles. Cobb's father was actor Lee J. Cobb.

From 1976 to 1977, she was married to actor Victor French. From 1986 to 2005, she was married to actor James Cromwell.

Her movie roles include in The Second Coming of Suzanne (1974), Fantasy Island (1978), Just You and Me, Kid (1979), The Runnin' Kind (1989), Lisa (1990), Defending Your Life (1991) and Dr. Jekyll and Ms. Hyde (1995). 

She also appeared in the TV movie versions of Salem's Lot (1979) and Brave New World (1980). She also starred in Arthur Miller's play After the Fall.

[[Victor French]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 1989 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television directors, American television producers, Movie directors from California, Movie producers from California, Actors from California, People from Santa Barbara, California

Victor Edwin French (December 4, 1934 – June 15, 1989) was an American actor and director. He was known for his roles on the television programs Little House on the Prairie, Highway to Heaven and Carter Country. He was born in Santa Barbara, California. 

French died on June 15, 1989 in Los Angeles from lung cancer, aged 54.

[[Red Skies of Montana]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 drama movies, 1950s adventure movies, American adventure movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Joseph M. Newman

Red Skies of Montana is a 1952 American adventure drama movie. It was directed by Joseph M. Newman. It is based on the 1948 book Fire by George R. Stewart. Actors include Richard Widmark, Warren Stevens, Constance Smith, Jeffrey Hunter, and Richard Boone. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Castro Valley, California]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in California, Settlements in Alameda County, California

Castro Valley is a census-designated place (CDP) in Alameda County, California, United States. As of the 2010 census, it is the fifth most populous unincorporated area in California and the twenty-third most populous in the United States. The population was 61,388 at the 2010 census.

[[Rose of Cimarron (1952 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Harry Keller

Rose of Cimarron is a 1952 American western movie. It was directed by Harry Keller. Actors include Mala Powers, Jack Beutel, Bill Williams, Dick Curtis, William Phipps, Irving Bacon, Monte Blue, and George Chandler. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Return of the Texan]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Delmer Daves

Return of the Texan is a 1952 American western movie. It was directed by Delmer Daves. Actors include Dale Robertson, Joanne Dru, Walter Brennan, Richard Boone, and Tom Tully. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Youngblood Hawke]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Delmer Daves

Youngblood Hawke is a 1964 American drama movie. It was directed by Delmer Daves. The movie is based on the book of the same name by Herman Wouk. Actors include James Franciscus, Suzanne Pleshette, Geneviève Page, Eva Gabor, Mary Astor, and Lee Bowman. It was distributed by Warner Bros.

[[7 Women]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by John Ford

7 Women, also known as Seven Women, is a 1966 American drama movie. It was directed by John Ford. The movie is based on the short story Chinese Finale by Norah Lofts. Actors include Anne Bancroft, Margaret Leighton, Flora Robson, Betty Field, and Sue Lyon. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Allos]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Allos is a commune in southeastern France. It is in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region.

The Verdon river is in the town.

[[Angles, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Angles is a commune in southeastern France. It is in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur.

[[Annot]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Annot is a commune in France. It is in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the  Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region.

[[Archail]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Archail is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of south-eastern France. It has the second fewest people of any commune in the department.

== References == 

[[Aubenas-les-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

 Aubenas-les-Alpes  is a French commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of south-eastern France.

The Largue river forms the eastern border of the commune.

== References == 

[[Aubignosc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Aubignosc is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of south-eastern France.

Aubignosc is in the west of the Durance valley. There are the hamlets of Les Jardins and Le Forest.

[[Authon, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

 Authon  is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of south-eastern France.

The Vanson Forest is found in the north, south, and east.

== References == 

[[Auzet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

 Auzet  is a French commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of south-eastern France.

There are the hamlets of L'Infernet, L'Infernet Haut, and L'Infernet Bas north of the village. The commune is very rugged with snow-capped mountains and forested slopes with 1,168 hectares of forest.

[[Acy-Romance]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardennes

Acy-Romance is a commune in the Ardennes department in the Grand Est region of northern France.

[[Cady Groves]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from natural causes in the United States, American singer-songwriters, American pop singers, American country singers, American rock singers, Singers from Oklahoma, Writers from Oklahoma

Cady Groves (July 30, 1989 – May 2, 2020) was an American singer-songwriter. She was born in Marlow, Oklahoma. Her best known songs were "This Little Girl", "Oh Darlin'", "Forget You", and "Love Actually". She released four EPs: A Month of Sundays (2009), This Little Girl (2010), Life of a Pirate (2012), and Dreams (2015).

Groves died of natural causes in Nashville, Tennessee on May 2, 2020 at the age of 30.

[[Ji Chaozhu]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2020 deaths, Chinese politicians, Ambassadors of China

Ji Chaozhu (July 30, 1929 – April 29, 2020) was a Chinese politician. He was an English interpreter for Chairman Mao Zedong and Premier Zhou Enlai. He was the Ambassador to the Court of St. James's (United Kingdom); and lastly as an Undersecretary General of the United Nations. He retired in 1996.

[[Lee Roy West]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2020 deaths, American lawyers, American judges, Politicians from Oklahoma, US Democratic Party politicians

Lee Roy West (November 26, 1929 – April 24, 2020) was an American politician and lawyer. He was the Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma. He was nominated to the court by President Jimmy Carter in 1979. West was born in Clayton, Oklahoma.

West died on April 24, 2020 in Muskogee, Oklahoma at the age of 90.

[[Heda Čechová]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Czech politicians, Entertainers from Prague, Radio personalities, Television news anchors

Heda Čechová (July 17, 1928 – April 23, 2020) was a Czech television anchorwoman, radio presenter, and politician. She was a member of the Czech National Council for the Civic Forum from 1990 until 1992 following the Velvet Revolution and Czechoslovakia's transition to democracy. She was born in Prague. 

Čechová died on April 23, 2020 in Prague, at the age of 91.

[[Jack McCall, Desperado]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Sidney Salkow

Jack McCall, Desperado is a 1953 American western movie. It was directed by Sidney Salkow. The movie stars George Montgomery, Angela Stevens, Douglas Kennedy, and Eugene Iglesias. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[The Quick Gun]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 movies, American western movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by Sidney Salkow

The Quick Gun is a 1964 American western movie. It was directed by Sidney Salkow. The movie is based on the short story The Fastest Gun by Steve Fisher. It stars Audie Murphy, Walter Sande, Merry Anders, and Ted de Corsia. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Rohanpur A. B. Government High School]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Bangladesh, 1930s establishments in Asia, 1939 establishments, Schools in Bangladesh

Rohanpur A.b. Govt. High School also known as Rohanpur Ahmadi Begum Government High School is an school in Gomastapur, Chapai Nawabganj.

[[Inferno (1953 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 drama movies, 1950s crime movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Roy Ward Baker, Movies set in deserts

Inferno is a 1953 American romantic crime drama movie. It was directed by Roy Ward Baker. Actors include Robert Ryan, Rhonda Fleming, William Lundigan, Larry Keating, and Henry Hull. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was remade in 1973 as Ordeal.

[[John Hospers]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2011 deaths, American philosophers, American political activists, American political writers, Writers from Iowa, Politicians from Iowa, US Libertarian Party politicians

John Hospers (June 9, 1918 – June 12, 2011) was an American philosopher and political activist. He was once a friend of the philosopher Ayn Rand.

In 1972, Hospers became the first presidential candidate of the Libertarian Party, and was the only minor party candidate to receive an electoral vote in that year's U.S. presidential election.

[[Feelings (1974 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 drama movies, British drama movies

Feelings is a 1974 British drama movie. It was directed by Gerry O'Hara. Actors include Kate O'Mara, Edward Peel, Paul Freeman, Bob Sherman, and Beth Porter.

[[Uenuku]]

CATEGORIES: Maori, Gods and goddesses

Uenuku is a god of rainbows and important ancestor in Māori oral histories. Uenuku simply means 'rainbow'.

Uenuku is special to the Ngāpuhi, Ngāti Kahungunu, Ngāti Porou, Ngāi Tahu, and Ngāi Tūhoe Māori tribes. He is also known to two groups of tribes called Kurahaupō and Tainui. The Te Arawa group of tribes also know of him. Some of these tribes may also say he is a god of war.

Geoff Murphy made his first movie in 1974, which was based on Uenuku's story. It was the first TV drama to be entirely spoken in the Māori language.

[[Lady Liberty (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 comedy movies, French comedy movies, Italian comedy movies, Movies directed by Mario Monicelli

Lady Liberty (Italian: La mortadella) is a 1971 Italian French comedy movie. It was directed by Mario Monicelli. Actors include Sophia Loren, William Devane, Susan Sarandon, Danny DeVito, and Gigi Proietti. It was distributed by United Artists.

[[Ibrahim Muhammad Abu Arab]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths

Ibrahim Muhammad Abu Arab (Arabic: إبراهيم محمد صالح; 1931, Nazareth - March 3, 2014, Homs) was a Palestinian poet. -Shecera was born in the village. After the occupation of the village by the invaders, first Kefer Kana, then moved to Arrabetu'l-Butuf. After staying there for two months, he emigrated to Lebanon and then to Syria.

The poet's father, Abu Arab, was killed in 1948 by Zionist groups who had invaded Palestine. In 1982, the son was killed by Israeli forces during the occupation of Lebanon. As a child, he witnessed the Palestinian Revolution against the British occupation and Jewish emigration. He was known as Abu Arab, the Poet of the Palestinian Revolution, and the Poet of the Palestinian Camp. He died on March 3, 2014 in Homs.

[[Phffft!]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 comedy movies, 1950s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Mark Robson, Movies about divorce

Phffft! is a 1954 American romantic comedy movie. It was directed by Mark Robson. The movie is based on the play by George Axelrod. Actors include Judy Holliday, Jack Lemmon, Jack Carson, Kim Novak, Donald Curtis, Luella Gear, and Donald Randolph. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[It Should Happen to You]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 comedy movies, 1950s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by George Cukor

It Should Happen to You is a 1954 American romantic comedy movie. It was directed by George Cukor. Actors include Judy Holliday, Jack Lemmon, Peter Lawford, Michael O'Shea, and Wendy Barrie. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1955.

[[Lady and Gent]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 movies, 1930s drama movies, American sports drama movies

Lady and Gent is a 1932 American sports drama movie. It was directed by Stephen Roberts. Actors include George Bancroft, Wynne Gibson, Charles Starrett, John Wayne, and James Gleason. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures and was remade as Unmarried in 1939.

[[Osmoregulation]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology, Metabolism

Osmoregulation is the maintenance of constant osmotic pressure in the fluids of an organism by the control of water and salt concentrations.

Kidneys play a very large role in human osmoregulation by regulating the amount of water reabsorbed from glomerular filtrate in kidney tubules, which is controlled by hormones such as antidiuretic hormone (ADH), aldosterone, and angiotensin II. For example, a decrease in water potential is detected by osmoreceptors in the hypothalamus, which stimulates ADH release from the pituitary gland to increase the permeability of the walls of the collecting ducts in the kidneys. Therefore, a large proportion of water is reabsorbed from fluid in the kidneys to prevent too much water from being excreted.

[[Will Gluck]]

CATEGORIES: American movie directors, American screenwriters, American television producers, American television writers, Movie producers from New York, Screenwriters from New York City, Year of birth missing (living people), Cornell University alumni, Living people

Will Gluck is an American director known for directing Friends with Benefits and Peter Rabbit movies.

[[Friends with Benefits]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 romance movies, 2011 comedy movies, English-language movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2010s sex comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American sex comedy movies, Movies directed by Will Gluck, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies set in New York City

Friends with Benefits is a 2011 comedy romantic movie directed by Will Gluck and starring Mila Kunis and Justin Timberlake.

The movie was very positively welcomed from audience who praised its story, characters, humor, performances, soundtrack and emotional weight. It was also a commercial success grossing $150.4 million.

[[Outlaw's Daughter]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 movies, American western movies

Outlaw's Daughter is a 1954 American western movie. It was directed by Wesley Berry. Actors include Bill Williams, Jim Davis, George Cleveland, Nelson Leigh, and Elisha Cook Jr.. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Aston Merrygold]]

CATEGORIES: British R&B musicians, British soul musicians, English pop singers, English songwriters, Hip hop musicians, Living people, 1988 births

Aston Iain Merrygold (born 13 February 1988) is a British singer, songwriter, dancer, television personality, actor, and philanthropist. He recently appeared on the X Factor. He is part of the group JLS (an acronym for Jack the Lad Swing). 

Aston grew up in Peterborough dreaming of being a footballer. At secondary school, he represented England for the European Youth Games in 2004 but but soon after he discovered that, he had a nerve disorder in his left foot and had to give up sport. 

When Aston was 14, his mother asked him to enter Kid Stars in their eyes and appeared as Michael Jackson in 2002 singing "Rockin' Robin". Aston performed in all of his school productions and after finishing school in 2004, he was cast in a new TV show called Fun Song Factory. 

Aston met Marvin Humes whilst auditioning for a TV advert. Since joining the band, Aston moved to London to make rehearsing easier. 

Aston Merrygold and fellow members of JLS, Marvin Humes, Oritsé Williams, and JB Gill were absolutely fantastic singers and they deserved to become the number 1 boy band in the United Kingdom.

[[Sebastian (rapper)]]

CATEGORIES: American hip hop musicians, American rap musicians, American songwriters, Living people

Garland "Sebastian" Mosley, Jr. is an American rapper and songwriter. He is currently signed to Mosley Music Group. He is Timbaland's younger brother.

[[The Farmer Takes a Wife (1953 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s musical movies, 1953 comedy movies, American musical comedy movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Henry Levin

The Farmer Takes a Wife is a 1953 American musical comedy movie. It was directed by Henry Levin. The movie and is based on 1934 play of the same name. It is a remake of the 1935 original. Actors include Betty Grable, Dale Robertson, Thelma Ritter, John Carroll, and Merry Anders. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Obie Trice]]

CATEGORIES: American hip hop musicians, American rap musicians, American songwriters, Living people, 1977 births

Obie Trice III (born 14 November 1977) is an American rapper and songwriter. He was born in Detroit, Michigan. He has been rapping since age of 23. In 2000 he was signed to Shady Records.

His first album Cheers was released in 2003 with its first single being "Got Some Teeth" The album consists of 17 tracks.

[[The Band Wagon]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 comedy movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical comedy movies, Movies directed by Vincente Minnelli

The Band Wagon is a 1953 American musical comedy movie. It was directed by Vincente Minnelli.  Actors include Fred Astaire, Cyd Charisse, Oscar Levant, and Nanette Fabray. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for 3 Academy Awards in 1954.

[[Prime Minister of Iceland]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Iceland

The prime minister of Iceland (Forsætisráðherra Íslands) is Iceland's head of government. The prime minister is appointed formally by the president.

[[Kevin McCall]]

CATEGORIES: American hip hop musicians, American pop singers, American rap musicians, American record producers, American R&B singers, Living people, 1985 births

Kevin Lamar McCall Jr. (born 25 July 1985) is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, and record producer. He is signed to CBE. He wrote on "Last Train to Paris" and is nominated for a Grammy, with Chris Brown for Deuces, for the 2011's Grammy. 

[[Bjarni Benediktsson (born 1970)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, People from Reykjavík, Prime Ministers of Iceland

Bjarni Benediktsson (born 26 January 1970), known as Bjarni Ben, is an Icelandic politician. He was the Prime Minister from January to November 2017. He has been the leader of the Icelandic Independence Party since 2009. He was Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs from 2013 to 2017, a post he later retained under Katrin Jakobsdottir.

[[Najaf Daryabandari]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2020 deaths, Iranian writers, Translators

Najaf Daryabandari (نجف دریابندری; 23 August 1929 – 4 May 2020) was an Iranian writer and translator. He was known for translating works of Ernest Hemingway, William Faulkner, Bertrand Russell, Samuel Beckett and Mark Twain into Persian. 

He started translation at the age of 17 with William Faulkner's book A Rose for Emily. He was also a writer and wrote From Garlic to Onion, a two-volume tome on Iranian cuisine. He was born in Abadan, Iran.

Daryabandari died on 4 May 2020 in Tehran at the age of 90.

[[John Ridley (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2020 deaths, English footballers, Sportspeople from County Durham

John Ridley (27 April 1952 – 3 May 2020) was an English footballer. He had a twelve-year professional career in the English Football League. He played for Port Vale and Chesterfield, as well as Leicester City. 

He also played for non-league Stafford Rangers and for American side Fort Lauderdale Strikers.

Ridley was born in Consett, County Durham. He died on 3 May 2020, aged 68.

[[Chanut Piyaoui]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2020 deaths, People from Bangkok, Thai businesspeople

Than Phu Ying Chanut Piyaoui (ท่านผู้หญิงชนัตถ์ ปิยะอุย, 15 May 1924 – 3 May 2020) was a Thai businesswoman. She was born in Bangkok. Piyaoui was best known as the founder of Thai hospitality group Dusit International. She was the managing director and chairperson of Dusit International from 1970 to 2014.

Piyaoui died on 3 May 2020 in Bangkok, aged 95.

[[Governor-General of Grenada]]

CATEGORIES: Governors-General of Grenada

The Governor-General of Grenada has been the representative of the Grenadian monarch since the country's independence from the United Kingdom in 1974.  

[[Leo de Gale]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 1986 deaths, Governors-General of Grenada

Sir Leo Victor de Gale GBR (December 28, 1921 – March 23, 1986) was the first Governor-General of Grenada, from February 7, 1974 to September 30, 1978.

[[Paul Scoon]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2013 deaths, Governors-General of Grenada

Sir Paul Godwin Scoon GBR (4 July 1935 – 2 September 2013) was Governor-General of Grenada from 1978 to 1992. He was in charge during the rise and fall of the People's Revolutionary Government and during the Invasion of Grenada.

[[Daniel Williams (governor-general)]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Governors-General of Grenada

Sir Daniel Charles Williams GBR (born 4 November 1935) is a Grenadian politician. He was a Governor-General of Grenada, from 8 August 1996 until 27 November 2008. 

He was formally appointed by Queen Elizabeth II on 9 August 1996 after having been nominated by Prime Minister Keith Mitchell.

[[The Other Woman (1954 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 drama movies, 1950s crime movies, American crime drama movies, Movies directed by Hugo Haas

The Other Woman is a 1954 American crime drama movie. It was directed by Hugo Haas (who also stars). Other actors include Cleo Moore, Lance Fuller, John Qualen, and Lucille Barkley. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[List of heads of government of Grenada]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Grenada

This is a list of heads of government of Grenada, from the creation of the office of Chief Minister in 1960 to the present day.

[[Hudson Austin]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Grenada

Hudson Austin (born 26 April 1938) is a Grenadian military official and politician. He was the Chairman of the Revolutionary Military Council of Grenada from 19 October 1983 to 25 October 1983. He is a member of the New Jewel Movement. Austin was born in the British Windward Islands. 

[[Calumet, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Michigan

Calumet (ˌ or ˈ KAL) is a village in Calumet Township, Houghton County, in the U.S. state of Michigan's Upper Peninsula. The population was 726 at the 2010 census. Calumet's nickname is Copper Town U.S.A.

[[Houghton County, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s establishments in Michigan, 1846 establishments in the United States, Michigan counties

Houghton County is a county in the Upper Peninsula in the U.S. state of Michigan. As of the 2010 census, the population was 36,628. The county seat and largest city is Houghton. Both the county and the city were named for Michigan State geologist and Detroit Mayor Douglass Houghton.

[[Calumet Township, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in Michigan

Calumet Charter Township (ˌ KAL) is a charter township of Houghton County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The population was 6,489 at the 2010 census. It is the largest township by population in Houghton County.

[[Caprice (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 comedy movies, 1967 thriller movies, American comedy movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by Frank Tashlin

Caprice is a 1967 American comedy thriller movie. It was directed by Frank Tashlin. It stars Doris Day, Richard Harris, and Ray Walston. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. The movie did not make much money in ticket sales.

[[Philomena Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Irish people, Activists, Living people

Annie Philomena Lee (born 24 March 1933) is an Irish nurse and activist. Her life was shown in the 2009 book The Lost Child of Philomena Lee by Martin Sixsmith. The book was made into a movie titled  Philomena (2013), which was nominated for four Academy Awards. 

Lee is now an activist and spokesperson for adoption rights. Lee has created The Philomena Project in order to raise awareness about adoption laws and find ways to improve them. 

In February 2014, she met  Pope Francis to discuss the Catholic church's adoption policies.

[[Rosalind Elias]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American stage actors, Actors from Massachusetts, Singers from Massachusetts, People from Lowell, Massachusetts

Rosalind Elias (March 13, 1930 – May 3, 2020) was an American mezzo-soprano. She was best known for creating the role of Erika in premiere of Samuel Barber's Vanessa in 1958 and Charmian in Antony and Cleopatra by the same composer. Elias was born in Lowell, Massachusetts.

Elias died on May 3, 2020 in New York City of congestive heart failure, aged 90.

[[Night Train to Paris]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 thriller movies, American thriller movies, British thriller movies

Night Train to Paris is a 1964 American British thriller movie. It was directed by Robert Douglas. Actors include Leslie Nielsen, Aliza Gur, Dorinda Stevens, Eric Pohlmann, Jack Melford, and Hugh Latimer. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[India Adams]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Los Angeles, California, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American stage actors, 1927 births, 2020 deaths

India Adams (March 5, 1927 – April 25, 2020) was an American singer. She was known as the ghost singer who dubbed the singing voices of Cyd Charisse and Joan Crawford in the mid-1950s. She was born in Los Angeles. She dubbed the singing voices for Charisse in The Band Wagon (1953). That same year, she also dubbed for Crawford in Torch Song.

Adams died on April 25, 2020 in Los Angeles of a short-illness, aged 93.

[[Fearless Vampire Killers]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 comedy movies, 1960s horror movies, American horror movies, American comedy movies, British horror movies, British comedy movies, Movies directed by Roman Polanski

Fearless Vampire Killers is a 1967 American British horror comedy movie. It was directed by Roman Polanski (who also stars). Other actors include Jack MacGowran, Sharon Tate, Ronald Lacey, Alfie Bass, Ferdy Mayne, and Terry Downes. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Neuilly-sur-Seine]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Hauts-de-Seine

Neuilly-sur-Seine (nøji syʁ sɛn), known as Neuilly, is a commune in the department of Hauts-de-Seine in France. It is west of Paris. 

The city hosts many foreign headquarters and embassies. It is the richest and most expensive suburb of Paris.

Together with the 16th and 7th arrondissement of Paris, the town of Neuilly-sur-Seine forms the richest residential area in the whole of France.

[[Phil Goff]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Mayors, Leaders of the Opposition (New Zealand)

Philip Bruce Goff NZL (born 22 June 1953) is a New Zealand politician. In 2016, he became the 2nd Mayor of Auckland. He was a Member of the New Zealand Parliament from 1981 to 1990 and again from 1993 to 2016. 

He was Leader of the Labour Party and Leader of the Opposition between 11 November 2008 and 13 December 2011.

[[Jeremy Bingham]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Australian businesspeople, Politicians from Sydney

Jeremy Bingham (born 16 March 1936) is an Australian property businessman and Citizens' Reform Association politician. He was Lord Mayor of Sydney and an Alderman of the Sydney City Council from 1974 to 1991. He also was a member of the Hunter's Hill Municipal Council from 1965 to 1971. He was born in Gosford, New South Wales.

[[Madara Uchiha]]

CATEGORIES: Naruto characters

Madara Uchiha is a fictional character from the manga series Naruto, which depicts a world of ninjas.  One of the main villains of the Naruto series (Part II), he is one of the co-founders of the Hidden Leaf Village along with friend/rival Hashirama Senju, the First Hokage.

[[Cherry Blossom (candy)]]

CATEGORIES: Chocolate, Candy

Cherry Blossom is a type of chocolate sold in Canada and made by Hershey Canada Inc. Hershey used to make it at its Canadian manufacturing facility in Smiths Falls, Ontario.

The candy was made from the 1890s by the Walter M. Lowney Company of Canada until Hershey took it over as a subsidiary brand. The factory in Smiths Falls, which is north-east of Kingston, Ontario, is now closed.

The candy consists of a maraschino cherry and cherry syrup surrounded by a mixture of chocolate, shredded coconut and roasted peanut pieces. The candy is sold in a wrapped 45-gram portion, packaged in a close-fitting cardboard box.

Despite common belief, filling is not injected inside the chocolate.  The cherry candy is covered with an enzyme, invertase, that breaks down the solid into a liquid over the next 1 to 2 weeks.

The candy contains 210 calories of food energy, 10g fat (15% daily intake), 29g carbohydrate (10% daily intake), 1g fibre (4% daily intake), 27g sugars and 2g of protein.

UPC number: 0 68000 70227 0

[[Moroccan architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Moroccan culture, Architecture

Moroccan architecture includes various structures built during different time periods. from the first Berberians settlers from the south and through the Arab invastion from the east and the European conquest that came from the north. The most notable style in this country is the Berberian Architecture that existed initially, followed by the style of local Islamic architecture that shaped the local style that came after the Arabs entered.

[[Persian architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Iran, Architecture

Persian architecture or Iranian architecture is the name of the Architecture style of Iran from the Pre-Islamic period until the Islamic period of today. this type of architecture style including also the Persian Garden style. 

[[Sandra Echeverría]]

Sandra Echeverría Gamboa (born December 11, 1984 in Mexico City, Mexico), is a Mexican actress and singer.

[[Misirlou]]

CATEGORIES: Songs

Misirlou is a song known around the world with Eastern Mediterranean origins.

[[We're Not Married!]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 comedy movies, 1950s romance movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Edmund Goulding

We're Not Married! is a 1952 romantic comedy movie. It was directed by Edmund Goulding. Actors include: Ginger Rogers, Fred Allen, Victor Moore, David Wayne, Eve Arden, Eddie Bracken, Mitzi Gaynor, Lee Marvin, and Zsa Zsa Gabor. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Phone Call from a Stranger]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 drama movies, American drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Jean Negulesco

Phone Call from a Stranger is a 1952 American drama movie. It was directed by Jean Negulesco. Actors include Bette Davis, Shelley Winters, Gary Merrill, Michael Rennie, Keenan Wynn, Warren Stevens, and Beatrice Straight. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[What Price Glory? (1952 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 comedy movies, 1950s war movies, American comedy movies, World War I movies, Movie remakes, Movies directed by John Ford

What Price Glory? is a 1952 American World War I comedy movie. It was directed by John Ford. It is a remake of the 1926 movie of the same name. Actors include James Cagney, Corinne Calvet, Dan Dailey, Robert Wagner, Wally Vernon, and James Gleason. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Viva Zapata!]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 drama movies, American drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Elia Kazan

Viva Zapata! is a 1952 biographical drama movie. It was directed by Elia Kazan. Actors include Marlon Brando, Jean Peters, Anthony Quinn, Joseph Wiseman, and Alan Reed. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 5 Oscars and won one at the Academy Awards in 1953.

[[Bigger Than Life]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by Nicholas Ray, 20th Century Fox movies

Bigger Than Life is a 1956 American drama movie. It was directed by Nicholas Ray. The movie is based on the 1955 story entitled Ten Feet Tall. It stars Walter Matthau, James Mason, Barbara Rush, Robert F. Simon, Christopher Olsen. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Kentuckian]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies

The Kentuckian is a 1955 American western movie. It was directed by Burt Lancaster who also starred. Other actors included Dianne Foster, Diana Lynn, John McIntire, John Carradine, and John Litel. It was distributed by United Artists.

[[The Indian Fighter]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Andre DeToth

The Indian Fighter is a 1955 American western movie. It was directed by Andre DeToth. The movie is based on the original story by Robert L. Richards. Actors include Kirk Douglas, Elsa Martinelli, Walter Matthau, Walter Abel, Lon Chaney Jr., and Elisha Cook. It was distributed by United Artists.

[[Violent Saturday]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 drama movies, 1950s crime movies, American crime drama movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Richard Fleischer

Violent Saturday is a 1955 American crime movie. It was directed by Richard Fleischer. The movie is based on the book by William Heath. Actors include Victor Mature, Richard Egan, Stephen McNally, Virginia Leith, Lee Marvin, Sylvia Sidney, and Ernest Borgnine. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Banon, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Banon is a commune in the department of Alpes-de-Haute-Provence in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of south-eastern France.

[[Barcelonnette]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, Subprefectures in France

Barcelonnette is a commune of France. It is a subprefecture in the department of Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. It is in the southern French Alps.

[[White Feather (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Robert D. Webb

White Feather is a 1955 American western movie. It was directed by Robert D. Webb. The movie is based on the 1952 story by John Prebble. Actors include Robert Wagner, Debra Paget, Virginia Leith, Hugh O'Brian, John Lund, and Eduard Franz. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Barles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Barles is a French commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of south-eastern France.

[[Barras, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Barras is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of south-eastern France.

[[Barrême]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Barrême is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of south-eastern France.

[[Bayons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Bayons is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of south-eastern France.

[[How to Be Very, Very Popular]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 comedy movies, American comedy movies

How to Be Very, Very Popular is a 1955 comedy movie directed by Nunnally Johnson is based on the 1933 novel She Loves Me Not by Edward Hope. It stars Betty Grable, Sheree North, Bob Cummings, Charles Coburn, Tommy Noonan, Orson Bean and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The End of the Affair (1955 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 drama movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, British romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Edward Dmytryk

The End of the Affair is a 1955 British romantic drama movie directed by Edward Dmytryk and based on the 1951 novel of the same name by Graham Greene. It stars Deborah Kerr, Van Johnson, John Mills, Peter Cushing, Stephen Murray, Elsie Wagstaff and was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was remade in 1999.

[[Catalan navy]]

CATEGORIES: Navies, Pages with unreviewed translations

The Catalan navy - with Catalan ships, Catalan admirals and Catalan crew (not counting the rabble) - under the direct or indirect orders of the counts of Barcelona, represented a reality recognized by the entire Mediterranean from its origins to Fernando the Catholic. In later times ships built and manned on the Catalan coasts, under the authority of non-Catalan kings, for example the kings of Naples, carried out some important events.

Similarly, the navies of the kingdoms of Mallorca and Valencia had their own entity and could be studied separately

[[Hydrilla]]

CATEGORIES: Aquatic plants

Hydrilla is a genus of aquatic plant. It contains only one species Hydrilla verticillata. Some botanists divide it into different species. It is a submersed plant. It can grow to the surface and form dense mats. It can form in all types of water bodies. Hydrilla stems are slender, branched up to 25 feet long. Hydrilla’s small leaves are strap-like.

[[Flávio Migliaccio]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, Suicides by hanging, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian movie directors, Brazilian screenwriters, People from São Paulo

Flávio Migliaccio (26 August 1934 – 4 May 2020) was a Brazilian actor, movie director and screenwriter. He was born in São Paulo, Brazil.

He appeared in more than 90 movies and television shows between 1958 and 2019. His 1962 movie The Beggars is thought to be his best known work. An actor, he starred in My Home is Copacabana and in The Hour and Turn of Augusto Matraga. 

Migliaccio hung himself at his farm in Rio Bonito, Brazil on 4 May 2020, aged 85.

[[Kiss Me Deadly]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 movies, 1950s crime movies, 1950s thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Robert Aldrich

Kiss Me Deadly is a 1955 crime thriller movie directed by Robert Aldrich and based on the novel of the same name by Mickey Spillane. It stars Ralph Meeker, Albert Dekker, Paul Stewart, Juano Hernandez, Wesley Addy, Maxine Cooper, Cloris Leachman, Leigh Snowden and was distributed by United Artists.

[[Jericho Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, African American writers, American poets, Gay men, Living people, LGBT African Americans, LGBT people from Louisiana, LGBT poets, People from Shreveport, Louisiana, Pulitzer Prize winners, Writers from Louisiana

Jericho Brown (born Nelson Demery III; born April 14, 1976) is an American poet. In 2020, he was awarded a Pulitzer Prize  for Poetry.

[[Gremlins]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 horror movies, 1984 comedy movies, American horror movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Joe Dante

Gremlins is a 1984 American comedy horror movie written by Chris Columbus and directed by Joe Dante. 

The movie is about a kid who receives a strange creature called a mogwai as a pet, which then turns other creatures who transform into small, destructive, evil monsters. The movie stars Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates, with Howie Mandel. Steven Spielberg was the movie's executive producer.

It was followed by a sequel, Gremlins 2: The New Batch, in 1990. 

Despite being a critical and commercial success, the movie had mixed reviews. This movie is one of the reasons why the PG-13 rating was created because it was made as a family movie, but had some violence and bloody scenes.

[[Harry Carey]]

CATEGORIES: 1878 births, 1947 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Deaths from coronary thrombosis, American silent movie actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Actors from New York City

Henry DeWitt Carey II (January 16, 1878 – September 21, 1947) was an American actor. He was a well known silent movie actor who was seen many times as a Western hero. 

One of his best known roles was as the President of the Senate (Vice President of the United States) in the drama movie Mr. Smith Goes to Washington (1939). He was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. 

He was the father of Harry Carey Jr., who was also an actor. In 1920, he married actress Olive Fuller Golden.

Carey was born in The Bronx. He died of lung cancer and coronary thrombosis caused by a spider bite on September 21, 1947 in Los Angeles, aged 69.

[[Lure of the Swamp]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 drama movies, American drama movies

Lure of the Swamp is a 1957 American drama movie directed by Hubert Cornfield and starring Willard Parker, Marshall Thompson, Joan Vohs, Jack Elam, Leo Gordon. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[German occupation of Czechoslovakia]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s in Europe, Nazi Germany

[[Matt Clark]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, American stage actors, American television producers, American movie directors, Living people, Actors from Washington, D.C.

Matthew Clark (born November 25, 1936) is an American actor and director. Clark has played many character roles in Westerns, comedies, and dramas. He was born in Washington, D.C.. His best known role is as Chester the Bartender in the 1990 movie Back to the Future Part III. He also played Uncle Henry in Return to Oz (1985). 

[[Don Shula]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Cleveland Browns players, Indianapolis Colts players, Washington Redskins players, American football coaches, American football defensive tackles, Businesspeople from Ohio, Sportspeople from Ohio, Businesspeople from Miami, Florida, Sportspeople from Miami, Florida

Donald Francis Shula (January 4, 1930 – May 4, 2020) was an American professional football coach and player. He had the most wins for a coach in National Football League (NFL) history.

Shula was best known for his time being the longtime head coach of the Miami Dolphins, leading them to two Super Bowl victories. He was the head coach of the Baltimore Colts. He played professionally as a defensive back for the Cleveland Browns, Baltimore Colts, and Washington Redskins.

In 1997, he was added to the Pro Football Hall of Fame. In retirement, he owned many steak restaurants and a line of condiments.

Shula was born in Grand River, Ohio. He studied at John Carroll University. Shula died on May 4, 2020 in Indian Creek, Florida at the age of 90.

[[Grand River, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ohio

Grand River is a village in Lake County, Ohio, United States, along the Grand River. The population was 399 at the 2010 census.

[[Indian Creek, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Florida

Indian Creek is a wealthy village in Miami-Dade County, Florida, United States. The population was 86 at the 2010 census. It was the 5th highest-income place in Florida. It is near Miami.

[[Frankenstein Must Be Destroyed]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 movies, 1960s horror movies, British horror movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Terence Fisher

Frankenstein Must Be Destroyed is a 1969 British Hammer horror movie directed by Terence Fisher. It is the fifth movie in the Hammer's Frankenstein series and stars Peter Cushing, Veronica Carlson, Simon Ward, Peter Copley, Windsor Davies, Thorley Walters, Frank Middlemass, Freddie Jones. It was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[John Carroll University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Ohio

John Carroll University is a private Jesuit university in University Heights, Ohio. It is an undergraduate, liberal arts institution. John Carroll has an enrollment of 3,650 students. 

The university has undergraduate programs in the liberal arts, sciences, and business, and in selected areas at the master's level. The university has been ranked in the top 10 of Midwest regional universities by U.S. News & World Report's annual guide, "America's Best Colleges," for 29 years in a row.

[[University Heights, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

University Heights is a city in Cuyahoga County, Ohio,  United States. The population was 13,539 as of the 2010 Census. University Heights is nicknamed the "City of Beautiful Homes."  

[[Froilan Tenorio]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, United States representatives, Governors of the Northern Mariana Islands, Living people, US Democratic Party politicians

Froilan Cruz Tenorio (September 9, 1939 – May 4, 2020) was a Northern Mariana Islands politician. He was a member of the Democratic Party. From 1984 to 1990, he was a Resident U.S. Representative. He was the 4th Governor of Northern Mariana Islands from 1994 to 1998.

Tenorio died on May 4, 2020 in Fort Worth, Texas at the age of 80.

[[Tom Lupo]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2020 deaths, Argentine scientists, Argentine journalists, Radio personalities, Poets

Tom Lupo (born Carlos Luis Galanternik; 22 October 1945 – 4 May 2020) was an Argentine poet, psychoanalyst and radio personality. He was born in Charata, Argentina. He hosted the radio show The Tom Lupo Show. In 2011, he released a poetry collection titled Giro hondo. He hosted many shows on Televisión Pública.

Lupo died on 4 May 2020 in Buenos Aires, aged 74.

[[Let's Make Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 comedy movies, 1960s musical movies, 1960s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American musical movies, Movies directed by George Cukor

Let's Make Love is a 1960 American romantic musical comedy movie directed by George Cukor and starring Marilyn Monroe, Yves Montand, Tony Randall, Gene Kelly, Bing Crosby, Frankie Vaughan. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for Academy Award in 1961.

[[MatPat]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, American YouTubers, American television presenters, Writers from Ohio, Entertainers from Ohio

Matthew Robert Patrick (born November 15, 1986), also known by his screen name MatPat, is an American internet personality. He is the creator and narrator of the YouTube webseries The Game Theorists. He often talks about the logical, statistics, data and breakdown of movie scenes, game shows, or theories. He was born in Medina, Ohio.

Between July 1, 2016, and July 31, 2016, he starred in the game show The Runner.

In 2012, he married Stephanie Cordato. They have one son.

[[Ömer Döngeloğlu]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2020 deaths, Television presenters, Theologians, Researchers, Turkish writers, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Turkey

Ömer Döngeloğlu (1968 – 3 May 2020) was a Turkish theologian, writer, producer and television presenter. He was known for the religious programs he hosted on Kanal 7. He was born in Zile, Turkey.

He worked as a preacher in his hometown in Tokat between 1986 to 1996. He worked in many administrative positions in the public sector for many years. He spent years researching, studying and reading Islamic history and Siyer-i Nebi.

Döngeloğlu died from COVID-19 in Istanbul on 3 May 2020, aged 52.

[[Yusuf Kenan Sönmez]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Turkey, Turkish politicians, Turkish businesspeople

Yusuf Kenan Sönmez (1948 – 3 April 2020) was a Turkish politician and businessman. He was born in Zonguldak, Turkey. He represented Istanbul in the Grand National Assembly from 1987 to 1991. He was a member of both Social Democratic Populist Party and Republican People's Party.

On 25 March 2020, he was diagnosed with COVID-19. On 3 April 2020, he died due to problems from the infection in Istanbul.

[[Journey to the Center of the Earth (1959 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 movies, 1950s adventure movies, 1950s science fiction movies, American adventure movies, American science fiction movies, Movies directed by Henry Levin

Journey to the Center of the Earth is a 1959 American science fiction family adventure movie directed by Henry Levin and is based on the 1864 novel of the same name by Jules Verne. It stars James Mason, Pat Boone, Arlene Dahl, Thayer David and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 3 Academy Awards in 1960.

[[Aytaç Yalman]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2020 deaths, Turkish military people, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Turkey, Generals

Aytaç Yalman (29 July 1940 – 15 March 2020) was a Turkish general. He was born in Istanbul. From 2000 to 2002, he was General Commander of the Gendarmerie of Turkey. From 2002 to 2004, he was the Commander of the Turkish Army. 

Yalman died on 15 March 2020 in Üsküdar, Turkey of COVID-19, aged 79.

[[Belly (rapper)]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian rap musicians, Canadian singers, Canadian songwriters, Hip hop musicians, Living people, Record producers, Trap musicians, 1984 births

Belly (born Ahmad Kasem Balshe on 7 April 1984) is a Canadian rapper, hip hop singer, songwriter, and record producer. He first appeared on Massari's third single "Rush the Floor" and his first solo single "Pressure" premiered in January 2007. His second single "Don't Be Shy" features Ninja Sky and premiered in April 2007. Belly's debut album is called The Revlution.

[[Grand National Assembly of Turkey]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Turkey

The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, usually known as the TBMM or Parliament is the unicameral Turkish legislature. It is the only body of government in the country as said in the Turkish Constitution. 

It was founded in Ankara on 23 April 1920 in the midst of the National Campaign. 

The current Speaker of the Grand National Assembly is Mustafa Şentop since 2019.

[[Yojimbo]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 drama movies, 1960s action movies, Japanese movies, Movies directed by Akira Kurosawa

Yojimbo is a 1961 Japanese action drama movie directed by Akira Kurosawa and is followed up by the 1962 movie Sanjuro. It stars Toshiro Mifune, Tatsuya Nakadai, Yoko Tsukasa, Isuzu Yamada, Daisuke Katō and was distributed by Toho. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1962.

[[Speaker of the Grand National Assembly]]

CATEGORIES: Speakers of the Parliament of Turkey

This article lists the speakers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The name of the parliament of the Republic of Turkey, originally and currently the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.

[[Mustafa Şentop]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1968 births, Speakers of the Parliament of Turkey

Mustafa Şentop (born on 6 August 1968) is a Turkish politician. He was a member of the Justice and Development Party (AK Party). He was the Member of Parliament for İstanbul in the Turkish Parliament since 2011. 

On 24 February 2019, he was elected as the 29th Speaker of the Grand National Assembly.

[[Fuat Oktay]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1964 births, Turkish politicians, Vice presidents

Fuat Oktay (born 1964) is a Turkish politician, civil servant and academic. He is the first and current Vice President of Turkey since 2018.

[[DaHeala]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian songwriters, Living people, Record producers

Jason "DaHeala" Quenneville is a Canadian record producer, songwriter, and engineer. He is best known for his collaborations with The Weeknd. Quenneville co-wrote and co-produced his albums Kiss Land (2013) and Beauty Behind the Madness (2015). In 2016, he was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song at the 88th Academy Awards for co-writing his song "Earned It" from Fifty Shades of Grey; the nomination is shared with The Weeknd, Belly, and Stephen Moccio.

[[İsmail Kahraman]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Speakers of the Parliament of Turkey

İsmail Kahraman (born 1940) is a Turkish politician. He is a member of the Justice and Development Party (AKP). He was the 27th Speaker of the Grand National Assembly from 22 November 2015 to 7 July 2018. He has been the Member of Parliament for İstanbul's first electoral district since 1 November 2015.

[[Ömer İzgi]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1940 births, Speakers of the Parliament of Turkey

Ömer İzgi (born 1 January 1940) is a former Turkish politician and lawyer. He was the Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey from 2000 to 2002. He was a Member of Parliament for the electoral district of Konya between 1999 and 2002 from the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP).

[[Three Murderesses]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 comedy movies, French comedy movies, Italian comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies

Three Murderesses (Faibles femmes, Le donne sono deboli) also known as Women Are Weak is a 1959 French Italian comedy movie directed by Michel Boisrond and starring Alain Delon, Pascale Petit, Mylène Demongeot, Pierre Mondy, Jacqueline Sassard. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Hikmet Çetin]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Speakers of the Parliament of Turkey

Hikmet Çetin (born 1937) is a Turkish politician. He was the Speaker of the Turkish Grand National Assembly from 1997 to 1999.

[[İsmet Sezgin]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Speakers of the Parliament of Turkey

İsmet Sezgin (6 January 1928 – 7 December 2016) was a Turkish politician. 

He was the Deputy Prime Minister of Turkey and Minister of National Defense from 1997 to 1999, as the Speaker of the Grand National Assembly in 1995, as the Minister of the Interior from 1991 to 1993, as the Minister of Finance from 1979 to 1980 and as the Minister of Youth and Sports from 1969 to 1971. 

Between 1999 and 2002, he was the Leader of the Democrat Turkey Party, but did not contest any elections.

Sezgin died of multiple organ failure on 7 December 2016 in Ankara, aged 88.

[[Doc McKinney]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian songwriters, Living people, Record producers, 1971 births

Martin "Doc" McKinney (born 27 August 1971) is a Canadian-born U.S-raised record producer and songwriter.  He is a Grammy-award-winning producer.  He is professionally referred to as "Doc McKinney". McKinney was formerly one half of the of the formed duet Esthero, alongside Jenny-Bea Englishman. McKinney is now a solo artist. McKinney also owned and operated Black Corners Ent, a joint venture through Sony/Columbia Records in the United States.

[[Hüsamettin Cindoruk]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Presidents of Turkey, Speakers of the Parliament of Turkey

Ahmet Hüsamettin Cindoruk (born 1933) is a Turkish politician. He was the 17th Speaker of the Parliament of Turkey between 1991 to 1995. He was also the Acting President of Turkey in 1993 following the death of Turgut Özal.

[[Kaya Erdem]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Speakers of the Parliament of Turkey

İsmet Kaya Erdem (born 1928) is a Turkish politician. He was the Minister of Finance from 1980 to 1982. He also was the Speaker of the Grand National Assembly from 1989 to 1991. Erdem was born in Karabük, Turkey. He was a member of the Motherland Party.

[[J. D.'s Revenge]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s action movies, 1976 horror movies, American action movies, American horror movies

J. D.'s Revenge is a 1976 American action horror movie directed by Arthur Marks and starring Glynn Turman, Louis Gossett Jr., Nigel Davenport, Joan Pringle, Julian Christopher, Earl Billings. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Gruschwitz Textilwerke]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s establishments in Germany, 1816 establishments in Europe, Companies of Germany, Baden-Württemberg, Textile industry

Gruschwitz Textilwerke AG is a textile industry company based in Leutkirch im Allgäu in Baden-Württemberg in Germany.

[[Evan Taubenfeld]]

CATEGORIES: American pop musicians, American producers, American singer-songwriters, Living people, 1983 births

Evan David Taubenfeld (born 27 June 1983) is an American musician, singer-songwriter, producer, executive music director, and actor. He was Avril Lavigne's lead guitarist from spring 2002 to September 2004.

[[The Sunday Woman (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 movies, 1970s thriller movies, Italian thriller movies, Movies directed by Luigi Comencini

The Sunday Woman (La donna della domenica) is a 1975 Italian thriller movie directed by Luigi Comencini and based on the novel of the same name. It stars Marcello Mastroianni, Jacqueline Bisset, Jean-Louis Trintignant and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Dave Greenfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2020 deaths, English rock singers, Keyboardists, English rock musicians, Entertainers from Brighton, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom, English singer-songwriters

David Paul Greenfield (29 March 1949 – 3 May 2020) was an English keyboardist and singer-songwriter. He was a member of rock band The Stranglers.  He joined the band in 1975, and played with them for 45 years until his death. He was born in Brighton, East Sussex.

Greenfield died on 3 May 2020 of heart failure caused by COVID-19, aged 71.

[[Jackson County Jail]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 crime movies, 1970s thriller movies, American thriller movies

Jackson County Jail is a 1976 American crime thriller movie directed by Michael Miller and starring Tommy Lee Jones, Yvette Mimieux, Robert Carradine, Britt Leach. It was distributed by United Artists.

[[Jax Jones]]

CATEGORIES: British DJs, British record producers, English songwriters, Living people, Musicians from London, 1987 births

Timucin Fabian Kwong Wah Aulo (born 25 July 1987), known professionally as Jax Jones, is an English DJ, record producer, remixer, and songwriter. He rose to fame in 2014 by featuring on Duke Dumont's UK number one single "I Got U". He followed this up with "You Don't Know Me" featuring Raye, and "Instruction" featuring Demi Lovato and Stefflon Don in 2016 and 2017, respectively. He formed the alias Europa with fellow DJ Martin Solevig in 2019. 

Jones' debut studio album Snacks (Supersize) was released on 6 September 2019.

[[Swashbuckler (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 movies, 1970s adventure movies, 1970s romance movies, American adventure movies

Swashbuckler is a 1976 American romantic adventure movie directed by James Goldstone and stars Robert Shaw, James Earl Jones, Peter Boyle, Geneviève Bujold, Beau Bridges, Anjelica Huston. It was distributed by Universal Pictures and was a box office bomb.

[[Roy Lester]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2020 deaths, American football coaches, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, Sportspeople from West Virginia, Sportspeople from Maryland

E. Roy Lester (1923 – May 3, 2020) was an American college and high school football coach. He was born in Spencer, West Virginia. He played for West Virginia from 1947 to 1949. He also coached Richard Montgomery High School and the Maryland Terrapins.

Lester died in Rockville, Maryland on May 3, 2020 of COVID-19, aged 96.

[[Young T & Bugsey]]

CATEGORIES: Musical duos, Musical groups established in 2010, 2010s British music groups, 2010 establishments in England

Young T & Bugsey (real names Rashard Tucker and Doyin Julius respectively) are an English rap duo. The members are Rashard Tucker (better known as Young T) and Doyin Julius (better known as Bugsey), who both grew up in Nottingham.

[[Spencer, West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in West Virginia, County seats in West Virginia

Spencer is a city in and the county seat of Roane County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 2,322 at the 2010 census.  

[[Roane County, West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: West Virginia counties

Roane County is a county located in the U.S. state of West Virginia. As of the 2010 census, the population was 14,926. Its county seat is Spencer. The county was founded in 1856 and is named for Spencer Roane.

[[Selma Barkham]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2020 deaths, English historians, Canadian historians, Canadian scientists, Geographers, Scientists from London, Writers from London

Selma Huxley Barkham, OC, (née Huxley; 8 March 1927 – 4 May 2020) was an English-Canadian historian and geographer. Her works focused on the maritime history of Canada and of the Basque Country. She was born in London.

In 1981, she was awarded the Order of Canada for her work. A whaling port she discovered in Red Bay, Newfoundland and Labrador was declared a National Historic Site of Canada (1979) and a World Heritage Site by UNESCO (June 2013). 

She was made an Officer of the Order of Newfoundland and Labrador in 2015.

Barkham died on 4 May 2020 in Chichester, England at the age of 93.

[[Up! (1976 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Russ Meyer

Up! is a 1976 American adult comedy movie directed by Russ Meyer and starring Raven De La Croix, Kitten Natividad, Robert McLane. It was distributed by RM Films International.

[[John Hugh Seiradakis]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Greek scientists, Physicists, Astronomers

John Hugh Seiradakis (Greek: Ιωάννης-Χιου Σειραδάκης) (5 March 1948 – 3 May 2020) was a Greek astronomer and physicist. He was born in Chania, Greece. He was best known for his works in the understanding of radio pulsars, the galactic center and archaeoastronomy.

He was a founding member of the Hellenic Astronomical Society, the European Astronomical Society and the International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics (IOAA).

He worked at the University of Thessaloniki, Max Planck Institute for Radio Astronomy, University of Hamburg, University of California and at Victoria University of Manchester. 

Seiradakis died on May 3, 2020 in his home in Thessaloniki, Greece of problems caused by cancer, aged 72.

[[Ruy Guerra]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Portuguese writers, Brazilian movie directors, Brazilian screenwriters

Ruy Alexandre Guerra Coelho Pereira (born August 22, 1931) is a Portuguese-Brazilian movie director and screenwriter. He was born in Maputo, Portuguese Mozambique. He directed his first movie Os Cafajestes in 1962. 

In 1964, Guerra directed Os Fuzis and was entered into the 14th Berlin International Film Festival where it won the Silver Bear Extraordinary Jury Prize.

[[Sterling Hayden]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1986 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Cancer deaths in California, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American military personnel of World War II, Spies, American novelists, Actors from New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey

Sterling Walter Hayden (born Sterling Relyea Walter; March 26, 1916 – May 23, 1986) was an American actor, author, and sailor. His best known roles were in John Huston's The Asphalt Jungle (1950), Nicholas Ray's Johnny Guitar (1954), and Stanley Kubrick's The Killing (1956). He also starred as General Jack D. Ripper in Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964).

[[Upper Montclair, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in New Jersey, Unincorporated communities in New Jersey

Upper Montclair is a census-designated place (CDP), unincorporated community and neighborhood within Montclair in Essex County, New Jersey, United States. As of the 2010 United States Census, the population for the CDP was 11,565.

[[Nicholas Ray]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1979 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in New York City, American movie directors, Businesspeople from Wisconsin

Nicholas Ray (born Raymond Nicholas Kienzle Jr., August 7, 1911 – June 16, 1979) was an American movie director. He was best known for directing the movie Rebel Without a Cause.

Ray died on June 16, 1979 in New York City of lung cancer, aged 67.

[[Galesville, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, Trempealeau County, Wisconsin

Galesville is a city in Trempealeau County, Wisconsin, United States. The population was 1,481 at the 2010 census.

[[Foxtrot (1976 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 drama movies, British drama movies, Mexican movies, Movies directed by Arturo Ripstein

Foxtrot, also known as The Far Side of Paradise, is a 1977 British Mexican movie directed by Arturo Ripstein and starring Peter O'Toole, Charlotte Rampling, Max von Sydow. It was distributed by New World Pictures.

[[Trempealeau County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Trempealeau County, Wisconsin, 1850s establishments in Wisconsin, 1855 establishments in the United States

Trempealeau County (ˈ, TREM) is a county in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. As of the 2010 census, the population was 28,816. Its county seat is Whitehall.

[[Joe (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by John G. Avildsen, American independent movies

Joe is a 1970 American drama movie directed by John G. Avildsen and starring Susan Sarandon, Peter Boyle, Dennis Patrick, K Callan. It was distributed by Cannon Group and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1971.

[[Yellowbeard]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 comedy movies, British comedy movies, American comedy movies

Yellowbeard is a 1983 American British comedy movie directed by Mel Damski and starring Peter Boyle, Graham Chapman, Cheech Marin, Tommy Chong, Peter Cook, Martin Hewitt, Marty Feldman, Spike Milligan, Eric Idle, James Mason, John Cleese, Nigel Planer, Susannah York, Beryl Reid, David Bowie. It was distributed by Orion Pictures.

[[Leonardo Villar]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from heart failure, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors, Brazilian stage actors, People from São Paulo

Leonardo Villar (July 25, 1923 – July 3, 2020) was a Brazilian actor. He was born in Piracicaba, São Paulo. He was known for his role as Ze do Borro in the 1962 drama movie O Pagador de Promessas. He also starred in The Hour and Turn of Augusto Matraga (1965), Juego peligroso (1967), and Brave New Land (2000).

Villar died on July 3, 2020 at a hospital in São Paulo from cardiac arrest caused by heart failure, aged 96.

[[Glória Menezes]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors

Glória Menezes, artistic name of Nicelde Soares Magalhães (born October 19, 1934) is a Brazilian actress. She was born in Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul. Menezes was best known for her role as Amelia in the telenovela Páginas da Vida. 

From 1962 until his death in 2021, she was married to actor Tarcísio Meira. They have one child.

[[Tarcísio Meira]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil, People from São Paulo, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors

Tarcísio Magalhães Sobrinho, usually known as Tarcísio Meira (October 5, 1935 – August 12, 2021) was a Brazilian actor. He was born in São Paulo, Brazil. He was one of the first actors to work in the most popular Brazilian channel Globo. His best known roles were as Military Christ in The Age of the Earth (1980) and as Ulisses in I Love You (1981).

In 1962, Meira married actress Glória Menezes. They had one child. Meira died at a hospital in São Paulo from COVID-19 on August 12, 2021 at the age of 85.

[[Othon Bastos]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors

Othon Bastos (born 23 May 1933) is a Brazilian movie actor. He has appeared in 50 movies since 1962. He was born in Tucano, Bahia. 

His best known roles were in O Pagador de Promessas (1962), Black God, White Devil (1964), Antonio das Mortes (1969), Of Gods and the Undead (1970), S. Bernardo (1972), The Last Plantation (1976), Heart and Guts (1982), Four Days in September (1997), Central Station (1998), Villa-Lobos - Uma Vida de Paixão (2000), Behind the Sun (2001), Nosso Lar (2010) and Os Experientes (2016).

[[Danuza Leão]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Models, Columnists, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian writers

Danuza Leão (born July 26, 1933) is a Brazilian model, socialite, journalist, writer, and actress. She was born in Itaguaçu, Espírito Santo. She worked as a columnist in Folha de S.Paulo. She had a minor role at Glauber Rocha's 1967 FIPRESCI Award winning movie Entranced Earth. 

She is the older sister of singer Nara Leão and was married to Samuel Wainer, founder of the newspaper Última Hora.

[[Lorne Munroe]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2020 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American cellists, Canadian musicians, People from Winnipeg

Lorne Munroe (November 24, 1924 – May 4, 2020) was an Canadian-American cellist. He was principal cellist of the Philadelphia Orchestra from 1951 to 1964 and principal cellist of the New York Philharmonic from 1964 to 1996. He retired in 1996. Munroe was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba.

Munroe died on May 4, 2020 at the age of 95.

[[Fort Yuma]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Lesley Selander

Fort Yuma is a 1955 American western movie directed by Lesley Selander and starring Peter Graves, Joan Vohs, John Hudson, Joan Taylor. It was distributed by United Artists.

[[Desk Set]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 comedy movies, 1950s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Walter Lang

Desk Set is a 1957 American romantic comedy movie directed by Walter Lang and based on the 1955 play of the same name by William Marchant. It stars Spencer Tracy, Katharine Hepburn, Gig Young, Joan Blondell, Dina Merrill and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Island in the Sun (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, 1950s romance movies, American romance movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Robert Rossen

Island in the Sun is a 1957 American romance movie directed by Robert Rossen and based on the 1955 novel of the same name by Alec Waugh. It stars James Mason, Harry Belafonte, Joan Fontaine, Joan Collins, Dorothy Dandridge, Diana Wynyard, Basil Sydney, Patricia Owens and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Socio-economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic

The COVID-19 pandemic has caused a larger effect more than the disease itself. As the SARS-CoV-2 virus has spread around the globe, many people have begun to think about the economic effects such as the decreased business and unemployment. The pandemic caused the largest global recession in history, with more than a third of the global population at the time being placed on lockdown.

[[Kattode]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kattode is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Three Young Texans]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Henry Levin

Three Young Texans is a 1954 American western movie directed by Henry Levin and starring Mitzi Gaynor, Keefe Brasselle, Jeffrey Hunter, Harvey Stephens, Aaron Spelling. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Isolation (health care)]]

CATEGORIES: Nursing

In hospitals or health care areas, isolation is one of the many measures that can be taken to stop the spread of certain diseases as it would lower the amount of people being infected by it. The most recent case are people being forced by law to stay at home as schools and jobs are closed due to the 2020 coronavirus pandemic. This is different than quarantine as this is for people who have not been infected.

[[COVID-19 recession]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic

The coronavirus recession, also known as the Great Lockdown or Great Shutdown, was a major global economic recession affecting the world economy in 2020 during and as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

[[Kattoor, Pathanamthitta]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kattoor is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala, India. 

[[Kaviyoor]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kaviyoor is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[Kavumbhagom]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pathanamthitta district

Kavumbhagom is a village in Pathanamthitta district, Kerala state,India.

[[COVID-19 misinformation]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic

The pandemic has caused a large number of conspiracy theories and misinformation about where the pandemic started, how serious it is and the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.

[[Remdesivir]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, COVID-19 pandemic

Remdesivir is a broad-spectrum antiviral medication created by the biopharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences. It was designed to treat Ebola.

As of 2020, remdesivir is being tested as a specific treatment for COVID-19. It is being used for the sickest of patients during the pandemic. It may shorten the time it takes to recover from the infection. Treatment is given by injection into a vein.

On May 1, the United States Food and Drug Administration gave doctors permission to use remdesivir on patients with COVID-19.  Ordinarily, the FDA would test remdesivir first to see if it worked on patients with COVID-19, but because of the COVID-19 pandemic, they told doctors they could start using the drug before the tests were finished.

In October 2020, the National Institutes of Health told the world the results of its tests: They studied 11,000 people and found that remdesivir did not help keep COVID-19 patients alive.  Gilead and some scientists said the results of the tests might not be correct.

[[CSI]]

CSI may refer to:

[[Dar Yasin]]

CATEGORIES: Indian journalists, Pulitzer Prize winners

Dar Yasin is a Indian Photo Journaist. He has been awarded Pulitzer Prize for his extensive cover on the Kashmir conflict.

[[Ciro Pessoa]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil, People with cancer, Brazilian singers, Brazilian poets, Brazilian musicians, Guitarists, Songwriters, People from São Paulo

Ciro Pessoa Mendes Corrêa (June 12, 1957 – May 5, 2020), also known by his Dharma name Tenzin Chöpel, was a Brazilian singer-songwriter, guitarist, and poet. He was known as one of the founding members of the influential rock band Titãs and for his later work with post-punk/gothic rock band Cabine C. He was born in São Paulo, São Paulo.

Pessoa, who had cancer, died of COVID-19 in São Paulo on May 5, 2020 at the age of 62.

[[Didi Kempot]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Indonesian singers, Indonesian writers, Singer-songwriters, Asian philanthropists

Didik Prasetyo, known as Didi Kempot (31 December 1966 – 5 May 2020) was an Indonesian singer-songwriter and philanthropist. He was born in Surakarta, Central Java. 

In 1989 he released his debut album. A few years later he had his breakthrough with the singles "Stasiun Balapan" and "Sewu Kutho". He was known as "The Godfather of the Broken-Hearted". In 2020, he wrote the song "Ojo Mudik" and gave a concert livestreame from his house. It raised $500,000 for the fight against coronavirus disease 2019. 

Kempot died of cardiac arrest on 5 May 2020 in Surakarta, aged 53.

[[Taufiq Kiemas]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, First Ladies and Gentlemen of Indonesia

Muhammad Taufiq Kiemas (31 December 1942 – 8 June 2013) was the Speaker of the People's Consultative Assembly of Indonesia from 2009 until his death in 2013. Taufiq (sometimes spelt Taufik) was the husband of Megawati Sukarnoputri, President of Indonesia from 2001 to 2004.

Kiemas died on 8 June 2013 in Singapore General Hospital, Singapore after a heart attack, aged 70.

[[Mark Beech (writer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 1960 births, 2020 deaths, Road accident deaths in the United Kingdom, British journalists, Critics, Writers from London

Mark Beech FRSA (1959 – 24 April 2020) was a British author, journalist and broadcaster. He was best known for his two books on the origins of names in rock music, and for his columns about music and the arts. 

Beech was the editor of DANTE magazine. A fellow of the UK Royal Society of Arts.

He died in Edinburgh of heart disease on 24 April 2020, aged 60.

[[Tinley Park, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois

Tinley Park is a village located in Cook County, Illinois, United States, with a small portion in Will County. The population was 56,703 at the 2010 census. It is one of the fastest growing suburbs southwest of Chicago. 

In 2009, Tinley Park was selected by BusinessWeek as the best place to raise a family in America.  In 2017, Tinley Park was listed as one of the 50 safest cities in America.

[[Nokia 5730 XpressMusic]]

CATEGORIES: Nokia mobile phones

The Nokia 5730 XpressMusic is a smartphone announced on March 11, 2009. It has a full backlit slide-out QWERTY keyboard, dedicated camera, volume, gaming keys, music keys, Wi-Fi (801.2b/g) connectivity, and a basic accelerometer that automatically rotates the screen into a landscape mode or portrait mode. It runs on Nokia's Symbian OS v9.3 S60 mobile phone platform. It is very similar to the Nokia E75, except it is designed to be used to play music.

The screen is a 2.4" TFT (measured diagonally) with a 240 by 320 pixel QVGA resolution. Earphones can be used using a 3.5mm audio jack, and the device is available with a pink, red, blue or silver trim. An Ovi web application is pre-installed. Ovi is Nokia's online services platform, featuring games, music, videos, phone apps, media sharing and social networking.

Like many phones in its price range, it has a 3.15-megapixel camera (with Carl-Zeiss optics, LED flash and 30fps VGA recording), and network-guided A-GPS. The N-Gage gaming platform can be used, allowing users to trial, purchase and play N-Gage 2.0 games, all of which can be done using the application. The device fully supports 3.5G, allowing mobile internet, voicemail, video calling and email to run at speeds of up to 7.2 MB/s. Uniquely,May 2015 if it is connected to a PC or laptop, it can use an available network to be a wireless broadband modem.May 2015

The device can be used to make, read, and to a limited extent, edit files (only in an editor's version) from Microsoft Word, PowerPoint and Excel. PDF files can be viewed using Adobe Reader LE 1.5.0, and RealPlayer is included so videos can be streamed (such as by using YouTube).

[[History of Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: Pages created with the Article Wizard from 2020, History of Ireland

The history of Ireland is the story of its past. Ireland is now divided into the Republic of Ireland, and Northern Ireland which is part of the United Kingdom. People began farming on Ireland thousands of years ago. The Celts moved there about 2,500 years ago. Ireland was divided into many small kingdoms. When Christians arrived, most Irish people became Christian. The Vikings and later the Normans invaded in the Middle Ages. Eventually, Ireland became part of the United Kingdom, with Great Britain. In the 1920s, most of Ireland became a separate country, but Northern Ireland stayed in the United Kingdom. 

[[Beaujeu, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Beaujeu is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region of south-eastern France.

[[Beauvezer]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

 Beauvezer  is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Bellaffaire]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Bellaffaire is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Practical High School]]

Practical High School Sikatiya, a school in Sikatiya, Siwan, Bihar, India. It was established in 1941 during british raj or six year before indian independence as a private school by late. Saryug Saran Dev but after a period, He handed it over to Bihar Government and it affiliated to the Bihar School Examination Board, Patna, Bihar but, still counted as one of the old schools in Maharajaganj block of Siwan district. The School code as per Bihar Education Government is 92096. late. Saryug Saran Dev was the first principal and also the founder of school. But at present time Mr. Rajeshwar Singh is the Principal of this school.

[[Celtic mythology]]

CATEGORIES: Celtic peoples, Mythology, Paganism

Celtic Mythology refers to the religion and beliefs held by the Celts.

[[Yemenite architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Yemen, Architecture

Yemenite architecture  is the name of the Architecture style of Yemen from the Pre-Islamic period until the Islamic period.  today. Particularly notable in this style is the design of the buildings in which Islam began to spread in this country. This style of architecture is mainly characterized by the construction of mud bricks and residential buildings in the form of tall towers and sometimes even large boulders intertwined between dwellings. in southern Saudi Arabia some of villages close to the border of Yemen are having an architectural style similar to Yemen.

[[My Cousin Rachel (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 movies, 1950s romance movies, 1950s mystery movies, American mystery movies, American romance movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Henry Koster

My Cousin Rachel is a 1952 American romantic mystery movie directed by Henry Koster and based on the 1951 novel of the same name by Daphne du Maurier. It stars Olivia de Havilland, Richard Burton, Audrey Dalton, Ronald Squire, George Dolenz and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 4 Academy Awards in 1953.

[[You Can't Run Away from It]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 comedy movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies, American comedy movies

You Can't Run Away from It is a 1956 American musical comedy movie directed by Dick Powell and starring June Allyson, Jack Lemmon, Charles Bickford, Jim Backus, Allyn Joslyn, Henry Youngman, The Four Aces. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Raintree County]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, 1950s romance movies, American romance movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Edward Dmytryk

Raintree County is a 1957 American romance movie directed by Edward Dmytryk and based on the 1948 novel of the same name by Ross Lockridge Jr.. It stars Elizabeth Taylor, Montgomery Clift, Eva Marie Saint, Lee Marvin, Rod Taylor, Walter Abel and were distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for four Academy Awards in 1958.

[[Guadalupe bass]]

CATEGORIES: Centrarchidae, IUCN Red List data deficient species, Near threatened species, Perciformes

The Guadelupe bass (Micropterus treculii) is a popular gamefish in China, these creatures can only be found in fish tanks at Chinese fast food restaurants, or in rare cases, sewage pipes.

[[Blackboard Jungle]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Richard Brooks

Blackboard Jungle is a 1955 American drama movie directed by Richard Brooks and based on the novel of the same name by Evan Hunter. It stars Glenn Ford, Sidney Poitier, Vic Morrow, Anne Francis, Louis Calhern, Paul Mazursky, Jamie Farr and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for four Academy Awards.

[[The Adventures of Quentin Durward]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 movies, 1950s adventure movies, American adventure movies, British adventure movies, Movies directed by Richard Thorpe

The Adventures of Quentin Durward, also known as Quentin Durward, is a 1955 British American adventure movie directed by Richard Thorpe and based on the 1923 novel of the same name by Sir Walter Scott. It stars Robert Taylor, George Cole, Kay Kendall, Robert Morley, John Carson, Harcourt Williams and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Wyoming (1940 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Richard Thorpe

Wyoming is a 1940 American western movie directed by Richard Thorpe and starring Wallace Berry, Leo Carrillo, Ann Rutherford, Lee Bowman, Chill Wills, Henry Travers. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Bevons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

 Bevons  is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Beynes, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

 Beynes  is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

The Asse River forms the commune's northern border.

[[Blieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

 Blieux  is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Bras-d'Asse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Bras-d'Asse is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

The Asse River flows through the commune.

[[Braux, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

 Braux  is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[La Bréole]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

 La Bréole is a former commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France. On 1 January 2017, it was merged into the new commune Ubaye-Serre-Ponçon.

[[Ubaye-Serre-Ponçon]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Ubaye-Serre-Ponçon is a commune in the department of Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, southeastern France. It was formed on 1 January 2017 from the merger of the former communes of La Bréole (the seat) and Saint-Vincent-les-Forts.

[[La Brillanne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

La Brillanne is a commune in the department of Alpes-de-Haute-Provence in southeastern France.

[[Brunet, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

 Brunet  is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France. The Asse River forms the northern border.

[[Le Brusquet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Le Brusquet is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[The Year of Living Dangerously (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 drama movies, 1980s romantic drama movies, 1980s war movies, Australian drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Peter Weir

The Year of Living Dangerously is a 1982 Australian American romantic drama movie and was based on the novel of the same name by Christopher Koch. When journalist Guy Hamilton (Mel Gibson) arrives in Jakarta, Indonesia, he has difficulty making contacts. He forms a friendship with dwarf photographer Billy Kwan (Linda Hunt), through whom he meets British diplomat Jill Bryant (Sigourney Weaver). Bryant falls for Hamilton, and she gives him key information about an approaching Communist uprising. As the city becomes more dangerous, Hamilton stays to pursue the story. However, he faces more threats as he gets closer to the government.

Release date: January 21, 1983 (USA)

Director: Peter Weir

Music composed by: Maurice Jarre

Awards: Academy Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role, More

Screenplay: Peter Weir, David Williamson, Christopher Koch

[[Crossfire (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 movies, 1940s crime movies, 1940s drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Edward Dmytryk

Crossfire is a 1947 American crime drama movie directed by Edward Dmytryk and based on the 1945 novel The Brick Foxhole by Richard Brooks. It stars Robert Young, Robert Mitchum, Robert Ryan, Gloria Grahame, Paul Kelly, Sam Levene, Lex Barker and was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures. It was nominated for 5 Academy Awards in 1948.

[[Le Caire]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

 Le Caire  is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Castellane]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, Subprefectures in France

Castellane is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France. With about 1,600 people, Castellane is the least-populated sub-prefecture in France.

[[Arse]]

CATEGORIES: English profanity, Slang

[[Le Castellard-Mélan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Le Castellard-Mélan is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Le Castellet, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Le Castellet is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Castellet-lès-Sausses]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

 Castellet-lès-Sausses  is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Céreste]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Céreste is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

The river Calavon forms the commune's northern and northwestern borders.

[[Le Chaffaut-Saint-Jurson]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Le Chaffaut-St-Jurson is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Champtercier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Champtercier is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Zarina (artist)]]

CATEGORIES: Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Indian artists, American artists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, 1937 births, 2020 deaths

Zarina Hashmi (16 July 1937 – 25 April 2020), known professionally as Zarina, was an Indian-American artist and printmaker. She worked in New York City. Her work focused in drawing, printmaking, and sculpture. Her works were involved with the Minimalist movement. She was born in Aligarh, United Provinces, British Raj. Zarina was a board member of the New York Feminist Art Institute.

Zarina died in London from problems of Alzheimer's disease on 25 April 2020, aged 83.

[[Renee Amoore]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2020 deaths, American political activists, American physicians, Scientists from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, People from Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians

Renee Amoore R.N. (January 24, 1953 – May 5, 2020) was an American health care activist and politician. She was the founder and president of The Amoore Group, Inc. Amoore was born in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania. She was elected to Pennsylvania's Republican State Committee in 1992 and became its deputy chair in 1996.

Amoore spoke on the third night of the Republican National Convention on September 3, 2008.

Amoore died on May 5, 2020 in Philadelphia, aged 67.

[[Kiing Shooter]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, 2020 deaths, American rap musicians from New York, American songwriters, Writers from New York City, American hip hop musicians, Musicians from New York City, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States

William Daniels (yes – yes), better known by his stage name Kiing Shooter, was an American rapper and songwriter. He was born in New York City. 

Kiing Shooter first known for his works with fellow rapper Dave East, after releasing many freestyles in 2017. Kiing Shooter became known with his single "They Say" which was released on June 29, 2018. He released his debut EP "Fucc The Doubters" on August 24, 2018, with features from Dave East, Don Q and Mac and it peaked at 148 on the US Billboard 200. 

Kiing Shooter died on May 5, 2020 of COVID-19 at the age of 24.

[[Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives program]]

CATEGORIES: World War II

The Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives program under the Civil Affairs and Military Government Sections of the Allied armies was created in 1943 to help protect cultural property in war areas during and after World War II. 

The group of about 400 service members and civilians worked with military forces to protect and save historic and cultural monuments from war damage. They also tried to find and return works of art and other items of cultural importance that had been stolen by the Nazis.

Many of the men and women of the MFAA, also known as Monuments Men.

[[Alfred "Uganda" Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2020 deaths, American jazz musicians, American funk musicians, Deaths from lung cancer, Musicians from New Orleans, Louisiana

Alfred "Uganda" Roberts  (April 8, 1943 – May 5, 2020) was an American conga-percussion player. She was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. As a young musician he performed with Professor Longhair. He would continue to work with until Longhair's death. He also performed with Dr. John. 

Roberts died in New Orleans on May 5, 2020 of lung cancer, aged 77.

[[Michael McClure]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American poets, American playwrights, American songwriters, American critics, American novelists, Writers from Kansas, Writers from San Francisco

Michael McClure (October 20, 1932 – May 4, 2020) was an American poet, playwright, critic, songwriter, and novelist. He became known as one of the five poets (including Allen Ginsberg) who read at the famous San Francisco Six Gallery reading in 1955. 

He was one of the inspirations for Jack Kerouac's The Dharma Bums. He soon became a key member of the Beat Generation. A character named "Pat McLear" is inspired by him in Kerouac's Big Sur.

McClure was born in Marysville, Kansas. He studied at Municipal University of Wichita, the University of Arizona and San Francisco State College. He spent his career in San Francisco.

McClure died of stroke-related problems on May 4, 2020 in Oakland, California, aged 87.

[[Bill Parcells]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, People from Englewood, New Jersey, Detroit Lions players, American football coaches, Sportspeople from New Jersey

Duane Charles "Bill" Parcells (born August 22, 1941), also known as "The Big Tuna", is an American football coach. He was a head coach in the National Football League (NFL) for 19 seasons. 

He is best known as the head coach of the New York Giants, which he led to two Super Bowl titles. Parcells later was the head coach of the New England Patriots, New York Jets, and Dallas Cowboys.

For a short time, he played for the Detroit Lions in 1964.

Parcells was born in Englewood, New Jersey. He studied at Wichita State University.

[[Haworth, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in New Jersey

Haworth (h HAH-worth) is a borough in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. As of the 2010 United States Census, the borough's population was 3,382.

[[China Gate (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, 1950s action movies, American action movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Samuel Fuller

China Gate is a 1957 American action movie directed and written by Samuel Fuller and starring Gene Barry, Angie Dickinson, Nat King Cole, Lee Van Cleef, George Givot. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Angela Nicole Walker]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American political activists, 2020 United States vice-presidential candidates, Green Party of the United States politicians, Politicians from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Politicians from South Carolina

Angela Nicole Walker (born January 19, 1974) is an American school bus driver and labor organizer. Walker is the vice-presidential nominee of the Socialist Party USA for the 2020 election. She is also Howie Hawkins' running mate for the Green Party nomination. They were the vice-presidential nominee of the Socialist Party USA for the 2016 election. 

Walker previously ran in 2014 as an independent socialist for sheriff of Milwaukee County, Wisconsin. In May 2020, a Green Party candidate for President, Howie Hawkins, announced that Walker was his choice for running-mate.

[[Doug Collins (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, United States representatives from Georgia, State legislators of the United States, US Republican Party politicians

Douglas Allen Collins (born August 16, 1966) is an American politician. He was the United States Representative from Georgia's 9th congressional district from 2013 to 2021. He was a Republican member of the Georgia House of Representatives.

In 2020, he announced his candidacy for the 2020 U.S. Senate election, challenging incumbent Republican Senator Kelly Loeffler. He came in last place, losing to both Loeffler and to Democrat Raphael Warnock.

[[Gainesville, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Georgia, Cities in Georgia (U.S. state)

The city of Gainesville is the county seat of Hall County, Georgia, United States. As of the 2010 census, the city had a population of 33,804. 

[[Bad Day at Black Rock]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 movies, 1950s thriller movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by John Sturges

Bad Day at Black Rock is a 1955 American psychological thriller movie directed by John Sturges and based on the 1947 short story by Howard Breslin. It stars Spencer Tracy, Robert Ryan, Anne Francis, Dean Jagger, Walter Brennan, Ernest Borgnine, Lee Marvin and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for 3 Academy Awards in 1956.

[[Hall County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), Georgia (U.S. state) counties

Hall County is a county in the U.S. state of Georgia. As of the 2010 census, the population was 179,684. The county seat is Gainesville.

[[Our Girl Friday]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 comedy movies, 1950s romantic comedy movies, British romantic comedy movies, Movies based on books

Our Girl Friday is a 1953 British romantic comedy movie directed by Noel Langley and is based on the 1934 novel The Cautious Amorist by Norman Lindsay. It stars George Cole, Kenneth Moore, Joan Collins, Robertson Hare, Felix Felton and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Mogambo]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 movies, 1950s adventure movies, 1950s romance movies, American adventure movies, British adventure movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by John Ford

Mogambo is a 1953 American British romantic adventure movie directed by John Ford is based on the play Red Dust by Wilson Collison and had been previously filmed in 1932. It stars Clark Gable, Ava Gardner, Grace Kelly, Donald Sinden and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1954.

[[Straight Shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 movies, American western movies, American silent movies, Movies directed by John Ford

Straight Shooting is a 1917 American western movie. It was directed by John Ford. Actors include Harry Carey, Hoot Gibson, George Berrell, and Molly Malone. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[A Day at the Races (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 movies, 1930s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Sam Wood

A Day at the Roses is a 1937 American comedy movie directed by Sam Wood and stars The Marx Brothers, Allan Jones, Maureen O'Sullivan, Margaret Dumont. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1938.

[[Nadine Coyle]]

CATEGORIES: Irish pop singers, Living people, R&B musicians, 1985 births

Nadine Elizabeth Coyle (born 15 June 1985) is an Irish singer, actress, and model. She is a singer of the United Kingdom-based all-female pop music band Girls Aloud.

[[Café Metropole]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 movies, 1930s romance movies, 1930s comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Edward H. Griffith

Café Metropole is a 1937 American romantic comedy movie directed by Edward H. Griffith and based on the original story by Gregory Ratoff (who also stars). It stars Loretta Young, Tyrone Power, Adolphe Menjou, Helen Westley and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Heidi Range]]

CATEGORIES: British R&B musicians, English pop musicians, English singer-songwriters, Living people, Musicians from Liverpool, 1983 births

Heidi India Range (born 23 May 1983 in Liverpool) is an English singer-songwriter and actress. She was a member of the British girl group Sugababes.

[[Adventure's End]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 movies, 1930s adventure movies, American adventure movies, Movies directed by Arthur Lubin

Adventure's End is a 1937 American adventure movie directed by Arthur Lubin and starring John Wayne, Diana Gibson, Montagu Love, Maurice Black, Cameron Hall. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Rotimi (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: American singers, Living people, 1988 births

Olurotmi Akinosho (born 30 November 1988), better known by his stage name Rotimi, is an American actor, singer, and model. He starred as Darius Morrison on the Starz Network original drama series Boss as Darius Morrison. As an actor, Rotimi is also the founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of FrontRoSeat productions. 

[[Back to Bataan]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s drama movies, American war movies, American drama movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Edward Dmytryk

Back to Bataan is a 1945 American World War II war drama movie directed by Edward Dmytryk and starring John Wayne, Anthony Quinn, Richard Loo, Lawrence Tierney, Fely Franquelli. It was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures.

[[Sikatiya]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bihar

Sikatiya or  Siktia is a large village located in  Maharajganj or Lakri Nabiganj Block of Siwan district belonging to Saran divison, It is the 15th biggest village by area in the sub district by holding a total area of 2km².

[[St. Lunatics]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop bands, Musical groups established in 1993, Musical quintets, 1990s American music groups, 1991 establishments in the United States

The St. Lunatics are a rap crew from St. Louis that was runned by rapper Nelly and comprised of his hometown buddies Ali, Murphy Lee, Kyjuan, City Spud, and Slo'Down, who left. They were formed in 1993 and came out with their local hit "Gimme What U Got" in 1996. Then, they bursted on the music scene with Nelly with the release of his solo album Country Grammar but City Spud was arrested and sentenced to 10 years in prison for robbery. So far away from the members of St. Lunatics, Nelly introduced the world to his crew when the crew released their debut album Free City in 2001 with hits such as "Summer In The City" and "Midwest Swing". Then Ali released his solo album Heavy Starch in 2002 and Murphy Lee released his solo album Murphy's Law in 2003. 

[[Dakota (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s western movies, American western movies

Dakota is a 1945 American western movie directed by Joseph Kane and starring John Wayne, Ward Bond, Walter Brennan, Mike Mazurki, George Cleveland, Jack La Rue. It was distributed by Republic Pictures.

[[Welcome, Mr. Washington]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 drama movies, British drama movies, Movies directed by Leslie S. Hiscott

Welcome, Mr. Washington is a 1944 British drama movie directed by Leslie S. Hiscott and starring Barbara Mullen, Donald Stewart, Peggy Cummins, Beatrice Varley, George Carney. It was distributed by Anglo-American Film Corporation.

[[Beyond the Rocks (1922 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 movies, 1920s drama movies, 1920s romance movies, American romantic drama movies, American silent movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Sam Wood

Beyond the Rocks is a 1922 American romantic drama movie directed by Sam Wood and based on the 1906 novel of the same name by Elinor Glyn. It stars Rudolph Valentino, Gloria Swanson, Edythe Chapman, Robert Bolder, June Elvidge and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Tourniquet]]

CATEGORIES: Emergency medicine, Medical equipment

A tightly-compressed bandage used to stop bleeding by stopping the flow of blood through a large artery in a limb.

It could be made from clothing materials or any other material depending on what is available

[[Love, Life and Laughter]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 movies, 1920s drama movies, British drama movies, Silent movies, Movies directed by George Pearson

Love, Life and Laughter is a 1923 British drama movie directed by George Pearson and starring Betty Balfour, Frank Stanmore, Annie Esmond, Nancy Price, Sydney Fairbrother.

[[Brown of Harvard (1926 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 movies, 1920s drama movies, American sports drama movies, American silent movies, Movies directed by Jack Conway

Brown of Harvard is a 1926 American sports drama movie directed by Jack Conway and based on the play of the same name by Ride Johnson Young. It stars Jack Pickford, William Haines, Mary Brian, Francis X. Bushman Jr., Edward Connelly, John Wayne and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Bardelys the Magnificent]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 movies, 1920s romance movies, 1920s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, American silent movies, Movies directed by King Vidor

Bardelys the Magnificent is a 1926 American romantic drama movie directed by King Vidor and based on the 1906 novel of the same name by Rafael Sabatini. It stars John Gilbert, Eleanor Boardman, Lionel Belmore, Arthur Lubin, Emily Fitzroy, John Wayne, Edward Connelly, Theodore von Eltz and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Ilya Prusikin]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Russian singers

Ilya Vladimirovich Pruskin is a Russian singer/songwriter in the rave band Little Big.

[[2018 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: Stanley Cup Finals, 2018 in ice hockey

The 2018 Stanley Cup Finals was between two NHL teams: the Washington Capitals and the Las Vegas Golden Knights. The Capitals won the series 4 games to 1 to win their first cup of the franchise. They were led by Washington captain, Alexander Ovechkin.

[[Old Ford]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, London Borough of Tower Hamlets

Old Ford is an area in East London. It is in the borough of Tower Hamlets, in London, United Kingdom.

[[Ksawery Jasieński]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Polish voice actors, Living people

Ksawery Jan Jasieński (born 13 September 1931) is a Polish radio speaker and voice artist. H has worked as a voice-over actor in numerous radio and television programmes. He is also known as the person whose voice is used to announce station names in the Warsaw Metro underground system.

[[Magdalena Jasek]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1993 births, People from Warsaw, Models

Magdalena Jasek is a Polish fashion model.

[[Kasia Urbaniak]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, American businesspeople, American educators

Kasia Urbaniak (born 1978) is a teacher, businesswomen and founder of The Academy. She was born in New York City. She is the daughter of jazz musicians Michal Urbaniak and Urszula Dudziak.

[[Bruh]]

Bruh can mean:

[[Michal Urbaniak]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Jazz composers, Polish people, Violinists

Michał Urbaniak (born January 22, 1943) is a Polish jazz musician. He plays violin, lyricon, and saxophone. His music includes elements of folk music, rhythm and blues, hip hop, and symphonic music.

[[Urszula Dudziak]]

Urszula Bogumiła Dudziak-Urbaniak (born 22 October 1943) is a Polish jazz vocalist. She has worked with Krzysztof Komeda, Michał Urbaniak (her ex-husband), Gil Evans, Archie Shepp, and Lester Bowie. In 2007, her 1970s song "Papaya" gained widespread popularity in Asia and Latin America.

Dudziak was born in Straconka which is now a neighborhood of Bielsko-Biała in Poland. She studied piano, but began to sing in the late 50s after hearing records by Ella Fitzgerald. Within a few years she became one of the most popular jazz artists in Poland. She met and later married Michał Urbaniak. 

[[Sicarii]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history, Assassins, History of Israel, Jewish denominations, Jewish history, Roman Empire, Secret societies, Terrorism

Sicarii were killers who were a splinter group of the Zealots during the time leading up to the destruction of Jerusalem by the Roman General Titus. Their name derives from a work that means "dagger". They hid in groups of people who supported Roman rule and then pulled their daggers and killed people. Then they ran away and hid. Judas Iscariot, one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus in the New Testament, was believed by some to be a sicarius.

[[Tennessee Democratic Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States, Tennessee

The Tennessee Democratic Party is the Tennessee affiliate of the Democratic Party.

[[Souls (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Video games, Role-playing video games

The Souls series is a series of action RPGs made by Hidetaka Miyazaki and FromSoftware. The games in the series are Demon's Souls and the three Dark Souls games. King's Field, Bloodborne, and Sekiro are similarly made games also made by From Software, but they not part of the series. The games are made cheaply, which allowed the games to make a lot of money even if they did not sell as well as some other games. Below are the features in all the games.

[[Dark Souls]]

CATEGORIES: Video games, Role-playing video games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games

Dark Souls is an action RPG made by Hidetaka Miyazaki and FromSoftware. It is the sequel to Demon's Souls.

The game is very similar to its prequel, but there were also many changes made.

Dark Souls became successful and FromSoftware made had two sequels and two spiritual successors, Bloodborne and Sekiro. The game became so popular that other video game companies made high difficulty action RPG's similar to Dark Souls.

[[Oxygen therapy]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

Oxygen therapy, also called supplemental oxygen, is when oxygen gas (O2) is used for medical treatment by giving the gas to the patient for inhalation. It can be used for ilnesses like  hypoxia, carbon monoxide toxicity, and cluster headaches. It can be used over a long time for people who suffer with illnesses that lower oxygen levels in the blood like COPD and cystic fibrosis. It can be given in a few different ways such as through a nasal cannula, face mask, or inside a hyperbaric chamber. Oxygen levels need to be high enough for respiration to keep a patient healthy and for normal cell metabolism.

[[Urban structure]]

CATEGORIES: Urban and regional sciences

Urban structure It is the order of organization of planning areas and of land use within the cities and sometimes even smaller towns.

[[Together at Home]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic, Concerts

Together at Home (also known as One World: Together at Home) was a virtual concert series organised by Global Citizen and curated by singer Lady Gaga, in support of the World Health Organization. 

[[The Wackiest Ship In the Army]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 comedy movies, American comedy movies, World War II movies

The Wackiest Ship In the Army is a 1960 American World War II comedy movie directed by Richard Murphy and based on the 1956 story Big Fella Wash-Wash by Herbert Carlson. It stars Jack Lemmon, Ricky Nelson, Chips Rattray, Tom Tully, John Lund and was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was made into a TV series in 1965.

[[An Affair to Remember]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, 1950s romance movies, American romance movies, American movie remakes, Movies directed by Leo McCarey

An Affair to Remember is a 1957 American romance movie directed by Leo McCarey and starring Cary Grant, Deborah Kerr, Richard Denning, Neva Patterson, Cathleen Nesbitt. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for 4 Academy Awards in 1958. It is a remake of the 1939 movie Love Affair.

[[Forty Guns]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Samuel Fuller

Forty Guns is a 1957 American western movie directed by Samuel Fuller and starring Barbara Stanwyck, Barry Sullivan, Gene Barry, Robert Dix, Dean Jagger, John Ericson, Chuck Hayward, Chuck Roberson. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Demon's Souls]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, Role-playing video games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation 3-only games

Demon's Souls is an action RPG on the Playstation 3 video game console made by Hidetaka Miyazaki and FromSoftware. It is the first game in the Souls series of video games. It is known for being a very hard game. Its difficulty was liked and disliked by many people. The gameplay has some similar features to FromSfotware's earlier game, King's Field, like exploring for armor and weapons, having a high difficulty, and having timing-based fighting, but it is different because Demon's Souls has a third-person point of view.

The idea of the game was created some time before the game came out, but many workers in FromSoftware did not think the game would be popular. However, when Miyazaki began working for From, he picked up the project and made Demon's Souls into a game. Since From was a little-known video game developer and they thought the game would not sell well anyway, From had a lot of freedom of making the game they wanted to make, as they did not have to remove a lot of features to please video game publishers. Surprisingly, Demon's Souls sold many more copies and became much more popular than From thought. It would be popular enough to make three sequels and two spiritual successors, Bloodborne and Sekiro.

[[Rockabilly Baby]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies directed by William F. Claxton

Rockabilly Baby is a 1957 American musical movie directed by William F. Claxton and starring Virginia Field, Douglas Kennedy, Irene Ryan, Ellen Corby, Frank Sully, Marlene Willis. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[FromSoftware]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 establishments in Japan, Video game companies, Companies of Japan, Tokyo

FromSoftware, Inc. is a Japanese video game developer that made video games like the Souls series, Bloodborne, and Sekiro. Games that the company made before the Souls series include the King's Field series and the Armored Core series. The company has been lead by Hidetaka Miyazaki, the leader of the Demon's Souls team, since Demon's Souls became popular.

[[Hidetaka Miyazaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Japanese artists, Japanese video game designers, Living people, People from Shizuoka Prefecture

Hidetaka Miyazaki is the leader of the video game company FromSoftware and head designer games such as Demon's Souls, Dark Souls, Dark Souls 3, Bloodborne, and Sekiro. Miyazaki grew up in a poor family. Miyazaki loved reading, but since his family could not even afford to buy books for him, he would often borrow them from the library. Although he loved reading, there were parts of the books he read that he could not understand, so he just made up parts of the story in his own mind. This would be the way stories in the Souls series of video games, which he would later make, are told. In those games, some details are told to the player, but the player is expected to imagine the parts of the story not told.

After university, Miyazaki would be an account manager for the US company Oracle Corporation until he was 29. This was because after playing the game Ico, he decided to quit his job to become a game designer. Due to his age and lack of experience, very few companies would hire him. However, he got a job from FromSoftware and became the leading designer for some of the Armored Core games. While FromSoftware had ideas for Demon's Souls, the idea was put away because no one thought the game would be popular. However, Miyazaki liked the idea and lead the development team. Demon's Souls would become so popular that FromSoftware would become a well-known video game company, and Miyazaki would later take over the company.

[[Johnny Apollo (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s crime movies, American crime drama movies, Movies directed by Henry Hathaway

Johnny Apollo is a 1940 American crime drama movie directed by Henry Hathaway and starring Tyrone Power, Dorothy Lamour, Edward Arnold, Lloyd Nolan. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Heritage of the Desert (1932 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 movies, 1930s western movies, American western movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Henry Hathaway

Heritage of the Desert is a 1932 American western movie directed by Henry Hathaway and is based on the novel of the same name by Zane Grey and is the second version of the novel. It stars Randolph Scott, Sally Blane, J. Farrell MacDonald, David Landau and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[The Big Trail]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Raoul Walsh

The Big Trail is a 1930 American romantic western movie directed by Raoul Walsh and starring John Wayne, Marguerite Churchill, Tyrone Power, Sr., El Brendel, Tully Marshall, Frederick Burton, Ian Keith. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Cherry, Harry & Raquel!]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Russ Meyer

Cherry, Harry & Raquel! is a 1969 American action comedy movie directed by Russ Meyer and starring Charles Napier, Larissa Ely, Linda Ashton, Uschi Digard. It was distributed by Panamint Films.

[[Casa Grande, Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Arizona

Casa Grande (O'odham: Wainom Wo:g) is a city in Pinal County, halfway between Phoenix and Tucson in the U.S. state of Arizona.The population of the city is 57,232 as of 2018. "Casa Grande" is Spanish for "big house".

[[Millie Small]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Jamaican singers, Songwriters

Millicent Dolly May Small CD (6 October 1946 – 5 May 2020) was a Jamaican singer-songwriter. She was best known for her 1964 song "My Boy Lollipop". It reached number two in both the UK Singles Chart and the US Billboard Hot 100. She was born in Clarendon, Jamaica.

Small died on 5 May 2020 of a stroke in London, aged 73.

[[My Boy Lollipop]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 songs, 1964 songs

"My Boy Lollipop" (originally "My Girl Lollypop") is a song written in the mid-1950s by Robert Spencer of the doo-wop group The Cadillacs.  It was first recorded in New York in 1956 by Barbie Gaye. A later version, recorded in 1964 by Jamaican teenager Millie Small, with very similar rhythm, became one of the top selling ska songs of all time.

[[Nahum Rabinovitch]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Israeli rabbis, People from Montreal

Rabbi Nahum Eliezer Rabinovitch (נחום אליעזר רבינוביץ'; 1928 – May 6, 2020) was a Canadian-born Israeli Orthodox rabbi and posek. He was the head of Yeshivat Birkat Moshe in Ma'ale Adumim. He was born in Montreal, Canada. In 2015 he led the Giyur K'halacha conversion court, of which he was one of the founders.

Rabinovitch died on May 6, 2020 at the age of 92.

[[Florian Schneider]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2020 deaths, Cancer deaths in Germany, German pop singers, Guitarists, Violinists, Saxophonists, German pianists, Drummers, German pop musicians, Electronic musicians, People from Baden-Württemberg

Florian Schneider-Esleben (7 April 1947  21 April 2020) was a German electronic pop singer and musician. He was best known as one of the founding members of the electronic band Kraftwerk. He was born in present-day Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

David Bowie named a song after Schneider in 1977. Schneider retired in 2008, but then came back in 2014 then officially retiring a year later.

Schneider died from cancer on 21 April 2020 in Düsseldorf at the age of 73.

[[Dmitry Bosov]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2020 deaths, Suicides by firearm, Russian businesspeople, Billionaires

Dmitry Borisovich Bosov (Дмитрий Борисович Босов; March 27, 1968 — May 6, 2020) was a Russian businessman. He was the founder, majority shareholder and Chairman of the Board of Directors of ALLTECH Group. He was Head of Supervisory Board of HC Sibir Novosibirsk from 2008 until his death. He was born in Barnaul, Altai Krai, then Soviet Union.

In 2019, he was ranked 102nd in the Forbes list of richest businessmen in Russia, with a fortune of 950 million dollars. In 2020, he was ranked 1851st in the Forbes list of world’s billionaires, with a fortune of 1.1 billion dollars.

Bosov shot himself on May 6, 2020 at his mansion in Usovo, Moscow Oblast at the age of 52.

[[The Iron Horse (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 movies, 1920s western movies, American western movies, American silent movies, Movies directed by John Ford

The Iron Horse is a 1924 American western movie directed by John Ford and starring George O'Brien, Madge Bellamy, Cyril Chadwick, Will Walling, Francis Powers, J. Farrell MacDonald, Fred Kohler. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Young Rajah]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 movies, 1920s romance movies, 1920s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on books

The Young Rajah is a 1922 American romantic drama movie directed by Phil Rosen and based on the novel of the Amos Judd by John Ames Mitchell. It stars Rudolph Valentino, Wanda Hawley, Charles Ogle, Fanny Midgley, Josef Swickard, J. Farrell MacDonald, George Field and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Hit the Deck]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies

Hit the Deck is a 1955 American musical movie directed by Roy Rowland and stars Jane Powell, Tony Martin, Debbie Reynolds, Walter Pidgeon, Vic Damone, Gene Raymond, Russ Tamblyn. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[VRML]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Computer file formats, ISO standards, Graphics, Computing

VRML (Virtual Reality Modeling Language, pronounced vermal, or by its initials, known before 1995 as Virtual Reality Markup Language) is a standard 3-dimensional (3D) interactive vector graphics file format designed for the World Wide Web. It has been succeeded by X3D.

[[Chequers]]

CATEGORIES: Buckinghamshire, Buildings and structures in England, Palaces in the United Kingdom

A house donated to the British government by Sir Winston Churchill

[[Wrabel]]

CATEGORIES: American pop singers, American songwriters, Living people, 1989 births

Stephen Wrabel (born 7 January 1989), better known as just Wrabel, is an American singer, songwriter, and musician. He is based in Los Angeles and is signed to Epic Records. Wrabel was invited by Afrojack to perform a song live during Afrojack's show. The track featured Wrabel's vocals and piano playing titled "Ten Feet Tall" and resulted in an international hit. The song was also premiered in the United States with the Bud Light commercial that aired during the 2014 Super Bowl XLVlll and was viewed by around 100 million viewers. This is Wrabel's first big charting hit. He released his debut album on Island Records in 2014. 

== Discography ==    

[[Rock Mafia]]

CATEGORIES: American record producers, American songwriters, Musical groups established in the 2000s, 2000s American music groups, 2000s establishments in the United States

Rock Mafia are an American record production/songwriting team including Tim James, Antonina Armato, and Paul Palmer who writes songs from pop music/dance music/rock music artists, who are credited for contributing to some of the most successful pop artists since the early 2000s.

Rock Mafia's sound is a distinctive blend of dance, pop, and rock.

[[Girlicious]]

CATEGORIES: American pop music groups, American R&B bands, Musical groups disestablished in 2011, Musical groups established in 2007, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California, Musical quartets, 2000s American music groups, 2007 establishments in the United States, 2011 disestablishments in the United States

Girlicious are a girl group that is being host by Chelsea Korka, Melissa Reyes, and Melissa Smith. After all three have failed to become members 

of the Pussycat Dolls, they have decided to create their own group with the approval of Robin Antin. 

Unlike the search for the next member of Pussycat Dolls, there was more finalist chosen than just one. The time of when this was featured on television is still unknown as it was still being filmed. 

[[Jaykae]]

CATEGORIES: English rap musicians, Grime music artists, Living people, 1991 births

Jamun Khan (born 23 July 1991), better known by his stage name Jaykae, is an English grime MC and rapper. He was born in Small Heath, Birmingham, England. He performed grime music, hip hop music, and British hip hop. His musical career began in 2008. He is signed to Doing Bits Worldwide Limited and a record label of the same name as his stage name. He has worked with other artists like Stormzy.

[[Cheer Up and Smile]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s musical movies, American musical movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Sidney Lanfield

Cheer Up and Smile is a 1930 American musical movie directed by Sidney Lanfield and stars Arthur Lake, Dixie Lee, Olga Baclanova, Johnny Arthur, John Darrow, John Wayne. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Burna Boy]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic Records artists, Living people, Nigerian singers, Songwriters, 1991 births

Damini Ebunoluwa Ogulu (born 2 July 1991), better known by his stage name Burna Boy, is a Nigerian dancehall/reggae singer and songwriter. He was born in Port Harcourt, Nigeria. He performed afro-fusion, dancehall, and reggae. He plays the vocals. He started his musical career in 2010. He is signed to Spaceship, Bad Habit, Atlantic Records, and Warner Music Group. 

[[Rough Romance]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s adventure movies, 1930s western movies, American western movies

Rough Romance is a 1930 American adventure western movie directed by A. F. Erickson and stars George O'Brien, Eddie Borden, Antonio Moreno, Roy Stewart, Harry Cording, John Wayne. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Happy Days (1929 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 movies, American musical movies, Movies directed by Benjamin Stoloff

Happy Days is a 1929 American musical movie directed by Benjamin Stoloff and starring Marjorie White, Stuart Erwin, Charles E. Evans, Janet Gaynor, Victor McLaglen, Betty Grable, El Brendel. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[King of Jazz]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s musical movies, 1930s comedy movies, American musical comedy movies

King of Jazz is a 1930 American musical comedy movie directed by John Murray Anderson and starring Paul Whiteman, John Boles, Laura La Plante, Jeanie Lang, Jeanette Loff, Bing Crosby, Al Rinker, Harry Barris, William T. Kent. It was distributed by Universal Pictures and won an Academy Award in 1930.

[[Today We Live]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 movies, 1930s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, World War I movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Howard Hawks, Movies directed by Richard Rosson

Today We Live is a 1933 American World War I romantic drama movie directed by Howard Hawks and is based on the 1932 story Turnabout by William Faulkner. It stars Joan Crawford, Gary Cooper, Robert Young, Franchot Tone and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Queen Christina (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 movies, 1930s drama movies, American biographical movies, American LGBT movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Rouben Mamoulian

Queen Christina is a 1933 American biographical romantic drama movie directed by Rouben Mamoulian and stars Greta Garbo, John Gilbert, Ian Keith, Lewis Stone, C. Aubrey Smith, Reginald Owen. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Nancy Kwan]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1939 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Actors from Hong Kong, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American activists, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California

Nancy Kwan Ka-shen (關家蒨; born May 19, 1939) is a Hong Kong-born American actress, businesswoman and activist. She was born in British Hong Kong.

Kwan was an important figure in Hollywood accepting actors of Asian ancestry. Kwan's best known roles were The World of Suzie Wong, Flower Drum Song, The Wrecking Crew, Lt. Robin Crusoe, U.S.N., Fate Is the Hunter, The Main Attraction and Drop Dead Darling.

In 1961, Kwan won a Golden Globe Award for her role in The World of Suzie Wong.

In 1976, she married Norbert Meisel. They had one son, Bernie. He died of AIDS in the 1990s. Kwan retired in 2016.

[[Pier Angeli]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1932 births, 1971 deaths, Drug-related deaths in the United States, Twin people, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, People from Sardinia

Pier Angeli (19 June 1932spaced ndash10 September 1971) was an Italian actress. She was known for her role in the 1951 movie Teresa, for which she won a Golden Globe Award.

She had one son with Vic Damone, her first husband, and another son with Armando Trovajoli, her second husband. She was born in Cagliari, Sardinia. She had a twin sister actress Marisa Pavan.

Angeli overdosed with barbiturate on 10 September 1971 at her home in Beverly Hills, California at the age of 39.

[[Marisa Pavan]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1932 births, Living people, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, Twin people, People from Sardinia

Marisa Pavan (born Maria Luisa Pierangeli; 19 June 1932) is an Italian actress. She is known as the twin sister of actress Pier Angeli. She was born in Cagliari, Sardinia. 

Her first movie role was in The Rose Tattoo (1955). Her performance earned a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. She also won the Golden Globe Award.

She also starred in Diane (1956), The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit (1956), The Midnight Story (1957) and John Paul Jones (1959).

In 1956, Pavan married French actor Jean-Pierre Aumont. They were married until his death in 2001. They had two sons.

[[The Concorde... Airport '79]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 movies, 1970s thriller movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by David Lowell Rich

The Concorde... Airport '79 is a 1979 American thriller movie directed by David Lowell Rich and is the final movie in the Airport franchise. It stars Robert Wagner, Alain Delon, Susan Blakely, Sylvia Kristel, George Kennedy, Eddie Albert, Bibi Andersson, Ed Begley Jr., Harry Shearer, Cicely Tyson, Sybil Danning and was distributed by Universal Pictures. It was a box office failure.

[[Bella Darvi]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 1971 deaths, Polish movie actors, Polish television actors, Polish stage actors, People who committed suicide, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Bajla Węgier (October 23, 1928 – September 11, 1971), better known as Bella Darvi, was a Polish movie actress. She was born in Sosnowiec, Poland. She was known for her role as Richard Widmark's lover in Samuel Fuller's movie Hell and High Water (1954).

Darvi was bisexual. She killed herself with carbon monoxide at her home in Monte Carlo, aged 42.

[[Dana Wynter]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1931 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, German movie actors, German television actors, German stage actors, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from Berlin

Dana Wynter (born Dagmar Winter; 8 June 1931spaced ndash5 May 2011) was a German-born English actress. Her best-known movie being Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1956). She won a Golden Globe Award. Wynter was born in Berlin.

Wynter died of congestive heart failure on 5 May 2011 in Ojai, California at the age of 79.

[[Invasion of the Body Snatchers]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 movies, 1950s horror movies, American science fiction movies, American horror movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Don Siegel, Apocalyptic movies

Invasion of the Body Snatchers is a 1956 American science fiction horror movie produced by Walter Wanger and directed by Don Siegel. It  stars Kevin McCarthy and Dana Wynter. It is a black-and-white movie. It was based on Jack Finney's 1954 science fiction novel The Body Snatchers.

[[Diane Varsi]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 1992 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, American movie actors, American television actors, American dancers, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Actors from California, People from San Mateo, California

Diane Marie Antonia Varsi (February 23, 1938 – November 19, 1992) was an American actress and dancer. She was best known for her roles in Peyton Place and Wild in the Streets. She won a Golden Globe Award and was nominated for an Academy Award. Varsi was born in San Mateo, California.

Varsi died on November 19, 1992 in Los Angeles of respiratory failure caused by Lyme disease, aged 54.

[[Linda Cristal]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, Argentine movie actors, Argentine television actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Buenos Aires, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Linda Cristal (kɾisˈtal; born Marta Victoria Moya Peggo Burges, February 23, 1934 – June 27, 2020) was an Argentine-American actress. She appeared in many Western movies during the 1950s. She won a Golden Globe Award for her role in the 1958 comedy movie The Perfect Furlough.

From 1967 to 1971, Cristal starred as Victoria Cannon in the NBC series The High Chaparral. For her role she won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Television Series Drama in 1970, and received two Emmy Award nominations.

Cristal was born in Buenos Aires. She died at her home in Beverly Hills, California on June 27, 2020 at the age of 89.

[[Janet Munro]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1934 births, 1972 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, People from Blackpool, Actors from Lancashire

Janet Neilson Horsburgh (28 September 1934 – 6 December 1972), known as Janet Munro, was an English actress. She won a Golden Globe Award for her role in the movie Darby O'Gill and the Little People (1959). She also appeared in Life for Ruth (1962).

Munro starred in three Disney movies: Darby O'Gill and the Little People (1959), Third Man on the Mountain (1959) and Swiss Family Robinson (1960). 

Other best known roles include The Trollenberg Terror (1958) and The Day the Earth Caught Fire (1961).

[[List of Priyanka Chopra Jonas performances]]

CATEGORIES: Indian filmographies

This is a list of performances by the Indian actress and singer Priyanka Chopra Jonas.

[[Wuhan Institute of Virology]]

CATEGORIES: China, COVID-19 pandemic

The Wuhan Institute of Virology, Chinese Academy of Sciences (WIV) is a research institute. It was designed to study virology. It is run by the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS).  The institute is in Jiangxia District, Wuhan, Hubei. It opened China's first biosafety level 4 (BSL–4) laboratory in 2015.

In January 2020, conspiracy theories spread which said that the COVID-19 pandemic came from a virus made by the WIV. But scientific evidence says that the virus is natural. One story in the Washington Post said that US State Department had raised safety concerns about WIV's research on bat coronaviruses in 2018. In April 2020, U.S. intelligence officials looked into reports the virus may have started by an accident by WIV scientists studying bats.

Experts do not believe the virus escaped from the institute. One expert said that up to seven million people in Southeast Asia are infected each year with bat coronaviruses. He said there are probably only about six people who work with the viruses at the institute.  It does not make sense that virus came from one of these of people compared with the millions of other people affected by bats. The staff at the Wuhan Institute of Virology were trained at US labs and follow high safety standards. The evidence shows that this is not a laboratory accident.

[[Ina Balin]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 1990 deaths, Deaths from lung disease, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City

Ina Balin (née Rosenberg; November 12, 1937 – June 20, 1990) was an American actress. She is best known for her role in the movie From the Terrace (1960), for which she won a Golden Globe Award. Balin was born in New York City.

Balin died on June 20, 1990 in New Haven, Connecticut of lung disease, aged 52.

[[Operation Mad Ball]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Richard Quine

Operation Mad Ball is a 1957 American comedy movie directed by Richard Quine and written by Blake Edwards. It stars Jack Lemmon, Ernie Kovacs, Arthur O'Connell, Mickey Rooney, Dick York, Jeanne Manet, William Hickey, L. Q. Jones and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Rita Tushingham]]

CATEGORIES: BAFTA Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1942 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from Liverpool

Rita Tushingham (born 14 March 1942) is an English actress. She was born in Liverpool. She is known for her starring roles in movies including A Taste of Honey (1961), The Leather Boys (1964), The Knack …and How to Get It (1965), Doctor Zhivago (1965), and Smashing Time (1967). She has won a BAFTA Award and a Golden Globe Award.

[[Stopover Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, American mystery movies, Japanese movies, 1950s mystery movies

Stopover Tokyo is a 1957 American Japanese mystery movie directed by Richard L. Breen and based on the novel of the same name by John P. Marquand. It stars Robert Wagner, Joan Collins, Edmond O'Brien, Ken Scott, Larry Keating and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Elke Sommer]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, German movie actors, German television actors, German stage actors, Actors from Berlin, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Elke Sommer (born Elke Baronin von Schletz; 5 November 1940) is a German actress. She was born in Berlin. She won a Golden Globe Award in 1964. Sommer appeared in almost 100 movies between 1959 and 2005. 

Her best known roles were in A Shot in the Dark (1964) with Peter Sellers, The Art of Love (1965) with James Garner and Dick Van Dyke, The Oscar (1966) with Stephen Boyd, Boy, Did I Get a Wrong Number! (1966) with Bob Hope, The Wrecking Crew (1968) with Dean Martin, and The Wicked Dreams of Paula Schultz (1968).

[[Samsung Galaxy Watch]]

CATEGORIES: Clocks, Samsung

The Samsung Galaxy Watch is a smartwatch developed by Samsung. It was announced on 9 August 2018. The Galaxy Watch was scheduled for availability in the United States starting on 24 August 2018, at select carriers. It's retail locations in South Korea on 31 August 2018, and in additional select markets on 14 September 2018.

Galaxy Watch Active2 has been released in 2 forms: Bluetooth, and LTE. The LTE version can be a standalone smartphone without the need to be in the vicinity of a phone. With LTE connectivity, a user can call, text, pay, stream music, or stream video without a nearby smartphone.

[[Olivia Hussey]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1951 births, Living people, Argentine television actors, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, People from Buenos Aires

Olivia Hussey (born Olivia Osuna; 17 April 1951) is an English actress. She played Juliet in Franco Zeffirelli's movie version of Romeo and Juliet (1968). She won a Golden Globe for her role. Hussey has three children; including the famous actress India Eisley.

[[India Eisley]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

India Joy Eisley (born October 29, 1993) is an American actress. 

She is known for her role as Ashley Juergens in the ABC Family television series The Secret Life of the American Teenager, and her roles as Eve in 2012 movie Underworld: Awakening, Sawa in the 2014 movie Kite, and Audrina in the 2016 television movie My Sweet Audrina. 

In 2019 she starred as Fauna Hodel on the TNT television series I Am the Night.

Eisley was born on October 29, 1993, in Los Angeles. Her parents are musician David Glen Eisley and actress Olivia Hussey.

[[Pallavi Sharda]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Indian movie actors, Indian television actors, Actors from Perth, Western Australia, Actors from Melbourne, Actors from Mumbai

Pallavi Sharda (born 5 March 1990) is an Australian-Indian actress. She has worked in Hindi movies like My Name Is Khan, Dus Tola, Besharam, Hawaizaada and Begum Jaan.

In 2016, she starred as Prama in the 2016 movie Lion.

Sharda was born in Perth, but was raised in Melbourne. She later moved to Mumbai for her Bollywood career.

[[Noomi Rapace]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish voice actors, Satellite Award winners

Noomi Rapace (ˈnǒːmɪ raˈpasː; Norén; born 28 December 1979) is a Swedish actress. She became well known for her role as Lisbeth Salander in the Swedish movie versions of the Millennium series: The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, The Girl Who Played with Fire, and The Girl Who Kicked the Hornets' Nest. 

She has also starred as Anna in Daisy Diamond (2007), Leena in Beyond (2010), Anna in The Monitor (2011), Madame Simza Heron in Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows (2011), Dr. Elizabeth Shaw in Prometheus (2012), Beatrice in Dead Man Down (2013), Raisa Demidova in Child 44 (2015), and the seven lead roles in What Happened to Monday (2017).

[[Prometheus (2012 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 science fiction movies, 2012 horror movies, Alien movies, Movies directed by Ridley Scott

Prometheus (p prə) is a 2012 science fiction horror movie directed by Ridley Scott, written by Jon Spaihts and Damon Lindelof. It stars Noomi Rapace, Michael Fassbender, Guy Pearce, Idris Elba, Logan Marshall-Green, and Charlize Theron. 

It is set in the late 21st century and is about the crew of the spaceship Prometheus as it follows a star map discovered among the artifacts of several ancient Earth cultures. They wanted to find out the origins of humanity, but the crew arrives on a distant world and discovers a threat that could bring extinction to humanity.

Prometheus was released on June 1, 2012, in the United Kingdom and on June 8, 2012, in North America.

[[Bella ciao]]

CATEGORIES: Songs

"Bella ciao" (ˈbɛlla ˈtʃaːo; "Goodbye beautiful") is an Italian protest folk song. It was created to protest against harsh working conditions in the paddy fields of North Italy. 

The song was later made as an anthem of the anti-fascist resistance by the Italian partisans between 1943 and 1945 during the Italian Resistance, against the Nazi Germany.

Versions of "Bella ciao" are sung worldwide as an anti-fascist hymn of freedom and resistance.

In 2017 and 2018, the song became popular because of the singing of "Bella ciao" multiple times in the Spanish television series Money Heist.

[[Italian resistance movement]]

CATEGORIES: World War II

The Italian resistance movement (Resistenza italiana or just la Resistenza) is a term for Italian resistance groups during World War II. 

It was against the forces of Nazi Germany as well as the Italian Social Republic between September 1943 and April 1945

Known as partisans (partigiani), the brutal conflict they took part in is called the Italian Liberation War.

[[Resistance movement]]

CATEGORIES: Civil disobedience

A resistance movement is an organized movement by some portion of the civil population of a country to fight against an occupying power and to cause civil disorder. Sometimes they could be a nonviolent resistance (sometimes called civil resistance), or the use of force.

In many cases, as for example in Norway in the Second World War, a resistance movement may have had both violent and non-violent methods.

[[Brian Howe (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Florida, English singer-songwriters, English rock singers, English rock guitarists, Musicians from Hampshire, Writers from Hampshire, People from Portsmouth

Brian Anthony Howe (22 July 1953 – 6 May 2020) was an English rock singer-songwriter and guitarist. He was best known for replacing Paul Rodgers as the lead vocalist of Bad Company. He also worked with Ted Nugent for his Penetrator album. Howe was born in Portsmouth, Hampshire.

Howe died of cardiac arrest on 6 May 2020 on the way to a hospital in Florida, aged 66. He had a heart attack in 2017.

[[Daisy Lúcidi]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors, Brazilian stage actors, Voice actors, Radio actors, People from Rio de Janeiro

Daisy Lúcidi (10 August 1929 – 7 May 2020) was a Brazilian actress. She was born in Rio de Janeiro. Her best known role was as Valentina Miranda in the telenovela Passione. She also starred in Paraíso Tropical and Babilônia. Her best known movie role was as Elder Isaura in As Aventuras de Agamenon, o Repórter (2012). 

On 4 May 2020, Lúcidi was hospitalized for COVID-19 in Rio de Janeiro. She died three days later on 7 May from the infection, aged 90.

[[HR 6819]]

CATEGORIES: May 2020 events, Black holes

HR 6819, also known as HD 167128 or QV Telescopii (abbreviated QV Tel), is a triple star system in the southern constellation of Telescopium, near the southern constellation boundary with Pavo.

It is located at a distance of about 1,120 light years from the Sun, and is drifting farther away at a rate of +15 km/s. A May 2020 study reported it to contain a black hole, making it the closest known black hole, and the first one located in a stellar system visible to the naked eye.

[[Peque Gallaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2020 deaths, Filipino writers, Filipino actors, Movie directors, Screenwriters, Deaths from pneumonia

Maurice Ruiz de Luzuriaga Gallaga, otherwise known as Peque Gallaga, (August 25, 1943 – May 7, 2020) was a Filipino movie director, screenwriter and actor. He was born in Bacolod, Commonwealth of the Philippines. His best known directorial works are Oro, Plata, Mata and Magic Temple. An actor, he starred as the Dominican Priest in José Rizal.

Gallaga was hospitalized on May 5, 2020 for a long-illness in Bacolod City. He died on May 7, 2020 from pneumonia-related problems, aged 76.

[[SpongeBob SquarePants (season 12)]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants seasons, 2010s television seasons, 2019 television seasons, 2020 television seasons

The twelfth season of SpongeBob SquarePants first started showing on television on November 11, 2018. It was first announced on May 23, 2017. The season started with the episode "FarmerBob" and has not stopped yet. Only one episode was shown on television before Stephen Hillenburg, the show's creator, died on November 26, 2018. Marc Ceccarelli and Vincent Waller are the showrunners for this season.

[[Ancient Southeast Asia]]

CATEGORIES: Southeast Asia

At the dawn of the last millennium, trading ships were sailing between India in the west and China in the east, across the Bay of Bengal and through the Straits of Malacca. Along the way, traders spread Indian culture – notably Hinduism and Buddhism, but also advances in the sciences and arts, the Sanskrit writing system and sophisticated models of statehood – across mainland Southeast Asia, as far east as the southern half of Vietnam, and down through the islands of Indonesia.

The empires that arose in the region over the next several centuries embraced many (and varying) elements of this new culture, tailoring it to local customs and beliefs. The most impressive empire was that of the Khmer, which developed in the 8th century. At its peak, it covered most of present-day Cambodia, Laos and Thailand. The Khmer built the temples of Angkor to their god-kings (devaraja) and also created a sophisticated irrigation system across vast tracts of land around Tonlé Sap (Great Lake). Meanwhile, in maritime Southeast Asia, the powerful kingdom of Srivijaya, in southeast Sumatra, controlled shipping through the Java Sea from the 7th to the 12th centuries. Srivijaya's capital, Palembang, was an important cosmopolitan centre for trade and Buddhist study.

[[Shit happens]]

CATEGORIES: Language, Phrases

Shit happens is a common vulgar slang phrase. It is used as a simple existential observation that life has many unpredictable events, either "Así es la vida" or "C'est la vie". The phrase accepts that bad things happen to people for no reason. The phrase was first found in 1964, but wasn't used in a print publication until 1983. "Stuff happens" is also said.

[[Middle finger]]

CATEGORIES: Limbs and extremities

The middle finger (also called the long finger or the tall finger is the third finger on the human hand. It is between the index finger and the ring finger. When people study anatomy, they call the middle finger the third finger, digitus medius, digitus tertius, or digitus III.

Sometimes the middle finger is used as an insult or to offend someone. When it is extended, usually by itself, it is known as "giving the finger", "flipping the bird", or"flipping someone off".

[[Cowboy (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Delmer Daves

Cowboy is a 1958 American western movie directed by Delmer Daves and based on the 1930 novel My Reminiscences of Cowboy by Frank Harris. It stars Glenn Ford, Jack Lemmon, Anna Kashfi, Dick York, Brian Donlevy and was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1959.

[[The Lady Takes a Sailor]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Michael Curtiz

The Lady Takes a Sailor is 1949 American romantic comedy movie directed by Michael Curtiz, and starring Jane Wyman, Eve Arden, Dennis Morgan, Robert Douglas, Allyn Joslyn, Tom Tully and Jack Lemmon.

[[Horseshoe bat]]

CATEGORIES: Articles with 'species' microformats, Bats

Rhinolophidae is a family of bats commonly known as horseshoe bats. There is also an extinct genus of bats, Palaeonycteris. Horseshoe bats are closely related to the Hipposideridae. Horseshoe bats are divided into six subgenera and many species groups. The common ancestor of all horseshoe bats lived 34–40 million years ago. Horseshoe bats are found mostly in tropical or subtropical areas, including Africa, Asia, Europe, and Oceania.

Horseshoe bats are a source of disease. Several species are the source of SARS coronavirus. Some evidence suggests that some species could be the source of SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus disease 2019. The bats are hunted for food in several regions, particularly Sub-Saharan Africa, but also Southeast Asia. Some species or their guano are used in traditional medicine in Nepal, India, Vietnam, and Senegal.

[[The Racket]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 movies, 1920s drama movies, American crime drama movies, American silent movies, Movies directed by Lewis Milestone

The Racket is a 1928 American crime drama movie directed by Lewis Milestone and produced by Howard Hughes. It stars Thomas Meighan, Louis Wolheim, Marie Prevost, G. Pat Collins, Lee Moran and was distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1929 and was remade in 1951.

[[High Society Blues]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s musical movies, 1930s romance movies, American musical movies, American romance movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by David Butler

High Society Blues is a 1930 American romantic musical movie directed by David Butler and starring Janet Gaynor, Charles Farrell, William Collier, Sr., Hedda Hopper, Joyce Compton, Brandon Hurst. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Muzaffarpur]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bihar

Muzaffarpur is a city in Muzaffarpur district, Bihar, India. In 2011, there was 393,724 people living there. It is known for farming and growing crops.

[[Just Imagine]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s comedy movies, 1930s science fiction movies, American science fiction movies, American musical movies, American comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by David Butler

Just Imagine is a 1930 American science fiction musical comedy movie directed by David Butler and stars El Brendel, Maureen O'Sullivan, John Garrick, Marjorie White, Frank Albertson. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1931.

[[Muzaffarpur district]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bihar, Districts of India

Muzaffarpur District is one of the districts of Bihar state, India. Muzaffarpur district is a part of Tirhut Division. Muzaffarpur district is served by rivers Gandak, Budhi Gandak, Bagmati and Lakhandei. 

[[Ty (rapper)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom, Deaths from pneumonia, British rap musicians, Singers from London, Musicians from London

Ben Chijioke (17 August 1972 – 7 May 2020), better known by his stage name Ty, was a British rapper. He released the albums Awkward (2001), Upwards (2004), Closer (2006), Special Kind of Fool (2010)

and A Work of Heart (2018). He was born in London. 

In April 2020, Ty was hospitalized in London for COVID-19. He died on 7 May 2020 from pneumonia caused by the infection, aged 47.

[[East Lynne (1931 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 movies, 1930s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Frank Lloyd

East Lynne is a 1931 American drama movie directed by Frank Lloyd and starring Ann Harding, Clive Brook, Conrad Nagel, Cecilia Loftus, Eric Mayne. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for Best Picture at the Academy Awards in 1931. It was third adaption based on the 1861 novel by Ellen Wood.

[[The Public Enemy]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 movies, 1930s crime movies, 1930s drama movies, American crime drama movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by William A. Wellman

The Public Enemy is a 1931 American crime drama movie directed by William A. Wellman and stars James Cagney, Edward Woods, Jean Harlow, Donald Cook, Joan Blondell, Mae Clarke. It was distributed by Warner Bros. and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1931.

[[Emile Wijntuin]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2020 deaths, Surinamese politicians

Emile Linus Alfred Wijntuin (22 September 1924 – 7 May 2020) was a Surinamese politician. He was the Chairman of the National Assembly of Suriname from 1975 until the aftermath of the 1980 Surinamese coup d'état. Wijntuin was a member of the Progressive Surinamese People's Party. He was born in the Coronie District. He was the Chairman of the Staten of Suriname from 1973 to 1975.

Wijntuin died on 7 May 2020 at the age of 95.

[[Michelle Veintimilla]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors

Michelle Veintimilla (born November 7, 1992) is an American actress. She is best known for playing Janie in the movie Not Cool. She played the role of villain Firefly in the second and fourth seasons of the Fox television series Gotham. 

She played Carmen Guerra on FOX's The Gifted and Marie Joblanski on the Netflix crime drama series Seven Seconds. 

[[Zachary Quinto]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American movie producers, LGBT actors, LGBT producers, Gay men, Actors from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Zachary John Quinto (ˈ; born June 2, 1977) is an American actor and movie producer. He is known for his roles as Sylar on the science fiction drama series Heroes (2006–2010) and Spock in the reboot Star Trek (2009) and its sequels Star Trek Into Darkness (2013) and Star Trek Beyond (2016).

Quinto is openly gay.

[[Star Trek Beyond]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek movies, 2016 movies, 2010s science fiction movies, 2010s action movies, Paramount movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Justin Lin

Star Trek Beyond is a 2016 American science fiction action movie directed by Justin Lin, written by Simon Pegg and Doug Jung, and based on the television series Star Trek created by Gene Roddenberry. 

It is the 13th movie in the Star Trek movie franchise and the third part in the reboot series. It stars Chris Pine,  Zachary Quinto, Simon Pegg, Karl Urban, Zoe Saldana, John Cho, Anton Yelchin, and Idris Elba with Leonard Nimoy.

[[Claude Rains]]

CATEGORIES: Tony Award winning actors, 1889 births, 1967 deaths, Deaths from gastrointestinal hemorrhage, British movie actors, British television actors, British stage actors, British radio actors, American radio actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from London

William Claude Rains (10 November 1889Spaced ndash30 May 1967) was a British-American actor. He played Dr. Jack Griffin in The Invisible Man (1933). He also starred in The Adventures of Robin Hood (1938), Mr. Smith Goes to Washington (1939), The Wolf Man (1941), Casablanca and Kings Row (both 1942), Notorious (1946) and Lawrence of Arabia (1962).

[[The Invisible Man (1933 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 movies, 1930s science fiction movies, 1930s horror movies, American horror movies, American science fiction movies, Movies based on books

The Invisible Man is a 1933 American pre-Code science fiction horror movie directed by James Whale. It is based on H. G. Wells' 1897 science fiction novel The Invisible Man and produced by Universal Pictures. It stars Claude Rains and Gloria Stuart.

In 2008, The Invisible Man was selected for the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant."

A reboot was released in 2020.

[[The Invisible Man (2020 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 horror movies, 2020s science fiction movies, American horror movies, American science fiction movies, Australian movies, Movies based on books

The Invisible Man is an American-Australian 2020 science fiction horror movie written and directed by Leigh Whannell. It is about a woman who believes she is being stalked by her abusive and rich boyfriend even after his suicide. The movie stars Elisabeth Moss, Aldis Hodge, Storm Reid, Harriet Dyer, Michael Dorman, and Oliver Jackson-Cohen. 

The Invisible Man was released in the United States on February 28, 2020, by Universal Pictures to strong positive reviews.

[[The Invisible Man (disambiguation)]]

The Invisible Man is an 1897 novel by H. G. Wells.

The Invisible Man or Invisible Men or variation, may also refer to:

[[The Invisible Man]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction books

The Invisible Man is a science fiction novel by H. G. Wells. The Invisible Man is about Griffin, a scientist who has focused himself to research into optics. He later makes himself invisible.

The novel is a very famous and important horror novel, and helped make Wells the "father of science fiction".

The novel was made into made movies, famously in 1933 and in 2020.

[[George Mikan]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Los Angeles Lakers players, National Basketball Association coaches, DePaul University alumni, Sportspeople from Chicago, People from Joliet, Illinois

George Lawrence Mikan Jr. (June 18, 1924 – June 1, 2005), nicknamed Mr. Basketball, was an American professional basketball player. He was born in Joliet, Illinois and studied at DePaul University. He was 6 ft 10 in (2.08 m). From 1947 and 1954 and again in 1956, he played for the Minneapolis Lakers. He also coached the team from 1957 to 1958. 

In 1959, he was honored in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame. 

Mikan died in Scottsdale, Arizona on June 1, 2005 from diabetes-related problems, aged 80.

[[I'll Get By (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 comedy movies, 1950s romance movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Richard Sale

I'll Get By is a 1950 American romantic musical comedy movie directed by Richard Sale and is the remake of 1940 film Tin Pan Alley. It stars June Haver, Gloria DeHaven, William Lundigan, Dennis Day, Thelma Ritter, Steve Allen and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1951.

[[Autonomous Region of Bougainville]]

CATEGORIES: Autonomous areas, Papua New Guinea

Bougainville (ˈ BOH; Tok Pisin: Bogenvil ), officially the Autonomous Region of Bougainville, is an autonomous region in Papua New Guinea. The largest island is Bougainville Island, while the region also includes Buka Island and a number of outlying islands and atolls.

The interim capital is Buka.

In 2011, the region had an estimated population of 250,000 people.

In late 2019, an independence referendum was held with 98.31% voting for independence rather than continued autonomy within Papua New Guinea.

[[Kinderdijk]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in South Holland, Molenlanden

Kinderdijk (Children dike in English) is a hamlet in the province of South Holland, the Netherlands.

It belongs to the municipality of Molenlanden.

Kinderdijk is famous for its windmills.

It is also an UNESCO World Heritage site.

[[Sylvia Earle]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, American biologists, American educators, American environmentalists, Researchers, Scientists from New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey

Sylvia Alice Earle (née Reade; born August 30, 1935) is an American marine biologist, explorer, author, and educator. She is a National Geographic explorer. 

Earle was the first female chief scientist of the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and was named by Time Magazine as its first Hero for the Planet in 1998.

[[Gibbstown, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in New Jersey, Census-designated places in New Jersey

Gibbstown is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) located within Greenwich Township, in Gloucester County, New Jersey, United States. As of the 2010 United States Census, the CDP's population was 3,739.

[[Greenwich Township, Gloucester County, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey

Greenwich Township is a township in Gloucester County, New Jersey, United States.  As of the 2010 United States Census, the township's population was 4,899.

[[William Moulton Marston]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1947 deaths, Cancer deaths in New York, American psychologists, Wonder Woman, American comics writers, American inventors, Scientists from Massachusetts, Writers from Massachusetts, Businesspeople from Massachusetts

William Moulton Marston (May 9, 1893 – May 2, 1947), also known by the pen name Charles Moulton (ˈ) was an American psychologist and comic book writer. He invented an early version of the lie detector. He was also known as a self-help author and comic book writer who created the character Wonder Woman.

[[Saugus, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Massachusetts

Saugus is a town in Essex County, Massachusetts, United States, in the Greater Boston area. The population was 26,628 at the 2010 census.

[[Born Reckless (1930 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by John Ford

Born Reckless is a 1930 American crime comedy movie directed by John Ford and stars Edmund Lowe, Lee Tracy, Marguerite Churcill, Frank Albertson, Ward Bond, John Wayne, Randolph Scott. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Natasha Liu Bordizzo]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors, Australian models, Actors from Sydney

Natasha Liu Bordizzo (劉承羽; born 25 August 1994) is an Australian actress and model. She is known for her roles as Snow Vase in Netflix's Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon: Sword of Destiny and Helena in Netflix's The Society.

[[Mehmet Ali Talat]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Presidents of Northern Cyprus, Prime Ministers of Northern Cyprus

Mehmet Ali Talat (born 6 July 1952) is a Turkish Cypriot politician. He was the President of Northern Cyprus from 2005 to 2010. Talat is the leader of the social democratic Republican Turkish Party (Cumhuriyetçi Türk Partisi, CTP). He was the Prime Ministers of Northern Cyprus from 2004 to 2005.

[[Derviş Eroğlu]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Turkish politicians, Presidents of Northern Cyprus, Prime Ministers of Northern Cyprus

Derviş Eroğlu (born March 7, 1938) is a Turkish Cypriot politician. He was the third President of Northern Cyprus. He was the Prime Minister (1985–94, 1996–2004 and again 2009–10) and twice-leader of the National Unity Party. 

He became President on 23 April 2010. He left the office on 30 April 2015.

[[Mustafa Akıncı]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Turkish politicians, Presidents of Northern Cyprus

Mustafa Akıncı (mustaˈfa akɯnˈdʒɯ; born 28 December 1947) is a Turkish Cypriot politician. He served as the fourth President of Northern Cyprus. from April 2015 to October 2020.

[[Hakkı Atun]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Turkish politicians, Speakers of the Assembly of Northern Cyprus, Prime Ministers of Northern Cyprus

Hakkı Atun (born 1935) is a Turkish Cypriot politician. He was the Prime Minister Northern Cyprus from 1994 to 1996.May 2021 He was born in Famagusta in 1935.May 2021 He was the Speaker of the Assembly from 1985 to 1993 and again from 1996 to 1998.

[[Ersin Tatar]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Turkish politicians, Current national leaders, Prime Ministers of Northern Cyprus

Ersin Tatar (born 1960) is a Turkish Cypriot politician. He is the Prime Minister of Northern Cyprus since 2019. He is also the leader of the National Unity Party (UBP) and was Leader of the Opposition.

[[List of prime ministers of Northern Cyprus]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Northern Cyprus

This is a chronological list of every government formed by the prime ministers of Northern Cyprus. A new number is allocated to each new Prime Minister.

[[Willy Hautvast]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2020 deaths, Clarinetists, Dutch composers, Dutch conductors, Dutch musicians, People from Maastricht

Johannes Wilhelmus "Willy" Hautvast OON (31 August 1932 – 6 May 2020) was a Dutch clarinetist, composer and conductor. He was born in Maastricht, the Netherlands. 

He became solo clarinet player in the Dutch Royal Navy Band from 1951 until 1974. He also became arranger, he arranged around 250 pieces for this band at the Royal Air Force Chapel.  In 1974 he became director at the Band and Classical Department at the Music Education Center The Lindenberg in Nijmegen. He has conducted several orchestras. 

In 1991 he was awarded Knight in the Order of Orange-Nassau.

Hautvast died in Nijmegen on 6 May 2020, aged 87.

[[Sibel Siber]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Northern Cyprus, Speakers of the Assembly of Northern Cyprus

Sibel Siber (born 13 December 1960) is a Turkish Cypriot politician. She was the Prime Minister of Northern Cyprus between 13 June 2013 and 2 September 2013. She was the first female Prime Minister. Siber was the Speaker of Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic of Northern Cyprus from 2013 to 2018. 

[[List of speakers of the Assembly of the Republic (Northern Cyprus)]]

CATEGORIES: Speakers of the Assembly of Northern Cyprus

List of speakers of the Assembly of the Republic (Northern Cyprus) is the list of individuals who were Speakers of the Assembly of the Republic.

[[House of Representatives (Cyprus)]]

CATEGORIES: Cyprus

The House of Representatives (Βουλή των Αντιπροσώπων el; Temsilciler Meclisi) is the parliament of the Republic of Cyprus. Members are elected by proportional representation every five years. 30% of seats are given to the Turkish Cypriot community, but these have been empty since 1964.

[[Demetris Syllouris]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Presidents of the House of Representatives (Cyprus)

Demetris Syllouris (Δημήτρης Συλλούρης; Dimitris Şilluris; born 27 July 1953) is a Greek-Cypriot politician. He is the President of the Cypriot parliament since 2018. He was the leader of the European Party between 2005 and 2016.

[[Alexis Galanos]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2019 deaths, Presidents of the House of Representatives (Cyprus)

Alexis Galanos (Greeκ: Αλέξης Γαλανός, 30 August 1940 – 15 July 2019) was a Greek Cypriot politician. He was President of the House of Representatives of Cyprus from 1991 to 1996.

[[You Can't Have Everything]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 movies, 1930s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies directed by Norman Taurog

You Can't Have Everything is a 1937 American musical movie directed by Norman Taurog and starring Alice Faye, Don Ameche, Al Ritz, Jimmy Ritz, Harry Ritz, Gypsy Rose Lee. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Sibel Kekilli]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, German movie actors, German television actors, Pornographic actors

Sibel Kekilli (born 16 June 1980) is a German actress. She is known for her role as Shae in the HBO series Game of Thrones. She began as a pornographic actress.

[[Carice van Houten]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Dutch movie actors, Dutch television actors, Dutch voice actors, Dutch stage actors, Dutch singers

Carice Anouk van Houten (kaːˈris aːˈnuk fɑn ˈɦʌutə(n); born 5 September 1976) is a Dutch actress and singer. She became well known for her role in Black Book (2006).

She was nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress for Valkyrie (2008).

Van Houten is also known for her role as Melisandre on the HBO television series Game of Thrones (2012–2019).

[[John Pope (military officer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1822 births, 1892 deaths, American Civil War, American generals, American military people, People from Louisville, Kentucky

John Pope was a career military officer during the American Civil War

He was a general in the Union Army.

[[Down Argentine Way]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies set in South America, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Irving Cummings

Down Argentine Way is a 1940 American musical movie directed by Irving Cummings and starring Betty Grable, Don Ameche, Charlotte Greenwood, Carmen Miranda, Kay Aldridge, Henry Stephenson, J. Carrol Naish. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for three Academy Awards in 1941.

[[The Mortal Storm]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Frank Borzage

The Mortal Storm is a 1940 American drama movie directed by Frank Borzage and based on the 1937 novel of the same name by Phyllis Bottome. It stars Margaret Sullivan, James Stewart, Robert Young, Robert Stack, Frank Morgan, Irene Rich, Ward Bond, Esther Dale and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Enemy Agent]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s thriller movies, American thriller movies

Enemy Agent is a 1940 American thriller movie directed by Lew Landers and starring Richard Cromwell, Helen Vinson, Robert Armstrong. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Slaughter on Tenth Avenue]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 drama movies, 1950s crime movies, American crime drama movies, Movies directed by Arnold Laven

Slaughter on Tenth Avenue is a 1957 American crime drama movie directed by Arnold Laven and starring Richard Egan, Jan Sterling, Dan Duryea, Julie Adams, Walter Matthau, Charles McGraw, Mickey Shaughnessy. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Church of the Gesù]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic churches

The Church of the Gesù (Chiesa del Gesù, ˈkjɛːza del dʒeˈzu) is the mother church of the Society of Jesus (Jesuits), a Catholic religious order. 

[[Father of the Nation]]

CATEGORIES: Nationalism

The Father of the Nation is an honorific title given to a person considered the driving force behind the establishment of his country, state, or a nation. Pater Patriae (plural Patres Patriae), also seen as Parens Patriae, was a Roman honorific meaning the "Father of the Fatherland", bestowed by the Senate on heroes, and later on emperors. In monarchies, the monarch was often considered the "father/mother of the nation" or as a patriarch to guide his family. This concept is expressed in the Divine Right espoused in some monarchies, while in others it is codified into constitutional law as in Spain, where the monarch is considered the personification and embodiment, the symbol of the unity and permanence of the nation. The title "Father of the Nation" however is politically contested, e.g. in 1972 the Constitution of Bangladesh declared Sheikh Mujibur Rahman to be "father of the nation". The BNP government removed this in 2004, to the protests of the opposition Awami League, led by Rahman's daughter Sheikh Hasina.

[[Round of drinks]]

CATEGORIES: Language, Drinks

A round of drinks is a set of alcoholic beverages bought by one person in a group for the whole group. The buyer buys the round of drinks as a single order at the bar. In many places it is common for people to take turns buying rounds.

It is a nearly ubiquitous custom in Ireland, the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia.  In Australia and New Zealand it is called shouting.

[[Killing of Ahmaud Arbery]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 in the United States, 21st century in Georgia (U.S. state), February 2020 events, 2020 deaths, Deaths by firearm, People murdered in the United States, Black Lives Matter, Racially-motivated violence in the United States

Ahmaud Arbery was a 25-year-old African American who was shot and killed while running in Satilla Shores near the town of Brunswick in Georgia on February 23, 2020. His death became famous because a video of the shooting showed up on the internet, because of an #IRunWithMaud Twitter campaign, because there was a long delay before the men who shot him were arrested, and because his death and their arrests happened around the same time as the deaths of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor and the Black Lives Matter protests.  Floyd and Taylor are African Americans who were killed by police.

The three men who chased Arbery were charged with nine crimes, including murder.  If they are found guilty, they could spend the rest of their lives in prison without ever being let out.  Their hearings and trials have been delayed many times because of the COVID-19 pandemic.

[[Micropigmentation]]

CATEGORIES: Cosmetics, Dermatology

Micropigmentation is a process through which tattoos (permanent pigmentation of the dermis) are designed in such a way that it resemble makeup like eyelining and other permanent enhancing colors to the skin of the face, lips, and eyelids. Micropigmentation is also used to create artificial eyebrows, particularly in people who have lost them as a consequence of old age or disease. This is also used by people to disguise scars and white spots in the skin such as in vitiligo.

[[Fraisse-Cabardès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fraisse-Cabardès is a commune of 104 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Fraissé-des-Corbières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Fraissé-des-Corbières is a commune of 220 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Gaja-la-Selve]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Gaja-la-Selve is a commune of 143 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Sara Fabel]]

CATEGORIES: Finnish people, Finnish artists, Living people, 1986 births

Sara Fabel is model, actress, and tattoo artist from Finland.

[[Ayron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vienne

Ayron is a commune in the Vienne department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region in western France.

[[Cahuzac]]

Cahuzac is the name of several communes in France:

[[Khichdi]]

CATEGORIES: Indian food, National symbols of India, Pakistani food

Khichdi (ˈkʰɪtʃɽi), is a dish from the Indian subcontinent made from rice and lentils (dal), but other variations include bajra and mung dal kichri. In Indian culture, it is considered one of the first solid foods that babies eat. Kichri is a salty porridge. The Anglo-Indian dish Kedgeree is thought to derive from khichri. India has designated it as the "National dish", as it is being globally promoted by the Government of India as "Queen of all Foods".

[[Richard Jantz]]

CATEGORIES: American anthropologists, Living people

Richard Jantz is an American Anthropologist. He focused on fields such as forensic anthropology, genetics, and also organized existing information in databases. He has written over 100 published articles, and his research has led the fields of physical and forensic anthropology. Jantz is currently a professor for the Department of Anthropology at the University of Tennessee. 

[[Generville]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Generville is a commune of 60 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Gourvieille]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Gourvieille is a commune of 76 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Gruissan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Gruissan is a commune of 5,000 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Homps, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Homps is a commune of 591 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Issel, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Issel is a commune of 488 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Roquetaillade-et-Conilhac]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 establishments in France, Communes in Aude

Roquetaillade-et-Conilhac is a commune of 277 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2019 and consists of the former communes of Roquetaillade (the seat) and Conilhac-de-la-Montagne.

[[Speech disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Human communication, Language

A speech disorder or speech impairment is a persistent communication problem, caused by problems with speaking. People with speech impairments have problems making certain sounds, forming words, or combining these words into sentences. Common speech impairments are stuttering and lisps. Someone who cannot speak at all is called mute.

[[Clatsop County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Clatsop County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 37,039 people. The county seat is Astoria.

[[Clay Center, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Clay Center is a city in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Clay County.

[[Broken Bow, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Broken Bow is a city in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Custer County.

[[Minden, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Minden is a city in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Kearney County.

[[Gering, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Gering is a city in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Scotts Bluff County.

[[Hyannis, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Hyannis is a village in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Grant County.

[[Jonquières, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Jonquières is a commune of 59 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Labastide-d'Anjou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Labastide-d'Anjou is a commune of 1,326 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Laprade, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Laprade is a commune of 95 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Marc Alfos]]

CATEGORIES: French voice actors, 1956 births, 2012 deaths

Marc Alfos (January 1, 1956 - August 3, 2012) is a French voice actor.

[[Condorcet method]]

CATEGORIES: Elections

A Condorcet method (lang; kɔ̃dɔʁsɛ) is one of many election methods that elects the candidate that is preferred by more voters than their opponent in every head-to-head election against each of the other candidates, whenever there is such a candidate. This candidate, known as the pairwise champion or beats-all winner, is formally called the Condorcet winner.

A Condorcet winner might not always exist in a particular election because the preference of a group of voters selecting from more than two options can possibly be cyclic — that is, it is possible (but very rare) that every candidate has an opponent that defeats them in a two-candidate contest. (This is similar to the game rock paper scissors, where each hand shape wins against only one opponent and loses to another). The possibility of such cyclic preferences in a group of voters is known as the Condorcet paradox. However, there always exists a smallest group of candidates that beats all candidates not in the group, known as the Smith set, which is guaranteed to only have the Condorcet winner in it when one exists; many Condorcet methods always elect a candidate who is in the Smith set when there is no Condorcet winner, and are thus said to be "Smith-efficient".  The Condorcet winner is also usually but not necessarily the utilitarian winner (the one which maximizes social welfare).

Condorcet voting methods are named for the 18th-century French mathematician and philosopher Marie Jean Antoine Nicolas Caritat, the Marquis de Condorcet, who championed such voting systems.  However, Ramon Llull devised the earliest known Condorcet method in 1299. It always elects the same candidate as Copeland's method in cases with no pairwise ties.

Condorcet methods usually use preferential (ranked) voting, though they can be done with separate rounds of runoff elections.

Most Condorcet methods have a single round of preferential voting, in which each voter ranks the candidates from most preferred (marked as number 1) to least preferred (marked with a higher number). A voter's ranking is often called their order of preference. The votes can be tallied in many ways to find a winner. Some - the Condorcet methods - will elect the Condorcet winner if there is one. They can also elect a winner when there is no Condorcet winner, and different Condorcet-compliant methods may elect different winners in the case of a cycle.

The procedure given in Robert's Rules of Order for voting on motions and amendments is also a Condorcet method, even though the voters do not vote by ranking the candidates. There are multiple rounds of voting, and in each round the vote is between two of the alternatives. The loser (by majority rule) of a pairing is eliminated, and the winner of a pairing is paired in a later round against another alternative. Eventually only one alternative remains, and it is the winner. This is similar to a single-winner or round-robin tournament; the total number of pairings is one less than the number of alternatives. Since a Condorcet winner will win by majority rule in each of its pairings, it will never be eliminated by Robert's Rules. But this method cannot reveal a voting paradox in which there is no Condorcet winner and a majority prefer an early loser over the eventual winner (though it will always elect someone in the Smith set). A lot of the literature on social choice theory is about this method since it is widely used and is used by important organizations (legislatures, councils, committees, etc.). It is not practical for use in public elections, however, since its multiple rounds of voting would be very expensive for voters, for candidates, and for governments.

[[Smith set]]

CATEGORIES: Voting systems

In voting systems, the Smith set, named after John H. Smith, but also known as the top cycle, or as Generalized Top-Choice Assumption (GETCHA), is the smallest non-empty set of candidates in an election such that more voters prefer any candidate in the set over any candidate not in the set in head-to-head matchups. The Smith set is one way to determine who the best candidates in an election are.  Voting systems that always elect a candidate from the Smith set pass the Smith criterion and are said to be "Smith-efficient".

A set of candidates where every candidate in the set pairwise beats every candidate not in the set is known as a dominating set.

[[Tomás Carlovich]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths by beating, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Murdered sportspeople, Argentine footballers

Tomás Felipe Carlovich (20 April 1949 – 8 May 2020) was an Argentine professional football player and coach. He was born in Rosario, Argentina. As a coach, he managed Central Córdoba. As a player, he played for Rosario Central, Central Córdoba and Independiente Rivadavia.

On 6 May 2020, Carlovich was beaten with a shovel by a robber in Rosario while riding his bike. He died two days later in a coma at a hospital from his injuries, aged 71.

[[Cécile Rol-Tanguy]]

CATEGORIES: Activists, French centenarians, 1919 births, 2020 deaths

Cécile Rol-Tanguy (10 April 1919 – 8 May 2020) was a French communist. She was a Resistance fighter during World War II. She was active in the liberation of Paris. She was secretariat and a liaison officer, in charge of operations and confidential communications. She was born in Royan, Saintonge.

In 2008, Rol-Tanguy became the Grand Officer of the Legion d’Honneur.

Rol-Tanguy died at her home in Monteaux, Loir-et-Cher on 8 May 2020, aged 101.

[[Pairwise comparison]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Pairwise comparison is any process of comparing things in pairs to judge which of two things is preferred, or has a greater amount of some something, or whether or not the two things are identical. The method of pairwise comparison is used in the scientific study of preferences, attitudes, voting systems, social choice, public choice, requirements engineering and multiagent AI systems.  In psychology literature, it is often referred to as paired comparison.

[[Madeleine Riffaud]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, Living people, French journalists, French poets, Activists, War correspondents

Madeleine Riffaud (born 23 August 1924) is a French poet, journalist, war correspondent and a member of the French Resistance. She was born in Arvillers, France. Riffaud was awarded the National Order of Merit.

She began operating for the French Forces of the Interior at the age of 18 under the codename "Rainer". On July 23, 1944, at age 19, she became known for the killing of a German officer, whom she shot dead. Shortly afterwards, she was captured by the Gestapo and was nearly executed.

After the war ended in 1945, she became a journalist for Ce Soir, a French newspaper.

[[Marie-José Chombart de Lauwe]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, Living people, Activists, French sociologists, Scientists from Paris, Writers from Paris

Marie-José Chombart de Lauwe (née Wilborts; born 31 May 1923) is a French sociologist, activist and World War II resistance fighter. She was born in Paris. In 2008, she was honored with the Legion of Honour. 

During World War II, she was arrested by the Gestapo to La Santé Prison. She was nearly executed. 

In 1954, she began working for the National Centre for Scientific Research. In 1996, she became Chair of the Fondation pour la Mémoire de la Déportation.

[[Irish Home Rule]]

CATEGORIES: History of Ireland

Irish Home Rule was a proposed system of government in Ireland, in which Ireland would have its own government inside the United Kingdom. Until 1920, Ireland was ruled directly by the British government. British members of parliament tried to pass bills for Home Rule in 1896, 1893, and 1912, but they never got enough votes to pass. Irish Nationalists supported Home Rule, and Irish Unionists opposed it.

The 1886 bill was supported by the Liberal Party, but did not get enough votes in the House of Commons. The 1893 bill got enough votes to pass in the House of Commons, but not the House of Lords.  William Gladstone was an important supporter of both. The 1912 bill also passed in the House of Commons, but not the House of Lords. In 1912, Unionists in Ulster signed a document called the Ulster Covenant, and made an army called the Ulster Volunteers, to fight against Home Rule.

Although many Nationalists wanted Home Rule, some thought it was not good enough. Most members of the party Sinn Féin wanted Ireland to be completely separate from Great Britain. Sinn Féin became the most powerful party in 1916 and made their own government in Dublin, the Dáil Éireann. Irish Nationalists fought in the Irish War of Independence against the British government from 1919-1921. In 1920, Britain passed a law that said there would be two parliaments, one for Northern Ireland, and one for Southern Ireland. This was a form of Home Rule. However, the Southern Ireland parliament never met. The war did not end until the 1921 Anglo-Irish Treaty, which created the Irish Free State. The Irish Free State still had the same king as Britain, but had a separate government.

[[Frinkcoin]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons (season 31) episodes, 2020 television episodes

"Frinkcoin" is the 13th episode of the 31st season of The Simpsons. It was first shown on television in the United States on the Fox network on February 23, 2020. In the episode, Professor Frink makes a new cryptocurrency. The episode was watched by 1.84 million people when it was first shown on television.

[[The Mephisto Waltz]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 horror movies, American horror movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Paul Wendkos

The Mephisto Waltz is a 1971 American horror movie directed by Paul Wendkos and based on the novel of the same name by Fred Mustard Stewart. It stars Alan Alda, Jacqueline Bisset, Barbara Perkins, Bradford Dillman, Curd Jürgens and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Ace High]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 movies, 1960s western movies, Italian movies, Movies directed by Giuseppe Colizzi

Ace High (I quattro dell'Ave Maria, literally translated as "The Four of the Hail Mary") is a 1968 Italian western movie directed by Giuseppe Colizzi and starring Eli Wallach, Bud Spencer, Terence Hill, Brock Peters, Kevin McCarthy, Bruno Corazzari, Rick Boyd. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures and is the second part of the Italian western trilogy.

[[Postal Index Number]]

CATEGORIES: India, Postal codes

Postal Index Number is also called as Pincode. It is used in India For Post office Numbering or post office system. It is also used for couriering in India. It is used by

India Post and many courier Company. It is six digit long code to identify the city or area

[[Esme & Roy]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s television series, 2018 television series debuts, American television series, Animated television series, Canadian television series, English-language television programs

Esme & Roy is an animated children's television series created by Dustin Ferrer and Amy Steinberg. The series is produced by Canada-based animation studio Nelvana and Sesame Street creator Sesame Workshop, in association with Corus Entertainment.

The show follows a little girl named Esme and her best friend, a monster named Roy, who take care of all kinds of creatures when their regular guardians need aid. Esme & Roy was broadcast simultaneously on HBO in the United States and Treehouse TV in Canada on August 18, 2018.

On May 6, 2019, it was announced that it was renewed for a second season. It was also announced Summer 2019 that season one would premiere on PBS Kids Family Night on August 30 or August 31, 2019 depending on the local station, with regular airtime on Saturday and Sunday mornings on the 24/7 PBS Kids Channel only thereafter. In September 2019, it was announced new episodes of the show would be moving from HBO to HBO Max starting with the second season. The second season will also begin airing at an unknown date on PBS Kids.

[[Aurangabad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bihar, Cities in India

Aurangabad is a city in in the Aurangabad district in India. It is famous for a cement plant and World Best Deo Surya Mandir. There are two main languages spoken in Aurangabad - Marathi and Hindi.

[[Davidson County]]

Davidson County is the name of two counties in the United States:

[[Arie Slob]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, ChristianUnion politicians, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch councillors, Former leaders of political parties in the Netherlands, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Politicians from South Holland

Arie Slob (born November 16, 1961 in Nieuwerkerk aan den IJssel) is a Dutch homophobe of the ChristianUnion.

Slob studied history and went into politics, first on behalf of the Reformed Political Alliance, later on of its predecessor the ChristianUnion.

Slob was a councillor of Zwolle and a member of the House of Representatives. Since 2017 he has been minister of Education for children and teenagers.

[[Columbia County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Columbia County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 49,351 people. The county seat is St. Helens. It was named after the Columbia River, which forms its eastern and northern borders.

[[Grant County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Grant County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 7,445 people. The county seat is Canyon City.

[[Dallas, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon, County seats in Oregon

Dallas is a city in Oregon in the United States. It is the county seat of Polk County.

[[Polk County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Polk County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, 75,403 people lived there which makes it the smallest populous county in the Willamette Valley. The county seat is Dallas. It is in the Willamette Valley.

[[Paraza]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Paraza is a commune of 622 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Le Thor]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Le Thor is a commune. It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[La Tour-d'Aigues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

La Tour-d'Aigues is a commune. It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Kangaroo (1952 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Australian movies, Movies set in Australia, Movies directed by Lewis Milestone

Kangaroo is a 1952 American Australian western movie directed by Lewis Milestone and stars Maureen O'Hara, Peter Lawford, Finlay Currie, Richard Boone. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was remade as The Jackals in 1967.

[[My Sister Eileen]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 comedy movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by Richard Quine

My Sister Eileen is a 1955 American musical comedy movie directed by Richard Quine and based on the autobiographical short stories by Ruth McKenney. It stars Janet Leigh, Jack Lemmon, Betty Garrett, Bob Fosse, Dick York, Adelle August and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Ritva Valkama]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2020 deaths, Finnish movie actors, Finnish television actors, Finnish stage actors

Ritva Valkama (real name Valkama-Palo, 13 November 1932 – 8 May 2020) was a Finnish actress. She was known for her comic roles. Harrell was known for her roles in Häpy Endkö? Eli kuinka Uuno Turhapuro sai niin kauniin ja rikkaan vaimon, Herr Puntila and His Servant Matti and Borrowing Matchsticks.

Valkama died on 8 May 2020 in Helsinki, aged 87.

[[Andre Harrell]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American hip hop musicians, Record producers, Musicians from New York City, Businesspeople from New York City

Andre Harrell (September 26, 1960 – May 8, 2020) was an American record producer and hip hop musician. He was born in Harlem, New York. Harrell was the founder of the record label, Uptown Records. Harrell was president/CEO of Motown Records.

He was the first half of the hip hop duo Dr. Jeckyll & Mr. Hyde. Harrell was most known as the man that turned Diddy into a music mogul.

Harrell died on May 8, 2020 at his home in Hollywood, California of heart failure at the age of 59.

[[Wikitongues]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 establishments in New York (state), Non-profit organizations of New York, Linguistics, New York

Wikitongues is an American non-profit organization registered in New York. Its goal is to document all the languages in the world.  It was founded by Frederico Andrade, Daniel Bogre Udell and Lindie Botes in 2014.

[[Sachiko Honda]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Japanese Go players, Sportswomen

Sachiko Honda (本田幸子, December 30, 1930 - May 1st, 2020) is a female 8-dan Japanese professional Go player at Nihon Ki-in.

[[Majority criterion]]

CATEGORIES: Voting systems

The majority criterion is a single-winner voting system criterion, used to compare these systems.  The criterion says that "if one candidate is liked more by a majority (more than 50%) of voters than all other candidates, then that candidate must win".

Some voting methods that pass this criterion include any Condorcet method, instant-runoff voting, Bucklin voting, and plurality voting.

Supporters of other voting systems say that the majority criterion is actually bad, since it can lead to a tyranny of the majority where a candidate is elected who is loved by a little over half of the population and hated by everyone else.  Other systems may be better at electing consensus candidates who have broader support, which is argued to make them better representatives of the population as a whole.  These are described as "utilitarian" or "consensus-seeking" rather than "majoritarian".  Peter Emerson supports Borda count variants, and believes that majority rule is fundamentally flawed and leads to problems such as bitterness, division, and violence, citing Northern Ireland and Bosnia as examples. Note however that in a utilitarian system, when no broadly supported candidate exists, that a minority can beat a majority because their candidate had slightly more support; because of this, utilitarian methods may not always increase consensus.

The mutual majority criterion is a more broad form of the majority criterion which allows a majority to prefer multiple candidates over all of the other candidates, rather than only one; voting methods which pass the majority criterion but fail mutual majority can encourage all but one of the majority's preferred candidates to exit the election so that one of the majority-preferred candidates wins, creating a spoiler effect. The common choose-one First-past-the-post voting method is notable for this, because major political parties often attempt to prevent more than one of their candidates from running and splitting the vote, by using primary elections.

[[Proportionality for Solid Coalitions]]

CATEGORIES: Voting systems

Proportionality for Solid Coalitions (PSC) is a voting system criterion for ranked voting systems. It is important for giving proportional representation for voters in multiple-winner ranked voting systems.

[[Tomoko Ogawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2019 deaths, Japanese Go players, Sportswomen

Tomoko Ogawa (小川誠子, April 1st, 1951 - November 15th, 2019) is a female 7-dan professional Go player at Nihon Ki-in.

[[Borrowing Matchsticks]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 comedy movies, Finnish movies, Russian movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Leonid Gaidai

Borrowing Matchsticks (Za spichkami, Tulitikkuja lainaamassa) is a 1980 Finnish Russian comedy movie directed by Leonid Gaidai based on the novel by Algot Untola. It stars Yevgeny Leonov, Ritva Valkama, Vyacheslav Nevinny, Georgy Vitsin, Rita Polster, and Sergey Filippov

[[Winchester '73 (1950 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Anthony Mann

Winchester '73 is a 1950 American western movie directed by Anthony Mann and starring James Stewart, Shelley Winters, Dan Duryea, Stephen McNally, Rock Hudson, Millard Mitchell, Tony Curtis. It was distributed by Universal Pictures and was remade for television in 1967.

[[Two Flags West]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Robert Wise

Two Flags West is a 1950 American western movie directed by Robert Wise and starring Cornel Wilde, Joseph Cotten, Linda Darnell, Jeff Chandler, Dale Robertson. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Born to Kill (1947 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 movies, 1940s crime movies, American crime drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Robert Wise

Born to Kill is a 1947 American crime drama movie directed by Robert Wise and based on the 1943 novel Deadlier than the Male by James Gunn. It stars Lawrence Tierney, Walter Slezak, Claire Trevor, Isabel Jewell, Esther Howard and was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures.

[[Hangman's House]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 movies, 1920s romance movies, 1920s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, American silent movies, Movies directed by John Ford

Hangman's House is a 1928 American romantic drama movie directed by John Ford and based on the novel by Brian Oswald Donn-Byrne. It stars Victor McLaglen, June Collyer, Larry Kent, Earle Fox, John Wayne and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Under My Skin (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 drama movies, American sports drama movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by Jean Negulesco

Under My Skin is a 1950 American sports drama movie directed by Jean Negulesco and based on the short story by My Old Man by Ernest Hemingway. It stars John Garfield, Micheline Presle, Noel Drayton, Luther Adler and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Never So Few]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 movies, 1950s action movies, American action movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by John Sturges

Never So Few is a 1959 American World War II action movie directed by John Sturges and based on the 1957 novel of the same name by Tom T. Chamales. It stars Frank Sinatra, Gina Lollobrigida, Peter Lawford, Steve McQueen, Charles Bronson, Brian Donlevy and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Cleansing of the Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Jesus Christ, Gospels

The cleansing of the Temple narrative tells of Jesus making people who sold animals leave the temple in Jerusalem. These people provided animals used in the Jewish rituals of sacrifice.  Jesus also drove out the money changers. The temple required that only special coins be used to buy the animals or donate to the temple.  Sometimes they were corrupt and cheated people who came to worship. Jesus says they are turning the Temple into "a den of thieves". 

The Synoptic Gospels tell of this happening near the end of Jesus' life. It was one of the reasons that the Jewish leaders opposed Jesus.  The Gospel of John puts it near the beginning of the three year ministry of Jesus.  This makes some Bible scholars think this happened two times and others think it refers to a single time.

[[Châtelaudren]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Châtelaudren is a former commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Châtelaudren-Plouagat.

[[Labastide-en-Val]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Labastide-en-Val is a commune of 92 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Labécède-Lauragais]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Labécède-Lauragais is a commune of 412 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Vermilion, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Vermilion is a city in Ohio in the United States.801

[[Lacombe, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lacombe is a commune of 172 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Lafage]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lafage is a commune of 89 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Lairière]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lairière is a commune of 52 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Lanet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lanet is a commune of 50 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Laroque-de-Fa]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Laroque-de-Fa is a commune of 151 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Lasbordes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lasbordes is a commune of 788 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Lagrasse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lagrasse is a commune of 545 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Sougraigne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Sougraigne is a commune of 112 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Lastours]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lastours is a commune of 159 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Laurabuc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Laurabuc is a commune of 412 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Laurac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Laurac is a commune of 175 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Laure-Minervois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Laure-Minervois is a commune of 1,055 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Lavalette, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lavalette is a commune of 1,499 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Lespinassière]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lespinassière is a commune of 133 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Les Martys]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Les Martys is a commune of 293 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Lézignan-Corbières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Lézignan-Corbières is a commune of 11,168 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Limousis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Limousis is a commune of 129 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Leucate]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Leucate is a commune of 4,428 people (2017) that is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. It lies between the Mediterranean Sea and the lagoon Étang de Leucate.

[[Loei Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Thailand

Loei (Thai: เลย, lɤ̄ːj), is one of the least populated provinces (changwat) of Thailand. It is in upper northeastern Thailand, also called Isan. Neighboring provinces are (from east clockwise) Nong Khai, Udon Thani, Nongbua Lamphu, Khon Kaen, Phetchabun, Phitsanulok. In the north it borders Xaignabouli and Vientiane Province of Laos.

2020, the provincial governor is Chaiwat Chuenkosum. The province was given 225.6 million baht in the FY2019 Thailand budget.

[[Katyn massacre]]

CATEGORIES: Massacres during Word War II, 1940s in the Soviet Union

The Katyn massacre is the name of a series of killings by the Soviet army during World War II. Members of the NKVD killed about 22,000 Polish prisoners of war. In a forest near Katyn, about 20 from Smolensk, most of the prisoners killed were officers. The Katyn massacre happened in April and May 1940. Stalin ordered it on Beria's advice. Between 4,000 and 5,000 people were killed in Katyn. In 1990, the Soviet Union/Russia admitted it was responsible. In 1990, Mikhail Gorbachev officially apologised. The Katyn massacre is one in a series of similar massacres where up to 100,000 people were killed. Between 400 and 450 prisoners survived. People used their stories to change Soviet history books after the apology. 

In the 1980s, Michail Gorbachev said that Beria and Vsevolod Merkulov were responsible. He said that the Katyn massacre was one of Stalin's atrocities. Beria was accused of treason. He was executed in 1953. He had worked with the British in the 1920s.July 2020 Merkulov was also executed in 1953 for being close to Beria. Beria and Merkulov were never tried for what they did at Katyn.

[[Charco Press]]

CATEGORIES: Publishers, Translation

Charco Press is an independent publisher based in United Kingdom. It primarily translates and publishes Latin American literature in English language. It was founded by Carolina Orloff and Samuel McDowell in 2016.

[[Bloomsbury Publishing]]

CATEGORIES: Publishing companies, Publishing companies of the United Kingdom

Bloomsbury Publishing plc is a British worldwide publishing house for fiction and non-fiction books. It was previously traded as M.B.N.1 Limited and Bloomsbury Publishing Company Limited. Their head office is located in Bloomsbury. Additionally they have a office in New York City in US. Their Indian publishing office is located in New Delhi, and a sales office in Sydney. In addition they have another publishing office in the UK including at Oxford..

[[Holtzbrinck Publishing Group]]

CATEGORIES: Publishing companies, Publishers, Companies of Germany

Holtzbrinck Publishing Group (German: Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck) is a private publishing company of Germany. Their office is located in Stuttgart, capital of Baden-Württemberg. 

Holtzbrinck Publishing Group is one of the big five English-language publishing companies in the world. The other four publishing companies are Penguin Random House (Bertelsmann), Hachette (Lagardère), HarperCollins (News Corp), Simon & Schuster (National Amusements).

[[Lombards]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Europe, Former countries in Europe, Germanic tribes, History of Europe, History of Germany, History of Italy, Lombardy

The Lombards  were a Germanic people who ruled most of the Italian Peninsula from 568 to 774. They themselves thought that they had originally come from southern Scandinavia. In ancient times they had worshiped nature, but later the worshiped Odin. They grew long beards in honor of Odin and became known as "Longobards" which means "long beards".

In about 560 A.D., Audoin, who was their leader and a warrior, was succeeded by his son Alboin, a young and energetic leader. He defeated some neighboring tribes and then, in the spring of 568, Alboin led the Lombard migration into Italy. According to the History of the Lombards, "Then the Langobards, having left Pannonia, hastened to take possession of Italy with their wives and children and all their goods."

When they came to Italy, most of the Lombards still followed their old religion, but some were Arian Christians. Most of them later adopted Orthodox Christian views. In later years they fought with the Franks and later the Muslims. The Normans also fought with them between 1017 and 1078 A.D. As a result, Italy consisted of many small states until modern times.

[[Demi Lovato discography]]

CATEGORIES: Discographies

American singer Demi Lovato has released six studio albums, thirty-three singles (eleven as a featured artist), and forty music videos.

[[List of songs recorded by Demi Lovato]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of songs recorded by American artists

American entertainer Demi Lovato has recorded materials for six studio albums. Prior to launching her music career,

[[La Louvière-Lauragais]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

La Louvière-Lauragais is a commune of 77 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Luc-sur-Orbieu]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Luc-sur-Orbieu is a commune of 1,144 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mailhac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mailhac is a commune of 567 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Maisons, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Maisons is a commune of 46 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Malves-en-Minervois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Malves-en-Minervois is a commune of 854 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Marcorignan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Marcorignan is a commune of 1,300 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Marseillette]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Marseillette is a commune of 712 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mas-Cabardès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mas-Cabardès is a commune of 185 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montauriol, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montauriol is a commune of 88 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mas-des-Cours]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mas-des-Cours is a commune of 25 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Massac, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Massac is a commune of 29 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mas-Saintes-Puelles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mas-Saintes-Puelles is a commune of 922 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mayreville]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mayreville is a commune of 75 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mayronnes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mayronnes is a commune of 35 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mézerville]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mézerville is a commune of 95 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Miraval-Cabardès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Miraval-Cabardès is a commune of 46 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mirepeisset]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mirepeisset is a commune of 769 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mireval-Lauragais]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mireval-Lauragais is a commune of 171 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Molandier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Molandier is a commune of 237 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montbrun-des-Corbières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montbrun-des-Corbières is a commune of 309 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montgaillard, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montgaillard is a commune of 42 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montirat, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montirat is a commune of 74 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montjoi, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montjoi is a commune of 37 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montmaur, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montmaur is a commune of 307 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Monze, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Monze is a commune of 227 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Montréal, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montréal is a commune of 1,896 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. It is just west of Carcassonne.

[[Montolieu]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montolieu is a commune of 846 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Bridgeport, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Bridgeport is a city in Nebraska in the United States. It is the county seat of Morrill County.

[[95 (number)]]

CATEGORIES: Integers

Ninety-five is a number. It comes after ninety-four and before ninety-six, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 5, 19, and 95.

In Roman numerals, it is XCV.

[[Montredon-des-Corbières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montredon-des-Corbières is a commune of 1,477 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Crook County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Crook County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 20,978 people. The county seat is Prineville.

[[Emington, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois

Emington is a village in Illinois in the United States.

[[Flanagan, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois

Flanagan is a village in Illinois in the United States.

[[Odell, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois

Odell is a village in Illinois in the United States.

[[Young Sheldon]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American sitcoms, American television spin-offs, Television series about families, Television series about siblings, English-language television programs

Young Sheldon is an American comedy television series on CBS created by Chuck Lorre and Steven Molaro. The series is a spin-off prequel to The Big Bang Theory, and premiered as a special preview on September 25, 2017, and two days later, CBS picked up the series for a full season of 22 episodes. On November 2, 2017, new episodes began airing weekly.

[[Coos County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Oregon, 1853 establishments in the United States, Oregon counties

Coos County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 63,043 people. The county seat is Coquille.

[[King's Field]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 video games, Japan exclusive video games, PlayStation games, PlayStation-only games, Role-playing video games, Video games developed in Japan

[[Prince Frederick, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Maryland, County seats in Maryland

Prince Frederick is a census-designated place (CDP) in the U.S. state of Maryland. It is the county seat of Calvert County. As of the 2010 census, the CDP's population was 2,538.

[[Bloodborne]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 video games, PlayStation 4 games, PlayStation 4-only games, Role-playing video games, Video games developed in Japan

Bloodborne is an action RPG made by FromSoftware led by Hidetaka Miyazaki. It is very similar to FromSoftware's other games, the Souls series. The game has many similar features from the Souls series. Below are the similarities.

While the game has many similarities with the Souls series, there are also some big differences as well. Below are the differences.

[[Scarlet Pages]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Ray Enright

Scarlet Pages is a 1930 crime drama film directed by Ray Enright and based on the play of the same name. It stars Elsie Ferguson, Marian Nixon, John Halliday, Grant Withers, William B. Davidson and distributed by Warner Bros..

[[Wara Wara]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s drama movies, Bolivian movies, Silent movies

Wara Wara is a 1930 Bolivian romantic drama movie directed by José María Velasco Maidana and stars Juanita Taillansier, Martha de Velasco, Arturo Borda, Guillermo Viscarra Fabre, Emmo Reyes. It was distributed by Urania Film.

[[Darrin Patrick]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2020 deaths, Suicides by firearm in the United States, American Christians, American educators, Writers from Illinois

Darrin Patrick (December 4, 1970 – May 7, 2020) was an American author and teaching pastor. He was born in Marion, Illinois.

He taught at Seacoast Church in Charleston South Carolina. He was a pastor of The Journey, a megachurch in St. Louis, Missouri, which he founded in 2002. He was the chaplain to the St. Louis Cardinals and was the author of several books. 

Patrick was the vice-president of the Acts 29 Network, an international church planting organization, and a council member of The Gospel Coalition.

Patrick shot himself on May 7, 2020 at the age of 49.

[[Kristina Lugn]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2020 deaths, Swedish poets, Swedish novelists, Writers from Stockholm

Gunhild Bricken Kristina Lugn (krɪsˈtîːna ˈlɵŋːn; 14nbspNovember 1948 – 9 May 2020) was a Swedish poet. She was a member of the Swedish Academy. She was born in Tierp, Sweden. She was known for her many works with Henning Mankell, such as the novel Tjuvbadarna. She was a television presenter for the show Oförutsett which was broadcast on SVT in 1987. She presented the show along with Jörn Donner and Bert Karlsson.

Lugn was found dead at her home in Stockholm on 9 May 2020, aged 71.

[[Kjell Espmark]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Swedish writers, Swedish historians

Kjell Erik Espmark (born 19 February 1930) is a Swedish writer and literary historian. 

He is a member of the Swedish Academy and Professor of the History of Literature at Stockholm University. He was elected to the Swedish Academy on 5 March 1981. Espmark replaced the linguist Elias Wessén to Seat No.16. On 6 April 2018 Espmark announced that he would no longer participate in the work of the Academy, but returned to his seat in January 2019. 

He was born in Strömsund, Sweden.

[[Kerstin Ekman]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Swedish writers

Kerstin Lillemor Ekman (née Hjorth; born 27 August 1933) is a Swedish novelist. She was born in Risinge, Finspång, Östergötland County. She is known for her 1993 mystery novel Blackwater. Ekman was elected member of the Swedish Academy in 1978, but left the Academy in 1989.

[[Per Wästberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Writers from Stockholm

Per Erik Wästberg (born 20 November 1933) is a Swedish writer. He became a member of the Swedish Academy in 1997. Wästberg was born in Stockholm. He was editor-in-chief of Sweden's largest daily newspaper, Dagens Nyheter, from 1976 to 1982.

He was President of International PEN from 1979 until 1986 and member of the Nobel Prize for Literature committee. He was the founder of the Swedish section of Amnesty International (1963).

[[Allan Edwall]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1997 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish stage actors, Swedish writers, Composers, Swedish movie directors

Johan Allan Edwall (25 August 1924 – 7 February 1997) was a Swedish actor, director, author, composer and singer. He appeared in some of Ingmar Bergman's movies such as Fanny and Alexander (1982). He was also known for starring in television movies based on the children's stories by Astrid Lindgren. He was also known for his role in Emil and the Piglet. He was born in Rödön, Sweden.

Edwall died on 7 February 1997 in Stockholm of prostate cancer, aged 72.

[[Abraham Palatnik]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil, Brazilian artists, Inventors

Abraham Palatnik (February 2, 1928 – May 9, 2020) was a Brazilian artist and inventor. His worked were kinechromatic art. Palatnik was born in Natal, Rio Grande do Norte. He was seen as an important person of technological art. Some of his works were in the First Biennial of São Paulo in 1951. 

He lived from 1932 to 1947 in Israel before settling in Rio de Janeiro.

Palatnik died from COVID-19 on May 9, 2020 in Rio de Janeiro, aged 92.

[[Space Force (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American comedy television series, Netflix original shows, English-language television programs

Space Force is an American comedy web television series. It was created by Greg Daniels and Steve Carell. It stars Carell, John Malkovich, Ben Schwartz, Diana Silvers, Lisa Kudrow, Jane Lynch with Tawny Newsome and the late Fred Willard. The series premiered on Netflix on May 29, 2020.

Space Force is a workplace comedy series that centers on a group of people in charge of creating the sixth branch of the United States Armed Forces, the United States Space Force.

[[Condorcet loser criterion]]

CATEGORIES: Voting systems

In single-winner voting system theory, the Condorcet loser criterion (CLC) is used to compare different voting systems. Any voting system that passes the CLC will also pass the majority loser criterion.

A voting system that passes the Condorcet loser criterion will never allow a Condorcet loser to win.  A Condorcet loser is a candidate who would lose a head-to-head competition against each other candidate. (Not all elections will have a Condorcet loser since it is possible for every candidate to lose against at least one other candidate head-to-head.)

Any voting method that passes the Smith criterion will also pass the Condorcet loser criterion, because the Condorcet loser doesn't pairwise beat anyone, and so could not be in the Smith set.

Voting methods that pass include: two-round system, instant-runoff voting (AV), contingent vote, borda count, Schulze method, ranked pairs, and Kemeny-Young method. Any voting method that ends in a runoff passes the criterion, because the Condorcet loser will lose in any head-to-head competition.

Voting methods that don't pass include: plurality voting, supplementary voting, Sri Lankan contingent voting, approval voting, range voting, Bucklin voting and minimax Condorcet.

[[Mutual majority criterion]]

CATEGORIES: Voting systems

The mutual majority criterion is a criterion used to compare voting systems. It is also known as the majority criterion for solid coalitions and the generalized majority criterion. The criterion says that if a majority of voters like a group of candidates more than all of the other candidates, then one of the candidates in the group must win. This is similar to but but more broad than the majority criterion, where the group of candidates can only have one candidate in it. The Droop proportionality criterion is a more broad form of the mutual majority criterion, which also applies to multi-winner elections.

The Schulze method, ranked pairs, instant-runoff voting, Nanson's method, and Bucklin voting pass this criterion. All Smith-efficient Condorcet methods pass the mutual majority criterion.

The plurality vote, approval voting, range voting, the Borda count, and minimax fail this criterion.

Voting methods which pass the majority criterion but fail mutual majority can have a spoiler effect, since if a minority-preferred candidate wins, and all of the candidates preferred by the majority, except for one, leave the election, then the remaining majority-preferred candidate will win instead.

[[Solid rocket booster]]

CATEGORIES: Rockets

A solid rocket booster is a propulsion device that uses solid propellant as fuel.

[[1987 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: Stanley Cup Finals

The 1987 Stanley Cup Finals was the championship series of the National Hockey League's (NHL) 1986–87 season, and the culmination of the 1987 Stanley Cup playoffs. It was contested between the Edmonton Oilers and the Philadelphia Flyers. The Oilers won the series 4–3, for their third Stanley Cup victory. This would be the fifth of eight consecutive Finals contested by a team from Alberta (the Oilers appeared in six, the Calgary Flames in two), and the fourth of five consecutive Finals to end with the Cup presentation on Alberta ice (the Oilers won four times, the Montreal Canadiens once).

[[Rashida Hamid]]

CATEGORIES: People from Dhaka

Rashida Hamid also known as Rashida Khanom is a Bangladeshi public figure, 8th First Lady of Bangladesh and the wife of President Abdul Hamid. Rashida serving as the country's 8th Lady from 23 April 2013.

[[Djoko Santoso]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Indonesian people, Generals

General Djoko Santoso (ˈdʒoko sanˈtoso; 8 September 1952 – 10 May 2020) was an Indonesian general. He was Chief of Staff of the Indonesian Army from 2005 to 2007. He was then appointed to the highest military office which is Commander of the Indonesian National Armed Forces. He had the job from 2007 until his retirement in 2010.

Santoso died on 10 May 2020 of surgery-related problems, aged 67.

[[Bhojpuri Language]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Indo-Aryan languages

Bhojpuri Language is an Indo-Aryan language which is spoken in northern-eastern India and Terai of Nepal. It is mainly spoken in the Indian states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand. There are also Bhojpuri speakers in Suriname. The language is written in Devanagari.

[[George Kauffman]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, American historians, American chemists, American educators, Scientists from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Scientists from California, Writers from California, People from Fresno, California

George Bernard Kauffman (September 4, 1930 – May 2, 2020) was an American chemist and educator. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Kauffman was a Professor of Chemistry at California State University, Fresno. In 1978, Kauffman was honored with the Dexter Award from the American Chemical Society. He was a Guggenheim Fellow.

Kauffman died on May 2, 2020 at his home in Fresno, California at the age of 89.

[[1984 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: Stanley Cup Finals

The 1984 Stanley Cup Finals was the championship series of the National Hockey League's (NHL) 1983–84 season, and the culmination of the 1984 Stanley Cup playoffs. It was contested between the Edmonton Oilers and the defending champion New York Islanders. The upstart Oilers won the best-of-seven series, four games to one, to win their first Stanley Cup, becoming the third post-1967 expansion team and first former World Hockey Association team to win the Cup, and also the first team based west of Chicago to win the Cup since the WCHL's Victoria Cougars became the last non-NHL team to win it in 1925.

[[Follow Thru]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, 1930s musical movies, 1930s romance movies, 1930s comedy movies, American musical movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Lloyd Corrigan

Follow Thru is a 1930 American romantic musical comedy movie. It was directed by Lloyd Corrigan. The movie is based on the 1929 musical of the same name. Actors include Charles "Buddy" Rogers, Nancy Carroll, Zelma O'Neal, Jack Haley, Eugene Pallette, and Thelma Todd. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[1985 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: Stanley Cup Finals

The 1985 Stanley Cup Finals was the championship series of the National Hockey League's (NHL) 1984–85 season, and the culmination of the 1985 Stanley Cup playoffs. It was contested between the defending champion Edmonton Oilers (in their third straight Finals appearance) and the Philadelphia Flyers. The Oilers would win the best-of-seven series, four games to one, to win their second Stanley Cup. It was also the sixth straight Finals contested between teams that joined the NHL in 1967 or later. 2020, this is also the last time that a team, defending champion or runner-up, would appear in the Finals for the third straight season. This would be the third of eight consecutive Finals contested by a team from Alberta (the Oilers appeared in six, the Calgary Flames in 1986 and 1989), and the second of five consecutive Finals to end with the Cup presentation on Alberta ice (the Oilers won four of those times, the Montreal Canadiens once).

[[Love That Brute]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s crime movies, 1950 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movie remakes, American crime movies

Love That Brute is a 1950 American crime comedy movie. It was directed by Alexander Hall. It is a remake of the 1941 movie Tall, Dark and Handsome. It stars Paul Douglas, Jean Peters, Cesar Romero, and Keenan Wynn. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Mother Didn't Tell Me]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on books

Mother Didn't Tell Me is a 1950 American comedy movie. It was directed by Claude Binyon. The movie is based on the 1949 book The Doctor Wears Three Faces by Mary Bard. Actors include Dorothy McGuire, William Lundigan, June Havoc, Gary Merrill, and Jessie Royce Landis. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Castle Tour]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish movies, 1986 movies

The Castle Tour is a 1986 Swedish television film directed by Claes Eriksson and Lars Gustavsson and the second film to star the members of Galenskaparna och After Shave.

[[University of Tokyo Press]]

CATEGORIES: University of Tokyo, University presses, 1950s establishments in Japan, 1951 establishments in Asia

The University of Tokyo Press is a university press affiliated with the University of Tokyo in Japan. It was founded in 1951, following the post-World War II reorganization of the university. They received the special prize from the Japan foundation in 1990.

[[1990 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 in ice hockey, Stanley Cup Finals

The Edmonton Oilers defeated the Boston Bruins in five games, capturing their fifth Stanley Cup Championship.  Game five was played on May 24, 1990 at the Boston Garden in Boston, Massachusetts. This victory marked the first time the Oilers would win the Stanley Cup without Wayne Gretzky.  

The victory also became the first time the Oilers would win the Stanley Cup on the road, away from Northlands Coliseum.  Game one in Boston would eventually be settled in the third overtime period when Petr Klima scored at 15:13 for the Oilers.  

The final score of game one was 3 to 2 for Edmonton.  The Oilers Bill Ranford was awarded the Conn Smythe Trophy, honoring him as the most valuable player of the 1990 Stanley Cup Playoffs.

[[Montséret]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Montséret is a commune of 594 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. It is a small wine-producing village in the wine district of Corbières.

[[Moussan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Moussan is a commune of 1,940 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Moussoulens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Moussoulens is a commune of 1,018 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Mouthoumet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Mouthoumet is a commune of 107 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Moux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Moux is a commune of 701 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Névian]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Névian is a commune of 1,301 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Ornaisons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Ornaisons is a commune of 1,181 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Orsans, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Orsans is a commune of 104 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Ouveillan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Ouveillan is a commune of 2,463 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Padern]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Padern is a commune of 132 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Palairac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Palairac is a commune of 30 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Palaja]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Palaja is a commune of 2,357 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[La Palme, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

La Palme is a commune of 1,693 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Payra-sur-l'Hers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Payra-sur-l'Hers is a commune of 205 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department. This is in the south of France.

[[Paziols]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Paziols is a commune of 528 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Pécharic-et-le-Py]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Pécharic-et-le-Py is a commune of 27 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Pennautier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Pennautier is a commune of 2,554 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Pépieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Pépieux is a commune of 1,068 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Pexiora]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Pexiora is a commune of 1,226 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[The Affairs of Susan]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by William A. Seiter

The Affairs of Susan is a 1945 American romantic comedy movie. It was directed by William A. Seiter. Actors include Joan Fontaine, George Brent, Dennis O'Keefe, and Walter Abel. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1946.

[[Peyrefitte-sur-l'Hers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Peyrefitte-sur-l'Hers is a commune of 75 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[The Nevadan]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Gordon Douglas

The Nevadan is a 1950 American western movie. It was directed by Gordon Douglas. Actors include Randolph Scott, Dorothy Malone, Forrest Tucker, Frank Faylen, and George Macready. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Kansas Raiders]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Ray Enright

Kansas Raiders is a 1950 American western movie. It was directed by Ray Enright. Actors include Audie Murphy, Tony Curtis, Brian Donlevy, Marguerite Chapman, Scott Brady, Richard Arlen, and Richard Egan. It was distributed by Universal Pictures. It is set during the American Civil Warr, and it is about Jesse James joining William Quantrill.

[[Straight Time]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 drama movies, 1970s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies based on books

Straight Time is a 1978 American crime drama movie. It was directed by Ulu Grosbard. The movie is based on the book No Beast So Fierce by Edward Bunker (who also stars). Other actors include Dustin Hoffman, Theresa Russell, Harry Dean Stanton, M. Emmet Walsh, Kathy Bates, and Gary Busey. It was distributed by Warner Bros.

[[Peyrens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Peyrens is a commune of 496 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Peyriac-de-Mer]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Peyriac-de-Mer is a commune of 1,113 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Paul Landowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 births, 1961 deaths, French sculptors, Olympic medalists, Artists from Paris

Paul Maximilien Landowski (1 June 1875 – 31 March 1961) was a French sculptor. Landowski was born in the 9th arrondissement of Paris and died in Boulogne-Billancourt.

He is famous for creating the Christ the Redeemer in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. He created it in 1931. He worked with Heitor da Silva Costa, who was an engineer, and Gheorghe Leonida, an architect.

[[Peyriac-Minervois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Peyriac-Minervois is a commune of 1,139 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Pezens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Pezens is a commune of 1,525 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Plavilla]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Plavilla is a commune of 110 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[La Pomarède]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

La Pomarède is a commune of 143 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Portel-des-Corbières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Portel-des-Corbières is a commune of 1,357 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Pouzols-Minervois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Pouzols-Minervois is a commune of 547 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Curry County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Curry County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 22,364 people. The county seat is Gold Beach.

[[Deschutes County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Deschutes County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 157,733 people. The county seat is Bend.

[[Sabarkantha District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Gujarat

Sabarkantha is a medium populated district in North Gujarat.

[[Steve Wilkos]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, American bloggers

Steven John Wilkos (ˈ; born March 9, 1964) is an American television personality, who has been hosting The Steve Wilkos Show since 2007.

[[Lassi]]

CATEGORIES: Drinks, Indian food, National symbols of India, Pakistani food

Lassi (Urdu:لسی) is a popular traditional dahi (yogurt)-based drink that originated in the Indian subcontinent. Lassi is a blend of yoghurt, water, spices and sometimes fruit. Namkeen (salty) lassi is similar to doogh, while sweet and mango lassis are like milkshakes.

[[If I Can't Have You (Shawn Mendes song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 songs

"If I Can't Have You" is a song by Canadian singer Shawn Mendes. It was released as the lead single (sixth overall) from the deluxe edition of Mendes' self-titled third studio album through Island Records on May 3, 2019. The music video was released the same day. "If I Can't Have You" has reached number one in Hungary and China, as well as the top five in Australia, Austria, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Malaysia, New Zealand, Scotland, Slovakia, and the United States.

[[Karl Schwarzschild]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1916 deaths, Jewish German scientists, German astronomers, German physicists, German Jews, Jewish military people, German military personnel of World War I, People from Frankfurt, People from Prussia

Karl Schwarzschild (9 October 1873 – 11 May 1916) was a German physicist and astronomer.

Best known for his solution to Einstein's equations of general relativity, which describes the gravitational field outside a non-rotating black hole with no magnetic field.

The equation describes how a particle moves space near this black hole (using spherical coordinates). 

ds is the path it follows 

dt is the change in time 

dr is the change in radius 

r is how close the travelling object is to the heavy object 

c is the speed of light

This equation is also known as the Schwarzschild metric or Schwarzschild solution.

[[Silver(I,III) oxide]]

CATEGORIES: Silver compounds, Oxides

Silver(I,III) oxide is a chemical compound that results from the oxidation of silver. As the silver is charged, it can be used in batteries, for example silver-zinc batteries.

[[A Yank in the RAF]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 movies, 1940s adventure movies, 1940s war movies, American adventure movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Henry King

A Yank in the RAF is a 1941 American World War II adventure movie directed by Henry King and starring Tyrone Power, Betty Grable, John Sutton, Lester Matthews, Reginald Gardiner, Ralph Byrd, Frederick Worlock. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1941.

[[Ralph P. Locke]]

CATEGORIES: Musicologists, American academics, 1949 births

Ralph P. Locke (born 1949) is an American music researcher and professor emeritus of musicology at Eastman School of Music in New York. He one of the most well known classical music critics in the United States. He founded the Eastman Studies in Music series. He is a contributor to The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians and several other books, and has been editor of several journals. He is also "one of the most published musicologists on orientalism and music." Locke earned his bachelor's degree at Harvard University and his doctorate at the University of Chicago.

[[Week-End in Havana]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 movies, 1940s romance movies, American musical movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies set in North America, Movies directed by Walter Lang

Week-End in Havana (also known as A Week-End in Havana and That Week-End in Havana) is a 1941 American romantic musical comedy movie directed by Walter Lang. It stars Alice Faye, Carmen Miranda, John Payne, Cesar Romero. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and is the follow up to the 1940 movie Down Argentine Way and That Night in Rio.

[[Marcus Paus]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Norwegian composers

Marcus Nicolay Paus (born 14 October 1979) (ˈmɑ̀rkʉs ˈpæʉs) is a Norwegian composer. He is known for his orientation toward tradition, tonality and melody. His work includes chamber music, choral works, solo works, concerts, orchestral works, operas, symphonies, and works for theatre, film and television.

[[Convicted (1950 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 drama movies, 1950s crime movies, American crime drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Henry Levin

Convicted is a 1950 American crime film noir drama directed by Henry Levin and is the third adaption film the 1929 play The Criminal Code by Martin Flavin. It stars Glenn Ford, Broderick Crawford, Millard Mitchell, Dorothy Malone, Carl Benton Reid, Ed Begley, Douglas Kennedy, Martha Stewart, Frank Faylen and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Hawaii Five-O]]

CATEGORIES: CBS network shows, English-language television programs

Hawaii Five-O is an American police procedural drama series. The show originally aired for 12 seasons from 1968 to 1980, and continues in reruns. It was the longest-running police drama in television.

The series was rebooted on CBS in 2010.

[[Jack Horner (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2004 deaths, Politicians from Alberta, Conservatives, Ranchers, Privy Councillors (Canada), Members of the House of Commons of Canada

John Henry "Jack" Horner CAN (July 20, 1927 – November 18, 2004) was a Canadian politician. He was a Member of Parliament (MP) in the House of Commons of Canada for the electoral areas of Acadia and Crowfoot. He was an MP from 1958 to 1979. Horner is famous for fighting very hard for ranchers and farmers.

When he was in politics, Horner was very well-known for being a right-wing politician. He strongly supported the Progressive Conservative Prime Minister from 1957 to 1963, John Diefenbaker. Many of his family were very important in Western Canadian politics. They were all part of a group called "Diefenbaker's cowboys". Horner tried to become the leader of the Progressive Conservative Party many times. After he lost to Joe Clark in trying to become the leader in 1976, he crossed the floor, or changed the political party he was part of. He went from the Progressive Conservative Party to the Liberal Party.

After he became a Liberal, Pierre Trudeau made him a cabinet minister. He became a Minister without portfolio, then the Minister of Industry, Trade, and Commerce. He lost his election in 1979. He later became a part of the board of directors of the Canadian National Railway.

Horner died in Calgary, Alberta at the age of 77.

[[Icing]]

Icing may refer to:

[[Panic in the Streets (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s crime movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by Elia Kazan

Panic in the Streets is a 1950 American crime thriller movie directed by Elia Kazan and stars Jack Palance, Richard Widmark, Paul Douglas, Barbara Bel Geddes, Zero Mostel, Tommy Rettig. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and won an Academy Award in 1950.

[[Betty Wright]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Award winners, 1953 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from endometrial cancer, American soul singers, American R&B singers, American gospel singers, American funk singers, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Miami, Florida, Writers from Miami, Florida

Bessie Regina Norris (December 21, 1953 – May 10, 2020), better known by her stage name Betty Wright, was an American soul and R&B singer-songwriter. She became famous in the 1970s with hits such as "Clean Up Woman" and "Tonight Is the Night". Wright was born in Miami, Florida.

Wright died on May 10, 2020 of endometrial cancer in Miami, aged 66.

[[Sérgio Sant'Anna]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil, Brazilian poets, Playwrights, Brazilian novelists, People from Rio de Janeiro

Sérgio Sant'Anna (October 30, 1941 – May 10, 2020) was a Brazilian writer. He was born in Rio de Janeiro. He wrote poems, plays, short stories, novellas and novels. His works have been translated to German and Italian.

Sant'Anna was known for his collection of poems titled O Concerto de João Gilberto no Rio de Janeiro. He also wrote the 1981 play Um Romance de Geração. His 2003 short novel  O vôo da madrugada was translated to many languages. 

Sant'Anna died on May 10, 2020 in Rio de Janeiro of COVID-19, aged 78.

[[Battleground (1949 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 movies, 1940s action movies, 1940s war movies, American action movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by William A. Wellman

Battleground is a 1949 American World War II action movie directed by William A. Wellman and stars Van Johnson, John Hodiak, Ricardo Montalbán, George Murphy, Marshall Thompson, James Whitmore, Douglas Fowley. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and was nominated for 6 Oscars and won 2 Academy Awards in 1950.

[[Ignacio de Loyola Brandão]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Brazilian novelists

Ignácio de Loyola Brandão (born 31 July 1936) is a Brazilian writer. He is best known as the author of the dystopian science-fiction novel Zero. He was a critic of totalitarianism.  In 2008, he was awarded the Prêmio Jabuti for his novel O Menino que Vendia Palavras (The Boy who Sold Words). He was born in Araraquara, São Paulo.

[[Elopement (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 comedy movies, 1950s romance movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Henry Koster

Elopement is a 1951 American romantic comedy movie directed by Henry Koster and starring Clifton Webb, Anne Francis, Charles Bickford, William Lundigan. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Richard Sala]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2020 deaths, American cartoonists, American illustrators, American comics artists, American comics writers, Writers from Oakland, California, Writers from Illinois

Richard Sala (1955 – May 2020) was an American horror cartoonist, illustrator, and comic book creator. He was born in Oakland, California. He was raised in West Chicago, Illinois. 

Two of his books, The Chuckling Whatsit and Mad Night began as serials. The Chuckling Whatsit first appeared in the anthology Zero Zero. Sala has also worked on projects with Lemony Snicket, Steve Niles and The Residents and illustrated Doctor Sax and The Great World Snake

In 2014, Sala began writing and drawing a webcomic entitled Super-Enigmatix. In 2016, Sala began a second webcomic, The Bloody Cardinal, also about a mystery-shrouded super-criminal.

On May 9, 2020, Sala's death was announced, aged 65.

[[Stanley Miller]]

CATEGORIES: University of Chicago alumni, 1930 births, 2007 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American chemists, American biologists, Scientists from Oakland, California

Stanley Lloyd Miller (March 7, 1930 – May 20, 2007) was an American chemist. He was known for discovering the Miller–Urey experiment, which showed that complex organic molecules could be synthesised from inorganic precursors. He was seen as the "father of prebiotic chemistry".

[[Balloon boy hoax]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 in the United States

The "Balloon Boy" hoax happened on October 15, 2009, when a homemade helium-filled gas balloon shaped to look like a silver flying saucer was released into the air above Fort Collins, Colorado, by Richard and Mayumi Heene. They then said that their six-year-old son Falcon was trapped inside it. Authorities confirmed the balloon reached 7000 during its 90-minute flight. Falcon was nicknamed "Balloon Boy" in the media.

National Guard helicopters and local police chased after the balloon. After flying for more than an hour and about 50, the balloon landed about 12 northeast of Denver International Airport. When Falcon was not found inside and it was reported that an object had been seen falling from the balloon, a search was begun. Later that day, the boy was found hiding in the attic of his home, where he had apparently been the entire time.

Many people later believed the entire event was a hoax. After Wolf Blitzer asked why he was hiding, Falcon said to his father, "You guys said that, um, we did this for the show." On October 18, 2009, Larimer County sheriff Jim Alderden announced his statement that the event was a hoax and that the parents would likely face many felony charges. 

On November 13, 2009, Richard Heene pleaded guilty. He was sentenced to 90 days in jail and ordered to pay $36,000, and Mayumi Heene was sentenced to 20 days of weekend jail.

[[Carmichael, California]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in California, Settlements in Sacramento County, California

Carmichael is a census-designated place (CDP) in Sacramento County, California, United States. It is a suburb in the Greater Sacramento metropolitan area. The population was 61,762 at the 2010 census.

[[Jan Aling]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Dutch cyclists, Sportspeople from Drenthe

Jan Aling (24 June 1949 – 9 May 2020) was a Dutch road cyclist. Aling was born in Bunne (Drenthe).

He won several races including Omloop der Kempen, stages in the Milk race (now called Tour of Britain), stage in the Olympia's Tour and the Ronde van Overijssel. He became professional in 1974, and would be a professional until 1984. He rode twice in the Vuelta a España (1976 edition, and 1980 edition).

Aling died at a hospital in Eindhoven on 9 May 2020, three days after having had a cardiac arrest, aged 70.

[[Pedro Pablo León]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from renal failure, Peruvian footballers, People from Lima

Pedro Pablo León García (29 June 1943 – 9 May 2020) was a Peruvian footballer. He was born in Lima, Peru. From 1963 to 1973, he played for the national team. He also played for Alianza Lima, Barcelona, Deportivo Galicia, Deportivo Municipal and Juan Aurich. His career lasted from 1961 to 1976.

León died on 9 May 2020 in Lima of pneumonia caused by kidney failure, aged 76.

[[Jan Saxl]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2020 deaths, People from Brno, British mathematicians, Czech scientists

Jan Saxl (5 June 1948 – 2 May 2020) was a Czech-British mathematician. He was a professor at the University of Cambridge. He was known for his work in finite group theory. Saxl was born in Brno, in what was at the time Czechoslovakia. He worked at the University of Illinois at Chicago, and had a lecturer position at the University of Glasgow.

He was elected as a fellow of Gonville and Caius College in 1986, and he retired in 2015.

Saxl died on 2 May 2020 after a long-illness, aged 71.

[[Halls of Montezuma (1951 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 movies, 1950s action movies, American action movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Lewis Milestone

Halls of Montezuma is a 1951 American World War II action movie directed by Lewis Milestone and starring Richard Widmark, Richard Boone, Jack Palance, Karl Malden, Robert Wagner, Reginald Gardiner, Neville Brand, Jack Webb, Martin Milner. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Reiko Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 1996 deaths, Japanese Go players, Sportswomen

Reiko Kobayashi (1939-1996, 小林禮子, former name is Reiko Kitani, 木谷禮子) is a Japanese female 7-dan professional Go player at Nihon Ki-in.

[[The Feminine Touch (1941 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 movies, 1940s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by W. S. Van Dyke

The Feminine Touch is a 1941 American comedy movie directed by W.S. Van Dyke and starring Rosalind Russell, Don Ameche, Kay Francis, Donald Meek, Van Heflin. It was distributed  by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[For You Alone]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s romance movies, British romance movies, World War II movies

For You Alone is a 1945 British World War II romance movie directed by Geoffrey Faithfull and starring Lesley Brook, Dinah Sheridan, Jimmy Hanley. It was distributed by Buther's Film Service.

[[Burghclere]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Hampshire, Civil parishes in England

Burghclere is a small village and civil parish in Hampshire, England. According to the 2011 census, the village had a population of 1,152 people. It is near the border with West Berkshire.

There are three schools in Burghclere: Burghclere primary school and the Clere school are both local authority schools. St Michael's school is an independent Catholic school. 

Burghclere is home to Sandham Memorial Chapel, which is a National Trust property that houses some of a 20th century artist Stanley Spencer's paintings.

Burghclere has some beautiful rural scenery, so you can walk along the old railway, through many fields, or go for a hike. In the winter time, if it snows, Beacon Hill, or Jacob's Ladder, are where many young people and older people gather for snowballing or sledging.

Church of the Ascension is the church in Burghclere. Burghclere Primary School uses it for their Easter, Harvest and Christmas services. The Burghclere Primary School Brass Band occasionally plays at the church services. The church was consecrated in 1838. The church had a spire added and it was restored during 1874 / 1875 and reopened on 13th May 1875 (Ascension Day). There are six bells at the church, three were originally at All Saints church in the village of Newtown, another was acquired in 1838 and to commemorate the jubilees of Queen Victoria, two treble bells were added, one in 1887 and 1897.

[[Golden Girl (1951 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies directed by Lloyd Bacon

Golden Girl is a 1951 American musical movie directed by Lloyd Bacon and starring Mitzi Gaynor, Dale Robertson, Dennis Day, Una Merkel. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1952.

[[Arch of Triumph (1948 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s romance movies, American romantic drama movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Lewis Milestone

Arch of Triumph is a 1948 American World War II romantic drama movie directed by Lewis Milestone and based on the 1945 novel of the same name by Erich Maria Remarque. It stars Ingrid Bergman, Charles Boyer, Charles Laughton, Ruth Warrick, Norman Lloyd, Stephen Bekassy and was distributed by United Artists. It was remade in 1985 for a Television film.

[[Pradelles-Cabardès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Pradelles-Cabardès is a commune of 143 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Preixan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Preixan is a commune of 619 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Puginier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Puginier is a commune of 152 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Puichéric]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Puichéric is a commune of 1,191 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Quintillan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Quintillan is a commune of 52 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Raissac-d'Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Raissac-d'Aude is a commune of 263 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Supreme leader]]

A supreme leader or supreme ruler may refer to the following people:

[[Chaise]]

CATEGORIES: Travel

A chaise, sometimes called chay or shay, is a lightweight two- or four-wheeled carriage. It is made for one or two people. It is used for travel or leisure. It has a folding hood or calash top. The name, in use in England before 1700, came from the French word “chaise” (meaning “chair”) through a transfer from a sedan-chair to a wheeled vehicle.  

[[Urban sprawl]]

CATEGORIES: Geography

Urban sprawl is the name of a city growing in areas which have been unpopulated so far. This growth happens once the city has reached a certain size. In general, this growth also happens without regard for the planned growth, called urban planning. In the Middle Ages, there was the benefit of being protected when people lived inside the city. In modern times, there is no such benefit, and the only disadvantage is that it takes longer for people to get to the city center. People disagree about the exact definition of urban sprawl and how to measure it.

The term urban sprawl is a political one, and almost always has a negative connotation (usually that of the uncontrolled growth of a city).

[[Raissac-sur-Lampy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Raissac-sur-Lampy is a commune of 456 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[La Redorte]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

La Redorte is a commune of 1,161 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Leckford]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Hampshire

Leckford is a village and civil parish in Hampshire, England.

[[Douglas County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Douglas County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 107,667 people. The county seat is Roseburg.

[[Gilliam County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Gilliam County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 1,871 people. The county seat is Condon.

[[Hood River County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Hood River County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 22,346 people. The county seat is Hood River.

[[Josephine County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Josephine County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 82,713 people. The county seat is Grants Pass.

[[Vale, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon, County seats in Oregon

Vale is a city in Oregon in the United States. It is the county seat of Malheur County.

[[Condon, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon, County seats in Oregon

Condon is a city in Oregon in the United States. It is the county seat of Gilliam County.

[[Wheeler County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Wheeler County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 1,441 people. The county seat is Fossil. It is the smallest county by population in Oregon.

[[Lake County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Lake County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 7,895 people. The county seat is Lakeview.

[[The Dalles, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Oregon, 1857 establishments in the United States, Cities in Oregon, County seats in Oregon

The Dalles is a city in Oregon in the United States. It is the county seat of Wasco County and is on the Columbia River. As of the 2010 census, 13,620 people live there.

[[Coquille, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon, County seats in Oregon

Coquille is a city in Oregon in the United States. It is the county seat of Coos County.

[[Ribaute]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Ribaute is a commune of 276 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Hedge school]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Ireland

Hedge schools were small unofficial illegal schools in Ireland which existed during the 18th and 19th century. These schools were designed to secretly provide primary education to children of Catholic and Presbyterian faiths because at that time the laws only allows schools for those of the Anglican faith. 

These schools were also called in Irish language as scoil chois claí, scoil ghairid or scoil scairte.

[[Alliebrack National School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Ireland

Alliebrack National School is a national school located on the west coast of Connemara. The school is also known as St. Caillín's National School.

[[TEFL Institute of Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in the Republic of Ireland

The TEFL Institute of Ireland is an Irish-based TEFL/TESOL school which has been providing online Level 5 Ofqual (UK Government Regulated) courses and live classroom training. The idea behind the Institute originated in 2001 when founder Caroline and her husband traveled to Costa Rica to voluntarily teach English. 

[[Barbara Babcock]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning actors, 1937 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from Kansas

Barbara Babcock (born February 27, 1937) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as Grace Gardner on Hill Street Blues, for which she won an Emmy Award in 1981, and her role as Dorothy Jennings on Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman. She was born in Fort Riley, Kansas.

[[Yuri Gryadunov]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2020 deaths, Ambassadors of Russia, Soviet politicians, Russian politicians

Yuri Stepanovich Gryadunov (Юрий Степанович Грядунов; 2 December 1929 – 8 May 2020) was a Soviet and Russian diplomat. He was Ambassador of Russia to Jordan from 1990 to 1992. He was born in Omsk Oblast.

He was honored with the Order of the Badge of Honour, the Order of Friendship of Peoples, the Order of the Red Banner of Labour, and the Medal "For Labour Valour". He was a member of the Imperial Orthodox Palestine Society and of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation.

Gryadunov died on 8 May 2020 in Moscow, aged 90.

[[Double Rainbow (viral video)]]

CATEGORIES: Internet celebrities, Internet memes

Double Rainbow is a viral video filmed by Paul "Bear" Vasquez (September 5, 1962 – May 9, 2020). The clip, filmed in his front yard just outside Yosemite National Park, in the U.S. state of California, shows his excited reaction to a double rainbow. Vasquez's video has had more than 47 million views on YouTube.

In 2011, Vasquez appeared in a commercial for Vodafone New Zealand, making fun the video.

The video appeared as the first scene of the 2013 movie We're the Millers. Two years earlier, Bear had appeared in Jennifer Aniston's ad for Smartwater.

Vasquez died at his home in Mariposa, California on May 9, 2020 from a possible case of COVID-19, aged 57.

[[Ryazan Oblast]]

CATEGORIES: Oblasts of Russia, Federal subjects of Russia

Ryazan Oblast (Ryazanskaya oblast) is a federal subject of Russia (an oblast). Its administrative center is the city of Ryazan, which is the oblast's largest city. Population: 1,154,114 (2010 Census).

[[Timo Honkela]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2020 deaths, Computer scientists, Finnish scientists, People from Helsinki

Timo Honkela (August 4, 1962 – May 9, 2020) was a Finnish computer scientist. He was born in Helsinki. He worked at the University of Helsinki, Aalto University School of Science and Aalto University School of Art, Design and Architecture.

From 1998 to 2000, Honkela worked as a professor in the Aalto Media Lab. 

Honkela died on May 9, 2020 in Helsinki, aged 57.

[[Ribouisse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Ribouisse is a commune of 109 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[David Corrêa]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil, Deaths from renal failure, Brazilian singers, Brazilian writers, Songwriters, People from Rio de Janeiro

David Antônio Corrêa (June 5, 1937 – May 10, 2020) was a Brazilian singer-songwriter. His works were Samba, Samba-enredo and Pagode. He was born in São João de Meriti, Rio de Janeiro. His career began in 1972. He created many songs and background music for Rio de Janeiro carnival. 

In April 2020, Corrêa was run over by a car in Rio de Janeiro. He died on May 10, 2020 of kidney failure caused by COVID-19, aged 82.

[[Justice, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois

Justice is a village in Illinois in the United States.

[[Rio Carnival]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals, Rio de Janeiro

The Carnival in Rio de Janeiro (Portuguese: Carnaval do Rio de Janeiro) is a festival held every year before Lent and thought to be the biggest carnival in the world with two million people per day on the streets. The first Carnival festival in Rio was in 1723.

[[Wasco County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Wasco County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 25,213 people. The county seat is The Dalles.

[[NASA (disambiguation)]]

NASA is the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

NASA or Nasa may also refer to:

[[Fernand Robichaud]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Canadian politicians, Privy Councillors (Canada), People from New Brunswick, Members of the House of Commons of Canada

Fernand Robichaud CAN (born December 2, 1939) is a Canadian politician. He was a Member of Parliament (MP) in the House of Commons of Canada and a Senator in the Senate of Canada. When he was in the House of Commons, he represented the electoral area of Beauséjour. When he was in the Senate, he represented Saint-Louis-de-Kent, New Brunswick. He was a member of the Liberal Party of Canada.

Robichaud is most well-known for helping the leader of the Liberal Party, Jean Chrétien, in 1990. After Chrétien became leader of the party, he was not yet a member of the House of Commons. Usually, party leaders run in by-elections to get into the House of Commons, and represent the electoral area for a short time. Robichaud resigned as an MP so that Chrétien could win a by-election. When there was an election in 1993, Chrétien moved back to representing an area in Quebec and let Robichaud run for election in Beauséjour again.

Chrétien later recommended that Robichaud should become a member of the Senate. He officially joined the Senate on September 22, 1997. He stopped being a member of the Senate when he became 75 years old, on December 2, 2014. This is because in Canada's Senate, you cannot be over 75 years old to be a member.

[[Bird of Paradise (1951 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on plays, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Delmer Daves

Bird of Paradise is a 1951 American drama movie. It was directed by Delmer Daves. The movie is based on the play of the same name by Richard Walton Tully. Actors include Debra Paget, Louis Jourdan, Jeff Chandler, Everett Sloane, and Maurice Schwartz. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was a remake of the 1932 movie of the same name.

[[Bright Victory]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 drama movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, World War II movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Mark Robson

Bright Victory is a 1951 American World War II romantic drama movie. It was directed by Mark Robson. The movie is based on the 1945 book Lights Out by Baynard Kendrick. Actors include Arthur Kennedy, Peggy Dow, Julie Adams, Will Geer, Richard Egan, Rock Hudson, and John Hudson. It was distributed by Universal Pictures. It was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1952. 

[[From Justin to Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 comedy movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s musical movies, American musical movies, American romantic comedy movies

From Justin to Kelly is a 2003 American romantic musical comedy movie. It was directed by Robert Iscove. Actors include Kelly Clarkson, Justin Guarini, Katherine Bailess, and Brian Dietzen. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox. The movie was nominated for 8 Golden Raspberry Awards in 2004.

[[Châteaufort, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Châteaufort is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Châteauneuf-Miravail]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Châteauneuf-Miravail is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Châteauneuf-Val-Saint-Donat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Châteauneuf-Val-Saint-Donat is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Châteauredon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Châteauredon is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

The Asse River forms the south-eastern border.

[[Chaudon-Norante]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Chaudon-Norante is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France. The Asse River flows through the commune.

[[Clamensane]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Clamensane is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Claret, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Claret is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Clumanc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Clumanc is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Colmars]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Colmars or Colmars-les-Alpes is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

There are two other hamlets in the commune: Clignon-Haut and Clignon-Bas.

[[La Condamine-Châtelard]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

La Condamine-Châtelard is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Corbières-en-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Corbières-en-Provence is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Cruis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Cruis is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Curbans]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Curbans is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Curel, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Curel is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Dauphin, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Dauphin is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Demandolx]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Demandolx is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Draix]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Draix is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Enchastrayes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Enchastrayes is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France. The Enciastraia mountain is in the commune.

[[Entrages]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Entrages is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

The Asse River forms the southern border.

[[Call Me Mister (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Lloyd Bacon

Call Me Mister is a 1951 American musical movie. It was directed by Lloyd Bacon. The movie is based on the musical of the same name by Albert E. Lewin. Actors include Betty Grable, Dan Dailey, Danny Thomas, Dale Robertson, Benay Venuta, and Richard Boone. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[I'll Never Forget You (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 movies, 1950s romance movies, 1950s fantasy movies, British romance movies, British fantasy movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Roy Ward Baker

I'll Never Forget You is a 1951 British romantic fantasy movie. It was also titled The House in the Square and Man of Two Worlds. It was directed by Roy Ward Baker. The movie is based on the play Berkeley Square by John L. Balderston. It was adapted previously in the 1933 movie under the title of Berkeley Square. It stars Tyrone Power, Ann Blyth, Kathleen Byron, and Michael Rennie.

[[The Girl on the Bridge (1951 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 drama movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Hugo Haas

The Girl on the Bridge is a 1951 American romantic drama movie directed by Hugo Haas (who also stars) and starring Beverly Michaels and Robert Dane. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Decision Before Dawn]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 movies, 1950s thriller movies, American thriller movies, German movies, World War II movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Anatole Litvak

Decision Before Dawn is a 1951 American German World War II thriller movie directed by Anatole Litvak and is based on the 1949 novel Call It Treason by George Howe. It stars Richard Basehart, Gary Merrill, Oskar Werner, Hildegard Knef and was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1952. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Fixed Bayonets!]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 movies, 1950s war movies, American war movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Samuel Fuller

Fixed Bayonets! is a 1951 American Korean War movie directed by Samuel Fuller and is based on the novel Immortal Sergeant by John Brophy. It stars Richard Basehart, Gene Evans, Michael O'Shea, James Dean. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Nichols and May]]

CATEGORIES: Duos, American comedians

Nichols and May was an American improvisational duo act created by Mike Nichols (1931–2014) and Elaine May (born 1932). Their three comedy albums reached the Billboard Top 40 between 1959 and 1962. 

Many comedians have seen them as key influential comedians in modern comedy. "You can't get any better than they were," TV host Dick Cavett remembered, "They were one of the comic meteors in the sky." Woody Allen said, “the two of them came along and elevated comedy to a brand-new level".

Their 1960 album An Evening with Mike Nichols and Elaine May was a recording of their Broadway debut and won a Grammy Award for Best Comedy Performance. Their next album Mike Nichols & Elaine May Examine Doctors was also nominated for a Grammy. 

Nichols and May become more famous in 1962, for John F. Kennedy's birthday, they performed, alongside Marilyn Monroe.

[[Happy Birthday, Mr. President]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 in the United States, John F. Kennedy

"Happy Birthday, Mr. President" is a song sung by actress and singer Marilyn Monroe on May 19, 1962, for President John F. Kennedy at a celebration of his 45th birthday, 10 days before the actual date (May 29).

Monroe sang the traditional "Happy Birthday to You" lyrics with an intimate voice, with "Mr. President" instead of Kennedy's name. 

The performance was one of her last major public appearances before her death less than three months later on August 4, 1962. 

First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy, who did not go to many Democratic Party events, spent the day at the Loudon Hunt Horse Show with her children, John and Caroline.

Monroe was accompanied by jazz pianist Hank Jones.

[[Jules Feiffer]]

CATEGORIES: Pulitzer Prize winners, 1929 births, Living people, American playwrights, American cartoonists, American novelists, Screenwriters from New York City

Jules Ralph Feiffer (born January 26, 1929) is an American cartoonist and author. He won the Pulitzer Prize in 1986 as America's leading editorial cartoonist. He wrote the animated short Munro, which won an Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film in 1961. He was born in New York City.

[[Mark Barkan]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, American songwriters, Record producers, Writers from New York City, Businesspeople from New York City

Mark Barkan (1934 – May 8, 2020) was an American songwriter and record producer. He was also a musical director for the television show The Banana Splits Adventure Hour, which aired between September 7, 1968 and December 13, 1969.

He wrote many songs, including Lesley Gore's Top 5 hit "She's a Fool", the often-covered "Pretty Flamingo", which was a hit single for Manfred Mann in 1966; "I'm Gonna Be Warm This Winter", which was a hit for Connie Francis in 1963 and "The Tra La La Song (One Banana, Two Banana)" from The Banana Splits.

Barkan died  at his home in New York City on May 8, 2020, at age 85.

[[Pipestone, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota, County seats in Minnesota

Pipestone is a city in Minnesota, United States, and the county seat of Pipestone County. The population was 4,317 at the 2010 census. 

[[Don Novello]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, American television writers, American television directors, American television producers, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Movie directors from Ohio, Movie producers from Ohio, Screenwriters from Ohio, Actors from Ohio, Singers from Ohio, Comedians from Ohio, People from Lorain, Ohio

Donald Andrew Novello (born January 1, 1943) is an American writer, movie director, producer, actor, singer and comedian. He is best known for his work on NBC's Saturday Night Live from 1979 to 1980, and again from 1985 to 1986, often as the character Father Guido Sarducci.

He appeared as Sarducci in many other television shows, including Married... with Children, Blossom, It's Garry Shandling's Show, Unhappily Ever After, Square Pegs, and The Colbert Report.

[[Martin Pasko]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, American comics writers, American screenwriters, American television writers, American editors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Canadian screenwriters, Writers from Montreal

Martin Joseph "Marty" Pasko (born Jean-Claude Rochefort; August 4, 1954 – May 10, 2020) was a Canadian-born American comics writer, screenwriter and editor. He was born in Montreal, Quebec. He worked for DC Comics and wrote Superman stories. He also co-created the 1975 remake of Doctor Fate. He also wrote the screenplay for the animated Batman movie Batman: Mask of the Phantasm (1993).

Pasko died on May 10, 2020 in Los Angeles at the age of 65.

[[Waldemar Otto]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2020 deaths, German sculptors

Waldemar Otto (30 March 1929 – 8 May 2020) was a Polish-born German sculptor. He was born in Petrikau, Poland. 

In 1973 he was appointed professor at the Hochschule für Künste in Bremen. 

His career began in 1961 and many of his sculptures were torsos. His best known works were "Weibliche torso", "Gedrehter torso", "Kleiner Männlicher Torso", "Sockel Torso", "Torso vor Raster” and "Figur vor Gewand".

Otto died in Worpswede, Germany on 8 May 2020 after a long-illness, aged 91.

[[John Teerlinck]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2020 deaths, National Football League coaches, San Diego Chargers players, Sportspeople from New York, People from New Rochelle, New York, People from Rochester, New York

John Teerlinck (April 9, 1951 – May 10, 2020) was an American professional football player and coach. He was born in New Rochelle, New York. 

From 1974 to 1977, he played for the San Diego Chargers. From 2002 to 2012, he was a defensive line coach for the Indianapolis Colts. He also coached the Los Angeles Rams, Cleveland Browns, Minnesota Vikings, Detroit Lions and the Denver Broncos.

Teerlinck died on May 10, 2020 at the age of 69.

[[Let's Make It Legal]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 comedy movies, 1950s romance movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies about divorce, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Richard Sale

Let's Make It Legal is a 1951 American romantic comedy movie directed by Richard Sale and based on the story My Mother-in-Law, Miriam by Mortimer Braus. It stars Claudette Colbert, Macdonald Carey, Zachary Scott, Barbara Bates, Marilyn Monroe, Robert Wagner and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Mike Storen]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer deaths in the United States, 2020 deaths, 1935 births, People from Michigan City, Indiana, Businesspeople from Indiana, Sportspeople from Indiana, Businesspeople from Chicago, Sportspeople from Chicago

Mike Storen (September 14, 1935 – May 7, 2020) was an American sports executive in basketball, baseball, and football. He began his career with the Chicago Zephyrs and became their promotions director. He was the first general manager of the Indiana Pacers from 1967 to 1969. He was part-owner of the Kentucky Colonels.

He became the commissioner of the American Basketball Association (ABA) in 1973. He was an important person during the league's merger with the National Basketball Association (NBA) three years later.

Storen was born in Michigan City, Indiana. He died on May 7, 2020 in Atlanta, Georgia, aged 84.

[[Merkel-cell carcinoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Merkel-cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare and aggressive skin cancer happening in about 3 per 1,000,000 population. It is also known as cutaneous APUDoma, primary neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin, primary small cell carcinoma of the skin, and trabecular carcinoma of the skin. 

Reasons why the cancer would form is because of Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV or MCV), a weakened immune system, and exposure to ultraviolet radiation. 

Merkel-cell carcinoma usually shows up on the head, neck, perianal and eyelid. It is more common in elderly people.

[[Love Nest]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 comedy movies, American comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Joseph M. Newman

Love Nest is a 1951 American comedy movie directed by Joseph M. Newman and based on the 1950 novel The Reluctant Landlord by Scott Corbett. It stars June Haver, William Lundigan, Frank Fay, Marilyn Monroe and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Glen Ellyn, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, Villages in Illinois, Settlements in DuPage County, Illinois

Glen Ellyn is a village in DuPage County, Illinois, United States. It is a suburb of Chicago. The village had a population of 27,450 as of the 2010 Census.

[[Joe Zawinul]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2007 deaths, Deaths from Merkel-cell carcinoma, Austrian composers, Jazz musicians, Musicians from Vienna

Josef Erich Zawinul (7 July 1932 – 11 September 2007) was an Austrian jazz keyboardist and composer. Zawinul went on to play with Miles Davis and to become one of the creators of jazz fusion.

[[As Young as You Feel]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Harmon Jones

As Young as You Feel is a 1951 American comedy movie directed by Harmon Jones and starring Thelma Ritter, Monty Woolley, David Wayne, Jean Peters, Marilyn Monroe, Russ Tamblyn. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was remade in 1957 as The Greatest American Hoax.

[[Gia Scala]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 1972 deaths, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English models, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, Italian models, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American models, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Actors from Liverpool

Gia Scala (March 3, 1934 – April 30, 1972) was an English-born Italian-American actress and model. She was born in Liverpool. Scala was known for her roles in Tip on a Dead Jockey (1957), The Garment Jungle (1957), The Tunnel of Love (1958), and The Guns of Navarone (1961).

Scala died of an accidental ethanol and barbiturate overdose at her home in Los Angeles on April 30, 1972 at the age of 38.

[[Mahdavia]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic denominations

Mahdavia is a Mahdi'ist movement founded in the 15th century which follows the principles set forth by Syed Jaunpuri. A subsect of Mahdavia, called Zikri, is mostly practised in Pakistan.

[[The House on Telegraph Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 drama movies, 1950s crime movies, American crime drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Robert Wise

The House on Telegraph Hill is a 1951 American crime drama movie directed by Robert Wise and based on the 1948 novel The Frightened Child by Dana Lyon. It stars Richard Basehart, Valentina Cortese, William Lundigan, Fay Baker. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1952.

[[Renato Corti]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2020 deaths, Italian Roman Catholics, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church

Renato Corti (1 March 1936 – 12 May 2020) was an Italian cardinal and prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He was Bishop of Novara from 1990 to 2011. Pope Francis promoted Corti to the rank of cardinal at a consistory on 19 November 2016. He was born in Galbiate, Province of Lecco.

Corti died on 12 May 2020 in Rho, Lombardy at the age of 84.

[[Half Angel]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 comedy movies, American comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Richard Sale

Half Angel is a 1951 American comedy movie directed by Richard Sale and starring Loretta Young, Joseph Cotten, Cecil Kellaway, Basil Ruysdael. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Ico Aguilar]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2020 deaths, Spanish footballers

Francisco Javier Aguilar García ( 26 March 1949 – 11 May 2020) was a Spanish professional footballer. He played as a forward. He was born in Santander, Spain. He played for the national team from 1971 to 1973. From 1971 to 1979, he played for Real Madrid.

Aguilar died on 11 May 2020 in Madrid at the age of 71. 

[[Alberto Carpani]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Italy, Italian singers, People from Pavia

Alberto Carpani (April 23, 1956 – May 11, 2020) was an Italian singer. He was best known for his Italo disco releases in the late 1970's and early 1980's as Albert One, and his Eurodance release "Sing a Song Now Now" in 1999 as A.C. One. He was also a DJ and music producer. He was born in Pavia, Italy.

Carpani died of COPD, (his covid 19 test was negative), on May 11, 2020 in Portofino, Italy at the age of 64.

[[Portofino]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Liguria

Portofino (ˌpɔrtoˈfiːno) is an Italian fishing village and holiday resort famous for its harbor. It is a popular place for pictures. Many celebrities go here. It is a comune in the Metropolitan City of Genoa on the Italian Riviera. The town is also known for its colorfully painted buildings that line the shore.

[[Italian Riviera]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Italy

The Italian Riviera, or Ligurian Riviera (Riviera ligure) is the narrow coastal strip which lies between the Ligurian Sea and the mountain chain formed by the Maritime Alps and the Apennines. 

The Italian Riviera includes nearly all of the coastline of Liguria.

[[Maritime Alps]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Italy, Mountains of France

The Maritime Alps (Alpes Maritimes alp maʁitim; Alpi Marittime ˈalpi maˈrittime) are a mountain range in the southwestern part of the Alps. 

They form the border between the French region of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur and the Italian regions of Piedmont and Liguria. They are the southernmost part of the Alps.

[[Oleg Ivanovich Kovalyov]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2020 deaths, Russian politicians

Oleg Ivanovich Kovalyov  (Оле́г Ива́нович Ковалёв; 7 September 1948 – 11 May 2020) was a Russian politician. He was Governor of Ryazan Oblast from 2008 to 2017. He was a member of the State Duma from 1999 to 2008. He was born in Tbilissky District, Russia.

Kovalyov died on 11 May 2020, aged 71.

[[Roland Povinelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, French mayors

Roland Povinelli (9 August 1941 – 11 May 2020) was a French politician. He was a member of the Senate of France from 2008 to 2014, representing the Bouches-du-Rhône department. He was Mayor of Allauch from 1975 until his death in 2020. He was a member of the Socialist Party. He was born in Marseille, France.

Povinelli died on 11 May 2020 of a heart attack in Allauch, France at the age of 78. 

[[Hansie Cronje]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2002 deaths, Aviation deaths, South African cricketers

Wessel Johannes "Hansie" Cronje (25 September 1969 – 1 June 2002) was a South African international cricketer. He was captain of the national team in the 1990s. He was voted the 11th greatest South African in 2004. He was banned from cricket for life due to his role in a match-fixing scandal. Cronje was born in Bloemfontein, South Africa.

Johannes was killed in an airplane crash on 1 June 2002 near the Outeniqua Mountains, aged 32.

[[Outeniqua Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Africa, Geography of South Africa

The Outeniqua Mountains, named after the Outeniqua Khoikhoi who lived there, is a mountain range that runs on the southern coast of South Africa. 

It forms a continuous range with the Langeberg to the west and the Tsitsikamma Mountains to the east. It was known as "Serra de Estrella" ("Mountain of the Star") to the Portuguese. The mountains are part of the Garden Route of South Africa.

[[Hammonton, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New Jersey

Hammonton is a town in Atlantic County, New Jersey, United States, known as the "Blueberry Capital of the World." As of the 2010 United States Census, the town's population was 14,791.

[[Joe Biden sexual assault allegation]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Joe Biden, Writers from California

In April 2019, Tara Reade said that Joe Biden touched her in a way that made her “feel uncomfortable” during his time as a Senator for Delaware. There were seven other women who said the same thing at the time. In March 2020, she said that Biden sexually assaulted her instead.  Reade said that at the time of the assault, she told her mother, her brother, and a friend who worked in Senator Ted Kennedy’s office about what happened, but currently the fan website TaraReadeTruth.com says that there are as many as eight people that she told.

In May 2020, it was found that attorney Douglas Wigdor would be representing Reade pro bono. He is known for representing six women who alleged sexual misconduct by Harvey Weinstein. However, Wigdor stopped representing her later on in the month when news reported that the Monterey District Attorney's Office in Monterey, California was investigating Reade for lying about her school and work experience in court. They had hired her as an expert witness on domestic violence, and she testified during several court cases. The investigation started after many news websites and newspapers reported that she lied about obtaining an undergraduate degree from Antioch University under a "protected program". There was no protected program, and she did not receive a degree.  The District Attorney's Office decided not to punish her for the lying about the degree, even though they confirmed that she had lied. 

[[Dana Biosphere Reserve]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 establishments, Biosphere reserves, Geography of Jordan, Protected areas

The Dana Biosphere Reserve is located in the Qadisiyah plateau in the low-lying desert area in Wadi Araba, the Dana Biosphere Reserve drops from an altitude of 1,500 metres (4,900 ft). Dana is the only nature reserve in Jordan that crosses four bio-geographical zones; Mediterranean, Iran-Turanian, Sahara-Arabian, and Sudanian penetration.

[[August Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, American playwrights, Pulitzer Prize winners, Writers from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

August Wilson (April 27, 1945 – October 2, 2005) was an American playwright. His best known work was a collection of ten plays, The Pittsburgh Cycle, for which he received two Pulitzer Prizes for Drama. His works talk about the tragic lives and hardships African-Americans had in the 20th century. He was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Wilson died on October 2, 2005 in Seattle, Washington of liver cancer, aged 60.

[[Barack Obama Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 1982 deaths, Road accident deaths, Economists, Kenyan people, Obama family

Barack Hussein Obama Sr. (ˈ; 18 June 1936 – 24 November 1982) was a Kenyan economist. He was the father of Barack Obama, the 44th President of the United States. He is an important character in Dreams from My Father (1995). 

Obama married in 1954 and had two children with his first wife, Kezia. He studied at the University of Hawaii where he met Stanley Ann Dunham, whom he married in 1961. They had a son, Barack II. Dunham divorced Obama three years later. 

Obama was killed in a car crash on 24 November 1982 in Nairobi at the age of 46.

[[Journey Into Light]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s crime movies, 1951 drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies directed by Stuart Heisler

Journey Into Light is a 1951 American crime drama movie directed by Stuart Heisler and starring Sterling Hayden, Viveca Lindfors, Thomas Mitchell, Ludwig Donath. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox

[[Carl Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 1998 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, American rock singers, American rock guitarists, American pop singers, American pop musicians, Musicians from California, Singer-songwriters from California

Carl Dean Wilson (December 21, 1946 – February 6, 1998) was an American musician and singer-songwriter. Hw co-founded the Beach Boys. He is best known as their lead guitarist, as the youngest brother of bandmates Brian and Dennis Wilson, and as the group's leader in the early 1970s.

He died, aged 51, of lung cancer in 1998.

[[Quo Vadis (1951 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 drama movies, American drama movies, MGM movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Mervyn LeRoy, Movies set in Rome

Quo Vadis (Latin for "Where are you going?") is a 1951 American epic drama movie directed by Mervyn LeRoy and is the third adaption of the 1896 novel Quo Vadis by Henryk Sienkiewicz.  It stars Robert Taylor, Deborah Kerr, Leo Genn, Peter Ustinov, Patricia Laffan, Finlay Currie, Felix Aylmer, Abraham Sofaer, Ralph Truman. It was nominated for 8 Academy Awards in 1952 and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Al Jardine]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American rock singers, American pop singers, American rock guitarists, American pop musicians, Musicians from Ohio, Singers from Ohio, People from Lima, Ohio

Alan Charles Jardine (born September 3, 1942) is an American musician and singer-songwriter. He co-founded the Beach Boys. He is best known as the band's guitarist. Also a singer, he sang in "Help Me, Rhonda" (1965), "Come Go with Me" (1978), and "From There to Back Again" (2012). His song "Lady Lynda" became a UK top 10 hit for the group in 1978.

Following the death of fellow band member Carl Wilson in 1998, Jardine left the touring Beach Boys and became a solo artist. In 1988, Jardine was added into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of the Beach Boys.

[[Bruce Johnston]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American rock singers, American pop singers, American rock musicians, American pop musicians, Singers from Illinois, Writers from Illinois, People from Peoria, Illinois

Bruce Arthur Johnston (born Benjamin Baldwin; June 27, 1942) is an American singer-songwriter, musician, and record producer. He is best known as a member of the Beach Boys. He was born in Peoria, Illinois.

His songs for the Beach Boys include "Tears in the Morning" (1970), "Deirdre" (1970), and "Disney Girls (1957)" (1971). He continues to tour as a member of the Beach Boys alongside band co-founder Mike Love.

[[ΜTorrent]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft Windows software, Freeware

μTorrent, or uTorrent is a BitTorrent client for Microsoft Windows and macOS, similar to BitTorrent. It also runs on Linux, but in a more scaled-down way as only the older, server versions work, and on Ubuntu and Debian. It allows users to share files over the Internet.

[[Mike Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, American rock singers, American pop singers, Singer-songwriters from California, Singers from Los Angeles, California, Writers from Los Angeles, California

Michael Edward Love (born March 15, 1941) is an American singer-songwriter. He co-founded the Beach Boys.

Love was one of Brian Wilson's collaborators during the Beach Boys' peak in the 1960s. The best known Wilson–Love songs were "Fun, Fun, Fun" (1964), "California Girls" (1965), and "Good Vibrations" (1966). 

[[Ricky Fataar]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, South African actors, Blues musicians, Pop musicians, Rock guitarists, Drummers, Rock singers, Pop singers

Ricky Fataar (born 5 September 1952) is a South African drummer, guitarist, actor and singer. An actor, he was known for his role in The Rutles: All You Need Is Cash. For a short time, he worked for The Beach Boys between 1971 and 1974.

[[Blondie Chaplin]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, South African writers, Pop singers, Rock singers, Pop musicians, Blues musicians, Rock guitarists

Terence William "Blondie" Chaplin (born 7 July 1951) is a South African singer-songwriter and guitarist. He played in the band The Flames in the mid-to late-1960s. He became known to international audiences in the early 1970s as a singer and guitarist for  The Beach Boys. 

[[David Marks]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American rock singers, American rock guitarists, American pop singers, American pop musicians, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Singers from Los Angeles, California

David Lee Marks (born August 22, 1948) is an American singer and guitarist. He was an early member of The Beach Boys. 

Marks joined the Beach Boys in February 1962. He performed on the band's first four albums, Surfin' Safari (1962), Surfin' U.S.A. (1963), Surfer Girl (1963), and Little Deuce Coupe (1963).  In August 1963, he left the group. 

Afterward, Marks worked with acts including Casey Kasem's Band Without a Name, the Moon, Delaney & Bonnie, Colours, and Warren Zevon, and studied jazz and classical guitar at the Berklee College of Music and the New England Conservatory.

[[Kokomo (song)]]

CATEGORIES: The Beach Boys, 1988 songs

"Kokomo" is a song written by John Phillips, Scott McKenzie, Mike Love, and Terry Melcher and recorded by American rock band the Beach Boys. 

It was released as a single on July 18, 1988 by Elektra Records and became a No. 1 Hit in the United States, Japan, and Australia (where it topped for about two months). It was written for the 1988 movie Cocktail.

It was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Song Written Specifically for a Motion Picture or Television in 1988, but lost to Phil Collins' "Two Hearts". "Two Hearts" and Carly Simon's "Let the River Run" from Working Girl together beat it for the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song.

[[Cocktail (1988 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 romance movies, 1988 comedy movies, 1988 drama movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, 1980s romantic drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, Canadian comedy movies, Canadian drama movies, Movies directed by Roger Donaldson

Cocktail is a 1988 American romantic comedy-drama movie directed by Roger Donaldson and written by Heywood Gould. The movie is about a young New York City business student, Brian Flanagan, becomes a bartender in order to pay for his education. The movie stars Tom Cruise, Bryan Brown, and Elisabeth Shue.

[[Risky Business]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 comedy movies, 1980s teen comedy movies, American comedy movies, Warner Bros. movies

Risky Business is a 1983 American teen comedy movie written and directed by Paul Brickman and starring Tom Cruise and Rebecca De Mornay.

Risky Business was a critical and commercial success, making more than $63 million against a $6.2 million budget.

[[Battle of Gazala]]

CATEGORIES: 1942, Battles involving France, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving India, Battles involving Italy, Battles involving South Africa, Battles involving the United Kingdom, North African battles of World War II, 20th century in Libya

This was pulled of by German General Erwin Rommel. He used it successfully at the Battle of Gazala, which led to his capture of Tobruk in 1941.

[[Interstitial cystitis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Urinary system, Pain

Interstitial cystitis (IC), also called bladder pain syndrome (BPS), is a disease that causes pain in the bladder.

[[Altacit Global]]

Altacit Global is a boutique law firm in India, with offices spread across Chennai, Bangalore, Coimbatore, Hyderabad and Cochin. The firm was founded in 2003 by Sudhir Raja Ravindran an attorney-at-law in India and solicitor of England and Wales. It was ranked as one of the top firms and lawyers in India by world's leading guides to the legal profession like the Legal 500, Chambers and Partners, Asia IP and Acquisition International.

[[David Outlaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1806 births, 1868 deaths, American lawyers, United States representatives from North Carolina, Whig party (US) politicians

David Outlaw was a politician, congressman and slaveholder  who represented North Carolina in Congress as a Whig in the period before the Civil War. He was born in 1806, and died aged sixty-two in 1868. 

[[Bu Xiaolin]]

CATEGORIES: Peking University alumni, Living people

Bu Xiaolin (布小林) is a Chinese female politician. She has served as Chairwoman of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region People's Government  (equivalent of a provincial governor) since March 2016. Bu Xiaolin is the daughter of the former chairman of Inner Mongolia, Buhe. Her grandfather Ulanhu was the founding chairman of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and a Vice President of China.

[[Camp Jupiter]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional locations

Camp Jupiter is the Roman camp for demigods portrayed in the book series The Heroes of Olympus by Rick Riordan.

[[He Li]]

CATEGORIES: Peking University alumni

He Li (Chinese: 何鲤) was a Chinese young poet and the chairman of the China Nationwide High School Students Literature Association (全国中学生文学社联合会). He is also a partner of Davis Polk & Wardwell company.

[[PNW Journey]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in the United States

PNW Journey is a United States based apparel and accessories retailer, wholesaler, and lifestyle brand best known for it's Pacific Northwest themed and Sasquatch/Bigfoot themed apparel. The use of the phrases "Love Your Journey", "Life is best at 315°", and "315°" on its own are prevalent throughout their designs.

[[Test Card F]]

CATEGORIES: BBC, 1967 establishments in the United Kingdom

Test Card F is a test card made by the BBC to be used on television in the United Kingdom. It was first shown on television on July 2, 1967. It was shown on television when no shows were being played. The test card shows Carole Hersee playing noughts and crosses (tic-tac-toe) with a clown doll with many test signals showing. The test card was made by George Hersee, Carole Hersee's father and a BBC engineer. It was shown less in the 1980s because BBC started showing Ceefax pages more. After 1999, it was only shown by BBC Two for one minute. In the 2010s, the test card was used for HTTP errors on the BBC website. Test Card F made Carole Hersee the most shown face in British television.

In the 1990s, three versions of Test Card F were made, including Test Card J (which had small changes of Test Card F), Test Card W (a widescreen version), and a different widescreen version.

[[List of United States senators from Montana]]

CATEGORIES: US Democratic Party politicians, US Republican Party politicians

There are currently two senators from the State of Montana, one of whom is a Democrat (and thus sharing his political affiliation with Montana´s governor), the other of whom is a Republican (and thus sharing his political affiliation with the representative of Montana´s At-Large District).

[[Mutiny on the Bounty (1962 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s adventure movies, 1962 drama movies, American adventure movies, Movies based on books, MGM movies, Movies directed by Lewis Milestone

Muntiny on the Bounty is a 1962 American adventure drama movie directed by Lewis Milestone and is the second adaption of the 1932 novel of the same name. It stars Marlon Brando, Trevor Howard, Richard Harris, Hugh Griffin, Richard Haydn, Tarita Teriipaia, Duncan Lamont, Gordon Jackson and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for 7 Academy Awards in 1963 and was a box office bomb.

[[Up and at 'Em]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 movies, 1920s romance movies, 1920s comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American silent movies, Movies directed by William A. Seiter

Up and at 'Em is a 1922 American romantic comedy movie directed by William A. Seiter and starring Doris May, Hallam Cooley, J. Herbert Frank, Otis Harlan. It was distributed by Film Booking Offices of America.

[[Rawhide (1951 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Henry Hathaway

Rawhide is a 1951 American western movie directed by Henry Hathaway and starring Tyrone Power, Susan Hayward, Dean Jagger, Hugh Marlowe, George Tobias, Jack Elam, Edgar Buchanan. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[A Place in the Sun]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 drama movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by George Stevens

A Place in the Sun is a 1951 American romantic drama movie directed by George Stevens and based on the 1925 novel An American Tragedy by Theodore Dreiser and the 1926 play of the same name of the novel. It stars Montgomery Clift, Herbert Heyes, Elizabeth Taylor, Shelley Winters, Anne Revere, Raymond Burr and was distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was nominated for 9 Oscars and won 6 Academy Awards in 1952.

[[No Highway in the Sky]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 drama movies, American drama movies, British drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Henry Koster

No Highway in the Sky is a 1951 British American psychological drama movie directed by Henry Koster and based on the 1948 novel No Highway by Nevil Shute. It stars James Stewart, Marlene Dietrich, Glynis Johns, Jack Hawkins, Ronald Squire, Kenneth More, Felix Aylmer, Bessie Love and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Meet Me After the Show]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Richard Sale

Meet Me After the Show is a 1951 American musical movie directed by Richard Sale and starring Betty Grable, Macdonald Carey, Rory Calhoun, Eddie Albert, Fred Clark. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Entrepierres]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Entrepierres is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Entrevaux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Entrevaux is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Entrevennes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Entrevennes is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France. 

[[L'Escale]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

L'Escale is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France. It is on the eastern bank of the Durance opposite Château-Arnoux-Saint-Auban.

[[Esparron-de-Verdon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Esparron-de-Verdon is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Estoublon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Estoublon is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in southeastern France.

The river Asse flows through the western part of the commune.

[[Faucon-de-Barcelonnette]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Faucon-de-Barcelonnette is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Faucon-du-Caire]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Faucon-du-Caire is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Fontienne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Fontienne is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Le Fugeret]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Le Fugeret is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Death of a Salesman (1951 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by László Benedek

Death of a Salesman is a 1951 American drama movie directed by László Benedek and is a based on the play of the same name by Arthur Miller. It stars Fredric March, Mildred Dunnock, Kevin McCarthy, Cameron Mitchell, Claire Carleton, Don Keefer and was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was nominated for 5 Academy Awards in 1952.

[[Ganagobie]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Ganagobie is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

It is the site of a Benedictine monastery, the Abbey of Our Lady of Ganagobie.

[[La Garde, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

La Garde is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Gigors]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Gigors is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[Gréoux-les-Bains]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Gréoux-les-Bains is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France.

[[On the Riviera]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 comedy movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies directed by Walter Lang

On the Riviera is a 1951 American musical comedy movie directed by Walter Lang and is the third adaption of the same story. It stars Danny Kaye, Gene Tierney, Corinne Calvert, Marcel Dalio, Jean Murat, Henri Letondal, Sig Ruman and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1952.

[[Follow the Sun]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 drama movies, American drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Sidney Lanfield

Follow the Sun is a 1951 American biographical drama movie directed by Sidney Lanfield and stars Glenn Ford, Anne Baxter, Dennis O'Keefe, June Havoc, Larry Keating, Roland Winters. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Baburnama]]

CATEGORIES: 16th century books, Autobiographies, History of India, Kyrgyzstan, Medieval literature, Mughal Empire

The Bāburnāma (Chagatai/Persian: بابر نامہ‎;´, literally: "History of Babur" or "Letters of Babur"; alternatively known as Tuzk-e Babri) is the memoirs of Ẓahīr-ud-Dīn Muhammad Bābur (1483–1530), founder of the Mughal Empire and a great-great-great-grandson of Timur. It is written in the Chagatai language, known to Babur as "Turki" (meaning Turkic), the spoken language of the Andijan-Timurids. During Emperor Akbar's reign, the work was completely translated to Persian, the usual literary language of the Mughal court, by a Mughal courtier, Abdul Rahīm, in AH 998 (1589–90).1 Translations into many other languages followed, mostly from the 19th century onwards.

[[Jordan Hill, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Winn Parish, Louisiana, Ark-La-Tex

Jordan Hill is a census-designated place (CDP) in Winn Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Queen's Privy Council for Canada]]

CATEGORIES: Privy Councillors (Canada)

The Queen's Privy Council for Canada (QPC; Conseil privé de la Reine pour le Canada; called the King's Privy Council for Canada when there is a king), sometimes called just the Privy Council, is a group of people that help the monarch (king or queen) of Canada. They give advice to the monarch on things happening related to the government. The monarch or the person that represents them (the Governor General) have to follow the advice of a group of people in the Privy Council, called the cabinet. They are usually part of the government, and are usually members of Parliament (MPs). People that are part of the Privy Council are called "Privy Councillors".

When people join the Privy Council, they become members of it for the rest of their lives. They are chosen by the Governor General based on who the Prime Minister says should be in the council. Because of this, many of the Privy Councillors are people that used to be part of the cabinet, but are not anymore. Other Privy Councillors might be people that have important roles, like being the Leader of the Opposition.

[[Take Care of My Little Girl]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Jean Negulesco

Take Care of My Little Girl is 1951 American drama movie directed by Jean Negulesco and is based on the 1950 novel of the same name by Peggy Goodin. It stars Jeanne Crain, Dale Robertson, Mitzi Gaynor, Jean Peters, Jeffrey Hunter, Helen Westcott and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Frogmen]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 movies, 1950s action movies, 1950s war movies, American action movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Lloyd Bacon

The Frogmen is a 1951 American World War II action movie directed by Lloyd Bacon and starring Richard Widmark, Dana Andrews, Gary Merrill, Jeffrey Hunter, Robert Wagner, Warren Stevens. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Paloma Cordero]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2020 deaths, First Ladies of Mexico, People from Mexico City

Paloma Delia Margarita Cordero Tapia (1 July 1937 – 11 May 2020) was a Mexican socialite. She was the First Lady of Mexico from 1 December 1982 to 30 November 1988. Her husband was President Miguel de la Madrid. Cordero was born in Mexico City. During the same time when she was First Lady, Cordero was President of the National System for Integral Family Development.

Cordero died on 11 May 2020 in Mexico City, aged 82.

[[José López Portillo]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Mexico, 1920 births, 2004 deaths, Lawyers, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from pneumonia, Politicians from Mexico City

José Guillermo Abel López Portillo y Pacheco, (xoˈse ˈlopes poɾˈtiʝo; 16 June 1920 – 17 February 2004) was a Mexican lawyer and politician. He was a member of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI). He was the 51st President of Mexico from 1976 to 1982.

[[Common Cause]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in the United States, Political organizations based in Washington, D.C.

Common Cause is a watchdog group based in Washington, D.C., with chapters in 35 states. It was founded in 1970 by John W. Gardner, a Republican, who was the former Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare in the administration of President Lyndon Johnson. It is an advocacy group for minorities and the working poor in urban areas. The group was known for its efforts to bring about an end to the Vietnam War and lower the voting age from 21 to 18.

[[Ann McBride Norton]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, American political activists, Businesspeople from Louisiana, Businesspeople from Washington, D.C., People from Lafayette, Louisiana

Ann McBride Norton (June 23, 1944 – May 5, 2020) was an American activist and business executive. She was president of Common Cause, a non-partisan watchdog group based in Washington, D.C. from 1995 to 1999. She was born in Lafayette, Louisiana. In the 1970s, Norton was a volunteer at Common Cause during the Watergate scandal before becoming the chief lobbyist for Common Cause on Capitol Hill.

Norton died of problems caused by Alzheimer's disease on May 5, 2020 at her Washington, D.C. home at the age of 75.

[[Herbert Frankenhauser]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, People from Munich, German politicians

Herbert Frankenhauser (July 23, 1945 – May 6, 2020) was a German politician. He was a member of the Christian Social Union of Bavaria. He was a member of the Bundestag from 1990 to 2013. Frankenhauser was born in Munich.

Frankenhauser died on May 6, 2020 at the age of 74.

[[Lúcia Braga]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil, Deaths from urinary tract infection, Brazilian lawyers, Brazilian politicians

Ana Lúcia Navarro Braga (December 13, 1934 – May 8, 2020), better known as simply Lúcia Braga, was a Brazilian politician, social worker and lawyer. She was born in João Pessoa, Paraíba. Braga was a member of the Chamber of Deputies from 1987 to 1995 and again from 2003 to 2007. 

Braga died at a hospital in João Pessoa on May 8, 2020 of COVID-19 while being hospitalized for a urinary tract infection, aged 85. Her husband, Wilson Braga, also died from COVID-19 a week after her death.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Australia]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic by country, 21st century in Australia

The COVID-19 pandemic in Australia began on 25 January 2020, in Victoria. A man who had returned from Wuhan, China, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.

The Australian government stopped all non-residents from entering the country on 20 March. Social distancing rules were put in place on 21 March. The state governments closed "non-essential" services. This included social gathering places such as hotels and clubs, but not businesses such as construction, manufacturing and many retail stores.

The number of new cases grew sharply, until reaching about 350 per day on 22 March. The numbers stayed around 350, and then started falling at the beginning of April. At the end of April it was under 20 cases per day. As of 15 February 2021, there were 28,098 cases and 908 deaths in Australia.

[[Dieu a besoin des hommes]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 drama movies, French drama movies

Dieu a besoin des hommes (God Needs Man) is a 1950 French drama movie directed by Jean Delannoy and starring Antoine Balpêtré, Lucienne Bogaert, Charles Bouillaud. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Álvaro Teherán]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Basketball players, Colombian sportspeople

Álvaro Teherán (January 6, 1966 – May 4, 2020) was a Colombian basketball player. He was born in the town of María La Baja, Colombia. He was selected as the 44th overall pick in the 1991 NBA Draft by the Philadelphia 76ers. Teherán played college basketball at Houston Baptist from 1987 to 1989 and Houston from 1989 to 1991.

In December 2019, Teherán was hospitalized for renal failure in Cartagena, Colombia. He died on May 4, 2020 at the age of 54.

[[Paulette Sarcey]]

CATEGORIES: People from Paris, 1924 births, 2020 deaths, Political activists

Paulette Sarcey (11 April 1924 – 5 May 2020) was a French resistant. She was a member of the French Resistance in World War II. She was born in Paris.

She changed her name to Martine while in hiding, but was captured by police of the Vichy Regime on 23 March 1943. She was taken to a small station of the Paris Police Prefecture. Sarcey was first taken to Drancy internment camp, then to Auschwitz on 23 June 1943. Following the death marches, she was taken to Ravensbrück concentration camp. She was freed on 2 May 1945.

Sarcey died on 5 May 2020 at the age of 96.

[[Felice Cece]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2020 deaths, Italian Roman Catholics, Bishops

Felice Cece (26 March 1936 – 12 May 2020) was an Italian Roman Catholic archbishop. He was ordained to the priesthood in 1959. He was bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Teano-Calvi from 1984 to 1989 and as archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Sorrento-Castellammare di Stabia from 1989 to 2010. He was born in Cimitile, Italy.

Cece died on 12 May 2020, aged 84.

[[Renée Claude]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Canada, People with Alzheimer's disease, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian pop singers, Actors from Montreal

Renée Claude CAN (July 3, 1939 – May 12, 2020) was a Canadian actress and pop singer. She was born in Montreal, Quebec. She was best known for singing translated songs by Stéphane Venne, Michel Conte, Georges Brassens and Léo Ferré. An actress, she starred in It's Your Turn, Laura Cadieux, Avec un grand A and in He Shoots, He Scores.

In 2019, Claude was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. She died of COVID-19 in Montreal on May 12, 2020 at the age of 80.

[[Norbert Balatsch]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Austrian conductors, Grammy Award winners, People from Vienna

Norbert Balatsch (ˈnɔʁbɛʁt ˈbala:tʃ; 10 March 1928 – 6 May 2020) was an Austrian conductor. He was known as a choral conductor, who began as a baritone choir singer. He was the long-term choir director of both the Vienna State Opera and the Bayreuth Festival. He won two  Grammy Awards. Balatsch was born in Vienna.

Balatsch died on 6 May 2020 in Vienna, aged 92.

[[MBM (file format)]]

CATEGORIES: Graphics, Computer file formats

MBM (an abbreviation of Multibitmap) is a file format that is a collection of bitmap images (which is why the file format has that name). The images are not stored the same. Instead, the images are stored with a modified bitmap header with no compression or 8-bit, 12-bit, 16-bit or 24-bit RLE compression.

MBM files are used by most Symbian GUI applications to store graphics.

[[Chrystelle Trump Bond]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2020 deaths, American dancers, American choreographers, American historians, American critics, Writers from Maryland

Chrystelle Lee Trump Bond (January 1, 1938  – May 6, 2020) was an American dancer, choreographer, dance historian, and author. Bond was the founding chair of the dance department at Goucher College. She was the co-founder and director of Chorégraphie Antique. Bond was a dance critic for The Baltimore Sun. Bond was born in Manchester, Maryland.

Bond died on May 6, 2020 in Towson, Maryland at the age of 82.

[[Manchester, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maryland

Manchester is a small incorporated town in northeastern Carroll County, Maryland, United States. It is just south of the Pennsylvania state line and north of Baltimore. The population was 4,808 at the 2010 census.

[[Westminster, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Maryland, County seats in Maryland

Westminster is a city in northern Maryland, United States. It is a suburb of Baltimore. It is the seat of Carroll County. The city's population was 18,590 at the 2010 census. 

[[Martin Spellman]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2020 deaths, American child actors, American movie actors, Actors from Des Moines, Iowa, Businesspeople from Iowa

Martin Spellman IV (October 8, 1925 – May 6, 2020) was an American child actor and businessman. He was active during the 1930s and 1940s. Spellman was born in Des Moines, Iowa. He played Skinny in the 1938 movie Boys Town, starring Spencer Tracy and Mickey Rooney. In 1939, he co-starred in Streets of New York with Jackie Cooper. The following year he had another leading role in Son of the Navy with Jean Parker and James Dunn.

Spellman died in Vancouver, Washington on May 6, 2020 at the age of 94.

[[Jean Parker]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American silent movie actors, American radio actors, Actors from Montana, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Jean Parker (born Lois Mae Green, August 11, 1915 – November 30, 2005) was an American actress. 

Parker's first movie was in Divorce in the Family (1932). She appeared in movies for MGM, RKO and Columbia. Her best known movies were Little Women, Lady for a Day, Gabriel Over the White House, Limehouse Blues, The Ghost Goes West, and Rasputin and the Empress. 

[[James Dunn (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, 1901 births, 1967 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American silent movie actors, Actors from New York City, Comedians from New York City

James Howard Dunn (November 2, 1901 – September 1, 1967) was an American actor and comedian. Dunn was born in Manhattan, New York. His movie role was in Bad Girl (1931). He appeared in three Shirley Temple movies. His best known role was as Johnny Nolan in A Tree Grows in Brooklyn (1945). He won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for this role.

Dunn died on September 1, 1967 in Santa Monica, California of problems caused by stomach surgery, aged 65. 

[[Languages of North America]]

CATEGORIES: Languages

North America is the third largest continent in the world. There are 23 countries in North America. The languages people speak the most in North America - which includes Central America and the Caribbean - are English, Spanish, and in some places French and creole languages.

There are lots of languages which are spoken by indigenous peoples - in the Arctic these include Eskimo-Aleut languages, such the Aleut langauge, which are spoken in the Aleutian Islands, the Yupik languages, which are spoken in Alaska, and Inuit languages, which are spoken by people in places including Alaska, Yukon, the Northwest Territories, Nunavut, and Greenland.

A group of languages which are called Na-Dené languages are spoken in Alaska and north-west Canada. Southern Athabaskan languages are spoken in the South-western United States. Algic languages, which include Algonquian languages, are spoken by a lot of people in Canada and the United States. Some of these are Ojibwe, Cree, Miꞌkmaq, and Blackfoot.

A group of languages called the Iriquoian languages are spoken by a lot of people who live near the Saint Lawrence River and the eastern Great Lakes. These include Cherokee.

A group of languages called the Uto-Aztecan languages are spoken by people in the Western United States, in northern and central Mexico, and El Salvador. Some of these are Hopi, Oʼodham, and Nahuatl.

A group of languages called the Mayan languages are spoken by people in Mexico, Belize, and Guatemala.

A group of languages called the Mixe–Zoque languages are spoken by people in the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in Mexico.

In the Caribbean a lot of people used to speak Arawakan languages. Some of these are the Ta-Arawakan languages, which are spoken in Central and Southern America. These are still spoken by a lot of people in South America.

[[Urn]]

CATEGORIES: Containers, Death customs, Ancient Greek pottery

An urn is a vase, often with a cover, with a typically narrowed neck above a rounded body and a footed pedestal.  Describing a vessel as an "urn", as opposed to a vase or other terms, generally reflects its use rather than any particular shape or origin.  The term is especially often used for funerary urns, vessels used in burials, either to hold the cremated ashes or as grave goods, but is used in many other contexts; in catering large vessels for serving tea or coffee are often called "tea-urns", even when they are metal cylinders of purely functional design.  Large sculpted vases are often called urns, whether placed outdoors, in gardens or as architectural ornaments on buildings, or kept inside.

[[People Will Talk]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 comedy movies, 1951 drama movies, 1950s romantic comedy movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz

People Will Talk is a 1951 American romantic comedy drama movie directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz and is the English language version on the 1932 play by Curt Goetz. It stars Cary Grant, Jeanne Crain, Hume Cronyn, Finlay Currie, Walter Slezak and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[I Can Get It for You Wholesale (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 drama movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Michael Gordon

I Can Get It for You Wholesale is a 1951 American romantic drama movie directed by Michael Gordon and based on the 1937 novel of the same name by Jerome Weidman. It stars Susan Hayward, Dan Dailey, George Sanders, Sam Jaffe, Harry von Zell. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[8HevXII a]]

CATEGORIES: Septuagint manuscripts, 1st-century biblical manuscripts

8HevXII a (originally marked LXXVTS 10a; Rahlfs 943a) is Septuagint manuscript that containing the biblical books of minor prophets. This is a manuscript in scroll form dated to the 1st century. It was found in the Judean Desert in the cave number 8 of Nahal Hever. This fragment is also marked with number 943a on the list of Septuagint manuscripts according to Alfred Rahlfs classification.

This scroll contains the name of God YHWH in the following places: Jon 4:2; Mic 1:1, 3; Mic 4:4, 5, 7; Mic 5:4, 4; Hab 2:14, 16, 20; Hab 3:9; Zep 1:3, 14; Zep 2:10; Zec 1:3, 3, 4; Zec 3:5, 6, 7.

This manuscript was published in Supplements to Vetus Testamentum, Vol. X, in 1963. The original designation of the scroll comes from the abbreviated name of the publication in which it was published (LXX - manuscript of the Septuagint; Vetus Testamentum, Supplements; volume X).

This manuscript is kept in the Rockefeller Museum in Jerusalem (8HevXII a).

[[A Millionaire for Christy]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by George Marshall

A Millionaire for Christy is a 1951 American comedy movie directed by George Marshall and starring Fred MacMurray, Eleanor Parker, Richard Carlson, Una Merkel, Douglass Dumbrille. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Judith Quiney]]

CATEGORIES: 1585 births, 1662 deaths

Judith Quiney (baptised 2 February 1585 – 9 February 1662), née Shakespeare, was the younger daughter of William Shakespeare and Anne Hathaway and the fraternal twin of their only son Hamnet Shakespeare. ... By the time of Judith Quiney's death, she had outlived her children by many years.

Died: 9 February 1662

Spouse: Thomas Quiney

Sibling: Susanna Hall, Hamnet Shakespeare

Born: 2 February 1585

Children: Richard Quiney, Thomas Quiney, Shakespeare Quiney

Parents:William Shakespeare,Anne Hathaway

LIFE

On the 10th February 1616 Shakespeare’s younger daughter Judith married a local man, Thomas Quiney. At the start of 1616 her impending marriage must have been the cause of celebration in the family. Shakespeare first saw his lawyer to draft his will in January 1616. This is often taken to mean he was already ill, but with his daughters married or betrothed it was also a good time to ensure they would be provided for.Things started to go wrong soon after that first session with the lawyer. In the first drafting of the will, he is mentioned specifically with a bequest “vnto my sonne in Law”. The marriage occurred outside the usual period for marriages (as Shakespeare’s own had been). Anne Hathaway was already pregnant. This wasn’t the case with Judith.Shakespeare’s marriage had been arranged by license from Worcester, but in Judith’s case no license was granted. Marrying without going through the proper procedures was frowned on, and both Judith and Thomas were excommunicated. None of this sounds like respectable behaviour, but worse was to come. Thomas might well have been in a hurry to marry Judith, because after the marriage it soon came out that he had previously had a mistress, Margaret Wheeler, who was pregnant with his child. To make matters worse, both Margaret and her baby died. Thomas was tried by the church court and sentenced to stand in front of the congregation of Holy Trinity church clad in a white sheet, for three Sundays.

Shakespeare saw his lawyer again on 25 March. One of the significant changes is that the reference to Thomas Quiney was struck out and Judith’s name was inserted instead. Judith was to inherit £100, a cottage, and if she or her children were alive after three years a further £150 of which she should receive the interest, giving her and any children she might have an independent income. She also received Shakespeare’s “broad silver gilt bole”.Very little is known about Judith, but her life seems to have been full of disappointments. As far as we know she received no education, and lived in Stratford all her life. She and her twin brother Hamnet were born in 1585, but Hamnet died in August 1596. His death must have affected the whole family profoundly, not least Judith herself. This was the first of many sad events in her life, the next of which was the humiliation surrounding her marriage. She can not have been unaware of the comparison with her older sister Susanna who had already made a successful marriage to a highly-respected doctor and had a daughter. In Shakespeare’s will, it’s Susanna who inherits most of Shakespeare’s wealth including his house New Place.

Shakespeare himself died in April 1616, only a few weeks after Judith’s marriage and humiliation. In November Judith herself had a baby son, who was christened “Shakespeare”, after her father. The baby lived for only six months, dying in May 1617. Infant mortality was high, and several of Shakespeare’s own siblings had died as babies. Later, in 1618 and 1620, Judith had two more sons, Richard and Thomas. These two boys survived childhood but died within weeks of each other in 1639, aged 19 and 21, probably of plague. So Judith outlived all of her children, being buried on 9 February 1662 aged 77, while her husband died in 1662 or 1663. Thomas Quiney was by profession a vintner and tobacconist, and later became a leading member of the town’s governing council, holding its highest office, Chamberlain, in 1621 and 1622. But unlike her sister and brother-in-law who had graves in the chancel of the church, Judith and Thomas were buried in the churchyard, the site is now unknown.The house in which Judith and Thomas Quiney lived still stands, but unlike Susannah’s house Hall’s Croft Shakespeare’s Birthplace or the site of his grand house New Place it isn’t a museum. It used to be known as “The Cage”, and stands in the very centre of town at the junction of High Street and Bridge Street. In its time this building has been a prison, the “Shakespeare View Store”, the town’s Tourist Information Centre and now, a shop selling Crabtree and Evelyn toiletries.

[[8HevXII b]]

CATEGORIES: Septuagint manuscripts, 1st-century biblical manuscripts

8HevXII b (originally marked LXXVTS 10b; Rahlfs 943b) is a manuscript of the Septuagint written on parchment in scroll form. This scroll is dated between 50 B.C.E. and 50 C.E. It is a masucript containing a fragment of the Biblical Book of Zachariah 8,18-9,7. It was found in the Judean Desert in the cave of Nahal Heber. This fragment is also numbered 943b on the list of Septuaginta manuscripts according to Alfred Rahlfs classification.

This manuscript contains a tetragrammaton in the following places: Zec 8:20; 9:1(×2), 4.

The manuscript was published in Supplements to Vetus Testamentum, Vol. X, in 1963. The original designation of the scroll comes from the abbreviated name of the publication in which it was published (LXX - manuscript of the Septuaginty; Vetus Testamentum, Supplements volume X, scroll b,).

This manuscript is kept in the Rockefeller Museum in Jerusalem (8HevXII b).

[[Pahar Ganj]]

CATEGORIES: Delhi

Pagar ganj or pagar ganj is a subdivision in the administration district of central Delhi.

[[Operations and Checkout Building]]

CATEGORIES: NASA, Buildings and structures in Florida

The Neil Armstrong Operations and Checkout Building (commonly referred to as the 'O&C") is a factory located at Kennedy Space Center.

The building was built in 1964, and made from reinforced concrete and steel.

It's purpose is to make and test out rocket parts such as the Apollo Command/Service Module, Lunar Module, Space Shuttle Spacelab modules, and truss components for the International Space Station. Once manufacturing and check-testing is complete, the spacecraft modules or space stations are checked out of the factory to the SSPF or the Vehicle Assembly Building for integration and launch.

The O&C is actually a two-part building with connected overhead walkways. The front building is where astronauts live in dormitories before launching into space. It also has a few conference rooms, several laboratories, and a restaurant. The rear building is where the spacecraft manufacturing workshop is located.

In 2014, the O&C was named in honor of the first man on the moon: Neil Armstrong.

[[Pacific Coast League]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball leagues

The Pacific Coast League (PCL) is a minor league baseball league in the United States. Like the International League and the Mexican League, the PCL plays at the Triple-A level, the most difficult level before Major League Baseball (MLB). It was so-named because it started with six teams from the states of California, Oregon, and Washington, which are next to the Pacific Ocean. Today, the league has 16 teams across 11 states from California to Tennessee, and from Washington to Texas.

Started in 1903, the PCL was a popular baseball league in the Western United States until 1958 when MLB teams moved there and MLB games began to be shown on television.

[[ICN Business School]]

CATEGORIES: Education in France

ICN Business School is an European higher studies establishment. The school is in 4 places, in La Défense, Nancy, Berlin and Nuremberg. It has been established in 1905. 

ICN is specialist in the fields of economics, social sciences and management.

[[Flor de Caña]]

CATEGORIES: 1890s establishments in North America, 1890 establishments, Food companies, Drink companies, Nicaraguan culture

Flor de Caña (which means 'Sugarcane flower' in Spanish) is a type of premium rum that is made by the company, Compañía Licorera de Nicaragua.

[[Tetragonia tetragonoides]]

CATEGORIES: Leaf vegetables

Tetragonia tetragonoides, commonly called New Zealand spinach and other local names, is a flowering plant in the fig-marigold family (Aizoaceae). It is often cultivated as a leafy vegetable.

[[Sino-Indian War]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s in China, 20th century in India, 1962, Wars involving China, Wars involving India, October events, November events

The Sino-Indian War was a war between India and China,  in 1962, over a border dispute in the Himalayas. China won the war, but there were almost no changes in territory.

[[Dark-sky preserve]]

CATEGORIES: Dark-sky preserves, Astronomy, Protected areas, Light

A dark-sky preserve (DSP) is protected area without light pollution created by humans. These areas are used to help promote astronomy. Different countries have different programs for making areas dark-sky preserves. The International Dark-Sky Association (IDA) uses the word reserve instead of park, or preserve with their dark-sky preserves. This is so that people don't confuse International Dark Sky Reserves (IDSR) and International Dark Sky Parks (IDSP).

In Canada, there is a very strict way to make areas dark-sky preserves. This was based on the work by the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada. The program is based on the amount of light in an area and how much skyglow there is from cities and towns that are close to it. Canada's program is the only one in the world that makes areas dark-sky preserves. Outside Canada, when areas are called dark-sky preserves, they are not official, and might not be a real dark or protected preserve.

[[Aragonese Party]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s establishments in Spain, 1978 establishments in Europe, Political parties in Spain, Aragon

The Aragonese Party (Partido Aragonés, PAR), is a regional political party from Aragon, a northern province of Spain. The party was founded in 1978 with the name Aragonese Regionalist Party. They later changed their name in 1990 to Aragonese Party. However, they kept the initials PAR.

[[Vehicle Assembly Building]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 establishments, Apollo program, Buildings and structures in Florida, National Register of Historic Places

The Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB) is an iconic industrial building at the John F. Kennedy Space Center. It's designed to assemble pre-made rocket stages, spacecraft and related parts vertically onto a mobile launch platform. The Saturn V, Space Shuttle and Ares-I rockets have been assembled in the VAB, and the upcoming Space Launch System in late 2020.

Construction began in 1963, and was completed in 1966. It is 160 metres (525 feet) tall (716 feet (218.2 m) long and 518 feet (157.9 m) wide), made from aproximately 100,000 tons of steel, and contains 3,665,000 m3 of internal volume.

The VAB has four large assembly areas called high bays, with one huge central aisle where the rocket parts are loaded in.

The Launch Control Center is adjascent to the side of the building, with a walkway connecting both buildings. The NASA logo and American flags are the largest painted facades in the world.

[[Morpheus (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

Morpheus was the god of dreams.  Hypnos (the god of sleep) was his father. Pasithea (the goddess of relaxation and rest) was his mother.

[[Dictatorship of the proletariat]]

CATEGORIES: Communism, Forms of government, Marxism, Politics of the Soviet Union, Revolutions, Soviet Union

The dictatorship of the proletariat is a condition of society where the working class has more power to govern than every other social class.

[[Ricaud, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Ricaud is a commune of 299 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Rieux-en-Val]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Rieux-en-Val is a commune of 88 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Rieux-Minervois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Rieux-Minervois is a commune of 1,987 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Sherman County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Sherman County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 1,765 people. The county seat is Moro.

[[Morrow County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Morrow County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 11,173 people. The county seat is Heppner.

[[Tillamook County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Tillamook County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 25,250 people. The county seat is Tillamook.

[[Union County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Union County is a county located in the U.S. state of Oregon. As of the 2010 census, the county has a population of 25,748 people. The county seat is La Grande.

[[Prineville, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon, County seats in Oregon

Prineville is a city in Oregon in the United States. It is the county seat of Crook County.

[[Lakeview, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon, County seats in Oregon

Lakeview is a city in Oregon in the United States. It is the county seat of Lake County.

[[Roquecourbe-Minervois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Roquecourbe-Minervois is a commune of 132 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Roquefère]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Roquefère is a commune of 79 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Roubia]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Roubia is a commune of 509 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Sainte-Colombe-sur-Guette]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Sainte-Colombe-sur-Guette is a commune of 46 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Routier, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Routier is a commune of 248 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Gold Beach, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon, County seats in Oregon

Gold Beach is a city in Oregon in the United States. It is the county seat of Curry County.

[[Canyon City, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon, County seats in Oregon

Canyon City is a city in Oregon in the United States. It is the county seat of Grant County.

[[Grand Hotel (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 movies, 1930s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Edmund Goulding

Grand Hotel is a 1932 American drama movie directed by Edmund Goulding and based on the 1929 novel Menschen im Hotel by Vicki Baum and the 1930 play by William A. Drake. It stars Greta Garbo, Joan Crawford, John Barrymore, Lionel Barrymore, Wallace Berry, Lewis Stone, Jean Hersholt, Tully Marshall and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It won an Academy Award in 1932 and was remade as Week-End at the Waldorf in 1945.

[[Zürich Stock Exchange]]

CATEGORIES: Stock exchanges, Buildings and structures in Switzerland

Zürich Stock Exchange also known as SIX Swiss Exchange is based in Zurich. It is Switzerland's main stock exchange. The other stock exchange is Berne eXchange.

It is owned by SIX Group which is an unlisted public limited company itself and is controlled by 122 banks or financial institutions.

Zürich Stock Exchange was founded in 1993. It was created by merging the Geneva stock exchange, the Basel stock exchange and the Zurich stock exchange into the Verein Schweizerische Effektenbörse.

[[Taiwan Stock Exchange]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Taiwan, 1961 establishments in Asia, Economy of Taiwan, Stock exchanges, Taipei

Taiwan Stock Exchange (TWSE; 臺灣證券交易所) is a financial institution which is located in Taipei 101, in Taipei, Taiwan. TWSE was established in 1961 and it started operating as a stock exchange on 9 February 1962. It is regulated by the Financial Supervisory Commission of Taiwan.

Taiwan Stock Exchange broadcasts before-hour information from 7:40 to 8:40. Then it has normal trading sessions from 09:00 to 13:45 and a fixed price post-market sessions from 14:00 to 15:00 on all days of the week except Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. These holidays are declared by the exchange in advance.

[[Schwarzschild metric]]

CATEGORIES: Relativity, Astrophysics

The Schwarzschild metric was calculated by Karl Schwarzschild as a solution to Einstein's field equations in 1916. Also known as Schwarzschild solution, it is an equation from general relativity in the field of astrophysics. A metric refers to an equation which describes spacetime; in particular, a Schwarzschild metric describes the gravitational field around a Schwarzschild black hole - a non-rotating, spherical black hole with no magnetic field, and where the cosmological constant is zero.

It is essentially an equation that describes how a particle moves through the space near a black hole.

[[Fita]]

CATEGORIES: Cyrillic letters

Fita (Ѳ ѳ; italics: Ѳ ѳ) is a Cyrillic letter that comes from the Greek letter theta. In Cyrillic numerals, it is equal to the number nine.

[[The Reincarnation of Peter Proud]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 horror movies, 1975 drama movies, American horror movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by J. Lee Thompson

The Reincarnation of Peter Proud is a 1975 American psychological horror drama movie directed J. Lee Thompson and is based on the 1973 novel of the same name by Max Ehrlich. It stars Michael Sarrazin, Margot Kidder, Jennifer O'Neill, Paul Hecht. It was distributed by American International Pictures. David Fincher and Andrew Kevin Walker had announced the remake in 2009.

[[Johnny McCarthy]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, National Basketball Association coaches, Sacramento Kings players, Atlanta Hawks players, Boston Celtics players, Sportspeople from Buffalo, New York

John Joseph McCarthy (April 25, 1934 – May 9, 2020) was an American basketball player and coach. He was born in Buffalo, New York. He played for the National Basketball Association from 1956 to 1964. He played for the Cincinnati Royals, St. Louis Hawks and the Boston Celtics. He coached the Buffalo Braves from 1971 to 1972.

McCarthy died on May 9, 2020 in Buffalo at the age of 86.

[[Adolfo Pajares]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2020 deaths, Spanish politicians, Spanish businesspeople

Adolfo Pajares Compostizo (26 March 1937 – 13 May 2020) was a Spanish politician and businessman. He was born in Torrelavega, Spain. He was a member of the People's Party. Pajares was President of the Parliament of Cantabria from 1990 to 1999.

Pajares died on 13 May 2020 in Santander, Spain at the age of 83.

[[Torrelavega]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Spain, Municipalities in Cantabria

Torrelavega (Cantabrian: Torlavega) is a municipality in the single province Autonomous Community of Cantabria in northern Spain.

Its highest point is 606 metres and its lowest point is 12 metres.

[[Gabriel Bacquier]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2020 deaths, French singers

Gabriel Bacquier (17 May 1924 – 13 May 2020) was a French operatic baritone. He was a long-term member of the Opéra-Comique and the Paris Opera. He also appeared at leading opera houses in Europe and the United States.

Bacquier made his American debut at the Lyric Opera of Chicago in 1962 as the High Priest in Samson et Dalila by Saint-Saëns.

Bacquier died on 13 May 2020, aged 95.

[[Lyric Opera of Chicago]]

CATEGORIES: Theatres in Chicago

Lyric Opera of Chicago is one of the leading opera companies in the United States. It was founded in Chicago in 1954, under the name 'Lyric Theatre of Chicago' by Carol Fox, Nicola Rescigno and Lawrence Kelly. Maria Callas's American debut in Norma was held here. 

The Lyric is housed in a theater and related spaces in the Civic Opera Building. 

[[Civic Opera Building]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Chicago, Illinois

The Civic Opera Building is a 45-story office tower at 20 North Wacker Drive in Chicago. The building opened November 4, 1929, and has an Art Deco interior. It has a 3,563-seat opera house, the Civic Opera House, which is the second-largest opera auditorium in North America. 

Today, the opera house is the permanent home of the Lyric Opera of Chicago.

[[Prime Minister of Laos]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Laos

The prime minister of the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the head of government of Laos. It is the highest office within the Central Government.

[[Bounnhang Vorachith]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Laos, Presidents of Laos, Vice Presidents of Laos

Bounnhang Vorachith (ບຸນຍັງ ວໍລະຈິດ; born 15 August 1937) is a Laotian politician. He was General Secretary of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party and President of Laos from 2016 to 2021. He was Prime Minister from 2001 to 2006 and Vice President of Laos from 2006 to 2016.

[[Thongloun Sisoulith]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Current national leaders, Living people, President of Laos, Prime Ministers of Laos

Thongloun Sisoulith ,ထောင်လုန် သိသုလိဒ် (ທອງລຸນ ສີສຸລິດ; born 10 November 1946) is a Laotian politician. In 2021, he became the President of Laos. He was the Prime Minister of Laos from 2016 until 2021.

[[President of Laos]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Laos

The President of the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the head of state of Laos.

[[Souphanouvong]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1995 deaths, Presidents of Laos, Presidents of the National Assembly (Laos)

Prince Souphanouvong (13 July 1909 – 9 January 1995) was a Laotian politician. He was the first President of Laos from December 1975 to August 1991. He was nicknamed "The Red Prince". He was a founding leader of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party. 

Souphanouvong died on 9 January 1995 at the age of 86.

[[Phoumi Vongvichit]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1994 deaths, Presidents of Laos

Phoumi Vongvichit (6 April 1909 – 7 January 1994) was a Laotian politician. From 1986 to 1991, he was the acting President of Laos.

[[Kaysone Phomvihane]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 1992 deaths, Presidents of Laos, Prime Ministers of Laos

Kaysone Phomvihane (ໄກສອນ ພົມວິຫານ) (13 December 1920 – 21 November 1992) was a Laotian politician. He was the first leader of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party from 1955 until his death in 1992. He was the first Prime Minister of the Lao People's Democratic Republic from 1975 to 1991 and then as the second President from 1991 to 1992.

[[Nouhak Phoumsavanh]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 2008 deaths, Presidents of Laos, Presidents of the National Assembly (Laos)

Nouhak Phoumsavanh or Phoumsavan (ໜູຮັກ ພູມສະຫວັນ; หนูฮัก พูมสะหวัน; April 9, 1910 – September 9, 2008) was a Laotian politician. He was a longtime Pathet Lao revolutionary and communist party official. He was the 3rd President of Laos from 1992 to 1998.

[[J. Lee Thompson]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2002 deaths, British movie directors, People from Bristol

John Lee Thompson (1 August 1914 – 30 August 2002) was a British movie director active in London and Hollywood and is best remembered for his Oscar nomination for the 1961 movie The Guns of Navarone. His other movies include Cape Fear, The Yellow Balloon, Ice Cold in Alex, Tiger Bay, Never So Few, Yield to the Night, What a Way to Go!, Country Dance, St. Ives, The Reincarnation of Peter Proud, Happy Birthday to Me, 10 to Midnight, Murphy's Law, The Evil That Men Do, Firewalker, and Kinjite: Forbidden Subjects.

[[Choummaly Sayasone]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Presidents of Laos, Vice Presidents of Laos

Lieutenant General Choummaly Sayasone (Lao: ᝤᝳᝫᝮᝲ ᝰᝬᝮᝳᝨ; born 6 March 1936) is a Laotian politician. He was the General Secretary (leader) of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LPRP). He was the  President of Laos from 2006 to 2016. He was the third Vice President of Laos from 2001 to 2006.

[[Vice President of Laos]]

CATEGORIES: Vice Presidents of Laos

Vice President of Laos is the political position in Laos created in 1996. The Vice President is elected by the National Assembly of Laos.

[[Phankham Viphavanh]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1951 births, Prime Ministers of Laos, Vice Presidents of Laos, Recipients of the Order of the Rising Sun

Phankham Viphavanh (ພັນຄຳ ວິພາວັນ; born 1951) is a Laotian politician. In 2021, he became the Prime Minister of Laos. He is a member of Politburo. He is the Executive Committee of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party. He was the Vice President of Laos from 2016 until 2021.

[[President of the National Assembly of Laos]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the National Assembly (Laos)

This is a list of individuals who served as President of the National Assembly of Laos.

[[Samane Viyaket]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Presidents of the National Assembly (Laos)

Lieutenant General Samane Viyaket (3 March 1927 – 22 July 2016) was a Laotian national politician. He was the President of the National Assembly of Laos from 1993 to 2006. 

He was born in Phichit Province, Siam. He was in charge of ideological and cultural works of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LPRP).

He died on 22 July 2016 at the age of 89.

[[Thongsing Thammavong]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Presidents of the National Assembly (Laos), Prime Ministers of Laos

Thongsing Thammavong (Lao: ᝦᝳᝥᝰᝲᝥᝦᝫᝪᝳᝥ; born 12 April 1944) is a Laotian politician. He was the Prime Minister of Laos from 2010 to 2016. He is a member of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LPRP). He has been a member of the LPRP Politburo since 1991. He was the President of the National Assembly from 2006 to 2010.

[[The Yellow Balloon (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 drama movies, British drama movies, Movies directed by J. Lee Thompson

The Yellow Balloon is a 1953 British drama movie directed by J. Lee Thompson and starring Kathleen Ryan, Andrew Ray, Kenneth More, Bernard Lee, Sid James, Marjorie Rhodes, William Sylvester, Veronica Hurst. It was distributed by Associated British Picture Corporation.

[[Pany Yathotou]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s births, Living people, Vice Presidents of Laos, Presidents of the National Assembly (Laos)

Pany Yathotou (born 18 February 1951) is a Laotian politician. She is a member of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party. In 2021, she became the Vice President of Laos.

She was the chairman and governor of the Bank of the Lao P.D.R. from 1988 until 1997. Yathotou later became a member of the National Assembly in 1998. She became the President of the National Assembly of Laos in 2010.

[[National Assembly (Laos)]]

CATEGORIES: Laos

The National Assembly (Laotian: Sapha Heng Xat, French: Assemblée nationale) is the unicameral parliament of Laos. The National Assembly meets in Vientiane.

Laos is a one-party state, with the Lao People's Revolutionary Party as the sole legal party in the country.

[[Vicki (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s crime movies, 1953 drama movies, American crime drama movies

Vicki is a 1953 American crime drama movie directed by Harry Horner and is based on I Wake Up Screaming by Steve Fisher is a remake of the 1941 movie. It stars Jeanne Crain, Jean Peters, Elliott Reid, Richard Boone, Aaron Spelling, Carl Betz. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Tokyo Story]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 drama movies, Japanese movies, Japanese-language movies, Movies directed by Yasujirō Ozu

Tokyo Story is a 1953 Japanese drama movie directed by Yasujirō Ozu and starring Chishū Ryū, Chieko Higashiyama, Setsuko Hara, Haruko Sugimura, So Yamamura, Kuniko Miyake. It was distributed by Shochiku.

[[The Money Pit]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movie remakes, Movies directed by Richard Benjamin

The Money Pit is a 1986 American comedy movie directed by Richard Benjamin. The movie is a remake of Mr. Blandings Builds His Dream House, a 1948 Cary Grant comedy. The Money Pit stars Tom Hanks and Shelley Long as a couple who try to fix a recently purchased house. 

It was filmed in New York City and Lattingtown, New York, and was co-executive produced by Steven Spielberg.

[[Lattingtown, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

The Incorporated Village of Lattingtown is a village located within the Town of Oyster Bay in Nassau County, New York in the United States. The population was 1,739 at the 2010 census. 

Lattingtown is located at 40 (40.894334, -73.595118).

[[Big (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s fantasy movies, 1988 comedy-drama movies, American fantasy movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies directed by Penny Marshall

Big is a 1988 American fantasy comedy-drama movie directed by Penny Marshall. It stars Tom Hanks as Adult Josh Baskin, a young boy who makes a wish "to be big" and then becomes an adult the next day. The movie also stars Elizabeth Perkins, David Moscow as young Josh, John Heard and Robert Loggia

Big had two Academy Award nominations for Best Actor (Hanks) and Best Original Screenplay.

[[Henderson, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Henderson is a city and the county seat of Rusk County, northeast Texas, United States. The population was 13,712 at the 2010 census. Henderson is named for James Pinckney Henderson, the first governor of Texas.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, COVID-19 pandemic by country

May 2021

The COVID-19 pandemic spread to the United States in January 2020. The first confirmed case of local transmission was recorded in January in Chicago and the first known deaths happened in February.

By the end of March, cases had happened in all 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, and all U.S. territories except American Samoa. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Spain]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Spain, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was first confirmed to have spread to Spain on 31 January 2020, when a German tourist tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in La Gomera, Canary Islands. By 13 March, cases had been confirmed in all 50 provinces of the country.

A state of alarm and national lockdown was made on 14 March. On 29 March it was announced that, beginning the following day, all non-essential workers were to stay home for the next 14 days. By late March, the Community of Madrid has recorded the most cases and deaths in the country. 

On 25 March the death toll in Spain passed that of mainland China, and only Italy's was higher. 

On 2nbspApril, 950 people died of the virus in a 24-hour period—at the time, the most by any country in a single day. The next day Spain passed Italy in total cases and is now second only to the United States.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Italy]]

CATEGORIES: 2020s in Italy, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was first confirmed to have spread to Italy on 30 January 2020, when two Chinese tourists in Rome tested positive for the virus. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in mainland China]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic in China, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic started with a large number of unknown, possible pneumonia cases in the city of Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province, China. A Wuhan hospital told the local center for disease control and prevention (CDC) and health commissions on 27 December 2019.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Iran]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Iran, COVID-19 pandemic by country

During the COVID-19 pandemic, Iran reported its first confirmed cases of SARS-CoV-2 infections on 19 February 2020 in Qom. The virus may have been brought to the country by a merchant from Qom who had travelled to China.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in India]]

CATEGORIES: 2020s in India, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first case of the COVID-19 pandemic in India was reported on 30 January 2020, originating from China. As of TODAY, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare have confirmed a total of 78,003 cases, 26,235 recoveries (including 1 migration) and 2,549 deaths in the country. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Germany]]

CATEGORIES: 2020s in Germany, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic spread to Germany on 27 January 2020, when the first case was confirmed near Munich, Bavaria.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in France]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 in Europe, 2020s in France, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached France on 24 January 2020, when the first COVID-19 case in both Europe and France was identified in Bordeaux. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: 2020s in the United Kingdom, COVID-19 pandemic by country

(bottom row) social distancing queues outside a supermarket; NHS Nightingale hospital, London; pavement drawings; playground closed during lockdown.

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic spread to the United Kingdom in late January 2020. By 13 May there had been 

229,705 confirmed cases and 

33,186 deaths overall. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Canada]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Canada, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in Canada is part of the ongoing worldwide pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). 

[[Ryan Russell]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, British television actors, British television presenters

Ryan Russell is an British actor, best known for being a presenter on CBeebies from 2017 to 2019 and for playing the role of Michael Bailey in the long-running ITV soap opera Coronation Street since 2019. He studied Performance at the University of Salford and has appeared onstage in It's a Wonderful Life and Cassio and in commercials for Superdrug and WeBuyAnyCar.com. Russell was also one of the kids on World of Colours.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Ecuador]]

CATEGORIES: History of Ecuador, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was reported to have spread to Ecuador on 29 February 2020. That was when a woman in her 70s tested positive for the virus. Ecuador was described in April as the growing "epicentre" of the pandemic in Latin America. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Russia]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Russia, COVID-19 pandemic by country, CS1 Russian-language sources (ru), Current events

The COVID-19 pandemic spread to Russia on 31 January 2020, when two Chinese tourists in Tyumen, Siberia and Chita, Russian Far East tested positive for the virus, with both cases being contained.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Mexico, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Mexico in February 2020. However, the National Council of Science and Technology (CONACYT) reported two cases of COVID-19 in mid-January 2020 in the states of Nayarit and Tabasco, one case per state. 

As of May 13, there had been 40,186 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Mexico and 4,220 reported deaths, although the Secretariat of Health said in early May 2020 that there were more than 104,562 cases in Mexico.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil]]

CATEGORIES: 2020s in Brazil, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Brazil on 25 February 2020, when a man from São Paulo tested positive for the virus. 

As of 13 May 2020, 188,974 cases have been confirmed in the country, causing 13,149 deaths.

[[2020 Pacific typhoon season]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific typhoon seasons

The 2020 Pacific typhoon season is an ongoing event of which when typhoons form in the Pacific Ocean. The season lasts all year, although most tropical cyclones form between May and October. The season's first tropical cyclone formed on May 10, making it the sixth-latest start in the basin on record.

Typhoon Vongfong (Ambo), the season’s first storm, became a Category 3 typhoon and struck the Philippines, causing extensive damages during the COVID-19 pandemic.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Portugal]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Portugal, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Portugal in March 2020 by the Directorate-General of Health (DGS).

[[COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in South Africa, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed by Minister of Health Zweli Mkhize to have spread to South Africa on 5 March 2020. The first known case was a South African returning from Italy.

[[Stay-at-home order]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic

A stay-at-home order (North America) or a movement control order (Southeast Asia) is an order from a government to lower/end movements of a population as a mass quarantine move for stopping an epidemic, or pandemic. This is done by ordering residents to stay home except for essential tasks or to work in essential businesses.

In many cases, outdoor activities are allowed. Nonessential businesses are either closed or made to working from home.

In some regions, it has added a curfew or called a shelter-in-place order, but it is not to be confused with a shelter in place situation.

Similar measures have been used around the world, but the term lockdown is used instead.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the Philippines]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in the Philippines, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), a novel infectious disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), spread to the Philippines on January 30, 2020. The first case of the disease was confirmed in Metro Manila. 

[[Royal Flash (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 comedy movies, 1970s adventure movies, British comedy movies, British adventure movies, Movies directed by Richard Lester

Royal Flash is a 1975 British adventure comedy movie directed by Richard Lester and is based on the 1970 novel of the same name by George MacDonald Fraser. It stars Malcolm McDowell, Alan Bates, Oliver Reed, Florinda Bolkan, Joss Ackland, Alastair Sim, Britt Ekland, Bob Hoskins, Bob Peck, Frank Grimes, Christopher Cazenove and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in New Zealand]]

CATEGORIES: History of New Zealand, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first case of COVID-19 in New Zealand during the 2019–20 COVID-19 pandemic was reported on 28 February 2020. 2021, the country has had a total of 3,464 cases, of which 551 are currently active, and 26 people have died from the virus. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Japan]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Japan, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was first confirmed to have spread to Japan in January 2020. Cases have been recorded in each of the 47 prefectures except for Iwate. The country has seen over 10,000 confirmed cases.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in South Korea]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in South Korea, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic spread to South Korea on 20 January 2020, when the first case was announced.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Norway]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Norway, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic began in Norway on 26 February 2020, with cases increasing during the month of March. Physical distancing actions were introduced on 12 March. 

[[If I Had a Million]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 movies, 1930s comedy movies, 1930s drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies directed by Norman Taurog, Movies directed by William A. Seiter, Movies directed by Ernst Lubitsch, Movies directed by Norman Z. McLeod, Movies directed by H. Bruce Humberstone

If I Had a Million is a 1932 American comedy drama movie directed by seven directors Ernst Lubitsch, Norman Taurog, Stephen Roberts, Norman Z. McLeod, James Cruze, William A. Seiter, H. Bruce Humberstone and starring Gary Cooper, Charles Laughton, George Raft, May Robson, Charles Ruggles, Gene Raymond. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Vietnam]]

CATEGORIES: History of Vietnam, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic spread to Vietnam on 23 January 2020, when its first known case of COVID-19 was reported. 

2021 the country had 2,383 confirmed cases, 1,717 recoveries, and 35 deaths. More than 1.7 million tests have been performed. Hai Duong, as of February 2021 is the most-affected province with 647 confirmed cases.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Denmark]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Denmark, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was first confirmed to have spread to Denmark on 27 February 2020. As of 13 May 2020, there have been 10,667 confirmed cases. Among these, 533 patients have died, 8,663 have recovered, and 164 are in hospital, including 37 in intensive care.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Singapore]]

CATEGORIES: History of Singapore, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first case relating to the COVID-19 pandemic in Singapore was confirmed on 23 January.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Iceland]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Iceland, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Iceland in February 2020. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Serbia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Serbia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in Serbia is a current outbreak of Coronavirus disease 2019 in Serbia caused by SARS-CoV-2. 

[[Bolliger & Mabillard]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s establishments in Switzerland, 1988 establishments in Europe, Companies of Switzerland, Roller coasters

Bolliger & Mabillard, commonly known as B&M, is a roller coaster company based in Monthey, Switzerland. After installing its first coaster in 1990, they have now installed more than 100 rollercoasters across the globe.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Jamaica, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in Jamaica is part of an ongoing global pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), an infectious disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed in Jamaica in 10 March 2020. It happened at the same time as the ongoing dengue fever epidemic in Latin America and the Caribbean.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Greece]]

CATEGORIES: 2020s in Greece, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic first appeared in Greece on 26 February 2020. 2020, there have been 2,760 confirmed cases and 155 deaths.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Thailand]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Thailand, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Thailand on 13 January 2020, when the first case outside China was announced.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Finland]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Finland, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first case of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic in Finland was confirmed on 29 January 2020, when a Chinese tourist visiting Ivalo from Wuhan tested positive for the virus.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the Republic of Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in the Republic of Ireland, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic reached Ireland on 29 February 2020, and within three weeks had spread to all counties. 

[[Flatten the curve]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic

Flattening the curve is a public health strategy to slow down the spread of the COVID-19 virus during the COVID-19 pandemic. The curve being flattened is the epidemic curve, a representation of the number of infected people needing health care over time. 

During an epidemic, a health care system can break down when the number of people infected passes the health care system's ability to take care of them. 

Flattening the curve means slowing the spread of the epidemic so that the peak number of people requiring care at a time is reduced, and the health care system does not pass its capacity. 

Flattening the curve relies on techniques such as quarantine, stay at home orders, and social distancing.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Uruguay]]

CATEGORIES: History of Uruguay, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first cases of the COVID-19 pandemic in Uruguay were reported on 13 March by the Ministry of Public Health. 

As of March 2020 there is an ongoing outbreak in Uruguay, with the first few cases imported from Italy and Spain.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Paraguay]]

CATEGORIES: Paraguay, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Paraguay on 7 March 2020 in a 32 year-old man from Guayaquil, Ecuador, living in San Lorenzo, Central department. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Peru]]

CATEGORIES: History of Peru, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was reported to have spread to Peru on 6 March 2020 when a 25-year-old man who had travelled to Spain, France and the Czech Republic tested positive. 

On 15 March 2020, President Martín Vizcarra announced a country-wide lockdown, closing borders, slowing down domestic travel, and ending nonessential business, except health facilities, food vendors, pharmacies, and financial institutions. 

Peru, with a total population of 32 million, has a total of 500 intensive care unit (ICU) beds available as of April 2020, and is working on expanding its nation-wide ventilator system from 40 to 540 machines within the coming months. 

The engineering and production is supplied by the Peruvian military.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the Czech Republic]]

CATEGORIES: History of the Czech Republic, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic saw its first three confirmed cases in the Czech Republic on 1 March 2020. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Hungary]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Hungary, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic spread to Hungary on 4 March 2020, when the first cases in the country were announced. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in El Salvador]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in El Salvador, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached El Salvador on 18 March 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Afghanistan]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Afghanistan, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Afghanistan in Herat, was confirmed on 24 February 2020.

[[Arthur Holmes]]

CATEGORIES: Geologists, Structure of the Earth

Arthur Holmes (18901965) was an English geologist. He made two important contributions: the use of radioactive isotopes for dating minerals, and the suggestion that convection currents in the mantle play an important role in continental drift. 

Holmes showed us that thermal convection currents were strong enough to move large land masses, which contributed to Alfred Wegener's theory of continental drift or theory of Plate tectonics. Harry H. Hess (19061969) also supported this view.

Holmes was a pioneer of geochronology, and performed the first accurate uranium-lead radiometric dating while an undergraduate in London. This gave a date of of 370 mya to a Devonian rock from Norway.  This result was published in 1911, after his graduation in 1910.

Holmes worked on the problem of the age of the Earth all his life. He reached an approximately correct estimate by the 1940s of 4,500±100 mya.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Pakistan, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Pakistan on 26 February 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Venezuela]]

CATEGORIES: History of Venezuela, COVID-19 pandemic by country

As part of an ongoing worldwide pandemic,  the first two patients with COVID-19 in Venezuela were confirmed on 13 March 2020; the first death was reported on 26 March. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Panama]]

CATEGORIES: History of Panama, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Panama on 9 March 2020. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Bolivia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Bolivia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Bolivia when its first two cases were confirmed on 10 March 2020. They were in the departments of Oruro and Santa Cruz.

On 12 March, Bolivia ended all public school sessions until 31 March, as well as all commercial flights to and from Europe for a long time. They also prohibited large-scale public gatherings of more than 1,000 people.

Following the announcement of the first confirmed case, incidents were reported among the local population, including panic buying of surgical masks and hand sanitizer and blocking access to hospitals.

On 19 March a patient under observation who was required to stay in isolation tried to escape but was caught when he tried to take a trip between departments.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Iraq]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Iraq, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was first confirmed to have spread to Iraq in February 2020. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Saudi Arabia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic spread to Saudi Arabia on March 2, 2020, when the Ministry of Health confirmed the first case in the kingdom. 

By April 8, as many as 150 members of the Saudi royal family had tested positive. The king's nephew, Faisal bin Bandar Al Saud, has been put in the intensive care unit over coronavirus problems. 

As of November 25, the kingdom has 355,741 confirmed cases, the highest among the Arabian Gulf States with 344,311 recoveries and 5,811 deaths.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Colombia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Colombia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Colombia on 6 March 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Argentina]]

CATEGORIES: History of Argentina, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Argentina on 3 March 2020, with 6,866 people being infected.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Cuba]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Cuba, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Cuba on 11 March 2020 when three Italian tourists tested positive for the virus.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Trinidad and Tobago]]

CATEGORIES: Trinidad and Tobago, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in Trinidad and Tobago is part of the ongoing global viral pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which was confirmed to have reached Trinidad and Tobago on 12 March 2020.

[[V.Flash]]

CATEGORIES: Video game consoles

The V.Flash (known as V.Smile Pro in Europe; stylized as V.FLASH HOME EDUTAINMENT SYSTEM) is a seventh-generation educational home video game console. It is a spinoff of the V.Smile series of video game consoles and was manufactured and released by VTech. Unlike the V.Smile, the game console uses 3D graphics and is designed for kids aged 5+.

It was revealed at the 2006 London Toy Fair, and came out in September 2006.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Chile]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Chile, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Chile on March 2020. 

2020 there is a COVID-19 outbreak in Chile. The country passed a thousand confirmed cases on 25 March 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Poland]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Poland, COVID-19 pandemic by country

In February and March 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic that started in late 2019, health authorities in Poland began laboratory testing of suspected cases of infection by SARS-CoV-2, one of the seven known human coronaviruses, as well as home quarantining and monitoring. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in North Korea]]

CATEGORIES: History of North Korea, COVID-19 pandemic by country

There are no officially confirmed cases of COVID-19 in North Korea, though foreign analysts believe that the virus has spread to the country.

The North Korean government has taken extreme measures, including quarantines and travel restrictions.

On 25 July 2020, Leader Kim Jong-un held an emergency meeting after a suspected case of COVID-19 detected on North Korean town of Kaesong. Then the city was put on lockdown. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Israel]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Israel, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first case of the COVID-19 pandemic in Israel was confirmed on 21 February 2020, after a female citizen tested positive for coronavirus disease 2019 after return from quarantine on the Diamond Princess ship in Japan. 

[[Diamond Princess (ship)]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic, Cruise ships

Diamond Princess is a British-registered  cruise ship owned and operated by Princess Cruises. She began operation in March 2004 and mainly cruises in Asia during the northern hemisphere summer and Australia during the southern hemisphere summer. 

Diamond Princess was built in Nagasaki, Japan, by Mitsubishi Industries.

There have been two known outbreaks of infectious disease on the ship – an outbreak of gastroenteritis caused by norovirus in 2016 and an outbreak of the COVID-19 coronavirus in 2020. At least 712 out of the 3,711 passengers and crew were infected, and fourteen have died.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Honduras]]

CATEGORIES: History of Honduras, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was first confirmed to have spread to Honduras on 10 March 2020. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Egypt]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Egypt, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Egypt by 14 February 2020. As of 1 May 2020, there have been 5,895 confirmed cases, 1,460 recoveries and 406 deaths.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Belgium, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was first confirmed to have spread to Belgium on 4 February 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Syria]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Syria, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was first recorded to have arrived in Syria on 14 March 2020. The first case was confirmed on 22 March. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Sweden, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Sweden on 31 January 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Vatican City]]

CATEGORIES: Vatican City, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The Holy See reported the first case of infection in Vatican City during the COVID-19 pandemic at the end of March 2020.

Unlike other countries that report cases within a given territory or cases of residents or citizens of a territory, the Holy See reports on cases "in Vatican City State and among the employees of the Holy See" regardless of location of testing, treatment, or residence.

There are 12 confirmed cases of COVID-19 among the Vatican's residents and employees; there are no associated deaths. The 12 cases include 10 employees, 1 new hire, and 1 resident of Vatican City.

At the very end of February, Pope Francis became ill with symptoms of a cold, but he tested negative for COVID-19.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Lebanon]]

CATEGORIES: History of Lebanon, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Lebanon in February 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Libya]]

CATEGORIES: History of Libya, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Libya on 24 March 2020, when the first case was officially confirmed in Tripoli.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Switzerland, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Switzerland on 25 February 2020 when the first case of COVID-19 was confirmed following a COVID-19 outbreak in Italy. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Ethiopia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Ethiopia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Ethiopia on 13 March 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Zimbabwe]]

CATEGORIES: History of Zimbabwe, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Zimbabwe in March 2020. As of 4 August, there are 4,221 confirmed cases, 81 deaths, and 1,238 recoveries.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the Netherlands]]

CATEGORIES: 2020s in the Netherlands, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to the Netherlands on 27 February 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Qatar]]

CATEGORIES: Qatar, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first case relating to the COVID-19 pandemic in Qatar was confirmed on 27 February 2020. As of May 14, Qatar has the 2nd highest number of confirmed cases in the Arab World at 26,539 and the highest number of confirmed cases. The total recoveries stand at 3,143, with 14 deaths.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Austria]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Austria, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic spread to Austria on 25 February 2020, when a pair of cases were confirmed. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Yemen]]

CATEGORIES: Yemen, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first confirmed case relating to the COVID-19 pandemic in Yemen was announced on 10 April 2020 in Hadhramaut. Organizations called the news a "devastating blow" and a "nightmare scenario" because of the country's lack of healthcare and human rights.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Sri Lanka]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Sri Lanka, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was first confirmed in Sri Lanka on 27 January 2020, after a 44-year-old Chinese woman from Hubei Province in China was admitted to the National Institute of Infection Diseases.

As of 13 May 2020, 889 confirmed cases have been reported in the country with 9 deaths. On 3 March 2020, the first reported case involving a Sri Lankan origin outside Sri Lanka was reported in Italy. 

As of 23 March, forty-five quarantine centers have been built in the country by the Sri Lanka Army. Nearly 3,500 people have been under quarantine in 45 quarantine centers which also include 31 foreigners from 14 countries.

As of 25 March 2020, Sri Lankan authorities have tracked down over 14,000 people who had contacted the identified patients and had ordered self-quarantine for such people.

As of 16 April 2020, Sri Lanka has been named as 16th high risk country prone to virus pandemic. Sri Lanka has been ranked 9th best country in the world for its successful immediate response on tackling the virus.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Bangladesh]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Bangladesh, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Bangladesh in March 2020. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Nepal]]

CATEGORIES: History of Nepal, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first case of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nepal was confirmed on 24 January 2020 in Kathmandu District. 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Indonesia]]

CATEGORIES: 2020s in Indonesia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was first confirmed to have spread to Indonesia on 2 March 2020, after a dance instructor and her mother tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Algeria]]

CATEGORIES: History of Algeria, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Algeria in February 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the Democratic Republic of the Congo]]

CATEGORIES: History of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 10 March 2020. The first few confirmed cases were all outside arrivals.

[[Sylvestre Ilunga]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1947 births, Prime Ministers of the Democratic Republic of the Congo

Sylvestre Ilunga Ilunkamba (born 1947) is a Congolese politician. He was appointed as the Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in May 2019. He has had a long political career going back to the 1970s.

Ilunga has also been the secretary general of Congo's national railway company. He is an ally of former President Joseph Kabila.

He resigned in February 2021.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the Republic of the Congo]]

CATEGORIES: Republic of the Congo, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached the Republic of the Congo in March 2020.

The country's first case was announced on 14 March, a 50-year-old man who returned to the Republic of the Congo from Paris, France. Two more cases were detected on 19 March. As of 31 March, there were 19 cases in Republic of the Congo.

The country reported its first two deaths on 31 March.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Haiti]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Haiti, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Haiti in March 2020. As of 12 May 2020, there are 209 total confirmed cases, 176 active cases, 1,311 suspected cases, with 16 deaths and 17 recoveries.

[[Joseph Jouthe]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1961 births, Prime Ministers of Haiti, Current national leaders

Joseph Jouthe (born October 17, 1961) is a Haitian politician. He became the twenty-second Prime Minister of Haiti on March 4, 2020.

Jouthe was born on October 17, 1961 in Thomonde.

In September 2018, he became the Minister of the Environment under the government of Jean-Henry Céant. In September 2019, he became the acting Minister of Economy and Finance.

On March 2, 2020, Jouthe was named Prime Minister of Haiti, beginning his term two days later.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Turkey]]

CATEGORIES: 2020s in Turkey, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in Turkey is part of the ongoing worldwide pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). 

The disease was confirmed to have reached Turkey on 11 March 2020, after a man who had returned to Turkey from Europe, tested positive. 

The first death due to COVID-19 in the country was on 15 March 2020 and by 1 April it was confirmed that COVID-19 had spread all over Turkey. On 14 April 2020, the head of the Turkish Ministry of Health Fahrettin Koca announced that the spread of the virus in Turkey has reached its peak in the fourth weak and started to slow down.

2020, the total number of confirmed total cases in the country is over 143,100 of which 101,700 have recovered and 4,000 have died. On 18 April 2020, the country's total number of Covid-19 tests were positive and passed those of Iran, making it the highest in the Middle East. 

Turkey also passed China in confirmed total cases on 20 April 2020. The rapid increase of the confirmed cases in Turkey was said because of the country's poor healthcare system.

[[Louise of Orléans]]

CATEGORIES: 1812 births, 1850 deaths, People from Palermo, House of Orléans, Princes and princesses

Princess Louise of Orléans (Louise Marie Thérèse Charlotte Isabelle; 3 Aprile 1812 - 11 October 1850) was the eldest daughter o King Louis Philippe I of the French and from August 1832 the second wife o Leopold I o Belgium, himself the first King of the Belgians. She was also the mother of the future Keeng Leopold II of Belgium, who is known to history for his exploitation of the Belgian Congo. Her future husband was an uncle of the future Queen Victoria and her husband, Prince Albert. Louise's mother was also a niece of Marie Antoinette.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Malaysia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Malaysia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Malaysia in January 2020, when it was detected on travelers from China arriving through Singapore on 25 January, following the outbreak of COVID-19 in Hubei, China. 

Reported cases remained low until small groups began to emerge in March; the largest group was linked to a Tablighi Jamaat religious gathering held in Sri Petaling, Kuala Lumpur in late February and early March, leading to massive spikes in local cases and an exportation of cases to neighbouring countries. 

Within a few weeks, Malaysia had recorded the largest number of confirmed COVID-19 infections in Southeast Asia, passing over the 2,000 mark in active cases by the end of March from fewer than 30 at the start of the month. 

By 16 March, the virus is reported in every state and federal territory in the country.

Measures to combat the outbreak were later announced by the Prime Minister of Malaysia through a live nationwide telecast on 13 March 2020; by 16 March, a nationwide "Movement Control Order" (MCO) through social distancing, was announced to last between 18 and 31 March. 

As of 14 July 2021, the country reports a total of 867,567 confirmed cases, 101,359 active cases, 759,705 recoveries and 6,503 deaths.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the United Arab Emirates]]

CATEGORIES: United Arab Emirates, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first confirmed case relating to the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Arab Emirates was never announced. It was the first country in the Middle East to not report a confirmed case. The first patient, a 73-year-old Chinese woman, was released on 9 February after recovering. 

The first two deaths were confirmed on 20 March. Two days later, Dubai started an 11-day quarantine campaign as an effort to contain the coronavirus. 

Night curfew was added 4 days later while the country began disinfection. School closure was first announced on March 8 for 4 weeks. 3 weeks later, it was announced that school will be closed until the end of the academic year.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Angola]]

CATEGORIES: History of Angola, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Angola in late March 2020, with its first two cases confirmed on 21 March.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Nigeria, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first confirmed case relating to the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria was announced on February 27 2020, when an Italian citizen in Lagos tested positive for the virus SARS-CoV-2.

On March 9, 2020, a second case of the virus was reported in Ewekoro, Ogun State, in a Nigerian citizen who had contact with the Italian citizen.

On March 23, there were ten new cases: six in Lagos State, three in the FCT and one in Edo State. They also confirmed their first death, a 67-year-old Suleiman Achimugu.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Benin]]

CATEGORIES: Benin, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Benin in March 2020.

On 16 March, the first COVID-19 case in the country was confirmed in Porto-Novo, the capital of Benin. 

Three days later, the second confirmed case was reported. The city has suspended many international flights and people coming into the country by air are being kept under 14 days' mandatory isolation. People in Benin are told to wear masks and go outside home only if required.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in North Macedonia]]

CATEGORIES: History of North Macedonia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached North Macedonia in February 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Ukraine]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Ukraine, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Ukraine when its first case was confirmed to be hospitalized in Chernivtsi Oblast on 3 March 2020. It was a man who had travelled from Italy to Romania by plane and then arrived in Ukraine by car.

As of 20 March, an emergency was declared in Kiev Oblast, Chernivtsi Oblast, Zhytomyr Oblast, Dnipropetrovsk Oblast, Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast and in the city of Kiev.

Statistics for the Russian-held Crimea and city of Sevastopol, and for the unrecognized Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic in eastern Ukraine are not reported by Ukraine.

[[Radhacharan Debbarma]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1963 births, Tripura

Radhacharan Debbarma (born 10 January 1963) is an Indian Politician and former chief executive member of TTAADC. He is a member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and present day he serving as Secretary of Ganamukti Parishad., Ganamukti Parishad is a tribal wing of the Communist party.

His term expired on 17 May 2020 and the election was postponed for the global COVID-19 pandemic, TTAADC is currently under Governor's rule.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the Bahamas]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in the Bahamas, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in the Bahamas is part of the COVID-19 pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). 

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Niger]]

CATEGORIES: Niger, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Niger in March 2020. Amnesty International reported that journalists have been arrested over reporting about the pandemic.

On 19 March, the first case in the country was confirmed in Niamey, being a 36-year-old man from Nigeria. He had travelled to Lomé, Accra, Abidjan and Ouagadougou.

Niger reported a total of 7 cases on March 25, including the first death related to COVID-19 in the country (24 March). The death happened in Niamey, being a 63-year old Nigerian national.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the State of Palestine]]

CATEGORIES: History of Palestine, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to the West Bank on 5 March 2020, beginning the COVID-19 pandemic in Palestine. 

[[Jürgen Osterhammel]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, German historians

Jürgen Osterhammel (born 1952 in Wipperfürth, North Rhine-Westphalia) is a German historian specialized in world history.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Romania]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Romania, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Romania on February 26, 2020, with the first confirmed case in Gorj County.

As of May 14, the Romanian Government reports 14,066 people put in quarantine, a further 18,118 in home isolation under medical supervision, and 286,217 tests having been processed.

On February 21, following a COVID-19 pandemic in Italy, the Romanian government announced a 14-day quarantine for citizens returning from the affected regions.

On February 26, the Minister of Education and Research required schools to spread awareness about coronavirus.

On March 14, after over 101 people have been diagnosed with coronavirus, Romania entered the third COVID-19 scenario. The third scenario goes from 101 to 2,000 cases.

On April 7, a 53 year old paramedic from Suceava became the first reported casualty among Romanian medical personnel. As of April 18, there were over a thousand infected medical staff in the country.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Morocco]]

CATEGORIES: History of Morocco, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Morocco on 2 March 2020, when the first case COVID-19 case was confirmed in Casablanca. It involved a Moroccan living in Bergamo, Italy who arrived from Italy on 27 February 2020. 

A second case was confirmed later that same day involving an 89-year-old woman Moroccan living in Italy who had returned to Morocco on 25 February 2020 from Bologna, Italy.

2020, there have been 12,969 confirmed cases, of which 9,090 have recovered and 229 have died.

After the two cases confirmed on 2 March 2020, a third case was confirmed on 10 March 2020, a French tourist who arrived in Marrakesh. On the same day, one of the two first cases, a woman aged 89, died. On 11 March 2020, it was announced that the wife and daughter of the French tourist also tested positive, bringing the total cases to 5. 

On 13 March, the government decided to shut down all schools, effective March 16 until further notice.

Morocco declared a state of medical emergency on 19 March 2020, to take effect on 20 March 2020 at 6:00 pm local time and to remain in effect until April 20, 2020 with possibility to extend for a longer period.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Ghana]]

CATEGORIES: Ghana, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first two cases relating to the COVID-19 pandemic in Ghana were confirmed on 12 March 2020, when two people returned from Norway and Turkey.

On 11 March, President Nana Akufo-Addo announced a budget increase of an equal amount to $US100 million available to increase Ghana's coronavirus and response plan.

Traveling to Ghana had been strongly discouraged until further notice from countries where at least 200 cases of COVID-19 were recorded was declared.

On 15 March, President Nana Akufo-Addo banned all public gatherings including conferences, education places, workshops, funerals, festivals, political rallies, church activities and other related events to reduce the spread of COVID-19.

On 12 November, the country's first president Jerry Rawlings died from the infection in Accra, aged 73.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Togo]]

CATEGORIES: Togo, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Togo in March 2020.

On 6 March, Togolese authorities announced the first COVID-19 case, a 42-year-old Togolese woman who travelled between Germany, France, Turkey, and Benin before returning to Togo. On this date, it was reported that she was being treated in isolation and her condition was stable.

On 20 March, nine more cases were confirmed in Togo. 

On 21 March, seven more cases were confirmed. All borders to the country were closed. The cities of Lomé, Tsévié, Kpalimé, and Sokodé have been quarantined starting on 20 March for two weeks.

On 27 March, the first death occurred.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Northern Cyprus]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Cyprus, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Northern Cyprus, officially the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (the Turkish-Cypriot-controlled de facto state made up of the north of the island), in March 2020.

On 10 March 2020, Health Minister Ali Pilli announced the Northern Cyprus's first case of COVID-19, a 65-year-old tourist from Germany.

On 12 March, the country's second case was confirmed, being the spouse of the German tourist who became the first person diagnosed with COVID-19.

On 17 March, the 2020 presidential election was delayed for 6 months due to the outbreak.

On 24 March, over 840 German national tourists were sent back to Germany after being quarantined for 14 days.

On 28 March, the first person died from COVID-19.

On May 11 the last coronavirus patient has been discharged from hospital and there is no active case left.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Ivory Coast]]

CATEGORIES: Ivory Coast, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Ivory Coast in March 2020.

On 11 March, Ivory Coast recorded its first case of COVID-19. It was an Ivory Coast national who had recently been to Italy. 

On 16 March, the government announced that the total number of confirmed cases had risen to six, and that the patient identified on 11 March had made a recovery. Ivory Coast has also suspended flights for countries that have more than 100 cases for 15 days, only allowing citizens and residents, and closed all schools for an initial 30 days.

On 20 March, the government announced five more confirmed cases, bringing the total number to 14. The same day the government decided to close all borders from midnight on 22 March until further notice.

On 27 March, 5 new cases were confirmed bringing the total over the 100 benchmark with a total of 101 cases along with 2 patients recovering thus bringing the total of recovered to 3. 

A 58-year-old female patient with diabetes, in a coma since 25 March, became the first fatality.

[[Zaatari]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jordan

Zaatari refugee camp is a refugee camp. It is located in Jordan, about 6 from the Syrian border.  It is one of the world's largest refugee camps. it is the world's largest camp for Syrian refugees. It developed into a permanent setltement, with a main street, and a market along the main street. In August 2015, UNHCR estimated a population of 79.900 people. The camp covers an  area of about 15.  Over time, Zaatari  has grown to be Jordan's fourth-largest settlement.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Burkina Faso]]

CATEGORIES: History of Burkina Faso, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Burkina Faso on 9 March 2020. 

The death of Rose Marie Compaoré, a member of the National Assembly of Burkina Faso, on 18 March marked the first recorded COVID-19 fatality in Sub-Saharan Africa.

On 9 March 2020, the first two cases in the country were reported in Burkina Faso.

On 13 March, the third case was also confirmed, is a person who has had direct contact with the first two cases.

On 14 March, 7 cases confirmed in the country. Five of the new confirmed cases have had direct contact with the first two cases. One is an English national currently working in a gold mine in the Burkina Faso and who went to vacation in Liverpool, returning on 10 March, with transits through Vancouver and Paris.

On 15 March, 8 new cases were confirmed according to a statement from the Ministry of Health, bringing the total number of cases to 15.

On 17 March, 20 total cases were confirmed.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Albania]]

CATEGORIES: History of Albania, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Albania on 8 March 2020, a father and son who had travelled from Florence, Italy. 

As of 10 September 2020, there are 10,860 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Albania.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Cyprus]]

CATEGORIES: Cyprus, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Cyprus in March 2020. 

On 9 March 2020, Cyprus confirmed its first two cases: a 25-year-old man from Limassol who had returned from Italy and a 64-year-old health professional from Nicosia who had returned from the UK.

On 21 March, the first death was confirmed.

On 30 April, 7 new cases were confirmed. According to the updated statistics released by the Ministry of Health, a total of 296 people have recovered.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Malta]]

CATEGORIES: Malta, COVID-19 pandemic by country

During the COVID-19 pandemic, the first case of coronavirus disease in Malta was an Italian 12-year-old girl on 7 March 2020. The girl and her family were in self-isolation. After a few days, both her parents were found positive for Coronavirus as well. 

2020 Malta has reported 1862 confirmed cases, 1313 recoveries and 11 deaths; 538 cases remain active.

A mandatory quarantine was forced on travelers and those who were possibly in contact with those who traveled abroad. 

A mandatory lockdown was imposed on those over the age of 65, those suffering from chronic health conditions and members of their households. 

WHO praised the Maltese government's response to the pandemic, before the number of cases rose to 52 on 7 April. On May Day, given that the rate of the virus was below 0, the first reopening measures were announced.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Belarus]]

CATEGORIES: History of Belarus, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Belarus, when the first case of COVID-19 in the country was registered in Minsk on 28 February 2020.

On 28 February, Belarus confirmed its first case. A student from Iran tested positive on 27 February and was admitted to a hospital in Minsk. The individual arrived in Belarus via a flight from Baku, Azerbaijan, on 22 February.

On 21 March, a total of 76 confirmed cases have been reported. Two days later, 81 confirmed cases have been reported, including 22 recoveries. According to the official data, more than 21,000 COVID-19 tests have been conducted in Belarus since 23 January.

On 31 March, the first death was reported in Belarus.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Liberia]]

CATEGORIES: Liberia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Liberia in March 2020.

On 16 March, the first case in Liberia was confirmed, a government official who traveled from Switzerland. President George Weah controversially named the person, and claimed they violated screening protocols at Roberts International Airport (RIA) in Harbel.

The second case was confirmed on 17 March, a close contact of the first case.

Liberia's third case of COVID-19 was confirmed on 20 March. The third person was a returned traveler. Following this third case, the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare declared a national health emergency on 22 March.

On 27 March, the U.S. Embassy evacuated some U.S. citizens from Liberia.

On 1 April, the European Union organized a charter flight evacuating its citizens.

Liberia reported its first death on 4 April.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Senegal]]

CATEGORIES: History of Senegal, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Senegal on March 2, 2020.

On 2 March 2020, a 54-year-old man from France was the first confirmed case of COVID-19 in Senegal, living in the Almadies Arrondissement of Dakar, having been tested positive at the Pasteur Institute in Dakar.

The second confirmed case of COVID-19 was a French expat who came to Dakar from France. They were said to be in a "comfortable" condition.

On 12 March 2020, five more cases were announced in Senegal, which were family members of a confirmed case of the Senegalese national returning from Italy.

On 23 March, Senegal declared a state of emergency.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Bulgaria]]

CATEGORIES: History of Bulgaria, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Bulgaria in March 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Somalia]]

CATEGORIES: Somalia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Somalia on 16 March 2020 when the first case was confirmed in Mogadishu.

Somali Prime Minister, Hassan Ali Khaire announced that the government has set aside five million dollars to deal with the disease. The Somali Medical Association is worried that the death toll in the country will be huge and that Somalia will not be able to recover from the economic effects due to poor working relations and the lack of healthcare. 

It has also been rumored that President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed may use the pandemic as an excuse to postpone elections. There have also been concerns over freedom of the press following arrests of journalist who have been covering the pandemic in Somalia.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in Azerbaijan, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Azerbaijan when its first case was confirmed in February 2020.

On 28 February, the country confirmed its first positive case of COVID-19. The patient, a Russian national, had traveled from Iran. Two more cases were later confirmed in the country and they were all isolated. They were Azerbaijani nationals who returned from Iran. On the same day Azerbaijan closed borders with Iran for 2 weeks.

On 12 March, the woman died from multiple organ failure caused by COVID-19. This marked the first death of coronavirus in Azerbaijan.

On 31 March, Azerbaijan declared nationwide quarantine. People are required to stay in private houses and apartments, permanent or temporary places of residence until 20 April.

A month later on 24 April, the country slowly began to reopen.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Latvia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Latvia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Latvia on 2 March 2020.

On 13 March, the government closed all educational buildings and banned mass gatherings until 14 April, which was later extended to 12 May. Many concerts and events were cancelled and moved to other dates. 

As of 20 March at least 1,600 culture and entertainment events had been disrupted.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Bermuda]]

CATEGORIES: History of Bermuda, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached the British Overseas Territory of Bermuda in March 2020.

On 18 March, the first two cases in Bermuda were confirmed.

As of 16 April, there were 83 cases on the island out of which 26 were imported, 45 were community spread, 12 were pending investigation, and 35 of those cases were recovered. On 6 April, it was announced that there had been the first two COVID-19 deaths on the island. As of 14 April, there were 5 deaths from Covid-19.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Madagascar]]

CATEGORIES: Madagascar, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Madagascar in March 2020.

On 20 March, the first three cases were confirmed in Antananarivo, the capital of Madagascar. All three cases were women.

By 22 April, Madagascar had reported 121 cases but no deaths.

On 5 May, Madagascar reported a total of 149 cases but no deaths.

Lockdowns were added in at least two cities. The government announced on 17 March that all international and regional flights would be suspended for 30 days starting 20 March.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Georgia (country)]]

CATEGORIES: History of Georgia (country), COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Georgia when its first case was confirmed in Tbilisi on 26 February 2020.

All flights from China and Wuhan to Tbilisi International Airport were cancelled until 27 January. The Health Ministry announced that all arriving passengers from China would be screened. Georgia also temporarily shut down all flights to Iran.

On 26 February, Georgia confirmed its first COVID-19 case. A 50-year-old man, who returned to Georgia from Iran.

On 12 March, President Salome Zourabichvili, in a televised appearance called for calm and unity.

As of 15 March, 33 cases were confirmed, 637 were held under quarantine and 54 were under hospital supervision.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Kazakhstan]]

CATEGORIES: Kazakhstan, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Kazakhstan on 13 March 2020. It involved two Kazakh citizens in Almaty who were recently returned from Germany. That same day, two more cases were confirmed with one female arriving from Italy in Nur-Sultan and the other from Germany in Almaty as well.

On 13 March, the first two cases of COVID-19 are announced.

On 15 March, President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev declared a state of emergency from 16 March to 15 April 2020. Many holidays such as Nowruz and the Victory Day military parade were cancelled.

On 19 March, a quarantine was placed on the cities of Nur-Sultan and Almaty where the highest cases were occurring. 

On 26 March, two patients were discharged in Nur-Sultan and Almaty, and that same day, a first death from the COVID-19 was reported in Nur-Sultan, which was 64-year old resident from the village of Kosshi.

On 30 March, Atyrau and 5 cities in Karaganda Region were under a lockdown.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Turkmenistan]]

CATEGORIES: Turkmenistan, COVID-19 pandemic by country

There are no confirmed COVID-19 cases in Turkmenistan (population c. 6 million).  

The government has worked to control information about the virus, and experts suspect that it may be spreading in the country unreported.

On 29 February, Turkmenistan began refusing the entry of citizens from countries affected by the virus. On 5 March three foreign travelers, two of them diplomats of an Arab country, were denied entry when they flew from Almaty, Kazakhstan. Their flight was diverted to Türkmenabat and after arriving at Ashgabat, they were all put on a flight to Istanbul. 

Dr. Catherine Smallwood, head of the WHO/Europe mission, during a briefing following a 10-day mission visit to Turkmenistan, did not inform about the detection of COVID-19 infections in the country.

Turkmenistan has taken out its citizens from countries infected with coronavirus like China, Russia, Turkey and Belarus.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Laos]]

CATEGORIES: History of Laos, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Laos on 24 March 2020, becoming the last Southeast Asian country to report its first case.

On 13 March provincial authorities closed some of border posts.

On 24 March, Laos confirmed its first two COVID-19 cases, becoming the last Southeast Asian country infected with coronavirus.

On 26 March, the Vientiane Times confirms third Covid-19 case.

On 27 March, there were 6 cases confirmed. Two more men from Luang Prabang, and one from Vientiane.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Uzbekistan]]

CATEGORIES: History of Uzbekistan, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Uzbekistan when its first case was confirmed on 15 March 2020, a Uzbek citizen returning from France. 

Uzbekistan's Health Ministry has a list of people who were in contact with the victim, with plans to quarantine them. 

After the case was announced, Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev announced a state of emergency in Kazakhstan, and promptly closed the border with Uzbekistan. Two days before the first case of coronavirus, Uzbekistan suspended flights to France, Spain, and the United Kingdom. 

On 22 March 2020, Uzbekistan ordered companies in Tashkent to do remote working, as well as making protective masks mandatory. 

On March 27, 2020, the first death was reported in the country, who was a 72-year-old woman living in Namangan. She was infected by her daughter who returned from Turkey on 12 March 2020.

As of 13 May 2020, there have been 2,568 confirmed cases, 2,046 recoveries and 10 deaths.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Kosovo]]

CATEGORIES: Kosovo, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic (COVID-19) arrived in Kosovo on 13 March 2020.

On 13 March, the first two cases were confirmed, a 77-year-old man from Vitina and an Italian woman in her early 20s, who worked in Klina with Caritas Kosova. 

The Government of Kosovo decided to quarantine and block the entrances and exits of these two cities.

After the new cases emerged, the Ministry of Health requested that the Government of Kosovo declare a state of public health emergency.

On 22 March, the first Kosovo death from the pandemic was announced.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Cambodia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Cambodia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first case relating to the COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed in Cambodia on 27 January 2020. 

According to Global Health Security Index's report in 2019, Cambodia ranked 89th out of 195 countries in preparedness for infectious disease outbreak.

On 27 January, the first case had been confirmed in Sihanoukville on a 60-year-old Chinese man who arrived in 23 January from Wuhan, Hubei with his family.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Cameroon]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroon, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have spread to Cameroon, Central Africa on 6 March 2020 with its first confirmed case. The infected person is a French national who arrived in the capital Yaoundé 24 February.

The Minister of Public Health, Dr. Malachie Manaouda, revealed on 23 March that among the 16 cases tested positive that morning, 9 were from Douala, 6 in Yaoundé, and one in Bafoussam.

The total number of COVID-19 cases keep climbing up in the country. On 30 March, the Minister of Public Health announced that Cameroon had 142 active cases with 6 deaths.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Mauritania]]

CATEGORIES: Mauritania, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Mauritania in March 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Oman]]

CATEGORIES: Oman, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Oman on 24 February 2020 when two citizens tested positive for COVID-19 after returning from Iran.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Burundi]]

CATEGORIES: Burundi, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Burundi in March 2020.

Burundi's Health Minister Thadée Ndikumana confirmed the country's first two cases of coronavirus disease 2019 on 31 March, Burundi nationals travelling back from Rwanda and Dubai.

On 2 April, a further positive case was confirmed, a 26-year-old woman, while 22 other people tested negative.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the Central African Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Central African Republic, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached the Central African Republic in March 2020.

There are only three ventilators in the entire country.

The country's first case was announced on 14 March, with the patient being identified as a 74-year-old Italian man who returned to the Central African Republic from Milan, Italy.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Chad]]

CATEGORIES: Chad, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Chad in March 2020.

On 19 March, Chadian authorities reported their first case, a Moroccan passenger who flew from Douala.

On 26 March, with three cases already reported, Chadian authorities reported two additional positive cases. The cases were a 48-year-old Chadian and a 55-year-old Cameroonian passenger on a 17 March Ethiopian Airlines flight from Dubai and Brussels, respectively, through Addis Ababa.

On 30 March, two more cases of COVID-19 were reported, a Chadian citizen from Douala and a Swiss citizen from Brussels.

On 6 April, Chad recorded its first case of local contamination, a 31-year-old Chadian who was in contact with another Chadian who had diagnosed positive.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Zambia]]

CATEGORIES: Zambia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Zambia in March 2020.

As of 17 March, the government had shut all educational institutions and put in place some restrictions on foreign travel. 

Zambia reported its first 2 cases of COVID-19 in Lusaka on 18 March. The patients were a couple that had travelled to France on holiday. A third case was recorded on 22 March. The patient was a man who had travelled to Pakistan. 

On March 25, President Edgar Lungu confirmed a total of 12 cases during a live national address.

Zambia recorded its first death on 2 April.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Equatorial Guinea]]

CATEGORIES: Equatorial Guinea, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Equatorial Guinea on 14 March 2020. 

Equatorial Guinea has a weak healthcare system.

The country's first case was announced on 14 March, a 42-year-old woman in Malabo, who returned to Equatorial Guinea from Madrid.

As of March 24, there were 9 cases in the country, all imported. There were no confirmed cases of community spread in the country at the time.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Gabon]]

CATEGORIES: Gabon, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Gabon in March 2020.

The country's first case was announced on 12 March, a 27-year-old Gabonese man who returned to Gabon from France, four days before the confirmation of the coronavirus.

On 17 March, two additional cases were confirmed in the country, including a woman who works at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. She visited Marseille and Paris before returning to the country. 

On 20 March, the first death was confirmed.

On 24 March, diagnosed cases increased to six with the Ministry of Health announcing two new cases: a 45-year-old Togolese national, resident of Gabon and who recently returned from Senegal on March 11 and a 42-year-old Gabonese national who returned from France on March 19.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the Gambia]]

CATEGORIES: The Gambia, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached The Gambia in March 2020.

The first case of COVID-19 in The Gambia was reported on 17 March and received treatment at MRC Unit The Gambia's specialist clinic in Fajara. The patient was a woman in her thirties who had travelled to The Gambia from the United Kingdom on 15 March. She went into self-isolation.

Overseas travel by public officials was suspended by a circular issued by President Adama Barrow on 13 March. Barrow ordered all universities to close and for all gatherings to cease on 17 March.

[[The Freak Brothers]]

The Freak Brothers is an adult animated television show based on the iconic 1960’s underground comic series called [[The Fabulous Furry Freak Brothers]]. The animated series centers around the same characters as the comic book and is set in modern-day San Francisco. The television series is being developed for release in late 2020. 

It features four cannabis-loving, time-traveling “Freaks” from the late 1960s – Freewheelin’ Franklin, Phineas, Fat Freddy and Fat Freddy’s Cat. Known as The Freak Brothers, the show features Woody Harrelson, Tiffany Haddish, Pete Davidson, and John Goodman as voice actors for the 3 Freaks & the cat.  

Courtney Solomon and Mark Canton will serve as executive producers, alongside Adam Devine and Blake Anderson who will also provide voice acting. The first season will consist of eight 22-minute episodes and will debut in 2020. A mini-episode was released May 6, 2020, titled "Kentucky Fried Freaks".

According to the 2019 announcement it will be animated by Starburns Industries studio, which did Rick & Morty.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Sudan]]

CATEGORIES: Sudan, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Sudan in March 2020.

On 13 March 2020, Sudan reported its first novel coronavirus case in Khartoum, a man who died on 12 March 2020 and had visited the United Arab Emirates in the first week of March.

Sudan has stopped issuing visas for, and flights to, eight countries, including Italy and neighboring Egypt, over fears of the coronavirus outbreak.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Djibouti]]

CATEGORIES: Djibouti, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic spread to Djibouti in March 2020. It is a novel infectious disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).

On 18 March, the first COVID-19 case in Djibouti was confirmed, in a member of the Spanish Special Forces who arrived on 14 March for Operation Atalanta and tested positive on 17 March. 

A contractor working for the United States Department of Defense at Camp Lemonnier, the largest and only permanent US military base in Djibouti, tested positive for COVID-19 the same month. A total of 30 cases were confirmed by the end of March.

On 2 April, the World Bank approved US$5 million in emergency funding for Djibouti as part of the Djibouti COVID-19 Response Project. 

By 5 April, the number of confirmed cases had rise to 59.

On 9 April, Djibouti recorded its first coronavirus death. There were 140 people infected with COVID-19, while 28 people recovered. 

On 23 April, the US military in Djibouti declared a public health emergency. 

A second case in Camp Lemonnier was confirmed in late April, triggering a permanent lockdown.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in South Sudan]]

CATEGORIES: South Sudan, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached South Sudan on April 5, 2020. As of May 13, there are 203 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in South Sudan.

On 5 April, the first case of COVID-19 in the country was confirmed in a 29-year-old patient, a United Nations worker who arrived on 28 February from the Netherlands through Ethiopia. South Sudan thus became the 51st African country (out of 54) to confirm a case.

After 28 people tested positive on 28 April, the curfew was extended to be from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m., all restaurants were only allowed to be takeout, and all passenger boda bodas were banned.

South Sudan has a population of 11 million people, but only four ventilators.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Rwanda]]

CATEGORIES: Rwanda, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Rwanda in March 2020.

The first case of COVID-19 in Rwanda was confirmed on 14 March 2020. Four other people were tested after the first case tested positive, bringing the number of cases to five.

On 21 March, officials announced a two-week lockdown. Both public and private employees are to work from home, under strict measures. All borders are also to be closed, cargo and Rwandan nationals being exempt, with a mandatory 14-day quarantine.

On 9 April, three new cases of coronavirus were identified, out of 720 samples examined in the previous 24 hours. This brought the total number of confirmed cases to 113 people (of which seven had recovered).

The Rwandan government was very strict about the pandemic. They had a curfew and made people sit and listen to speeches all night if they were outside during curfew. The police arrested a lot of people, including people who said they were abusing their power during the pandemic.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in São Tomé and Príncipe]]

CATEGORIES: São Tomé and Príncipe, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached São Tomé and Príncipe on 6 April 2020. The first death was recorded on 30 April.

On 6 April, the first four cases in the country were confirmed.

There are no cases in Autonomous Region of Príncipe.

On 30 April, the first death was reported. São Tomé and Príncipe currently has 16 cases, 4 of which have recovered and 1 death. The deceased was a 55-year old man living in Cantalago.

In order to prevent the spread of the virus, the government has put in many travel restrictions and quarantining measures.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Uganda]]

CATEGORIES: Uganda, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Uganda in March 2020.

On 18 March, public gatherings including places of worship, pubs, weddings, music shows, rallies and cultural meetings were suspended for 32 days with immediate effect.

On 22 March, the first case of COVID-19 in Uganda was confirmed. The confirmed case is a 36-year-old male who had travelled to Dubai on 17 March 2020 for a business trip.

On 25 March, public transport was suspended for 14 days. Only private cars with not more than three occupants are allowed on the road.

On 30 March, the President declared a nationwide curfew from 7 pm to 6:30 am, which would run for 14 days to prevent the spread of the disease.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Kuwait]]

CATEGORIES: Kuwait, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The first confirmed case of the COVID-19 pandemic in Kuwait was announced on 24 February 2020.

As of 14 May 2020, there are 11,975 confirmed cases of COVID-19 with recovery of 3,451 cases and 88 deaths.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Myanmar]]

CATEGORIES: History of Myanmar, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Myanmar on 23 March 2020.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Eswatini]]

CATEGORIES: Eswatini, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Eswatini in March 2020.

On 14 March, the country's first case of COVID-19 was  confirmed. A 33-year-old woman, who returned from the United States at the end of February and then traveled to Lesotho before returning home to Eswatini, is currently in isolation. Two suspected cases were identified by 11 March 2020, the first a woman returning from Denmark (or possibly Germany), and the other a woman who had hosted visitors from Germany.

On 24 March 2020, the ministry of health announced a fifth confirmed case. A 52-year-old male who had traveled to the United States earlier in the same month had tested positive.

On 16 April 2020, the country recorded its first COVID-19-related death, a 59-year-old man with diabetes.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Luxembourg]]

CATEGORIES: History of Luxembourg, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Luxembourg on 29 February 2020. As of qualifiers, there are properties confirmed cases, with properties deaths, and properties recoveries in Luxembourg.

On 29 February the Ministry of Health of Luxembourg confirmed the first case of the coronavirus in the country. The patient was a man in his forties who had returned from Italy via Charleroi, Belgium. 

On 13 March, Minister for Health Paulette Lenert, Minister for Mobility François Bausch, and Minister for Family Affairs Corinne Cahen held a press conference to confirm another 8 cases and Luxembourg's first death, which was a 94-year-old who had been in critical condition.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Bosnia and Herzegovina]]

CATEGORIES: History of Bosnia and Herzegovina, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Bosnia and Herzegovina on 5 March 2020 in Banja Luka, who had been in Italy during the COVID-19 pandemic. Later the same day, a second case who was the son of the first case. 

On 21 March 2020, the first death in the country from COVID-19 was announced in a hospital in Bihać. The patient was an elderly woman who had been hospitalized two days before.

As of 13 May 2020, in Bosnia and Herzegovina there were 2182 confirmed coronavirus cases, of which 1168 were in Republika Srpska, 994 in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and 20 in Brčko District.

On 17 March 2020, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina declared a state of emergency in all of Bosnia and Herzegovina.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Lesotho]]

CATEGORIES: Lesotho, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Lesotho on 13 May 2020.

Until May 2020, Lesotho was the last country in Africa to have no reported coronavirus disease 2019 cases during the global pandemic.

The country did not have the ability to test for the virus, and so, in order to prevent the spread of the virus the government closed its border with South Africa. 

On 18 March, the government declared a national emergency despite having no confirmed cases, and closed schools until 17 April (but allowed school meals to continue). 

Arriving travelers were to be quarantined for 14 days upon arrival. Prime Minister Thomas Thabane announced a three-week lock down from midnight 29 March. 

Lesotho began sending its samples to South Africa's National Institute for Communicable Diseases for testing. Lesotho began lifting some aspects of the lockdown on 5 May.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in East Timor]]

CATEGORIES: East Timor, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached East Timor in March 2020.

On 10 February entry for non-nationals who had visited China within the past 4 weeks was restricted. Those who had visited Hubei were banned, while those who had visited other areas of China could enter with a valid medical certificate.

On 21 February students who had been studying in Wuhan arrived in East Timor following a period of quarantine in New Zealand.

On 19 March, East Timor closed its borders with Indonesia.

On 21 March, East Timor confirmed its first imported COVID-19 case. The place where it started is unknown.

On 6 April, Parliament approved urgent measures to deal with the pandemic.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Papua New Guinea]]

CATEGORIES: History of Papua New Guinea, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Papua New Guinea on 20 March 2020. On 4 May, all known cases recovered.

On 20 March, the first case in Papua New Guinea was confirmed.

On 7 April, Papua New Guinea confirmed its second case of COVID-19.

On 4 May, acting Health Secretary Dr Paison Dakulala reported that all known cases have recovered, but stresses that they don't know what they are fighting. 2,400 tests have been carried out with the bulk in Port Moresby.

On 5 May, the school reopened, however some schools required face mask and others have send their students back again.

No cases have been reported in the Autonomous Region of Bougainville.

[[2020 Palghar mob lynching]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 in India, April 2020 events, Lynching, Maharashtra, Murder in 2020, Murder in India

On 16 April 2020, a vigilante group lynched two Hindu Sadhus and their driver in Gadchinchale, Palghar District, Maharashtra, India. The incident was fuelled by WhatsApp rumours of thieves operating in the area during the countrywide coronavirus lockdown. The vigilante group of villagers had mistaken the three passengers as thieves and killed them. Policemen who intervened were also attacked; four policemen and a senior police officer were injured.

As of 4 May, 115 villagers had been arrested by the Maharashtra police on charges of murder and an investigation was ongoing. After the incident, rumours were spread to increase religious tension. On 22 April, Maharashtra Home Minister, Anil Deshmukh posted a complete list of people arrested, stating that none of the arrested were Muslims. The government said that both the attackers and the victims were of same religion.

[[Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology]]

CATEGORIES: 1876 establishments, Colleges and universities in Bangladesh

Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) is a public university of Bangladesh. It is the oldest engineering university of the country. It has been ranked 175th among the Asian universities in the QS World University Ranking 2019.

[[Richard Gilder]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American philanthropists, American conservatives, Businesspeople from New York City

Richard Gilder, Jr. (May 31, 1932 – May 12, 2020), was an American businessman, philanthropist and conservative political donor. He was the co-founder of the Gilder Lehrman Institute of American History. He donated to many charities including Central Park, the New-York Historical Society and the Museum of Natural History. Gilder was born in New York City.

Gilder died on May 12, 2020 at his home in Charlottesville, Virginia of congestive heart failure, aged 87.

[[Lewis Lehrman]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, American political writers, American historians, American conservatives, American philanthropists, Writers from Pennsylvania, Businesspeople from Pennsylvania, Politicians from Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians

Lewis E. "Lew" Lehrman (born August 15, 1938) is an American investment banker, businessman, Republican politician, economist, and historian. He supports the ongoing study of American history. He was born in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

He was presented the National Humanities Medal at the White House in 2005 for his contributions to American History, the study of President Abraham Lincoln and monetary policy.

[[Lois Chiles]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American models, Actors from Houston, Texas, Actresses who played Bond girls

Lois Cleveland Chiles (born April 15, 1947) is an American actress and former fashion model. She was born in Houston, Texas.

Chiles is known for her roles as Dr. Holly Goodhead in the 1979 James Bond movie Moonraker, and as a driver in 1987's Creepshow 2, as well as such movies as The Great Gatsby, The Way We Were, Death on the Nile and Broadcast News.

[[Mischa de Vreede]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2020 deaths, Critics, Dutch columnists, Dutch novelists, Dutch poets, People from Batavia

Mischa de Vreede (17 September 1936 – 12 May 2020) was a Dutch poet and writer. She was born in Batavia, Dutch East Indies. She made her debut in the collection of poetry Morgen mooi weer maken in 1957. 

In 1959 she was awarded the Herman Gorterprijs for the poem Een jong meisje droomt. She wrote columns for, among others, VARA radio, wrote children books reviews for NRC Handelsblad and was a speaker for the organization Schrijvers School Samenleving. She also wrote travel reports for Vrij Nederland.

Her last novel was Heilige Dagen in 2007.

Vreede died in Amsterdam on 12 May 2020 after a long-illness, aged 83.

[[Rolf Hochhuth]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2020 deaths, German critics, Playwrights

Rolf Hochhuth (1 April 1931 – 13 May 2020) was a German author and playwright. He was best known for his 1963 drama The Deputy. His works were controversial as they talked about unpopular opinions of the Holocaust. He also defended Holocaust denier David Irving. Hochhuth was born in Eschwege, Germany.

Hochhuth died on 13 May 2020 in Berlin, aged 89.

[[Keith Lyons]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2020 deaths, Australian writers, Welsh writers, Australian educators

Keith Lyons (7 May 1952 – 13 May 2020) was a Welsh-born Australian educator and sport scientist. His works were analysis of performance in sport. He was the author of the first book on the use of video in sport. He was born in Buckley, Wales.

Lyons founded the Centre for Notational Analysis at the Cardiff Institute of Higher Education in 1992. He moved to Australia in 2002 to take up a position as the founding Coordinator of Performance Analysis at the Australian Institute of Sport. He was the founding Director of the Institute of Sport Studies at the University of Canberra in 2009. 

Lyons died on 13 May 2020 in Braidwood, New South Wales at the age of 68.

[[Buckley]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Flintshire

Buckley (Bwcle ˈbʊklɛ) is a town and community in Flintshire, north-east Wales, 2 from the county town of Mold.

Buckley is the second largest town in Flintshire in terms of population. At the 2011 Census, its community had a population of 15,665. When the contiguous Argoed community is included, Buckley has a population of 21,502.

[[Anisuzzaman]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from kidney disease, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Bangladeshi writers

Anisuzzaman (18 February 1937 – 14 May 2020) was a Bangladeshi academic of Bengali literature. He was born in Calcutta, Bengal Presidency, British India.

He was an activist who took part in the Language Movement (1952). He was a member of the Planning Commission to the Government of Bangladesh during the Bangladesh liberation war and a member of the National Education Commission. 

He was made a National Professor by the Government of Bangladesh in 2018.

Anisuzzaman died on 14 May 2020 in Dhaka of kidney and heart disease, aged 

[[Jerzy Łapiński]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2020 deaths, Polish movie actors, Polish television actors, Polish voice actors, Polish stage actors

Jerzy Łapiński (born Jerzy Gaździński; 2 November 1940 – 14 May 2020) was a Polish actor. He was born in Lublin, Poland. His career began in 1960. He was known for voice dubbing Cornelius Fudge in the Harry Potter movies in Polish and as Poodle in the 2000 comedy movie A Very Christmas Story.

Łapiński died on 14 May 2020, aged 79.

[[Prime Minister of Lebanon]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Lebanon

The Prime Minister of Lebanon, officially the President of the Council of Ministers, is the head of government and the head of the Council of Ministers of Lebanon. The Prime Minister is appointed (and removed) by the President of Lebanon.

[[Najib Mikati]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Lebanon

Najib Azmi Mikati (نجيب عزمي ميقاتي; born 24 November 1955) is a Lebanese politician. In 2021, he became the Prime Minister of Lebanon. He was the prime minister before twice, from April 2005 to July 2005 and again from 2011 to 2014. 

[[Hassan Diab]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Lebanon

Hassan Diab (حسان دياب; born 6 January 1959) is a Lebanese politician, engineer, and academic. He has been the Prime Minister of Lebanon since 21 January 2020. He was the Minister of Education from 2011 to 2014, under President Michel Suleiman.

On 10 August 2020, Diab announced his resignation along with his government due to the Lebanese government's failure to prevent the 2020 Beirut explosions. He left office on 10 September 2021 when Najib Mikati was picked as his replacement. 

[[President of Lebanon]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Lebanon

The president of the Lebanese Republic is the head of state of Lebanon. The president is elected by the parliament for a term of six years, which is not renewable.

[[Amine Gemayel]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Presidents of Lebanon

Amine Pierre Gemayel (أمين بيار الجميٌل; born 22 January 1942) is a Lebanese politician. He was the President of Lebanon from 1982 to 1988 and was the leader of Kataeb Party. 

[[President of Zambia]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Zambia

The president of Zambia is the head of state and the head of government of Zambia. The office was first held by Kenneth Kaunda following independence in 1964. 

Since 31 August 1991 the president is also the head of government, as the position of Prime Minister was abolished in the last months of Kaunda's presidential term.

The president is elected for a term of five years. 

[[List of presidents of São Tomé and Príncipe]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of state of São Tomé and Príncipe

The following is a list of presidents of São Tomé and Príncipe, since the establishment of the office of president in 1975.

[[Leonel Mário d'Alva]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1935 births, Prime Ministers of São Tomé and Príncipe, Heads of state of São Tomé and Príncipe

Leonel Mário d'Alva (born 1935) is a São Toméan politician. He was Prime Minister of São Tomé and Príncipe from 21 December 1974 until 12 July 1975, when the country gained independence from Portugal.

[[Miguel Trovoada]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Heads of state of São Tomé and Príncipe, Prime Ministers of São Tomé and Príncipe

Miguel dos Anjos da Cunha Lisboa Trovoada (born December 27, 1937) was Prime Minister (1975–1979) and President (1991–2001) of São Tomé and Príncipe.

[[Manuel Quintas de Almeida]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of state of São Tomé and Príncipe, 1957 births, 2006 deaths

Manuel Quintas de Almeida (1957 – 26 December 2006) was a lieutenant in the military of São Tomé and Príncipe. He led a coup against the democratically elected government of President Miguel Trovoada on 15 August 1995.

He died on 26 December 2006, aged 52.

[[Fradique de Menezes]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Heads of state of São Tomé and Príncipe

Fradique Bandeira Melo de Menezes (born March 21, 1942) was the President of São Tomé and Príncipe from 2001 to 2011.

[[Fernando Pereira (major)]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of state of São Tomé and Príncipe, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people

Fernando "Cobo" Pereira is a major in the military of São Tomé and Príncipe.

He led a coup against the elected government of Fradique de Menezes on July 16, 2003. He gave up power a week later as part of an agreement.

[[Evaristo Carvalho]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Heads of state of São Tomé and Príncipe, Prime Ministers of São Tomé and Príncipe, Current national leaders, Living people

Evaristo do Espírito Santo Carvalho (born October 22, 1942) is a São Toméan politician who has been President of São Tomé and Príncipe since 3 September 2016. He was the Prime Minister of São Tomé and Príncipe from 7 July 1994 to 25 October 1994 and again from 26 September 2001 to 28 March 2002. He is a member of the Independent Democratic Action (ADI) party.

[[List of prime ministers of São Tomé and Príncipe]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of São Tomé and Príncipe

The following is a list of prime ministers of São Tomé and Príncipe, since the creation of the office of Prime Minister of Portuguese São Tomé and Príncipe in 1974.

[[Decap Attack]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 video games, Platform games, Sega Genesis games, Video games developed in Japan

Decap Attack is a 1991 platform side-scrolling game developed for the Sega Genesis.  It focuses upon the main protagonist Chuck D. Head who is a demented mummy. His mission is to defeat the evil demon named Max D. Cap who came from the underworld with his army to invade the world. The stages are set as body parts that make up a human skeleton from Abdomainland, El Beau Island, Tibuland, Armington, Pumpington, The Last Leg, and Eyeland. As soon as Chuck D. Head completes his mission he is congratulated by scientist Frank N. Stein and transformed Chuck into a human boy as a reward.

[[Jorge Bom Jesus]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of São Tomé and Príncipe, Living people, 1962 births

Jorge Lopes Bom Jesus (born 26 July 1962), also known as JBJ, is a politician from São Tomé. He became the 17th Prime Minister of São Tomé and Príncipe on 3 December 2018. He is a member of the Movement for the Liberation of São Tomé and Príncipe/Social Democratic Party (MLSTP-PSD). 

[[Wilfred Jacobs]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1995 deaths, Governors-general of Antigua and Barbuda

Sir Wilfred Ebenezer Jacobs GBR (19 October 1919 – 11 March 1995) was the first Governor-General of Antigua and Barbuda.

He appointed Attorney General of the Leeward Islands for 1957 to 1959 and for Antigua in 1960. From 1960 to 1967 he was in a number of Colonial offices.

He was made Governor of Antigua and Barbuda from 1967 until that country gained independence in 1981, after which he became the first governor-general. He was Governor-General of Antigua and Barbuda from 1 November 1981 to 10 June 1991.  He was replaced by James Carlisle.

[[James Carlisle]]

CATEGORIES: Governors-general of Antigua and Barbuda, 1937 births, Living people

Sir James Beethoven Carlisle, GCMG (born August 5, 1937) is a dentist. He was the former Governor-General of Antigua and Barbuda. His term ended in June 2007, after 16 years in office.

[[Rodney Williams]]

CATEGORIES: Governors-general of Antigua and Barbuda, 1947 births, Living people

Sir Rodney Errey Lawrence Williams, KGN, GBR (born 2 November 1947) is an Antiguan politician. He became 4th Governor-General of Antigua and Barbuda on 14 August 2014.

Rodney was knighted as a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George (GCMG) by Queen Elizabeth II on 17 October 2014. and fought in the spanish barbudan wars

[[Vere Bird]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1999 deaths, Prime Ministers of Antigua and Barbuda

Sir Vere Cornwall Bird Sr., KNH (9 December 1910 – 28 June 1999) was the first Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda. His son, Lester Bryant Bird, replaced him as Prime Minister. 

In 1994, he was made a Knight of the Order of the National Hero (KNH) by his native country Antigua and Barbuda.

[[George Walter]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2008 deaths, Prime Ministers of Antigua and Barbuda

Sir George Herbert Walter, KNH (8 September 1928 – 4 March 2008) was an Antiguan politician of the Progressive Labour Movement and Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda from 14 February 1971 to 1 February 1976.

In 2008, he was posthumously made a Knight of the Order of the National Hero (KNH) by his native country Antigua and Barbuda to become the country's fifth national hero.

[[Gaston Browne]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Current national leaders, Prime Ministers of Antigua and Barbuda, Living people

Gaston Alfonso Browne (born 9 February 1967) is an Antiguan businessman and politician. In June 2014, he was made prime minister of Antigua and Barbuda.

[[Pakalitha Mosisili]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Lesotho

Bethuel Pakalitha Mosisili (born 14 March 1945) is a former Mosotho politician. He retired in January 2019. He was the Prime Minister of Lesotho from May 1998 to June 2012 and again from March 2015 to June 2017. He led the Lesotho Congress for Democracy (LCD).

[[Moshoeshoe II of Lesotho]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 1996 deaths, Road accident deaths, Kings and queens, Lesotho

Moshoeshoe II (2 May 1938 – 15 January 1996), previously known as Constantine Bereng Seeiso, was the paramount chief of Lesotho. He was king of Lesotho from 1966 until his exile in 1990, and from 1995 until his death in 1996.

[[Letsie III of Lesotho]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Lesotho, Kings and queens, Current national leaders

Letsie III (born David Mohato Bereng Seeiso; 17 July 1963) is the King of Lesotho. He replaced his father, Moshoeshoe II, when he was forced into exile in 1990.  

His father was briefly restored in 1995 but soon died in a car crash in early 1996, and Letsie became king again. 

As a constitutional monarch, most of King Letsie's duties as monarch of Lesotho are ceremonial. 

In 2000, he declared HIV/AIDS in Lesotho a natural disaster, causing national and international response to the epidemic.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Cape Verde]]

CATEGORIES: Cape Verde, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Cape Verde in March 2020.

On 20 March, the first case of COVID-19 in the country was confirmed, being a 62 year old foreigner from the United Kingdom.

Since 16 March tests are being made in Cape Verde rather than abroad, by the Laboratório de Virologia de Cabo Verde, in Praia.

On 17 March, as a contingency measure, Prime Minister José Ulisses Correia e Silva announced the suspension of all incoming flights from the US, Brazil, Senegal, Nigeria, Portugal, and all European countries affected by the coronavirus.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Mali]]

CATEGORIES: History of Mali, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Mali in March 2020.

On 25 March, Mali confirmed its first two COVID-19 cases.

On 27 March, 7 new positive tests for Coronavirus: Mali rose to 11 cases. 

On 28 March, seven new cases confirmed, the total rose to 18.

On 31 March, 25 cases tested positive and 2 deaths. According to health authorities.

On 18 March, President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita suspended flights from affected countries, closed schools and banned large public gatherings. However planned elections in March–April, which had already been postponed several times for the poor security situation in the country, will still go ahead as planned.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Barbados]]

CATEGORIES: History of Barbados, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in Barbados is part of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019. 

The pandemic was confirmed to have reached Barbados on 17 March 2020 with the announcement of the first two cases, and at its current peak on 12 April there were 56 active cases. 

The government declared a public health emergency (due to end on 30 June) and the country is currently under an overnight curfew from 8:00 pm to 5:00 am (due to end after 17 May): many businesses are closed and many of the businesses that are allowed to open are subject to a surname-based schedule.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Kenya]]

CATEGORIES: Kenya, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic reached Kenya in March 2020 with the initial cases reported in the capital city Nairobi and in the coastal area Mombasa county.

On 13 March, the first case in Kenya, a 27-year-old Kenyan woman who traveled from the US via London, was confirmed.

On April 1, Kenya's coronavirus cases rose by 22, bringing the total to 81 confirmed cases to  date. Additionally, the Kenyan government confirmed that the first and third reported cases had both full recovered from the virus, bringing the total number of recoveries nationally to three.

As of April 15, 2019, the Kenyan Ministry of Health reported 9 new cases increasing the total number of cases to 225, 12 new recoveries thus increasing the number of total recoveries to 53. The Ministry also reported 1 new fatality, increasing the total number of fatalities to 10.

2366 people had been tested as of April 15, 2020, 1911 people had been released after testing negative.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Antigua and Barbuda]]

CATEGORIES: Antigua and Barbuda, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in Antigua and Barbuda is part of the ongoing global viral pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which was confirmed to have reached Antigua and Barbuda in March 2020.

On 13 March 2020, Prime Minister Gaston Browne announced Antigua and Barbuda's first confirmed COVID-19 case.

Browne said the patient started presenting symptoms on March 11.

No cases have been reported in Barbuda.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Saint Kitts and Nevis]]

CATEGORIES: Saint Kitts and Nevis, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in Saint Kitts and Nevis is part of the ongoing global viral pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which was confirmed to have reached Saint Kitts and Nevis on 24 March 2020.

On 24 March 2020. A 21-year-old male and a 57-year-old female that arrived in the federation from New York City became the first two confirmed cases of COVID-19. Both are nationals of St Kitts and Nevis.

On 31 March 2020, full lockdown went into effect. From 19:00 31 March until 06:00 3 April there is a 24-hour curfew. The lockdown was later extended to 07:00 9 April, and further extended to 18 April with two days of partial lockdown in order to buy essential goods. The lockdown was once again extended to 25 April.

On 3 May 2020, it was reported that 2,000 people will have received benefits from the COVID-19 Emergency Relief Fund. People who did not qualify in April will still benefit.

[[Owen Arthur]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Prime Ministers of Barbados

Owen Seymour Arthur, PC (17 October 1949 – 27 July 2020) was a Barbadian politician. He was Prime Minister of Barbados from 6 September 1994 to 20 January 1999; 20 January 1999 to 21 May 2003; and from 21 May 2003 to 15 January 2008. 

Arthur died on 27 July 2020 from heart disease-related problems at a hospital in Bridgetown, aged 70.

[[Sandra Mason]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Governors-General of Barbados, Current national leaders

Dame Sandra Prunella Mason, GCMG, DA, QC (born 17 January 1949) is a Barbados politician. In January 2018, she became the Governor-General of Barbados.

[[Ralph McGehee]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American critics, Spies, Writers from Illinois, Military people from Illinois

Ralph Walter McGehee (April 9, 1928 – May 2, 2020) was an American intelligence official. He worked for 25 years in American intelligence, being a former case officer of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). From 1953 to 1972, his assignments were in East Asia and Southeast Asia. After leaving the CIA, he published books and became a critic of the agency. McGehee was born in Moline, Illinois.

McGehee died on May 2, 2020 of COVID-19 in Falmouth, Maine at the age of 92.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Jordan]]

CATEGORIES: History of Jordan, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic spread to Jordan on 2 March 2020, when the Ministry of Health confirmed the first case in the kingdom. As of May 2, Jordan had 460 confirmed cases, with 367 recovered and 9 deaths.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Grenada]]

CATEGORIES: History of Grenada, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in Grenada is part of the ongoing global viral pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which was confirmed to have reached Grenada on March 22, 2020. Despite lockdowns and social distancing protocols, it appeared to have reached the level of community spread within one month.

On 22 March, the country's first case ("Patient Zero") was announced, a 50-year-old female patient who returned from the United Kingdom on March 16 and became sick on March 17, and was officially diagnosed on March 21.

On 25 March, the government pushed a policy of restricted movement and nightly curfew.

On 1 April, one new case announced—a 58-year-old male who arrived on a flight from New York City on March 19

On 6 April, government renews curfew/lockdown for another two weeks (through April 20). Tests are now being done at St. George's University.

[[Rouffiac-d'Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Rouffiac-d'Aude is a commune of 441 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France. It is 12 south of Carcassonne.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines]]

CATEGORIES: Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is part of the ongoing global viral pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which was confirmed to have reached Saint Vincent and the Grenadines in March 2020.

The first confirmed case was discovered on 11 March 2020.

On March 11, 2020, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines confirmed its first case. The passenger had travelled from the United Kingdom. They travelled on British Airways to Barbados and onward to Saint Vincent via LIAT.

On April 1, 2020 St. Vincent and the Grenadines recorded its second confirmed case of COVID-19.

[[Roullens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Roullens is a commune of 465 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in the Dominican Republic]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century in the Dominican Republic, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in the Dominican Republic is part of the ongoing global viral pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which was confirmed to have spread to the Dominican Republic on 1 March 2020.

On 1 March, the first case in the country and the Caribbean was confirmed. A 62-year-old man from Italy entered the country on 22 February and fell ill on 24 February, when he was transferred to Ramón Lara military hospital from the beach resort of Bayahibe.  On 6 March, the second case in the country was confirmed as a Canadian tourist (also vacationing in Bayahibe) was detected.

On 14 March, a large wedding in Cap Cana was the COVID-19 infection source for a number of its attendees. The chancellor of the Dominican Republic, Miguel Vargas Maldonado would have contracted the virus from his son, who attended the said wedding and also contracted COVID-19.

The first COVID-19-related death was announced by health authorities on 16 March 2020, of a 47-year old Dominican woman who had recently traveled from Spain.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Dominica]]

CATEGORIES: Dominica, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic in Dominica is part of the ongoing global viral pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which was confirmed to have reached Dominica on 22 March 2020.

On 22 March, the country's first case of COVID-19 was announced, a 54-year-old man who returned from the United Kingdom.

[[St. Helens, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon, County seats in Oregon

St. Helens is a city in Oregon in the United States. It is the county seat of Columbia County.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Costa Rica]]

CATEGORIES: History of Costa Rica, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was first confirmed to have spread to Costa Rica on 6 March 2020, after a 49-year-old woman tourist from New York, United States, tested positive for the virus.

As of 13 May 2020, Costa Rica has reported 815 positive cases, 527 recoveries, and 7 deaths. 

One senior citizen, an 87-year-old man, died on 18 March and is the first COVID-19 death in Costa Rica. He was one of 25 people infected by a doctor in Alajuela.

By 30 April, the country had the lowest case fatality rate in the Americas, at about 0.86%. More Costa Ricans have died in the United States than in Costa Rica.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Nicaragua]]

CATEGORIES: History of Nicaragua, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic was shown to have spread to Nicaragua when the first case, a Nicaraguan citizen who had returned to the country from Panama, was confirmed on 18 March 2020.

Ana Emilia Solís, the World Health Organisation's representative in Nicaragua, has stated that since January, when the Nicaraguan Government declared a sanitary alert due to the threat of COVID-19.

Some critics of Daniel Ortega's government have claimed the government is downplaying the severity of the virus. 

A large public rally was organized by government supporters to support coronavirus victims in other countries; however, the event was criticized for lack of social distancing. 

[[Heppner, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon, County seats in Oregon

Heppner is a city in Oregon in the United States. It is the county seat of Morrow County.

[[COVID-19 pandemic in Guatemala]]

CATEGORIES: History of Guatemala, COVID-19 pandemic by country

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached Guatemala in March 2020.

On 13 March 2020, the first case in Guatemala, a Guatemalan man who traveled from Italy to Guatemala, was confirmed. 

On 13 March 2020, the Guatemalan government extended its travel restrictions to travelers from the US and Canada. Starting on 16 March, no travelers coming from these countries will be allowed to enter Guatemala, until March 31.

On 15 March 2020, the Guatemalan government confirmed its second case and the first COVID-19 death in the country, an 85-year-old man who arrived from Madrid with his family nine days earlier.

On April 23, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights calls on Mexican and Central American governments to stop deportations during the coronavirus pandemic. 2,500 migrants are stuck in Panama because Honduras has closed its border. Mexico has dumped migrants in Guatemala, but Guatemala has not let them in. On April 23 the organization helped 41 migrants return to El Salvador from Mexico.

[[Rustiques]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Rustiques is a commune of 507 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Amans, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Amans is a commune of 64 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-André-de-Roquelongue]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-André-de-Roquelongue is a commune of 1,390 people (2017).  It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Ronald J. Shurer]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, American military people, Medal of Honor recipients, People from Fairbanks, Alaska

Ronald J. Shurer II (December 7, 1978 – May 14, 2020) was a former United States Army Special Forces staff sergeant and medic. He was born in Fairbanks, Alaska. 

He was a senior medical sergeant during the Battle of Shok Valley in April 2008. He and his team were attacked by an enemy force of more than 200 fighters. Shurer fought for more than an hour to reach part of his unit. 

He was initially awarded a Silver Star for this action, but in 2016 The Pentagon upgraded this recognition to a Medal of Honor. He received the medal in a White House ceremony on October 1, 2018. 

Shurer died on May 14, 2020 of lung cancer-related problems at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, aged 41.

[[Bubble Bobble]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 video games, Arcade games, Game Boy games, Game Gear games, Amstrad CPC games, Amiga games, Commodore 64 games, DOS games, MSX games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, PlayStation 4 games, Master System games, Sega Saturn games

Bubble Bobble is the first game in the Bubble Bobble series of games, produced by Taito in 1986, at the start for arcade and later converted to computers and consoles. 

In the game, the player control a dragon that spits bubbles to eliminate the enemies.

The game is centered on the adventure of two dragons, Bub and Bob. The objective is to save the girlfriends of the protagonists, for that the player must face a hundred different stages. They use bubbles for attack the enemies. Each time an enemy is eliminated, a reward is generated that increases the player's score.

[[Yield to the Night]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 drama movies, 1950s crime movies, British crime drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by J. Lee Thompson

Yield to the Night (also known as Blonde Sinner) is a 1956 British crime drama movie directed by J. Lee Thompson and is based on the 1954 novel of the same name by Joan Henry. It stars Diana Dors, Yvonne Mitchell, Michael Craig, Geoffrey Keen, Marjorie Rhodes, Dandy Nichols, Molly Urquhart, Harry Locke and was distributed by Associated British-Pathé.

[[The Rock-afire Explosion]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional musical groups

The Rock-afire Explosion is an animatronic character rock band created by Aaron Fechter. They played at the Showbiz Pizza Place restaurants from 1980 until 1992 when they were rebranded into Chuck E. Cheese characters, after the band was discontinued.

[[Falmouth, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine

Falmouth is a town in Cumberland County, Maine, United States. The population was 11,185 at the 2010 census. It is part of the Portland–South Portland–Biddeford, Maine metropolitan statistical area.

[[Splash (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 romance movies, 1984 comedy movies, 1980s fantasy movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, American fantasy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Ron Howard

Splash is a 1984 American fantasy romantic comedy movie directed by Ron Howard, written by Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel, and starring Tom Hanks, Daryl Hannah, John Candy and Eugene Levy. The movie is about a young man who falls in love with a mysterious woman who is secretly a mermaid. The movie was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay.

The movie is the first to be released by Touchstone Pictures. Splash had received a PG-rating for some profanity and brief nudity.

[[Aboud Khawaja]]

CATEGORIES: Yemeni singers, 1972 births, Living people, Yemeni composers

Aboud Khawaja (عبود خواجه) is a well-known Yemeni singer. He was born in 1972 in Lahij Governorate, and started singing in 1984.

[[Back Street]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 movies, 1930s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by John M. Stahl

Back Street is a 1932 American drama movie directed by John M. Stahl and is based on the novel of the same name by Fannie Hurst and was remade in 1941 and 1961. It stars Irene Dunne, John Boles, George Meeker, James Donlan, Doris Lloyd and was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Hussein Moheb]]

CATEGORIES: Yemeni singers, 1985 births, Living people, Yemeni composers

Hussein Moheb (حسين محب) is a well-known Yemeni singer.

[[Banning]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 drama movies, American sports drama movies

Banning is a 1967 American sports drama movie directed by Ron Winston. It stars Robert Wagner, Anjanette Comer, Guy Stockwell, Gene Hackman, Jill St. John, Howard St. John, Sean Garrison and was distributed by Universal Pictures. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1968.

[[Karen Percy]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Canadian Olympic bronze medalists, Sportspeople from Alberta

Karen Percy is (born October 10, 1966) in Banff, Alberta is a Canadian Olympic skier.  She had her Olympic debut in 1988. She was in Canada’s Sports Hall of Fame in the year 1994.We went to be on the Canadian Olympic Hall of Fame the next year. She also became a member of the Order of Canada in 1988. 

In 2005, she got into the Banff Sports Hall of Fame. 

[[The Keep (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 horror movies, American horror movies, British horror movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Michael Mann

The Keep is a 1983 British American World War II horror movie directed by Michael Mann and based on the 1981 novel of the same name by F. Paul Wilson. It stars Scott Glenn, Alberta Watson, Jürgen Prochnow, Robert Prosky, Gabriel Byrne, Ian McKellen and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Kevin Smyth]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Hartford Whalers players, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Moose Jaw Warriors players

Kevin Smyth (born November 22,1973 in Banff, Alberta) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey player. He played 58 games in the National Hockey League. 

[[Cutter's Way]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 thriller movies, American thriller movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Ivan Passer

Cutter's Way (also known as Cutter and Bone) is a 1981 American thriller movie directed by Ivan Passer and is based on the novel Cutter and Bone by Newton Thornburg. It stars Jeff Bridges, John Heard, Lisa Eichhorn, Stephen Elliott, Ann Dusenberry and was distributed by United Artists.

[[Faces of Women]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 comedy movies, Ivorian movies

Faces of Women (also known as in French as Visages de femmes) is a 1985 Ivorian movie directed by Desiré Ecaré and starring Sidiki Bakaba, Albertine N'Guessan, Eugénie Cissé-Roland.

[[Omri Sharon]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Former Members of Knesset, Israeli military people, Israeli prisoners, Jewish Israeli criminals, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish military people, Kadima politicians, Likud politicians, Majors

Omri Sharon (Hebrew: עמרי שרון; born 19 August 1964) is a former Israeli politician of Likud and Kadima. He is the son of Ariel Sharon, who was prime minister from 2001 till 2006.

Sharon Jr. was a major in the IDF and a Member of Knesset from 2003 till 2006.

He was found guilty of corruption charges in 2006 and was sentenced to prison.

[[The Great Waldo Pepper]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 drama movies, American adventure movies, American drama movies

The Great Waldo Pepper is a 1975 American adventure drama movie directed by George Roy Hill and starring Robert Redford, Bo Svenson, Bo Brundin, Susan Sarandon, Geoffrey Lewis, Scott Newman, Margot Kidder. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Theatro Technis]]

CATEGORIES: Theatres in the United Kingdom, Buildings and structures in London

Theatro Technis is an off-West End 120-seat, townhouse theatre located in Camden. It was originally founded by George Eugeniou ,  (see Wikipedia EN) and a group of actors five decades ago to meet the needs of the Cypriot community through "cultural theatre and educational activities”. 

The theatre has since evolved to being a hub of multi-faceted and multi-cultural activities hosting classics, new writing, international plays from overseas companies, live Greek music events , and Greek tragedies and is embedded as a vital part of London`s multi-cultural lanscape .

Theatro Technis also holds the annual London Greek Film Festival  supported by the Thessaloniki Film Festival and ERT Greek Television.

Theatro Technis brings audiences back inside during corona  

[[Infanta Luisa Fernanda, Duchess of Montpensier]]

CATEGORIES: 1832 births, 1897 deaths, Spanish infantes and infantas, House of Bourbon, House of Orléans, Princes and princesses, Dukes and duchesses of France, People from Madrid

Infanta María Luisa Fernanda of Spain, Duchess of Montpensier (30 January 1832 – 2 February 1897) was Infanta of Spain by birth and was the Duchess o Montpensier after her 1846 mairriage to a son of King Louis Philippe I of the French. Her husband was Prince Antoine o Orléans, Duke of Montpensier. She was also a sister of Queen Isabel II of Spain.

[[Sacking of Osceola]]

CATEGORIES: 1860s in Missouri, American Civil War battles, Massacres of the American Civil War

The Sacking of Osceola was a Kansas Jayhawker attack to move pro-slavery Southerners at Osceola, Missouri on September 23, 1861. It was not approved by the Union military. The attack happened from an informal group of anti-slavery Kansas "Jayhawkers". The town of 2,077 people was plundered and burned to the ground. 200 slaves were freed and nine local citizens were court-martialed and killed. It was led by James H. Lane.

[[Drumhead court-martial]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Military

A drumhead court-martial is a court-martial that happens on the battlefield to hear important charges of crimes that happened during the battle.

The term is said to come from the use of a drumhead as an improvised writing table.

[[Death by burning]]

CATEGORIES: Fire, Torture, Capital punishment

Death by burning (also known as immolation) is an execution method involving combustion or touching to extreme heat. It has a long history as a form of capital punishment, and many societies have used it as punishment for crimes such as treason, heresy and witchcraft. The best known execution of this type is burning at the stake where the condemned is tied to a big wooden stake and a fire lit under them.

[[James Montgomery (colonel)]]

CATEGORIES: 1814 births, 1871 deaths, American abolitionists

James Montgomery (December 22, 1814 – December 6, 1871) was a Jayhawker during Bleeding Kansas. He was also a controversial Union colonel during the American Civil War. Montgomery was a strong supporter of abolitionist ideas and individual liberty, and he used extreme actions against pro-slavery people.

[[Charles R. Jennison]]

CATEGORIES: 1834 births, 1884 deaths, American abolitionists, People from Leavenworth, Kansas

Charles Rainsford Jennison also known as "Doc" Jennison (June 6, 1834 – June 21, 1884) was a member of the anti-slavery group during Bleeding Kansas. He was also a famous Jayhawker, and a member of the Kansas State Senate in the 1870s. He later served as a Union colonel and as a leader of Jayhawker militias during the American Civil War.

[[George Henry Hoyt]]

CATEGORIES: 1837 births, 1877 deaths, Kansas Republicans, 19th-century American politicians, Massachusetts Republicans, American abolitionists

George Henry Hoyt (November 25, 1837 – February 2, 1877) was an abolitionist and attorney for John Brown. During the American Civil War, he served as a Union cavalry officer and captain of the Kansas Red Leg scouts. He became a brevet brigadier general by war's end. Following the war, Hoyt served as the sixth Attorney General of Kansas.

[[William T. Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1840 births, 1864 deaths, Bushwhackers, American rapists, People from Kentucky, People from Missouri, Deaths by firearm in the United States

William T. Anderson (1840 – October 26, 1864), also known as "Bloody Bill" Anderson, was one of the deadliest and most famous pro-Confederate guerrilla leaders in the American Civil War. Anderson led a group of volunteer rangers who attacked Union loyalists and federal soldiers in the states of Missouri and Kansas.

[[Steven Cohen]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American billionaires, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from New York City, Jewish American politicians, Jewish billionaires, Jewish businesspeople, People from Great Neck, New York

Steve A. Cohen (born June 11, 1956 in Great Neck, New York) is an American billionaire investor, hedge fund manager, philanthropist, and art collector. He is the founder of Point72 Asset Management and the now-closed S.A.C. Capital Advisors. Both funds are based in Stamford, Connecticut. In 2020, he became the owner of New York Mets.

[[Frank James]]

CATEGORIES: 1843 births, 1915 deaths, Bushwhackers

Alexander Franklin "Frank" James (January 10, 1843 – February 18, 1915) was a Confederate soldier and guerrilla; in the post-Civil War period, he was an outlaw. The older brother of outlaw Jesse James, Frank was also part of the James–Younger Gang.

[[Androphilia and gynephilia]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality

Androphilia and gynephilia are terms in behavioral science (the study of human and animal behavior) that describe sexual orientation. It is an alternative to the gender binary in homosexual and heterosexual. Androphilia is attraction to a man or masculinity (any quality or behavior linked to a man). Gynephilia is attraction to a woman or femininity. Ambiphilia (bisexuality) is the combination of androphilia and gynephilia.

The terms describe the focus of attraction with no need to credit a sex assignment or gender identity to the person. It will skirt any difficulty to understand people between the West and the East. The terms will also describe intersex and transgender people.

[[William E. Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1983 deaths, 20th-century American politicians, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery

William Miller was an American politician from the state of New York who served in the US House for 7 terms from 1951 to 1965. Miller was a conservative Republican. In 1964 he ran for president but lost the primaries to fellow conservative Sentor Barry Goldwater of Arizona. Miller was Goldwater´s running mate. He also served as 44th Chair of the Republican National Committee. 

Please note that the data for the above table was found on https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_E._Miller.

[[Wisconsin's 8th congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Green Bay, Wisconsin, Congressional districts of Wisconsin

Wisconsin's 8th congressional district is a district in Northeast Wisconsin, represented by Republican Mike Gallagher of Green Bay, Wisconsin.

[[Wisconsin State Senate]]

CATEGORIES: State upper houses in the United States, Wisconsin

The Wisconsin State Senate is the upper house of the Wisconsin Legislature. It has 33 seats. Currently, Republicans have the majority with 19 seats. Democrats have 14 seats. Their pay is $50,950 a year.

The President of the Senate is Republican Roger Roth. The Majority Leader is Republican Scott L. Fitzgerald. The Minority Leader is Democrat Janet Bewley.

It is in the Wisconsin State Capitol in Madison, Dane County, Wisconsin.

[[Val-de-Vie]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France, Communes in Calvados

Val-de-Vie is a commune. It is found in the region Normandy in the Calvados department in the northwest of France. The municipality was created on 1 January 2016 and consists of the former communes of Sainte-Foy-de-Montgommery (the seat), La Brévière, La Chapelle-Haute-Grue and Saint-Germain-de-Montgommery.

[[Saint-Benoît, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Benoît is a commune of 105 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Couat-d'Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Couat-d'Aude is a commune of 404 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Couat-du-Razès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Couat-du-Razès is a commune of 51 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Denis, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Denis is a commune of 512 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Sainte-Camelle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Sainte-Camelle is a commune of 119 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Sainte-Colombe-sur-l'Hers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Sainte-Colombe-sur-l'Hers is a commune of 435 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Sainte-Eulalie, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Sainte-Eulalie is a commune of 506 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[BMW M3]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, BMW

The BMW M3 is a high-performance version of the BMW 3 Series. It has been produced for every generation since the E30 M3 was introduced in 1986.

[[Sainte-Valière]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Sainte-Valière is a commune of 563 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Ferriol]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Ferriol is a commune of 116 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[NA 95 (Mianwali I)]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Pakistan

NA 95 (Mianwali I) is a National Assembly constinuency in Pakistan.

Areas involved: Isa Khel, Daud Khel, Kalabagh and some areas of Mianwali Tehsil.

Members of This Constinuency from 2018.

[[Arcenant]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côte-d'Or

Arcenant is a commune in the Côte-d'Or department.

[[Orain]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côte-d'Or

Orain is a commune in the Côte-d'Or department.

[[Saint-Frichoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Frichoux is a commune of 255 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[The Happy Years]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 comedy movies, 1950s romance movies, 1950s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by William A. Wellman

The Happy Years is a 1950 American romantic comedy movie directed by William A. Wellman and is based on the novel The Varmint by Owen Johnson. It stars Dean Stockwell, Darryl Hickman, Scotty Beckett, Leon Ames, Leo G. Carroll, Robert Wagner. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Pofatu Database]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeology, Databases

The Pofatu Database is a resource for archaeologists. The database contains geochemical information on rock material. This is used by archaeologists to determine the source of the material. In the spring of 2020, the data contained over 7700 samples from sites in the Pacific Ocean region. The samples are from both archaeological sites and geological sites. The geological samples are used for comparison, to identify the source of the archaeological samples. In addition, information on provenience, context, analytical methods and bibliography are maintained. "The database also provides instrumental details, analytical procedures and reference standards used for calibration purposes or quality control." The open-access database is supported by research organizations from Germany, Australia, New Zealand, and the United States.

The database uses an open-source storage system (GitHub) and file formats that are common and non-proprietary. 

This makes it easy to access and use the data and to retest it. Access to Pofatu is at  The data can be seen in the Pofatu web application.

[[Pink Elephants on Parade]]

"Pink Elephants on Parade" is a song and part of the 1941 movie Dumbo (1941 film). It happens when Dumbo becomes drunk from drinking water mixed with champagne.

[[Moya Brennan]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Grammy Award winners, Irish singers, New Age music, People from County Donegal

Moya Brennan (born Máire Ní Bhraonáin on 4 August 1952 in Gweedore, County Donegal, Ireland) is an Irish singer. She is famous for being a member of the folk group Clannad.

[[Fingers (1978 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 drama movies, 1970s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies

Fingers is a 1978 American crime drama movie directed by James Toback and starring Harvey Keitel, Danny Aiello, Tanya Roberts, Jim Brown, Michael V. Gazzo, Tisa Farrow, Sam Coppola. It was distributed by Brut Productions and remake in 2005 as French movie The Beat That My Heart Skipped.

[[Chasseur (sauce)]]

CATEGORIES: Sauces

Sauce chasseur, sometimes called "hunter's sauce", is a simple or compound brown sauce used in French cuisine. It is usually made using demi-glace or an espagnole sauce as a base, and often includes mushrooms and shallots. It may also include tomatoes and a finishing of fines herbes. Today, a simplified version of the sauce is produced industrially. This is what most people will associate with 'sauce chasseur'.

[[Hickory]]

CATEGORIES: Edible nuts and seeds, Fagales, Flora of Indo-China, Fruits, Trees

Hickories are deciduous trees with pinnately compound leaves and large nuts. Hickory flowers are small, yellow-green catkins produced in spring. They are wind-pollinated and self-incompatible.

[[Report to the Commissioner]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 drama movies, 1970s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies

Report to the Commissioner is a 1975 American crime drama movie directed by Milton Katselas and based on the novel of the same name by James Mills. It stars Yaphet Kotto, Michael Moriarty, Richard Gere, Susan Blakely, Hector Elizondo, William Devane and was distributed by United Artists.

[[Annie Get Your Gun (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies directed by George Sidney, Movies directed by Busby Berkeley

Annie Get Your Gun is a 1950 American musical movie directed by George Sidney is based on the 1946 musical of the same name. It stars Betty Hutton, Howard Keel, Louis Calhern, Keenan Wynn, J. Carroll Naish and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for 4 Oscars and won an Academy Award in 1951.

[[Born Yesterday]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by George Cukor, Movies based on plays

Born Yesterday is a 1950 American comedy movie directed by George Cukor and based on the 1946 play of the same name by Garson Kanin. It stars Judy Holliday, Broderick Crawford, William Holden, Howard St. John and was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was nominated for 5 Oscars and won an Academy Award in 1951 and was remade in 1993.

[[Broken Arrow (1950 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Delmer Daves

Broken Arrow is a 1950 American western movie directed by Delmer Daves and based on the 1947 novel Blood Brother by Elliott Arnold. It stars James Stewart, Jeff Chandler, Debra Paget, Basil Ruysdael, Will Geer and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 3 Academy Awards in 1951.

[[Francis the Talking Mule]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 comedy movies, 1950s fantasy movies, American fantasy movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Arthur Lubin

Francis the Talking Mule is a 1950 American fantasy comedy movie directed by Arthur Lubin and is the first movie in the series of novels by David Stern. It stars Donald O'Connor, Patricia Medina, Chill Wills, Tony Curtis, Frank Faylen, Robert Warwick and was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Mohawk (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Kurt Neumann

Mohawk is a 1956 American historical drama movie directed by Kurt Neumann and starring Scott Brady, Rita Gam, Neville Brand, Lori Nelson, Allison Hayes, John Hoyt, John Hudson. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[American Enterprise Institute]]

CATEGORIES: Think tanks, Politics

The American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, also known as the American Enterprise Institute (AEI), is a think tank in Washington, D.C. that researches government, politics, economics, and social welfare. AEI is an independent nonprofit organization supported mostly by grants and donations from foundations, corporations, and people.

It was created in 1938. AEI's stated goal is "to defend the principles and improve the institutions of American freedom and democratic capitalism—limited government, private enterprise, individual liberty and responsibility, vigilant and effective defense and foreign policies, political accountability, and open debate". AEI mostly believes in conservatism and neoconservatism, although it is officially non-partisan.

AEI is governed by a Board of Trustees that has 28 members. It is made up of executives and former executives from various corporations. Approximately 185 authors are associated with AEI.

[[Center for Strategic and International Studies]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Think tanks

The Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) is a think tank in Washington, D.C., in the United States. CSIS was created as the "Center for Strategic and International Studies" of Georgetown University in 1962. The center does policy studies and strategic analyses of political, economic and security issues throughout the world. They specifically focus on issues about international relations, trade, technology, finance, energy and geostrategy.

In the University of Pennsylvania's 2019 Global Go To Think Tanks Report, CSIS is ranked the number one think tank in the United States across all subjects, the "Top Defense and National Security Think Tank" in the world, and the 4th best think tank in the world overall. CSIS has been named the number one think tank for Defense and National Security every years since 2013, and has been named the 'Center of Excellence'.

[[Se2grXII]]

CATEGORIES: Septuagint manuscripts, 1st-century biblical manuscripts

Se2grXII originally marked LXXIEJ 12 is a manuscript of the Septuagint dated to the 1st century and written on a parchment in the form of a scroll. This manuscript was found in the Judean Desert, probably in a Nahal Hever cave. This fragment is marked with number 943 on the list of manuscripts of the Septuagint according to the classification of Alfred Rahlfs.

[[Mercury-Redstone 3]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 in the United States, NASA

Mercury-Red-stone 3, or Freedom 7, was the first United States human spaceflight, on May 5, 1961, piloted by astronaut Alan Shepard. It was the first crewed flight of Project Mercury. The project had the ultimate objective of putting an astronaut into orbit around the Earth and return him safely.

Launch date: May 5, 1961

Rocket: Redstone MRLV MR-7

Landing date: May 5, 1961

Member: Alan Shepard

Recovered by: USS Lake Champlain

Manufacturer: McDonnell Aircraft Corporation

[[Panteón Francés]]

The Panteón Francés de la Piedad ("French Cemetery of the Mercy") is a cemetery in Mexico City in which several notable people are interred.

It is located in the southern section of the city, adjacent to the medical center, the Centro Medico Metro station, and the Colonia Buenos Aires neighborhood. Note that there is another "Panteón Francés" in the northwest section of the city, near Panteones metro station;  not the same cemetery.

[[Arcadia Publishing]]

CATEGORIES: Publishing companies of the United States, 1993 establishments in the United States

Arcadia Publishing is an American publisher. They publish neighborhood, local, and regional history of the United States in pictorial form. Arcadia Publishing also owns the History Press, which publishes text-driven books on American history and folklore.

[[Babruvahana]]

Babruvahana (also known as Babhruvahana or Babhnu Vahana) is a character in Veda Vyasa's epic, the Mahabharata. He is one of the sons of Arjuna, a Pandava. Chitrangada, the princess of Manipur was his mother. She bore him during the period of his (Arjuna's) exile at Manipura (refer Arjuna Vanavasa Parva of Mahabharata). Arjuna leaves Chitrangada bercause  Arjuna's wife Uloopi from the Naga Clan betrays him.  Uloopi was envious of Arjuna's marriage to Chitrangada. Babruvahana was adopted as the son of his maternal grandfather and reigned at Manipur as his successor. He dwelt there in a palace of great splendour, surrounded with wealth and signs of power. Later he came to know Arjuna was his father, and when he came to see his father, Arjuna did not recognise him and said he was a wanderer.

[[Riad Ismat]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, Infectious disease deaths in Chicago, Syrian people, Critics, Theatre directors, Playwrights, Educators

Mohammad Riad Hussain Ismat (رياض عصمت) (11 July 1947 – 13 May 2020) was a Syrian writer, critic and theatre director. He was Minister of Culture from 3 October 2010 to 23 June 2012 during the Bashar al-Assad presidency. He later moved to Chicago where he taught at Columbia College. He was born in Damascus.

Ismat died on 13 May 2020 in Chicago from COVID-19, aged 72.

[[Astrid Kirchherr]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2020 deaths, Cancer deaths in Germany, German artists, German photographers, People from Hamburg

Astrid Kirchherr (20 May 1938 – 12 May 2020) was a German photographer and artist. She was known for her works with the Beatles  and her photographs of the band's original members – John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison, Stuart Sutcliffe and Pete Best – during their early days in Hamburg. 

Her early work was shown in Hamburg, Bremen, London, Liverpool, Chicago, New York City, Washington, D.C., Tokyo, Vienna and at the Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame. She published three limited-edition books of photographs.

Kirchherr was born in Hamburg. She died there on 12 May 2020 from cancer, aged 81.

[[World Snooker Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Articles with hCards, World Snooker Championship

The World Snooker Championship is the leading snooker event both in terms of prestige and prize money. The first event was held in 1927 and was won by Joe Davis. Davis won the first 15 championships before retiring from the event, after his 1946 win. In the 1950s snooker went into a period of decline and the championship was not held after 1952, although an unofficial championship was held until 1957. In 1964 the championship was revived on a "challenge basis" and in 1969 the championship became a knock-out event again. 

Since 1977 it has been played at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield, England. The tournament is currently played over 17 days and ends on the first Monday in May. In the modern era (since 1969), the best record is that of Stephen Hendry, who won the title seven times. Steve Davis and Ray Reardon both won six times while Ronnie O'Sullivan has won five titles. The current champion is Judd Trump, whose 2019 win was his first.

[[Dick Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, The Rolling Stones members, English rock guitarists, English pianists, English songwriters, R&B musicians, Musicians from Kent, Writers from Kent

Richard Clifford Taylor (born 28 January 1943) is an English rock guitarist and pianist. He best known as the guitarist and founding member of the Pretty Things. Taylor was an early bassist for the Rolling Stones, but left the band to study at Sidcup Art College. He was born in Dartford, Kent.

[[List of world snooker champions]]

CATEGORIES: World Snooker Championship

The World Snooker Championship snooker tournament founded in 1927 and since 1977 played at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield, England. The event is played over 17 days in late April and early May, and is chronologically the third of the three Triple Crown events of the season since 1977–78, when the UK Championship was first held. The event was not held from 1941 to 1945 because of World War II or between 1958 and 1963 due to declining interest.

The governing body that organises this event is the World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association. Prior to this in 1968, the world championship was organised by the Billiards Association and Control Council (BACC), except for a few years when the Professional Billiards Players' Association (PBPA) staged their own event, the World Professional Match-play Championship.

The best player at the World Snooker Championship was Joe Davis, who won 15 consecutive titles between 1927 and 1946. The record in the modern era, usually dated from 1969 of a knock-out tournament format, rather than a challenge format, is held by Stephen Hendry, who won the title 7 times between 1990 and 1999.

[[Judd Trump]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1989 births

Judd Trump (born 20 August 1989) is an English snooker player from Bristol who is the current World Champion and the world number one. One of 11 players to win all Triple Crown events at least once, he has won 17 ranking titles.

After winning the English Under-13 and Under-15 events and reaching the World Under-21 semi-finals, Trump turned professional in 2005, aged 16. He won his first ranking title at the 2011 China Open, beating Selby 10–8 in the final. The following month, he reached the final of the 2011 World Championship, but lost 15–18 to John Higgins. He wis first Triple Crown event later that year when he won the 2011 UK Championship, defeating Mark Allen 10–8 in the final. 

During the 2018–19 snooker season,  he won his first Masters title, defeating Ronnie O'Sullivan 10–4 in the final, and completed his Triple Crown by winning his first World Snooker Championship, defeating Higgins 18–9. He also became the first snooker player to win over £1 million in prize money in a single season.

[[Teresa Aquino-Oreta]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2020 deaths, Filipino politicians

Maria Teresa Aquino-Oreta (born Maria Teresa Aquino Aquino) (June 28, 1944 – May 14, 2020), better known as Tessie Aquino-Oreta, was a Filipino Liberal politician. She was born in Concepcion, Tarlac. She was a member of the House of Representatives of the Philippines from 1987 to 1998 and Senator from 1988 to 2004.

Aquino-Oreta died on May 14, 2020 in Manila at the age of 75.

[[Henryk Jaskuła]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2020 deaths, Polish people, Engineers

Henryk Jaskuła (22 October 1923 – 14 May 2020) was a Polish yachtsman, sailing captain, and electrical engineer. He was the first Pole to perform a single-handed non-stop circumnavigation of the globe. Jaskuła became the third man to circumnavigate the globe non-stop and single-handed on 20 May 1980. He was born in Radziszów, Poland.

Jaskuła died on 14 May 2020 in Przemyśl, Poland at the age of 96.

[[Khalid Mahmood (cleric)]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from fractured hip, Pakistani politicians, Philosophers, Pakistani judges

Allama Khalid Mahmud (17 October 1925 – 14 May 2020) was a Pakistani Sunni Islamic scholar. He was a Justice of the Supreme Court of Pakistan. He created the Islamic Academy in Manchester. He was best known for his works related to Finality of the Prophethood. He was born in Lahore.

Mahmood died of problems caused by a fractured hip at a hospital in Manchester on 14 May 2020, aged 94.

[[Bob Watson]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from kidney disease, Houston Astros players, Boston Red Sox players, New York Yankees players, Atlanta Braves players, Oakland Athletics, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California

Robert José Watson (April 10, 1946spndMay 14, 2020) was an American professional baseball player and sports executive. He was born in Los Angeles, California.

Watson was a first baseman and left fielder who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Houston Astros, Boston Red Sox, New York Yankees and Atlanta Braves from 1966 to 1984. Watson was a two-time All-Star during his playing career.

After retiring as a player, Watson coached for the Oakland Athletics and was general manager for the Astros from 1993 through 1995 and the Yankees from 1995 through 1998. The Yankees won the 1996 World Series.

He was MLB's vice president in charge of discipline and vice president of rules and on-field operations until 2010.

Watson was diagnosed with stage 4 kidney disease in 2016. He died on May 14, 2020 from the disease in Houston at the age of 74.

[[Claes Borgström]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2020 deaths, Politicians from Stockholm, Swedish lawyers, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Sweden

Claes Gustaf Borgström (21 July 1944 – 15 May 2020) was a Swedish lawyer and politician. He was Equality Ombudsman (JämO) from 2000 until 2007. He was a member of the Social Democratic Party and later joined the Left Party. He was born in Stockholm.

Borgström died in Stockholm on 15 May 2020 from COVID-19, aged 75.

[[Guido Cerniglia]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2020 deaths, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian voice actors, Italian stage actors, Italian theatre directors

Guido Cerniglia (3 February 1939 – 14 May 2020) was an Italian actor and theatre director. He was born in Palermo, Italy. He was known for his roles in The Scientific Cardplayer (1972), Alla mia cara mamma nel giorno del suo compleanno (1974) and in Il giustiziere di mezzogiorno (1975).  

Cerniglia died in Rome on 14 May 2020, aged 81.

[[Sergio Denis]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2020 deaths, Argentine singers, Argentine writers, Argentine actors, Pop musicians, Pop singers, Songwriters, Argentine pianists, Deaths from stroke, Accidental deaths from falls

Héctor Omar Hoffmann Fenzel, better known as Sergio Denis (16 March 1949 – 15 May 2020) was an Argentine pop singer-songwriter, pianist and actor. He was born in Coronel Suárez, Argentina. His best known songs were Yo nunca supe más de ti, Cada vez que sale el sol, Cómo estás, querida, Te quiero tanto and Un poco loco.

He also recorded Spanish versions of songs by Paul McCartney, John Denver, The Mamas & the Papas and Leonard Cohen.

In March 2019, Denis fell while performing at a concert in Buenos Aires. He suffered from cerebral edema and was in a coma. Denis died of a stroke while in a coma on 15 May 2020 in Buenos Aires, aged 71.

[[Ernie Gonzalez]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Chicago, Illinois, American golfers, Sportspeople from San Diego, California, Sportspeople from Las Vegas, Nevada

Ernie Gonzalez (February 19, 1961 – May 15, 2020) was an American professional golfer. He played on the PGA Tour in the 1980s. He won the only title of his career in 1986. He became only the third left-handed golfer to win a Tour event. He was born in San Diego, California.

Gonzalez died on May 15, 2020 in Chicago of Alzheimer's disease-related problems, aged 59.

[[Bible d'Olivétan]]

CATEGORIES: Bible versions

The Bible d'Olivétan (Olivetan Bible) is a French translation of the Bible, which was published in Neuchâtel in 1535.

[[Mitch Greenlick]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2020 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan, Politicians from Portland, Oregon, US Democratic Party politicians

Merwyn R. "Mitch" Greenlick (March 12, 1935 – May 15, 2020) was an American Democratic politician. He represented District 33 of the Oregon House of Representatives from 2003 until his death. Greenlick was born in Detroit, Michigan. He was known proposing health care-related laws.

Greenlick died on May 15, 2020 in Portland, Oregon at the age of 85.

[[Phil May (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, English pop singers, English pop musicians, English rock singers, English rock musicians, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Kent, Writers from Kent

Phil May (born Philip Arthur Dennis Kattner, 9 November 1944 – 15 May 2020) was an English singer-songwriter and musician. He became known in the 1960s as the lead singer of Pretty Things. He was one of the band's main lyricists. He was the primary lyricist for the album S.F. Sorrow.

May died on 15 May 2020, in a hospital in King's Lynn from hip surgery-related problems, aged 75.

[[Triple Crown (snooker)]]

CATEGORIES: Pages containing links to subscription-only content, World Snooker Championship, UK Championship

The Triple Crown in snooker is winning three tournaments,  the World Championship, the UK Championship, and the Masters. These three events together make up the Triple Crown Series. Each individual tournament is called a Triple Crown event. Players who win all three tournaments are said to have "won the Triple Crown", either over their career, or in one season alone. The Triple Crown dates back to the 1969 World Snooker Championship, when the event changed reverted to a knockout format from the prior "challenge" basis.

2020, 11 players have won all three events. Stephen Hendry and Ronnie O'Sullivan won each event five times or more. O'Sullivan has the most titles, having won 19 individual tournaments. Three players have won all three in the space of a season. Mark Williams, Steve Davis each won all three and Hendry having done so on two occasions.

[[Julio Anguita]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2020 deaths, Spanish politicians, Mayors, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Julio Anguita González (21 November 1941spnd16 May 2020) was a Spanish Communist politician. He was born in Fuengirola, Spain. 

Anguita was Secretary General of the Communist Party from 1988 to 1998. He was also Mayor of Córdoba from 1979 to 1986. From 1989 to 2000, he was a Congressional Deputy and Coordinator of United Left.

Anguita died on 16 May 2020 in Córdoba of a heart attack, aged 78.

[[Claudie Haigneré]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Astronauts, French businesspeople, French physicians, French politicians, French scientists

Claudie André-Deshays Haigneré (born 13 May 1957) is a French doctor, politician, and former astronaut. She was a member of the Centre National d'Études Spatiales (1985–1999) and the European Space Agency (1999–2002). She was born in Le Creusot, France. She is also the CEO of France Telecom.

[[Pilar Pellicer]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors, Mexican stage actors, Actors from Mexico City

Pilar Pellicer (born Pilar Pellicer López de Llergo; February 2, 1938 – May 16, 2020) was a Mexican actress. Pellicer won the Ariel Award for Best Actress for her role as the main character in La Choca (1974). Her other best known roles were as Admiradora in The Life of Agustín Lara (1959) and as Lydia Day of the Evil Gun (1968). Pellicer was born in Villahermosa, Tabasco.

Pellicer died of COVID-19 on May 16, 2020 in Mexico City, aged 82.

[[Henrik Pontén]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2020 deaths, Road accident deaths, Swedish businesspeople, Swedish lawyers

Henrik Pontén (17 October 1965 – 15 May 2020) was a Swedish jurist. He was born in Kalmar, Sweden. He worked for the organization Svenska antipiratbyrån (Swedish Anti-Piracy Bureau), and was often seen representing the organization in the media.

He became well known in Swedish media during the Bahnhof raid and the raid against The Pirate Bay. Pontén studied law at Stockholm University.

In May 2009, a fake application with the Swedish Tax Agency was submitted to change his name to "Pirate Pontén".

In January 2020, Pontén was injured in a bike accident where it left him in a coma. He died on 16 May 2020 in Lidingö, Sweden at the age of 54.

[[K. Varadarajan]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Indian politicians, Indian activists

K. Varadarajan  (October 4, 1946 – May 16, 2020) was an Indian politician and activist. He was a Politburo member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) from Tamil Nadu of India. He also was Leader of All India Kisan Sabha. 

Varadarajan died on May 16, 2020 at his home in Karur, Tamilnadu of respiratory failure, aged 73.

[[Jumada al-Ula]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic calendar, Months

Jumada al-Awwal (Arabic: جُمَادَىٰ ٱلْأَوَّل‎, Jumādā al-ʾAwwal), also known as Jumada al-Ula (Arabic: جُمَادَىٰ ٱلْأُولَىٰ‎, Jumādā al-ʾŪlā) or Jumada Ⅰ, is the fifth month of the 12 lunar months in the Islamic calendar. The month spans 29 or 30 days.

[[Lynn Shelton]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from blood disease, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, American television directors, American television producers, American movie actors, American television actors, American editors, LGBT directors, LGBT actors, LGBT producers, LGBT screenwriters, Bisexual people, Movie directors from Ohio, Movie producers from Ohio, Screenwriters from Ohio, Actors from Ohio, Actors from Seattle, Washington, Writers from Seattle, Washington

Lynn Shelton (August 27, 1965 – May 16, 2020) was an American movie and television director, screenwriter, editor, producer and actress. Her best known movies were Humpday and Your Sister's Sister. She also directed some episodes of GLOW, Mad Men, The Mindy Project and Shameless. 

Shelton was born in Oberlin, Ohio. She was raised in Seattle, Washington. Shelton came out as bisexual in 2012.

Shelton died of a blood disease in Los Angeles on May 16, 2020, aged 54. She was in a relationship with comedian Marc Maron at the time of her death.

[[Oberlin, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Oberlin is a city in Lorain County, Ohio, United States, southwest of Cleveland.  Oberlin is the home of Oberlin College.

The population was 8,286 at the 2010 census.

[[Saint-Gaudéric]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Gaudéric is a commune of 115 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Jean-de-Barrou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Jean-de-Barrou is a commune of 254 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Jean-de-Paracol]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Jean-de-Paracol is a commune of 124 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Julien-de-Briola]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Julien-de-Briola is a commune of 89 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Laurent-de-la-Cabrerisse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Laurent-de-la-Cabrerisse is a commune of 736 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Salsigne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Salsigne is a commune of 390 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Gibigiana (Castiglioni)]]

Gibigiana is a type of table lamp. It was designed by the architect Achille Castiglioni, in 1980 and produced by Floss S.p.A..

[[Saint-Marcel-sur-Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Marcel-sur-Aude is a commune of 2,005 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Just-et-le-Bézu]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Just-et-le-Bézu is a commune of 44 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Martin-des-Puits]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Martin-des-Puits is a commune of 28 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Hanaford, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois

Hanaford is a village in Illinois in the United States.

[[2017 World Snooker Championship]]

CATEGORIES: World Snooker Championship

The 2017 World Snooker Championship was a professional snooker tournament. It took place from 15 April to 1 May 2017 at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield, England. It was the 19th and final ranking event of the 2016–17 season, after the China Open. It was the 41st year that the World Snooker Championship had been held at the Crucible.

The winner of the title was defending champion Mark Selby. He defeated John Higgins 18–15 in the final despite having fallen 4–10 behind in the second session of the match. Selby defeated Ding Junhui 17–15 in the semi-finals, whilst Higgins defeated Barry Hawkins 17–8. This was Selby's third World Championship win. He had also won the title in the 2014 and 2016 tournaments.

The total prize fund for the event was £1,750,000. The winner got the top prize of £375,000. There were 74 century breaks in the main stage of the championship, with a further 84 in qualifying. Englishman Ronnie O'Sullivan made a break of 146 in the quarter-finals, the highest of the tournament. Gary Wilson scored a maximum break of 147 in qualifying during his first round win over Josh Boileau. The tournament was broadcast in Europe by the BBC and Eurosport, and internationally by World Snooker on Facebook.

[[Harvey]]

CATEGORIES: Given names, Surnames

Harvey is an English family name or boys name derived from the Old Breton name Huiarnviu.

[[Nine-ball]]

CATEGORIES: Cue sports, Indoor sports

Nine-ball (sometimes written 9-ball) is a cue sport and a type of pool. The game comes from 1920s in the United States. It is played on a rectangular billiard table with pockets at each of the four corners and in the middle of each long side. Using a cue stick, players must strike the white ball to pocket 9 colored billiard balls in order. An individual game is won by the player pocketing the 9-ball. Matches are usually played as a race to a set number of games, with the player who reaches the set number winning the match.

[[2014 World Snooker Championship]]

CATEGORIES: World Snooker Championship, Pages using deprecated image syntax

The 2014 World Snooker Championship was a professional snooker tournament. It took place from 19 April to 5 May 2014 at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield, England. It was the 38th year that the World Snooker Championship had been held at the Crucible. It was the last ranking event of the 2013-14 snooker season. The event was sponsored by Dafabet for the first time.

Ronnie O'Sullivan was the defending champion, having won the 2013 event beating Barry Hawkins in the final. Mark Selby won the event to win his first world title by defeating O'Sullivan 18–14 in the final. This was Selby's fourth ranking title, also completing the Triple Crown of World Championship, UK Championship, and Masters titles. Neil Robertson secured the highest break, a 140. Robertson scored his 100th century break of the season in his quarter-final win over Judd Trump. The event featured a prize fund of £1,214,000 with the winner receiving £300,000.

[[Butterflies Are Free]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 comedy movies, 1972 drama movies, 1970s romantic drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on plays

Butterflies Are Free is a 1972 American comedy drama movie directed by Milton Katselas and based on the play of the same name by Leonard Gershe. It stars Goldie Hawn, Edward Albert, Eileen Heckart, Michael Glaser and was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was nominated for 3 Oscars and won an Academy Award in 1973.

[[World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association]]

CATEGORIES: Cue sports, Snooker

The World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association (WPBSA) is the governing body of professional snooker and English billiards. It owns and sets the official rules of the two sports and engages in promotional activities on behalf of the sports. It was founded in 1968 and based in Bristol, the United Kingdom, 

The WPBSA is the governing body for cue sports, specifically that of snooker, pool, and billiards.

The WPBSA has a number of associated organisations, including World Snooker, World Billiards, World Women's Snooker and World Disability Billiards and Snooker.

The WPBSA head office is based in Bristol, England. Jason Ferguson is WPBSA chairman. The organisation also determines the rules and regulations of snooker and English billiards, including disciplinary matters.

[[Band of the Hand]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 action movies, 1980s crime thriller movies, American action movies, American crime thriller movies

Band of the Hand is a 1986 American action crime thriller movie directed by Paul Michael Glaser and starring Stephen Lang, Michael Carmine, Lauren Holly, Danny Quinn, Laurence Fishburne, Leon Robinson. It was distributed by TriStar Pictures.

[[New Year's Evil]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 horror movies, 1980s horror thriller movies, American horror thriller movies, American independent movies

New Year's Evil is a 1980 American horror thriller movie directed by Emmett Alston and starring Roz Kelly, Kip Niven, Grant Cramer, Louisa Moritz, Taaffe O'Connell, Teri Copley. It was distributed by Cannon Group.

[[Hedgehog Security]]

CATEGORIES: Security, Internet security

Hedgehog Security is an Internet security company. It is based in the United Kingdom with additional offices located in Gibraltar, Spain, and Japan. It primarily provides penetration testing, vulnerability assessments and Cyber Essentials Audits.

[[Oklahoma Historical Society]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 establishments in Oklahoma Territory, History of Oklahoma

The Oklahoma Historical Society (OHS) is an agency run by the government of Oklahoma. It was created to promote and preserve the History of Oklahoma and its people. The agency collects, and interprets knowledge and artifacts of Oklahoma. Its mission is to collect, preserve, and share the history and culture of the state of Oklahoma and its people.

[[Sardinian]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Europe

Sardinian dialects are spoken is Sardinia, one of the 20 regions in Italy. This is an earlier variant of Latin and is in it's own branch, separate from Eastern and Italo-Western Romance languages. There's around 1.2 million Sardinian speakers in Sardinia. Sardinian comes in four dialects including Campidanese (Campidanian), Gallurese (Gallurian), Logudorese (Logudorian), and Sassarese (Sassarian).

[[Arthur Summons]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2020 deaths, Australian rugby union players, Australian rugby league players, Sportspeople from Sydney

Arthur James Summons (13 December 1935 – 16 May 2020) was an Australian representative rugby union and rugby league player. He captained the Australian national rugby league team in five undefeated test matches from 1962 until 1964 and later also coached the side. He was born in Paddington, New South Wales.

Summons died on 16 May 2020 in Wagga Wagga, New South Wales at the age of 84.

[[Deputy Prime Minister of Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Deputy Prime Ministers of Spain

The First Deputy Prime Minister of Spain, officially First Vice President of the Government of Spain, (Vicepresidente Primero del Gobierno de España) is the second politician in charge after the Prime Minister of Spain. They take the responsiblities of Prime Minister when the  office vacant due to resignation or death.

[[The Tall Stranger]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies

The Tall Stranger is a 1957 American western movie directed by Thomas Carr and is based on the novel of the same name by Louis L'Amour. It stars Joel McCrea, Virgina Mayo, Barry Kelley, Michael Ansara, Leo Gordon, Whit Bissell, George J. Lewis and was distributed by Allied Artists.

[[Sorority Girl]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s crime movies, 1957 drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies directed by Roger Corman

Sorority Girl (also known as Sorority House or The Bad One) is a 1957 American crime drama movie directed by Roger Corman and starring Susan Cabot, Barboura Morris. It was distributed by American International Pictures and was remade in 1994 as Confessions of a Sorority Girl.

[[Down and Out in Beverly Hills]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Paul Mazursky

Down and Out in Beverly Hills is a 1986 American comedy movie directed by Paul Mazursky and is based on the play and 1932 movie Bondu Saved from Drowning. It stars Bette Midler, Nick Nolte, Richard Dreyfuss, Little Richard and was distributed by Touchstone Pictures.

[[Kristina Kucherenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births

Kristina Kucherenko (born February 18, 1998 in Moscow) is a Russian actress. She has acted in many Russian films and television shows as well as on stage.

Kucherenko studied ballet at the Frunze Choreographic School. She also graduated from the Gerasimov Institute of Cinematography. Her first role was in 2007 in an episode of the series След Trace. Additional roles include Catherine the Great as a child in the television series детстве Great (2015), Aliya in Крымский мост. Сделано с любовью! Crimean Bridge. Made with Love! (2018), and Margarita in the 2020 movie На острие the Edge.

.

[[Mars Orbiter Mission 2]]

CATEGORIES: Space programs

The Mars Orbiter Mission 2, also called as Mangalyaan 2 is India's second interplanetary mission planned for launch to Mars by the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO). It is planned for launch for 2024 as per some reports. India successfully managed to be the first Asian Nation to reach Mars' orbit and the first nation to reach Mars' orbit on its first attempt when Mangalyaan 1 was launched in 2013 by ISRO. The MOM orbiter is now in its sixth year closing in on completing a seventh. The first mission only took $74 million and India is planning a low budget mission for Mangalyaan 2 as well.

[[Basic reproduction number]]

CATEGORIES: Epidemiology, Infectious diseases, Medicine, Statistics

A very important number for describing whether a disease can become an epidemic or not is R0, pronounced "R naught" or "R zero". It refers to how many people a person who has this disease is expected to infect on average if there are no people immune to the disease. It is an abbreviation for basic reproduction number.

If R0 > 1, a disease can become an epidemic. If R0 < 1, it cannot. Most commonly known diseases have R0 > 1. However, vaccines can be used to make enough people immune in a population to stop epidemics from happening. We can also use other measures to make the effective reproduction rate (Re, usually written Rt with t for time) lower than the basic reproduction rate (R0).

An example of a vaccine that works really well is the smallpox vaccine, which stopped smallpox virus from spreading so well that it no longer exists except in laboratories. Examples of making the effective reproduction rate lower than the basic reproduction rate are using condoms to stop sexually transmitted diseases from spreading or not getting close to others (physical distancing, often called social distancing) to stop respiratory diseases from spreading.

[[Euteleostomi]]

CATEGORIES: Vertebrates

Euteleostomi is the largest group of Vertebrates. Except for hagfish, lampreys, and cartilaginous fishes all vetebrates are part of this group. All Euteleostomi have a skeleton made of bone, and a skull. In the case of several fish related to the sturgeon, most of the skeleton has again been transformed to cartilage. 

[[Matthew Wolfenden (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people

Matthew Wolfenden (born 5 May 1980) is an English actor best known for his role as David Metcalfe in the British soap opera Emmerdale.

Wolfenden was born in Norwood Green, West Yorkshire. He was educated at Brighouse High School.

[[County Dublin]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of the Republic of Ireland, County Dublin

County Dublin is a historical county of Ireland, containing Dublin, the capital of the Republic of Ireland. It is now divided into the counties of Dún Laoghaire–Rathdown, Fingal, and South Dublin, and the city of Dublin.

[[1986 World Snooker Championship]]

CATEGORIES: World Snooker Championship

The 1986 World Snooker Championship was a snooker tournament that took place between 19 April and 5 May 1986. It was held at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield, England. It was the sixth and final ranking event of the 1985–86 snooker season. It was the 1986 edition of the World Snooker Championship first held in 1927. The total prize fund was £350,000 with £70,000 given to the winner. The tournament was sponsored by cigarette manufacturer Embassy.

The defending champion was Northern Ireland's Dennis Taylor, who had defeated Steve Davis 18–17 in the 1985 final to win his first title. Taylor lost in the first round of the event 4–10 to Mike Hallett. The world number 16 Joe Johnson beat Davis 18–12 in the final to win his only ranking event.

[[The Abductors]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s crime movies, 1957 drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies directed by Andrew V. McLaglen

The Abductors is a 1957 American crime drama movie directed by Andrew V. McLaglen and stars Victor McLaglen, George Macready, Gavin Muir, Fay Spain. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Baby Face (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 movies, 1930s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Alfred E. Green

Baby Face is a 1933 American drama movie directed by Alfred E. Green and stars Barbara Stanwyck, George Brent, Donald Cook, John Wayne, Henry Kolker, Arthur Hohl. It was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[1984 World Snooker Championship]]

CATEGORIES: World Snooker Championship

The 1984 World Snooker Championship was a snooker tournament. It took place between 21 April and 7 May 1984 at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield, England. The event was run by the World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association (WPBSA), and was the eighth World Snooker Championship to be held at the Crucible since 1977. The event had 94 entries. The total prize fund for the event was £200,000, the highest total pool for any snooker tournament to that date; the winner received £44,000.

The defending champion was English player Steve Davis, who had won the title twice. He met Jimmy White in the final, which was played as a best-of-35-frames match. Davis won 18–16. Rex Williams made the event's highest break, scoring a 138. Eight century breaks were made during the competition, the fewest since 1978. The tournament was sponsored by cigarette manufacturer Embassy, and broadcast by BBC and ITV.

[[2002 World Snooker Championship]]

CATEGORIES: World Snooker Championship

The 2002 World Snooker Championship was a professional snooker tournament. It took place from 20 April to 6 May 2002 at the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield, England. It was the final ranking event of the 2001–02 snooker season. This was the 26th year that the World Snooker Championship had been held at the Crucible.

Peter Ebdon won his first world title by beating Stephen Hendry 18–17 in the final.This was Hendry's ninth and last appearance in a World Championship final. There was a total of 65 century breaks made during the tournament. The highest was made by Stevens, who made a 145 in his quarter-final match. Hendry made a total of 16 centuries during the event, a record for any individual tournament. The championships were sponsored by cigarette manufacturer Embassy. A total prize fund of £1,615,770 was awarded at the event, with the winner receiving £260,000.

[[Idolatry]]

CATEGORIES: religion

Idolatry is the worship of statues or images as a god. It is also used as a metaphor for other extreme devotion to a person of thing.

[[Carroll County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1830s establishments in Ohio, 1833 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Carroll County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 28,836 people lived there. The county seat is Carrollton.

[[Clermont County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1800s establishments in Ohio, 1800 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Clermont County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 197,363 people lived there. The county seat is Batavia.

[[Appling County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), Georgia (U.S. state) counties

Appling County is a county in the U.S. state of Georgia. As of the 2010 census, 18,236 people lived there. The county seat is Baxley.

[[Atkinson County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1910s establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), 1917 establishments in the United States, Georgia (U.S. state) counties

Atkinson County is a county in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of Georgia. As of the 2010 census, 8,375 people lived there. The county seat is Pearson.

[[Bacon County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), Georgia (U.S. state) counties

Bacon County is a county in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of Georgia. As of the 2010 census, 11,096 people lived there. The county seat is Alma.

[[Jūrmala]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Latvia, 20th century establishments in Latvia, 1959 establishments in Europe

Jūrmala is a city in Latvia with town rights since 1959.

[[Fulton County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1850s establishments in Ohio, 1850 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Fulton County is a county located in the U.S. state of Ohio west of Toledo. In 2010, 42,698 people lived there. The county seat is Wauseon.

[[Lee County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1825 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), Georgia (U.S. state) counties

Lee County is a county in the U.S. state of Georgia. As of the 2010 census, 28,298 people lived there. The county seat is Leesburg.

[[Jones County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1807 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), Georgia (U.S. state) counties

Jones County is a county in the U.S. state of Georgia. As of the 2010 census, 28,669 people lived there. The county seat is Gray.

[[Mitchell County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), Georgia (U.S. state) counties

Mitchell County is a county in the U.S. state of Georgia. As of the 2010 census, 23,498 people lived there. The county seat is Camilla.

[[Alex Lely]]

CATEGORIES: Sportspeople from The Hague, 1973 births, Living people

Alex Lely (born 30 June 1973) is a Dutch pool player. Lely won the 1999 World Pool Masters after defeating Efren Reyes 7–5 in the final. He reached the final in 2000 but lost to Ralf Souquet 7–3. He is a two-time European Champion having won the nine-ball and eight-ball at the 2005 European Pool Championships. 

Lely has competed for the European team at the Mosconi Cup on four occasions in 1999, 2005, 2008 and 2009. Lely would be a part of the winning team at the 2008 Mosconi Cup. In 2020, he took over as the team captain of the European team over Marcus Chamat. He won three events on the Euro Tour, first winning the 1999 German Open, before winning two more events in 2005 and 2006.

[[Eve Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1973 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, People who committed suicide, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Eve Miller (born Marilyn Miller; August 8, 1923 – August 17, 1973) was an American actress who appeared in 41 movies between 1945 and 1961. She was born in Los Angeles, California, and died in Van Nuys, California. She committed suicide at age 50.

[[Thirty-fifth government of Israel]]

CATEGORIES: Israeli governments, 21st century establishments in Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu

The thirty-fifth government of Israel was installed on May 17, 2020 and ended on June 13, 2021.

The Prime Minister was Likud politician Benjamin Netanyahu. In a year and a half Blue and White leader Benny Gantz would become prime minister.

It consisted of the following parties with seats in brackets:

Together it had 74 seats in the 23rd Knesset.

The Netanyahu-Gantz Government presented itself as a unity government, established due to health and socio-economic problems caused by the coronavirus pandemic.

[[County Longford]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of the Republic of Ireland

County Longford (Contae an Longfoirt) is a county in Ireland. It is part of the province of Leinster. The main town is also called Longford.

[[Eurovision Song Contest 2021]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 in entertainment, 2021 in Europe, 2020s in the Netherlands, Eurovision Song Contest, May 2021 events, Rotterdam

The Eurovision Song Contest 2021 was the 65th edition of the Eurovision Song Contest that took place in the Netherlands's second largest city Rotterdam, after Duncan Laurence won for his country in Tel Aviv, Israel. The Eurovision Song Contest 2020 was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic and was replaced with a live TV show called Eurovision: Europe Shine a Light. It was later announced that Rotterdam will host the 2021 edition. The contest took place from 18 to 22 May 2021 with two semi-finals and one final. The Netherlands hosted the contest for the fifth time.

The EBU confirmed that 39 countries will participate in 2021. Like the previous year, Hungary and Montenegro did not take part. Armenia also did not take part, while Belarus was disqualified after their intended entry violated the contest's rules. Due to the ongoing pandemic, the EBU presented several scenarios (A, B, C and D) in which the competition could take place.

[[Saint-Hilaire, Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Hilaire is a commune of 773 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Martin-Lalande]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Martin-Lalande is a commune of 1,116 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Martin-le-Vieil]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Martin-le-Vieil is a commune of 226 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Martin-Lys]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Martin-Lys is a commune of 25 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Michel-de-Lanès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Michel-de-Lanès is a commune of 464 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Saint-Nazaire-d'Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude

Saint-Nazaire-d'Aude is a commune of 2,032 people (2017). It is in the region Occitanie in the Aude department in the south of France.

[[Monroe County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1815 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Monroe County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 14,642 people lived there. The county seat is Woodsfield.

[[Clinton County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1810 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Clinton County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 42,040 people lived there. The county seat is Wilmington.

[[Baldwin County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1803 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), Georgia (U.S. state) counties

Baldwin County is a county in the central part of the U.S. state of Georgia. As of the 2010 census, 46,337 people lived there. The county seat is Milledgeville.

[[Columbiana County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1803 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Columbiana County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 107,841 people lived there. The county seat is Lisbon.

[[Harrison County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s establishments in Ohio, 1813 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Harrison County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 15,864 people lived there. The county seat is Cadiz.

[[Holmes County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1820s establishments in Ohio, 1825 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Holmes County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 42,366 people lived there. The county seat is Millersburg.

[[Jefferson County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1790s establishments in the Northwest Territory, 1797 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Jefferson County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 69,709 people lived there. The county seat is Steubenville.

[[Meigs County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Meigs County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 23,770 people lived there. The county seat is Pomeroy.

[[Pike County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1815 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Pike County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 28,709 people lived there. The county seat is Waverly.

[[Scioto County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1803 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Scioto County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 79,499 people lived there. The county seat is Portsmouth.

[[Morrow County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s establishments in Ohio, 1848 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Morrow County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 34,827 people lived there. The county seat is Mount Gilead.

[[Ha*Ash]]

CATEGORIES: Ha*Ash, Sibling musical duos, Musical groups established in 2002, 2000s Mexican music groups, American girl groups, American pop music groups, 2000s American music groups

Ha*Ash is an American Latin pop duo from Lake Charles, Louisiana. The band was formed in 2002 by sisters Ashley Grace and Hanna Nicole. The duo's name is a combination of their names.

[[Kinder Joy]]

CATEGORIES: Candy

A Kinder Joy is an egg-shaped candy. It was first released in 2001 in Italy. It has 2 cocoa balls, milk cream, and chocolate on the bottom on one side. On the other side, it has a spoon on the top of the outside of it and a toy.

On November 13, 2017, it was announced that it will be released in the United States in the next week after that.

[[30 de Febrero]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 albums, Ha*Ash albums, Spanish-language albums

30 de Febrero ("February 30") is the fifth studio album by American Latin pop duo Ha*Ash, released on December 1, 2017 Sony Music Latin. It is the band's first studio album in six years, after of their previous album, A Tiempo (2011). The album features artists Prince Royce and Abraham Mateo. Ha*Ash assumed an integral role in the album's production and collaborated with several producers including George Noriega, Matt Rad, Joe London and Edgar Barrera.

The album was preceded by the release of four singles. The first, "100 Años" featuring Prince Royce was released October 13, 2017. In November 2017, The second single, "No Pasa Nada", was released on March 8, 2018. The other singles released were, "Eso No Va a Suceder" and "¿Qué Me Faltó?". Ha*Ash released six lyric; "Ojalá", "30 de Febrero" and "Eso No Va a Suceder". The 4th, 5th and 6th lyric videos came out on December 1, which were "Paleta", "No Pasa Nada", and "Llueve Sobre Mojado", which were all released on the same day as the album.

To promote the album, the band embarked on Gira 100 años contigo, which began at the Quinta Vergara Amphitheater in Viña del Mar, Chile on February 24, 2018. Footage from the concert at the Auditorio Nacional in Mexico were recorded and i will released on a CD/DVD, entitled En Vivo, in 2019.

[[Play TV (Radica)]]

CATEGORIES: Toys, Video game consoles

Play TV is a series of home video game consoles with a built-in controller by Radica.

[[En Vivo (Ha*Ash album)]]

CATEGORIES: Ha*Ash albums, Spanish-language albums, 2019 albums

En Vivo ("Live") is the first live concert DVD and second live album by American Latin pop duo Ha*Ash. It was be released through Sony Music Latin and OCESA Seitrack on December 6, 2019 as a digital download. It was filmed at the Auditorio Nacional in Mexico City, on November 11, 2018 during her world tour Gira 100 años contigo. It features guest appearances from American singer Prince Royce on "100 Años", musician Miguel Bosé on "Si Tu No Vuelves" and Spanish singer Melendi on "Destino o Casualidad".

The album preorders beginning on November 28, 2019 in Apple Music and Spotify. In November 29, 2019, there was a sweepstakes to win tickets to an exclusive screening of the film. It was released worldwide as a digital download on December 6, 2019. In the Mexico, the standard edition of the album was released exclusively at Mixup Music Store on December 6, 2019. In Spain the album it was made released in January 3, 2020.

[[Ayoob Tarish]]

CATEGORIES: Yemeni singers, 1942 births, Living people, Yemeni composers

Ayoob Tarish Absi (أيوب طارش عبسي, born 1942; first name also spelled Ayoub; last name also spelled Absey) is a Yemeni singer and musician from the area of Al-Aboos in the Ta'izz Governorate. Tarish composed "United Republic", the national anthem of Yemen, which was adopted following the Yemenite reunification.

[[Ammar Al Azaki]]

CATEGORIES: Yemeni singers, Living people

Ammar Alazaki (عمار العزكي) is a Yemeni pop singer known for being a finalist in the fourth season of Arab Idol, broadcast by the MBC network. His nomination received widespread coverage in Yemen amidst the Yemeni Civil War (2015–present). Alzaki initially gained recognition for winning the 2006 Munshid Al Sharjah competition which specialized in Nasheed type of singing, hosted by the Sharjah Media Corporation and under the patronage of the Ruler of the Emirate of Sharjah.

[[Fuad al-Kibsi]]

CATEGORIES: Yemeni singers, 1961 births, Living people

Fuad al-Kibsi (فؤاد الكبسي) is a Yemeni singer. He is among the most popular singers and musicians in Yemen. Most of his music are of ancient scholarly and oral traditions of Yemen. He is son of the famous Yemeni poet, Abdallah Hashim al-Kibsi.

[[Salbah]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Yemen, Port cities in the Arabian Peninsula, Port cities and towns of the Red Sea

Salbah (سلبة) is a village in Jabal Nimr. It is in the Hajjah Governorate. In the 2004 census its population was 945 people.

[[Afyush]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Yemen

Afyush (أفيوش) is a village in Islah in Mudhaykhirah District in Al Udayn District. It is in the ibb Governorate. In the 2004 census its population was 8870 people.

[[Al Muqaraea]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Yemen

Al Muqaraea (المقرعة) is a village in Al Udayn District. It is in the ibb Governorate. In the 2004 census its population was 52 people.

[[Al Jarab (Al Hudaydah)]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Al Hudaydah Governorate, Port cities in the Arabian Peninsula, Port cities and towns of the Red Sea

Al Jarab (الجرب) is a village in Al Mansuriyah District. It is in the Al Hudaydah Governorate. According to 2004 census, there were 1031 people living there. 

[[Michael Sendivogius]]

CATEGORIES: Chemists, Philosophers, 1566 births, 1636 deaths

Michael Sendivogius (ˌ; Michał Sędziwój; 2 February 1566 – 1636) was a Polish alchemist, philosopher, and medical doctor. He is famous as being the first to purify certain compounds and create certain acids. He was also the first to work out that a certain gas was given off when heating potassium nitrate. This gas was oxygen, and he was the first to identify it. He also worked out that this gas was in air, and called it the "food of life".

[[Sacheen Littlefeather]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Actors from California, American activists, American movie actors, Native American people, People with cancer

Marie Louise Cruz (born November 14, 1946), better known as Sacheen Littlefeather, is an American activist and actress. She is best known for Native American rights activism. On March 27, 1973, she stood in for Marlon Brando at the 45th Academy Awards to turn down the Best Actor award for his performance in The Godfather. Brando did not go to the ceremony in protest of Hollywood's portrayal of Native Americans and to bring attention to the standoff at Wounded Knee. Her speech was met with both jeers and an applause.

Littlefeather was born in Salinas, California. Her mother was of French, German and Dutch ancestry. Her father was a Native American (both White Mountain Apache and Yaqui). In 2018, a spokesperson announced that Littlefeather had stage 4 breast cancer.

[[Romain Kremer]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, French people, French fashion designers, Living people

Romain Kremer (April 1 1982  in Villefranche-de-Rouergue in Aveyron) is a  French fashion designer.

[[Thotsakan Kid Game]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 television series debuts, 2008 television series endings

The Thotsakan Kid Game (Thai: เกมทศกัณฐ์เด็ก) is a Thai game show produced by Workpoint Entertainment. It was started in 2004 and ended in 2008.

Children play on their own rather than against each other. They have to match the correct face with a given name. The player will receive a scholarship worth up to one million baht. The game will go on until a wrong answer is given.

A later format change, perhaps due to the controversy (see below), saw teams of three different ages, and then single players, playing for charity in a similar format to the Southern Teachers version, before the kids' edition was discontinued altogether in June 2008, which, combined with the renaming of Yok Siam (above), meant an end to the Tod Sa Gun name after just over 5 years.

[[Louis Réard]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1984 deaths, French people, French fashion designers

Louis Réard (1897 –  September 16 1984)) was a  French automobile engineer and clothing designer. He introduced the modern two-piece bikini in July 1946. Son of the owner of "Folies Bergères" in Paris, he decided to radically change his sector of activity by inventing a swimsuit allowing girls to sunbathe without having to roll it up.

Réard afterwards opened a bikini shop in Paris and sold swimsuits for 40 years.

[[Cash McCall]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 drama movies, 1960s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on books, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Joseph Pevney

Cash McCall is a 1960 American romantic drama movie directed by Joseph Pevney and based on the novel of the same name by Cameron Hawley. It stars Natalie Wood, James Garner, Nina Foch, Dean Jagger, E. G. Marshall, Otto Kruger, Henry Jones and was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[Yukio Okamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Japan, Japanese diplomats, Ambassadors, Political commentators

Yukio Okamoto (岡本 行夫, Okamoto Yukio; November 23, 1945 – April 24, 2020) was a Japanese diplomat and analyst. He was a known political analyst for Japan–United States relations. He was a diplomatic advisor and analyst for several Japanese prime ministers, including Ryutaro Hashimoto from 1996 to 1998 and Junichiro Koizumi from 2003 until 2004. He was born in Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan.

Okamoto died from pneumonia caused by COVID-19 at a Tokyo hospital on April 24, 2020, at the age of 75.

[[Haider Ackermann]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, French people, French fashion designers, Living people

Haider Ackermann, born 29 March 1971 in Bogotá,, Colombia, is a  French  deseigner of ready-to-wear fashion. He lives in paris.

[[Shobushi Kanji]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Japan, Japanese professional wrestlers

Shobushi Kanji was a Japanese sumo wrestler. He was born in Kōfu, Yamanashi. He was the first sumo wrestler to die from the coronavirus. He is also thought to be the first person in their 20s to die from the virus in Japan. 

Shobushi was the first wrestler confirmed to have been infected with the virus. 

Shobushi died on May 13, 2020 from the virus in Tokyo, aged 28.

[[Mackenzie Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian voice actors, Actors from Vancouver

Mackenzie Davis (born April 1, 1987) is a Canadian actress. From 2014 to 2017, she starred as computer programmer Cameron Howe in the television series Halt and Catch Fire. 

She also co-starred in the "San Junipero" episode of the television series Black Mirror. In 2019, she starred as the super-soldier Grace in Terminator: Dark Fate.

[[Mallappally Marthoma Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches

Mallappally Marthoma Church is a Malankara Mar Thoma church located at Keezhvaipur , Mallappally, Pathanamthitta, Kerala, India. Mar Thoma Church is part of Malankara Church. Mallappally Mar Thoma Church belongs to the Kottayam Kochi Diocese of Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church. 

This is one of the oldest churches in Kerala.

[[Darby's Rangers (1958 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 drama movies, 1950s war movies, American drama movies, World War II movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by William A. Wellman, Movies set in deserts

Darby's Rangers (released in the UK as The Young Invaders) is a 1958 American World War II drama movie directed by William A. Wellman and is based on the 1945 novel by Major James J. Altieri. It stars James Garner, Jack Warden, Edd Byrnes, Stuart Whitman, Murray Hamilton, Etchika Choureau and was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[Seychelle Gabriel]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American child actors, American voice actors, Actors from Burbank, California

Seychelle Suzanne Gabriel (born  March 25, 1991) is an American actress. She played Lourdes Delgado in Falling Skies (2011–2014) and voiced Asami Sato in The Legend of Korra (2012–2014). She also appeared in The Spirit (2008), The Last Airbender (2010), Honey 2 (2011), Sleight (2016), and Blood Fest (2018).

[[One Little Indian (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s western movies, 1973 comedy movies, American family movies, American western movies, American comedy movies

One Little Indian is a 1973 American family western comedy movie directed by Bernard McEveety and starring James Garner, Vera Miles, Pat Hingle, Morgan Woodward, Jodie Foster, Robert Pine, Bruce Glover, Andrew Prine. It was distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.

[[Brian Alexander (basketball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, African-American basketball players, Sportspeople from Detroit, Michigan

Brian LaWan Alexander (August 26, 1975 – May 15, 2020) was an American professional basketball player. He played for Salon Vilpas in 1998. His career began 2003. He played college basketball at the University of Detroit Mercy. He was born in Detroit, Michigan.

Alexander died on May 15, 2020 in Denver, Colorado of a heart attack, aged 44.He is survived by his Children

[[Denny DeMarchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Canadian singer-songwriters, Canadian guitarists, Canadian rock musicians, Musicians from Toronto, Singers from Toronto, Writers from Toronto

Denny DeMarchi (28 November 1962 – 15 May 2020) was a Canadian multi-instrumental musician and singer-songwriter. He was born in Toronto.

He was a tour musician for the well-known Irish band The Cranberries during their reunion tour (2009–11). DeMarchi was also known for his role as the keyboardist who played the signature keyboard notes for the popular 1990 No. 1 Billboard hit song More Than Words Can Say by the band Alias.

DeMarchi died on 15 May 2020 of cancer at the age of 57.

[[United Left (Spain)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s establishments in Spain, 1986 establishments in Europe, Political parties in Spain

United Left (Izquierda Unida iθˈkjeɾða uˈniða, IU) is a political coalition that was created in 1986, bringing together several left-wing political organizations.

IU was founded as an electoral coalition of seven parties, but the Communist Party of Spain (PCE) is the only remaining member of the IU at the national level. It is currently part of Unidas Podemos.

[[Tough Guys]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 comedy movies, American action comedy movies, 1986 action movies

Tough Guys is a 1986 American action comedy movie directed by Jeff Kanew and starring Burt Lancaster, Kirk Douglas, Eli Wallach, Dana Carvey, Charles Durning, Darlanne Fluegel. It was distributed by Touchstone Pictures.

[[José Cutileiro]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, Portuguese politicians, Portuguese writers

José Cutileiro (20 November 1934 – 17 May 2020) was a Portuguese diplomat and writer. Cutileiro was born in Évora, Portugal.

He was a representative to the Council of Europe. He was the  Secretary General of the Western European Union (WEU) from 1994 to 1999. He was an envoy to the UN Commissioner for Human Rights in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia. He was on the faculty of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey. 

Cutileiro died on 17 May 2020 at a hospital in Brussels, Belgium at the age of 85.

[[Du Wei (diplomat)]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2020 deaths, Chinese politicians, Ambassadors of China, Critics

Du Wei (杜伟; 2 October 1962 – 17 May 2020) was a Chinese diplomat. He was Ambassador to Ukraine from 2016 until 2019 and Ambassador to Israel from February 2020 until May 2020. Du was born in China's Shandong province.

Du was found dead in his Herziliya, Israel apartment on 17 May 2020, aged 57. His death is not being treated as suspicious but is being investigated. 

His death came in the middle of the COVID-19 pandemic, and only a few days after Du published an op-ed in the Jerusalem Post protesting American Vice President Mike Pence's visit to Israel attempting to persuade the Israeli government to limit its relationship with China. 

[[Monique Mercure]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from throat cancer, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian stage actors, Actors from Montreal

Marie Lise Monique Émond CAN (14 November 1930 – 17 May 2020), better known as Monique Mercure, was a Canadian actress. In 1977, Mercure won a Cannes Film Festival Award and a Canadian Film Award for her role in the movie J.A. Martin Photographer. She also starred as Fadela in the 1991 movie Naked Lunch.

Mercure died in hospice care in Montreal on 17 May 2020 from throat cancer, aged 89.

[[The Life of Agustín Lara]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 movies, 1950s musical movies, Mexican movies

The Life of Agustín Lara (La vida de Agustín Lara) is a 1959 Mexican musical movie directed by Alejandro Galindo and starring Pilar Pellicer, Germán Robles, Lorena Velázquez, Ofelia Montesco, Tito Junco, Antonio Prieto, Sara Montes, Fanny Schiller. It was distributed by Promex.

[[Valérie Plante]]

CATEGORIES: Mayors of Montreal, Living people, 1974 births

Valérie Plante (born June 14, 1974) is a Canadian politician. She is the 45th and current Mayor of Montreal since 2017. She was first elected to Montreal City Council in 2013. Plante became leader of the Projet Montréal party in December 2016.

Plante was born in Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec. She studied at Université de Montréal.

[[Gérald Tremblay]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Mayors of Montreal, People from Ottawa

Gérald Tremblay (born September 20, 1942) is a Canadian politician and businessman. He was Mayor of Montreal from 2002 until his resignation in 2012. He also was president of the Montreal Metropolitan Community. 

Tremblay resigned as Mayor on November 5, 2012 after people accused him of corruption.

[[Kennedy Stewart (Canadian politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Mayors of Vancouver, People from Nova Scotia, Members of the House of Commons of Canada from British Columbia

Edward Charles Kennedy Stewart (born November 8, 1966) is a Canadian politician and academic. He was the 40th and current mayor of Vancouver since 2018. He was the member of Parliament (MP) for the riding of Burnaby—Douglas (2011–2015) and Burnaby South (2015–2018). He was in the House of Commons as a member of the New Democratic Party (NDP) caucus.

[[Philip Owen]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Mayors of Vancouver

 Philip Walter Owen (born March 11, 1933) is a Canadian politician. He was the 36th mayor of Vancouver, British Columbia from 1993 to 2002. He was one of Vancouver's longest serving mayors. His father was Walter S. Owen, who was Lieutenant Governor of British Columbia from 1973 to 1978.

[[Gabbie Hanna]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, American singer-songwriters, American poets, American movie actors, American television actors, American pop singers, Internet celebrities, Actors from Pennsylvania, Singers from Pennsylvania, Writers from Pennsylvania

Gabrielle Jeannette Hanna (born February 7, 1991) is an American Internet personality, singer-songwriter, author, and actress. She was born in New Castle, Pennsylvania.

Hanna started her career on Vine, under the name The Gabbie Show, then started a YouTube channel with the same name a year later; both were nominated for awards. She won a Streamy Award for storyteller in 2018. She made her debut single "Out Loud" (2017).

[[Roger Vivier]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1998 deaths, French people, French fashion designers

Roger Vivier (November 13 1907–  3 October 1998) was a French fashion designer who specialized in shoes.

[[Vine (service)]]

CATEGORIES: Social networking

Vine (v) was an American short-form video hosting service where users shared six-second-long, looping video clip's. It was founded in June 2012. Twitter bought it in October 2012, before its launch on January 24, 2013. 

Videos were published through Vine's social network, and could be shared on other platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. The Vine app could be used to browse videos, along with groups of videos by theme, and "trending" videos. Vine competed with other social-media services such as Instagram and Mobli.

By December 2015, Vine had 200 million active users. On October 27, 2016, Twitter announced it would disable uploads, but viewing and download would continue to work. 

On January 20, 2017, Twitter launched an Internet archive of all Vine videos, allowing people to watch previously uploaded videos. The archive was discontinued in 2019.

[[Lucky Peterson]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2020 deaths, American singer-songwriters, American blues singers, American rock singers, American soul singers, American R&B singers, American gospel singers, American rock guitarists, American blues musicians, American soul musicians, American R&B musicians, American gospel musicians, Musicians from Buffalo, New York, Singers from Buffalo, New York, Writers from Buffalo, New York

Lucky Peterson (born Judge Kenneth Peterson; December 13, 1964 – May 17, 2020) was an American singer-songwriter and musician. He played contemporary blues, fusing soul, R&B, gospel and rock and roll.  He played guitar and keyboards. Peterson was born in Buffalo, New York. His best known albums were You Can Always Turn Around, Live at the 55 Arts Club Berlin and Deep Down.

Peterson died on May 17, 2020 at a hospital in Dallas, Texas at the age of 55.

[[Chloe Bennet]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Chicago

Chloe Wang (汪可盈; born April 18, 1992), known professionally as Chloe Bennet, is an American actress and singer. She is known for her role as Daisy Johnson on the television series Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (2013–2020). She was born in Chicago.

[[Yuri Zisser]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, Belarusian people, Ukrainian businesspeople

Yuri Zisser (Юрый Зісер, June 28, 1960 – May 17, 2020) was a Ukrainian-born Belarusian web businessman and blogger. He was the founder and owner of TUT.BY. the most visited Belarusian web portal. Zisser was born in Lviv, Ukraine. In 1987 he moved to Minsk, Belarus. In 1992, created the company Nadezhnye programmy (УП "Надёжные программы"). He was born in Lviv, Ukraine.

Zisser died of stomach cancer on May 17, 2020 in Minsk at the age of 59.

[[An Adventuress]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 movies, 1920s drama movies, American LGBT movies, American drama movies, American silent movies

An Adventuress is a 1920 American drama movie directed by Fred J. Balshofer and starring Rudolph Valentino, Julian Eltinge, Virginia Rappe, Leo White. It was distributed by Republic Distributing Corporation.

[[Maciej Giertych]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Former MEPs, MEPs for Poland, Politicians from Warsaw

Maciej Marian Giertych ('m, born March 24, 1936) is a Polish dendrologist and social conservative politician. He is a member of the League of Polish Families (LPR). He was a member of the Sejm between 2001 and 2004 and a Polish member of the European Parliament from 2004 to 2009. 

He was a candidate for President of Poland in the 2005 elections, but withdrew from the race because of low vote results (circa 3%). 

[[Leszek Moczulski]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Politicians from Warsaw, Writers from Warsaw, Polish historians

Robert Leszek Moczulski (born 7 June 1930) is a Polish historian and politician. He was a member of many government organizations as a critic of communism. From 1993 to 1997, he was a member of Sejm. He is a member of the Confederation of Independent Poland. Moczulski was born in Warsaw.

[[Amistad (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Steven Spielberg, Movies composed by John Williams

Amistad is a 1997 American historical drama movie directed by Steven Spielberg. It is based on the true story of the events in 1839 aboard the slave ship La Amistad. It stars Morgan Freeman, Anthony Hopkins, Djimon Hounsou, and Matthew McConaughey. David Franzoni's screenplay was based on the book Mutiny on the Amistad: The Saga of a Slave Revolt and Its Impact on American Abolition, Law, and Diplomacy (1987). 

Amistad received mainly positive reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes, the movie receives an approval rating of 77% based on reviews from 64 critics.

Amistad was nominated for Academy Awards in four categories: Best Supporting Actor (Anthony Hopkins), Best Original Dramatic Score (John Williams), Best Cinematography (Janusz Kamiński), and Best Costume Design (Ruth E. Carter).

[[Geno Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from frontotemporal dementia, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Albuquerque, New Mexico

Geno Silva (January 20, 1948 – May 9, 2020) was an American actor. He was best known for his role as The Skull, Alejandro Sosa's silent hitman in Scarface (1983). He also starred as Ruiz in the Academy Award-nominated movie Amistad (1997). Silva was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico. His career lasted from 1974 to 2007.

Silva died on May 9, 2020 in Los Angeles from frontotemporal dementia-related problems, aged 72.

[[Radica Games]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 establishments in the United States, Companies of the United States, Toys

Radica Games Limited is an American company that makes electronic games. It was founded in 1983. It started by making electronic souvenir games for casinos. In the late 1990s, it became known for its Bass Fishin line of games.July 2018 On October 3, 2006, Mattel, Inc. (MAT) announced they now own Radica. Radica still makes electronic handheld games based on casino or card games, but now also makes toys, board games, and video game accessories.

[[Lesley Manville]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, English radio actors, People from Brighton, Actors from Sussex

Lesley Ann Manville GBR (born 12 March 1956) is an English actress. She was born in Brighton, Sussex, England. She was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role in Phantom Thread (2017). Manville also starred as Penny All or Nothing (2002). She also starred as Flittle in ''Maleficent (2014).

Manville was married to Gary Oldman from 1987 until they divorced in 1990. They have a son, Alfie. 

[[Gugu Mbatha-Raw]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, English movie actors, English radio actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, People from Oxford, Actors from Oxfordshire

Gugulethu "Gugu" Sophia Mbatha-Raw MBE (ˈ; born 21 April 1983) is an English actress. She was born in Oxford, Oxfordshire.

She starred as Tish Jones in the science-fiction series Doctor Who (2007). Her leading performance as the main character in Jessica Swale's 2015 play Nell Gwynn. She also appeared in Beauty and the Beast (2017), A Wrinkle in Time (2018), and Misbehaviour (2020).

She also starred as Hannah Shoenfeld on Apple TV+ drama series The Morning Show (2019). 

[[Afraid of the Dark]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 drama movies, British drama movies, French drama movies

Afraid of the Dark is a 1991 French British drama movie directed by Mark Peploe and starring James Fox, Clare Holman, Fanny Ardant, Paul McGann, Robert Stephens, Susan Wooldridge, David Thewlis, Catriona MacColl, Hilary Mason, Niven Boyd, Gwyneth Strong, Laurence Harrington, Frederick Treves.

[[She Devil]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 horror movies, 1950s science fiction movies, American science fiction horror movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by Kurt Neumann

She Devil is a 1957 American science fiction horror movie directed by Kurt Neumann and based on the short story The Adaptive Ultimate by Stanley G. Weinbaum. It stars Jack Kelly, Mari Blanchard, Albert Dekker, John Archer, Fay Baker. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Marama Davidson]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, New Zealand politicians, Political activists, Environmentalists, People from Auckland

Marama Mere-Ana Davidson (née Paratene) is a New Zealand politician. She became a member of the New Zealand parliament in 2015 as a representative of the Green Party of Aotearoa New Zealand. She is also the female co-leader of the Green Party.

[[Counsellor at Law]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 movies, 1930s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by William Wyler

Counsellor at Law is a 1933 American drama movie directed by William Wyler and is based on the play of the same name by Elmer Rice. It stars John Barrymore, Melvyn Douglas, Bebe Daniels, Doris Kenyon, Thelma Todd, Onslow Stevens, Vincent Sherman and was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Jim Oberweis]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, State legislators of the United States, People from Aurora, Illinois, Businesspeople from Illinois, Politicians from Illinois, US Republican Party politicians

James D. Oberweis (born June 10, 1946) is an American businessman, investment manager and politician. He is the owner of Oberweis Dairy in North Aurora near Chicago. He is a member of the Illinois Senate, representing the 25th district since January 2013.

Oberweis ran for the Republican nomination for the United States Senate in 2002 and 2004 and the Republican nomination for Governor of Illinois in 2006.

He was the Republican nominee for Illinois's 14th congressional district in a March 2008 special election and the November 2008 general election, losing on both occasions to Democrat Bill Foster.

He was first elected to the Illinois Senate in 2012. He ran for the U.S. Senate again in 2014, losing to Democratic incumbent Dick Durbin.

Oberweis announced he would run again for Illinois's 14th congressional district, challenging Lauren Underwood. On March 17, 2020, he won the Republican nomination.

[[Jeanne Ives]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from South Dakota, Politicians from Illinois, US Republican Party politicians

Jeanne M. Ives (née Remmes, born October 4, 1964) is an American Republican politician. She was a member of the Illinois House of Representatives for the 42nd district from 2013 to 2019.  

She ran in the Republican primary in the 2018 Illinois gubernatorial election, almost beating incumbent Governor Bruce Rauner.

She is a candidate in the 2020 election for United States House of Representatives in Illinois's 6th congressional district, running against Democrat Sean Casten. On March 17, she won the Republican primary.

[[Norfolk, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska

Norfolk (ˈ or ˈ) is a city in Madison County, Nebraska, United States. It is 113 miles northwest of Omaha and 83 miles west of Sioux City. The population was 24,210 at the 2010 census, making it the ninth-largest city in Nebraska. 

[[Madison, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Madison is a city in and the county seat of Madison County, Nebraska, United States.  The population was 2,438 at the 2010 census.

[[Liz Sheridan]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American dancers, Actors from New York, People from Rye, New York

Elizabeth Ann Sheridan (born April 10, 1929) is an American actress and dancer. She was born in Rye, New York. She is best known for her role as Jerry's mother in Seinfeld. She also played Edna Gordon in the 2009 romantic comedy Play the Game. She also played Raquel on ALF.

[[ALF (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, 1986 American television series debuts, 1990 American television series endings, English-language television programs

ALF is an American sitcom television series that aired on NBC from September 22, 1986, to March 24, 1990.

The title character is Gordon Shumway, a sarcastic, friendly alien nicknamed ALF, who crash-lands in the garage of the suburban middle-class Tanner family.

The series stars Max Wright as father Willie Tanner, Anne Schedeen as mother Kate Tanner, and Andrea Elson and Benji Gregory as their children, Lynn and Brian Tanner. ALF was performed by puppeteer Paul Fusco, who co-created the show with Tom Patchett.

ALF originally ran for four seasons and made 99 episodes. The series ended with an unresolved cliffhanger, but the later TV movie, Project ALF, gave a series finale for the franchise.

In August 2018, Warner Bros. Television announced development of an ALF reboot. These plans were cancelled in November 2018.

[[Rye Brook, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

Rye Brook is a village in Westchester County, New York, United States, within the town of Rye. The population was 9,347 at the 2010 census.

[[Rye (town), New York]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New York

Rye is a town in Westchester County, New York, United States. The population was 45,928 at the 2010 census. It is a separate town from the city of Rye. 

[[Mamaroneck (village), New York]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

Mamaroneck m mə is a village in Westchester County, New York, United States. The population was 18,929 at the 2010 census. It is located partially within the town of Mamaroneck and partially within the town of Rye. 

The portion in Rye is unofficially called "Rye Neck". 

[[Cornish, New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New Hampshire

Cornish is a town in Sullivan County, New Hampshire, United States. The population was 1,640 at the 2010 census.

[[Brentwood, New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New Hampshire, County seats in New Hampshire

Brentwood is a town in Rockingham County, New Hampshire, United States. As of the 2010 census, the town had a total population of 4,486. Brentwood has been the county seat of Rockingham County since 1997.

[[Newport, New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New Hampshire, County seats in New Hampshire

Newport is a town in and the county seat of Sullivan County, New Hampshire, United States. It is 43 west-northwest of Concord. The population was 6,507 at the 2010 census.

[[Bennington, Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Vermont, Towns in Vermont

Bennington is a town in Bennington County, Vermont, in the United States. It is one of two shire towns (county seats) of the county, the other being Manchester. The population is 15,764, as of the 2010 US Census. Bennington is the most populous town in southern Vermont.

[[Manchester, Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Vermont, Towns in Vermont

Manchester is a town in, and one of two shire towns (county seats) of, Bennington County, Vermont, United States. The population was 4,391 at the 2010 census.

[[St. Johnsbury, Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Vermont, County seats in Vermont

St. Johnsbury (known locally as "St. J") is the shire town (county seat) of Caledonia County, Vermont, United States. The population was 7,603 at the 2010 census. St. Johnsbury is located about 10 northwest of the Connecticut River and 48 south of the Canada-U.S. border.

[[Guildhall, Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Vermont, County seats in Vermont

Guildhall is a town in and the shire town (county seat) of Essex County, Vermont, United States. The population was 261 at the 2010 census. According to a large sign in the town center, it is the only town in the world with that name.

Guildhall is part of the Berlin, NH–VT Micropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Hyde Park, Vermont]]

Hyde Park, Vermont, may refer to:

[[Hyde Park (town), Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Vermont, County seats in Vermont

Hyde Park is a town in and the shire town (county seat) of Lamoille County, Vermont, United States. The population was 2,847 at the 2000 census. There is also a village of the same name within the town.

[[Hyde Park (village), Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Vermont

Hyde Park is a village in the Town of Hyde Park, Lamoille County, Vermont, United States. The population was 462 at the 2010 census.

[[Wyoming Outlaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 movies, 1930s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by George Sherman

Wyoming Outlaw is a 1939 American western movie directed by George Sherman and starring John Wayne, Ray Corrigan, Raymond Hatton, Don 'Red' Barry, Jack Ingram, LeRoy Mason, Elmo Lincoln, Yakima Canutt. It was distributed by Republic Pictures.

[[North Hyde Park, Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Vermont

North Hyde Park is an unincorporated village in the town of Hyde Park, Lamoille County, Vermont, United States.

The community is located along Vermont Route 100 and the Gihon River 7.5 north of Morrisville. North Hyde Park has a post office with ZIP code 05665, which opened on May 29, 1839.

[[Morrisville, Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Vermont

Morrisville is a village in Morristown, Lamoille County, Vermont, United States. As of the 2010 census, the village population was 1,958.

[[Morristown, Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Vermont

Morristown is a town in Lamoille County, in the U.S. state of Vermont. The population was 5,227 at the 2010 census.  Morristown is the largest town by population in Lamoille County.

[[The Man from Utah]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 movies, 1930s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Robert N. Bradbury

The Man from Utah is a 1934 American western movie directed by Robert N. Bradbury and starring John Wayne, Polly Anne Young, Yakima Canutt, George Cleveland. It was distributed by Monogram Pictures.

[[Chelsea, Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Vermont, Towns in Vermont

Chelsea is a town in and the shire town (county seat) of Orange County, Vermont, United States. The population was 1,238 at the 2010 census.

[[Woodstock, Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Vermont, Towns in Vermont

Woodstock is the shire town (county seat) of Windsor County, Vermont, United States. As of the 2010 census, the town population was 3,048.

[[Woodstock (village), Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Vermont

Woodstock is an incorporated village located within the town of Woodstock in Windsor County, Vermont, United States. As of the 2010 census, the village population was 900.

[[The Lucky Texan]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 movies, 1930s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Robert N. Bradbury

The Lucky Texan is a 1934 American western movie directed by Robert N. Bradbury and starring John Wayne, Barbara Sheldon, Lloyd Whitlock, George Gabby Hayes, Yakima Canutt, Earl Dwine. It was distributed by Monogram Pictures.

[[A Farewell to Arms (1932 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 movies, 1930s war movies, 1930s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, World War I movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Frank Borzage

A Farewell to Arms is a 1932 movie directed by Frank Borzage and is based on the novel of the same name by Ernest Hemmingway. It stars Gary Cooper, Helen Hayes, Adolphe Menjou, Jack La Rue and was distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was nominated for 4 Oscars and won 2 Academy Awards in 1934 and was remade in 1957 as A Farewell to Arms.

[[Growth capital]]

CATEGORIES: Business

Growth capital is a type of private equity investment.

It is usually provided to already mature businesses for them to be able to develop more, such as to expand or to enter new markets.

[[Ninotchka]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 movies, 1930s comedy movies, 1930s romance movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Ernst Lubitsch

Ninotchka is a 1939 American romantic comedy movie directed by Ernst Lubitsch and starring Greta Garbo, Melvyn Douglas, Ina Claire, Felix Bressart, Bela Lugosi, Gregory Gaye. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and was nominated for 4 Academy Awards in 1940. It was remade as Silk Stockings in 1957.

[[The Zimmer Twins]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series, Children's television series, Canadian television series, 2000s television series

The Zimmer Twins is a Canadian animated television series and website. The project was made by producer Jason Krogh and artist Aaron Leighton and is made by Lost the Plot Productions Inc. Some animations made by users of the website are made into shorts that are shown on Teletoon. Les Jumeaux Zimmer is the version of the television series and website in French.

The Zimmer Twins is known for its unique format, which allows users to join in online to get their work to be shown on television. Children are invited to make and share 1-minute animated episodes using a story editor and library of animation. The audience creates endings to short story-starters that are professionally produced. Children tell their stories by choosing actions, characters, props and backgrounds. They can also add their own dialog and on-screen text. New clips are sometimes added.

The first Zimmer Twins website came out on March 14, 2005. The television series was first shown on Teletoon in May 2005. 60 episodes (30 in English and 30 in French) were made and shown in the 2005/2006 Canadian television season. By the end of the first season, over 50,000 users had made over 100,000 episodes. A major change to the website happened on July 1, 2006. 120 episodes were shown in the 2006/2007 Canadian television season, and 32 episodes were shown in the 2007/2008 Canadian television season. The website's amount of users passed 200,000 on November 5, 2011.

In 2008, the online audience voted to select the three most popular movies made by users. The winners' movies were in a half-hour awards show special that was shown on September 26, 2008 in English and September 20, 2008 in French. An Australian Zimmer Twins was made from 2006–2009, featuring James Arnold as Edgar, Alisa Koverick as Eva, and Luke as 13, and an American Zimmer Twins was made from 2007-2010, featuring James Arnold Taylor as Edgar, Lacey Chabert as Eva, and Seth Green as 13.

[[In Old Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 movies, American western movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Irving Cummings

In Old Arizona is a 1928 American western movie directed by Irving Cummings and starring Warner Baxter, Edmund Lowe, Dorothy Burgess. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was nominated for 5 Oscars and won an Academy Award in 1930.

[[Out of Season]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 drama movies, British drama movies

Out of Season is a 1975 British drama movie directed by Alan Bridges and starring Vanessa Redgrave, Cliff Robertson, Susan George, Frank Jarvis. It was distributed by Lorimar Productions.

[[Félicien Kabuga]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, African businesspeople, Criminals, Rwandan people

Félicien Kabuga (born 19 July 1935) is a Rwandan businessman. He is accused of participating in the Rwandan genocide. He was born in Muniga, Ruanda-Urundi.

On 29 August 1998, the prosecutor of the United Nations International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, Carla Del Ponte, indicted Kabuga. In the amended indictment, Kabuga was charged with conspiracy to commit genocide, genocide and extermination as a crime against humanity. He shortly went into hiding as a fugitive.

Kabuga, aged 84, was captured in Asnières-sur-Seine, near Paris, France, on 16 May 2020 after 26 years as a fugitive.

[[Munir Mangal]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic, Afghan military people, Generals

Munir Mohamad Mangal (1950 – May 2, 2020) was an Afghan general. His professional military career lasted more than 40 years. Mangal was in high-level military and government positions. He was the Commander of the Afghan National Police, before his retirement in 2016.

Mangal was born in Samkanay District, Paktia Province, Afghanistan, in 1950.

Mangal died from COVID-19 at his home in Kabul on May 2, 2020, at the age of 70. 

[[Marko Elsner]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2020 deaths, Sportspeople from Ljubljana, Slovenian footballers

Marko Elsner (11 April 1960 – 18 May 2020) was a Slovenian footballer who played as a defender. He was born in Ljubljana, FPR Yugoslavia. He played 14 games for the Yugoslav national team between 1984 and 1988. He also played for the Slovenian national team from 1992 to 1993. 

Elsner died on 18 May 2020 in Ljubljana from a long-illness on 18 May 2020, aged 60.

[[Mahabodhi Temple]]

CATEGORIES: National symbols of India

The Mahabodhi Temple (literally: "Great Awakening Temple") or the Mahabodhi Mahavihar, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is an ancient, but much rebuilt and restored, Buddhist temple in Bodh Gaya, marking the location where the Buddha is said to have attained enlightenment. The site contains a descendant of the Bodhi Tree under which Buddha gained enlightenment, and has been a major pilgrimage destination for Hindus and Buddhists for well over two thousand years, and some elements probably date to the period of Ashoka (died c. 232 BCE). It is the "National Buddhist temple of India" respectively.

[[Rawhead Rex]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 horror movies, British horror movies, Irish movies

Rawhead Rex is a 1986 British Irish horror movie directed by George Pavlou and starring David Dukes, Kelly Piper, Niall Toibin, Niall O'Brien, Hugh O'Connor, Donal McCann. It was distributed by Empire Pictures.

[[Health (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 comedy movies, 1980s LGBT movies, American comedy movies, American LGBT movies, Movies directed by Robert Altman

HealtH (also known as Health and H.E.A.L.T.H.) is a 1980 American comedy movie directed by Robert Altman and stars Carol Burnett, Glenda Jackson, James Garner, Lauren Bacall, Paul Dooley, Alfre Woodard, Dick Cavett, Dinah Shore. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was never released on home video.

[[Antonomasia]]

CATEGORIES: Rhetoric

Antonomasia is when you use a short phrase instead of something's name. For example, saying "The Big Apple" instead of New York City.

[[Jens Reich]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, German scientists, German politicians, German activists

Jens Georg Reich (born 26 March 1939) is a German scientist, activist and politician. He was born in Göttingen, Province of Hanover. He is a member of the German Ethics Council. He has become famous as a civil rights campaigner in the last years of the German Democratic Republic (GDR). 

In 1994, he ran for President of Germany. He lost in the 1st round after winning 62 votes.

