[[Step Up All In]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, 2014 movies

Step Up All In is an American 2014 romantic and musical drama movie. The movie is about a dance crew that are rejected at every audition they go to. The crew decide to leave Los Angeles and come back to Miami. Briana Evigan plays Andie. Alyson Stoner plays Camille.

This movie was released on August 8, 2014. It got mixed reviews from critics. It made more than $86 million in the box office.

[[Literary technique]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction, Narratology

A literary technique is any method an author uses to tell their message. This makes it easy to tell them from literary elements, which are mostly found in literature.

[[Pedro Peña (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Spanish movie actors, Spanish television actors

Pedro Peña Allén (December 14, 1925 – October 2, 2014) was an Spanish actor. He was known for his roles in Médico de familia (1995), Un paso adelante (2002) and Dulce (2011). He was born in Tordehumos, Spain.

Peña died in Madrid, Spain from Alzheimer's disease, aged 88.

[[Lynsey de Paul]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2014 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, English singer-songwriters, Singers from London, Writers from London

Lynsey de Paul (11 June 1948 – 1 October 2014) was an English singer-songwriter. She was known for representing the U.K. in the 1977 with Mike Moran on "Rock Bottom" at Eurovision. She was also known for her songs, "Sugar Me", "Getting a Drag","Won't Somebody Dance With Me", Ooh I Do", "No Honestly", "My Man and Me", "Storm In A Teacup" and "Sleeping Blue Nights''".

De Paul was born in London, England. She was never married, but was known for being in relationships with Ringo Starr, Roy Wood, James Coburn, Sean Connery, Bill Kenwright, Bernie Taupin, Chas Chandler and Dudley Moore.

De Paul suffered a brain hemorrhage on the morning of 1 October 2014. She died in a London hospital hours later, aged 66.

[[Losing My Religion]]

CATEGORIES: Rock songs, 1991 songs, Grammy Award winning songs

"Losing My Religion" is a 1991 rock song from R.E.M.. The song became R.E.M.'s highest charting song for the United States. It hit #4 on Billboard Hot 100. It was nominated for several Grammy Awards. It won two.

The song was released on February 19, 1991.

R.E.M. guitarist Peter Buck wrote the riff and chorus to the song on a mandolin while learning to play it. Buck had just bought the instrument and was recording the music as he practiced. Buck said that "when I listened back to it the next day, there was a bunch of stuff that was really just me learning how to play mandolin, and then there's what became 'Losing My Religion', and then a whole bunch more of me learning to play the mandolin."

[[Literary term]]

CATEGORIES: Writing, Literature, Literary terms

A literary term is a word that is used in talking or writing about books and stories. They are words used to describe various forms of writing by an author.

[[Joyride (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 albums

Joyride is the third studio album by Roxette. The album has the songs "Joyride" and "Fading Like a Flower". "Joyride" hit #1 on the Billboard Hot 100. In June 1991, it became the best selling album in Europe for 2 weeks.

This album was released on March 28, 1991.

[[Ken Dunek]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Philadelphia Eagles players, Sportspeople from Chicago

Ken Dunek (born June 20, 1957) was a professional football player with the Philadelphia Eagles.  Dunek went to college at Memphis State (now known as University of Memphis).  During college, he played forward on the basketball team. He switched to football his senior year.  In 1980, he started playing with the Philadelphia Eagles. Since leaving the Eagles, he has worked as an author and motivational speaker.

[[Foreshadowing]]

CATEGORIES: Literary terms, Writing, Literature

Foreshadowing or guessing ahead is a literary device by which an author hints what is to come. It is used to avoid disappointment, and sometimes used to arouse readers.

[[Joyride (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 songs, Pop songs

"Joyride" is a 1991 song from Roxette. The song is about falling in love.

The single topped the charts in Europe, the United States and Australia. It hit #1 on the Billboard Hot 100.

The song was released on February 27, 1991.

[[Frieda Szwillus]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 2014 deaths, German centenarians, People from Saxony-Anhalt, Supercentenarians

Frieda Szwillus (née Hennig; 30 March 1902 – 21 September 2014) was a German supercentenarian. She had been Germany's oldest living person from 22 April 2014 until her death almost 5 months later. She lived to be 112 years old and 175 days.

Szwillus died in Raschau-Markersbach, Saxony, Germany.

[[Pope Shenouda III of Alexandria]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2012 deaths, Copts, Deaths from renal failure, Deaths from respiratory failure, Popes

Pope Shenouda III (3 August 1923 – 17 March 2012) was the 117th Pope of Alexandria & Patriarch of the See of St. Mark. His papacy lasted for forty years, four months, and four days from 14 November 1971 until his death on 17 March 2012.

Pope Shenouda III died on 17 March 2012 in Cairo, Egypt from respiratory and kidney failure, aged 88.

[[Critical analysis]]

CATEGORIES: Thought, Logic

Critical analysis is to examine something that someone has said. It means to study the individual parts of the work.

[[Theme (narrative)]]

CATEGORIES: Writing, Literary terms, Fiction

Theme in writing is what you think is important in a story. It is the big idea of the work. 

In contemporary literary studies, a theme is how the central topic a text, book, or story is treated. Themes can be divided into two categories: a work's thematic concept is what readers "think the work is about" and its thematic statement being "what the work says about the subject".

The most common understanding of theme is an idea or point that is central to a story. It can be summed in a single word (e.g. love, death, betrayal). Some examples of themes of this type are conflict between the person and society; getting to adult age; humans in conflict with technology; nostalgia.

A theme may be shown by the actions, words said, or thoughts of a character in a novel. An example of this would be the theme loneliness in John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men. Many of the characters are lonely. It may be different from the book's or author's view of the world. From the source we found we can see that the themes can be at a variety of state as the worldwide web

[[Figurative language]]

CATEGORIES: Writing, Literary terms

Figurative language is when a writer describes something by comparing it with something else. It is writing that goes from the actual meaning of words at face value to get a special meaning. The figurative meaning is different from the literal meaning. For example, consider the sentence, "When she heard the news, she was over the moon and jumped for joy". The meaning is that she was very happy, but not flying above the Moon nor jumping up and down.

Figurative language is a difference in fields of language analysis. Literal language is about words that do not go away from their meaning.  Non-literal or figurative language refers to words, and groups of words, that change the normal meanings of the words. A literal usage is the "normal" meanings of the words. It has the same meaning regardless of the context. The intended meaning is the same as the real meaning of the individual words. Figurative use of language is the use of words or phrases in a manner where the literal meaning of the words is not true or does not make sense. It "implies a non-literal meaning which does make sense or that could be true".

[[Jack Hills]]

CATEGORIES: Hadean, Geography of Western Australia

The Jack Hills are a range of hills in Western Australia. They include the oldest material of terrestrial origin found on Earth. These are zircons which formed about 4.4 billion years ago (bya). The oldest zircon with the most consistent date is closer to 4.35 bya.

This zircon is part of a population of zircons in the metamorphosed conglomerate. They were deposited about 3.060 bya, which is the age of the youngest detrital zircon in the rock. 

The zircons are used in research on the conditions on Earth in the Hadean eon. 

[[Province of Quebec (1763-1791)]]

CATEGORIES: Quebec

The Province of Quebec was a colony in North America. It was created by Great Britain after the Seven Years' War. Great Britain acquired French Canada by the Treaty of Paris (1763). After a long debate France negotiated to keep the small island of Guadeloupe in the Caribbean. Guadeloupe was rich in sugar. By Britain's Royal Proclamation of 1763, Canada (part of New France) was renamed the Province of Quebec. The province extended from the coast of Labrador on the Atlantic Ocean, southwest through the Saint Lawrence River Valley to the Great Lakes and beyond to the confluence of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers. Portions of its southwest (below the Great Lakes) were later ceded to the United States in a later Treaty of Paris (1783) at the conclusion of the American Revolution.

[[Military intelligence]]

CATEGORIES: Espionage, Intelligence agencies, Military terminology

Military intelligence is information about an enemy or possible enemy. It is information that has first been interpreted and evaluated. It can include the terrain, the weather, and any other information about a theater of operations. Military intelligence gathering has a long history.

[[Casualty (person)]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

A casualty in military usage is a person in military service, who becomes unavailable for duty due to death or  injury. It also includes illness, capture, desertion, etc.; or a civilian casualty.

In civilian usage the word "casualty" is properly used for a person who is killed, wounded or injured by some event. It is usually used to describe multiple deaths and injuries due to violent incidents or disasters. Casualties is sometimes loosely used to mean fatalities, but non-fatal injuries are also casualties.

[[Bryant Reeves]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, American basketball players, Living people, Sportspeople from Arkansas, Sportspeople from Oklahoma, Vancouver Grizzlies players

Bryant Reeves (born June 8, 1973) is an American retired professional basketball player. He played six seasons with the Vancouver Grizzlies of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He was nicknamed Big Country by his college teammate Byron Houston after he was amazed through his first cross-country flight over the United States, having grown up in the small town of Gans, Oklahoma.

Reeves played college basketball at the Oklahoma State University–Stillwater with the Cowboys. During his time with the Cowboys, Reeves led the team to the 1995 Final Four and averaged 21.5 points per game as a senior player.

He was selected 6th overall by the Vancouver Grizzlies in the 1996 NBA Draft. He was the Grizzlies' first-ever draft choice. During his six seasons with the Grizzlies, he had averaged 13.3 points per game in his rookie season and he averaged 16.2 points per game in 1997. On July 8, 1997, Reeves was given a six-year, $61.8 million contract extension. Reeves' best season came in 1997-98, when averaged 16.3 points, 7.9 rebounds, 1.08 blocked shots per game, and scored a career-high 41 points against the Boston Celtics.

After 1998, he began suffering from both weight-control problems and injuries. His production numbers had fell off severely. The Grizzlies were still using Reeves as their starting center but both his minutes per game dropped and his field goal percentage had dropped. When the Grizzlies were moved to Memphis in 2001, Reeves had to start the season on the injured list because of continuing back pain and he was never able to play another game after only playing two preseason games with Memphis. Reeves retired from playing professional basketball on January 29, 2002.

Since retiring, Reeves moved back to Gans, Oklahoma where he owns a large cattle ranch just outside of Gans and lives with his wife and three children.

[[Narratology]]

CATEGORIES: Narratology, Writing

Narratology is the study of structure in narratives. The theory of narrative or narratology was developed in the 1960s. Narratology is based on the idea of a common literary language. Narratives are found and told through oral and written language. Narratology has helped to make it easier to understand the how and why of narrative. 

[[Red shirts]]

CATEGORIES: History of Italy

Redshirts or Red coats is the name given to the volunteers who followed Giuseppe Garibaldi. He was an Italian revolutionary who unified Italy by conquering the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies in 1861. 

The name came from the color of their shirts.

[[Man Against Machine]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 albums, Garth Brooks albums

Man Against Machine is the eleventh studio album by Garth Brooks. The album was released on 11 November 2014. It was Brooks' second studio album on his new label Pearl Records. It was his first studio album new material in nine years. Two of the singles, "People Loving People," and "Send 'Em on Down the Road" were released early and made available digitally on Brooks' official website and GhostTunes.com.

[[Granada Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Granada, 1560s establishments in Europe, 16th century establishments in Spain, 1561 establishments

Granada Cathedral (also called Cathedral of the Incarnation) is a cathedral in Granada, Spain. It is a Roman Catholic cathedral and is the seat of the Archdiocese of Granada. The site was once the center of Muslim Spain. In 1532 the Archbishop of Granada laid the cornerstone for the cathedral. The cathedral features a large number of paintings by the artist, sculptor and architect Alonso Cano.

[[Shareef Abdur-Rahim]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, African-American basketball players, American Olympic gold medalists, American Muslims, Atlanta Hawks players, Living people, Portland Trail Blazers players, Sacramento Kings players, Sportspeople from Atlanta, Georgia, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), People from Marietta, Georgia, Vancouver Grizzlies players, American basketball players

Shareef Abdur-Rahim (born December 11, 1976) is an American retired professional basketball player. He currently works as the director of player personnel for the Sacramento Kings of the National Basketball Association (NBA) and is the general manager of the Reno Bighorns, the Kings' NBA D-League affiliate.

Abdur-Rahim played college basketball at the University of California, Berkeley with the Golden Bears. He was selected 3rd overall by the Vancouver Grizzlies in the 1996 NBA Draft. During his time with the Grizzlies, he became the team's leading scorer and set a franchise record of 18.7 points per game. He averaged 6.9 rebounds and 2.2 assists in 35 minutes per game. He also finished 3rd in balloting for the Schick NBA Rookie of the Year behind the Philadelphia 76ers' Allen Iverson and the Minnesota Timberwolves' Stephon Marbury, and was picked for the All-Rookie First Team. During the next few seasons, Abdur-Rahim was the centerpiece of the Grizzlies team. He improved his performance the following years with 22.3 ppg, 7.1 rpg and 2.6 assists per game (apg) in his sophomore season and 23.0 ppg, 7.5 rpg, and 3.4 apg in the next season. Even through his best effort, the Grizzlies were still at the bottom two spots of the Midwest Division in his first four seasons.

On June 27, 2001, the Grizzlies traded Abdur-Rahim and the 27th overall pick to the Atlanta Hawks for Brevin Knight, Lorenzen Wright and Pau Gasol, the 3rd overall pick in the 2001 NBA Draft. The Hawks finished the 2001–02 season with a 33–49 win-loss record. Abdur-Rahim's performances, which included a career-high 50-point game, earned him a selection to the NBA All-Star game for the season. On December 28, 2002, he became the fifth-youngest player in NBA history to reach 10,000-points with a jump shot against the Washington Wizards. Even though Glenn Robinson, Jason Terry and Abdur-Rahim all combined to average 57.9 ppg and become the highest-scoring trio in the league for the 2002–03 season, the team was unable to make the playoffs again. Abdur-Rahim played in all but one of game for the Hawks.

On February 9, 2004, the Hawks traded Abdur-Rahim along with Theo Ratliff and Dan Dickau to the Portland Trail Blazers for Rasheed Wallace and Wesley Person. At the end of the 2004–05 NBA season, he became a free agent.

During the 2005 off-season, he was traded through a sign and trade agreement (in principle) to the New Jersey Nets for a first-round draft pick. On August 4, 2005, it was revealed that he failed a required physical because of scar tissue found in his knee. The trade was put on hold, pending a second opinion from other medical sources. On August 7, Abdur-Rahim was quoted as saying: "Right now I don't feel I want to be a Net".

On August 12, 2005, Abdur-Rahim signed a free-agent contract with the Sacramento Kings.

During his first season with the Kings, he averaged 16.0 ppg, 6.2 rpg and 3.0 apg as a starter. He shot .543 for field goal percentage, and almost .800 from the free throw line. The Kings were able to qualify for the 2006 playoffs. He made his postseason career debut against the San Antonio Spurs. At the same time, Abdur-Rahim ended a streak of having played the most number of games in NBA history without participating in the post-season.

On September 22, 2008, Abdur-Rahim announced that he was retiring from basketball because of a constant knee injury. The next week, he joined the Kings' coaching staff as an assistant. He was hired as the Kings' assistant general manager on October 7, 2010.

[[Achraf Baznani]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Filmmakers, People from Marrakesh, Moroccan writers, Photographers

Achraf Baznani is a Moroccan artist, filmmaker and photographer. He was born in Marrakesh on 1 January 1979.

[[1st Army (Russian Empire)]]

CATEGORIES: Armies, Military of Russia, 20th century in Russia

The Russian First Army was a World War I Russian field army that fought on the Eastern Front for two years. 

[[Offensive (military)]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

An offensive is an aggressive military operation usually aimed at an enemy force. It is also called an attack, an advance or an invasion. An offensive can be conducted on land, at sea or in the air. A common goal of an offensive is to engage the enemy in a battle. It can also be used to get an enemy to withdraw and avoid a battle.

A tactical offensive is an operation that is usually smaller or more limited. It often involves the use of Special forces (or specialized forces). It often has a limited task such as the capture of a bridge or stronghold. A strategic offensive usually involves larger forces and usually has long-range goals. 

[[Ewen Gilmour]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2014 deaths, New Zealand entertainers

David Ewen Gilmour (circa 1963 – 2 October 2014), commonly known as Ewen Gilmour, was a New Zealand comedian and television presenter. 

Gilmour began his comedy career in 1995. He shared the first Billy T Award with Cal Wilson in 1997. He won the Decade Award - Best Male Comedian - 2000 to 2010 at the 2010 NZ Comedy Guild Awards.  In 2012, he returned to the New Zealand International Comedy Festival "for the first time in a couple of years" with a one hour show called "S'Truth".

He has made many appearances on New Zealand television, including Pulp Comedy (1995),  Intrepid Journeys - Peru (2003), Celebrity Treasure Island (2003), Dancing with the Stars series one (2005), and  Comedy Christmas Cracker (2010). He was the host of the TV3 show "Road Madness", mainly about dangerous driving on New Zealand roads, which first aired in 2012.

On 3 October 2014 it was reported Gilmour died in his sleep, aged 51.

[[Robert Flower]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2014 deaths, Australian rules footballers, Disease-related deaths in Australia, People from Melbourne, Sportspeople from Victoria (Australia)

Robert Flower (5 August 1955 – 2 October 2014) was an Australian rules footballer. He played with Melbourne Football Club. His first game was against Geelong in 1973. He captained the team from 1981 until his final game in 1987. He held the record for the number of games for his club, 272, until overtaken by David Neitz in 2006. Flower was born in Melbourne, Victoria.

Flower died on 2 October 2014, after a short illness.

[[Kevin Metheny]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2014 deaths, American radio personalities, American television presenters, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in San Francisco, Businesspeople from San Francisco

Kevin Metheny (c. 1954 – October 3, 2014) was an American radio executive. He was played by Paul Giamatti in the 1997 movie, Private Parts. His final job in the radio industry was as operations manager of KGO-AM/KSFO-AM (San Francisco).

Metheny died in San Francisco, California from a suspected heart attack, aged 60.

[[Ward Ruyslinck]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, Autobiographers, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Belgian novelists, Writers from Antwerp

Raymond De Belser (17 June 1929 – 3 October 2014), pseudonym Ward Ruyslinck, was a Belgian writer. He was born in Berchem, Belgium. He was known for his book Wierook en tranen ("Incense and Tears"). He won the Prijs voor Letterkunde van de Vlaamse provincies for this work. In 1966, he wrote the bittersweet fairy tale Golden Ophelia.

Ward Ruyslinck retired in 1984. His wife committed suicide in 1980. Afterwards, he moved to Meise to live with his mistress Monika Lo Cascio. Ruyslinck and Cascio wrote the autobiographical novel De speeltuin ("The Playground") in 1992.

Ruyslinck, who had from Alzheimer's disease, died on 3 October 2014 in a retirement home in Meise.

[[Jean-Jacques Marcel]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, French footballers

Jean-Jacques Marcel (13 June 1931 – 3 October 2014) was a French international footballer. He played as a midfielder. He played for some of the French national teams of the 1950s. He played naturally in the FIFA World Cup 1954 and 1958. 

On 3 October 2014, it was announced by his former football club that Marcel died. He was 83.

[[Jean-Claude Duvalier]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Former dictators, Presidents of Haiti

Jean-Claude Duvalier (ʒɑ̃klod dyvalje), nicknamed "Bébé Doc" or "Baby Doc" (July 3, 1951 – October 4, 2014) was the President of Haiti from 1971 until his overthrow by a popular uprising in 1986. He succeeded François "Papa Doc" Duvalier, his father, as the ruler of Haiti.

Duvalier died of a heart attack on October 4, 2014, at the age of 63.

[[Splake]]

CATEGORIES: Fish

The splake or slake (Salvelinus namaeycush X Salvelinus fontinalis) is a fish. It is the hybrid of a male brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) and a female lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush).  The name is a combination of speckled trout (another name for brook trout) and lake trout. The name may have been used as early as the 1880s. Hybrids of the male lake trout with the female brook trout (the so-called "brookinaw") have also been produced, but are not as successful.

[[Seville Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain, 1500s establishments in Europe

Seville Cathedral is one of the famous Roman Catholic cathedrals in Spain. It is in Seville state. It is the third largest cathedral in the word and the largest Gothic style cathedral. It was consecrated in 1507.  In 1987, UNESCO added this church as a World Heritage site. 

In the early 16th century, Hagia Sophia made the church into a mosque. At that time, the cathedral was the largest church or cathedral in the world. Christopher Columbus is buried in this church.

[[Colac, Victoria]]

Colac is a town in the western district of Victoria, Australia. It is about 150 south-west of Melbourne, on the southern shore of Lake Colac and the surrounding volcanic plains, approximately 40 inland from Bass Strait. Colac is the largest city in and administrative centre of the Colac Otway Shire. At June 2016, Colac had a population of 12,411.

[[Castle of Almansa]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in Spain, Castile-La Mancha, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists

The Castle of Almansa (Castillo de Almansa) is a castle in Almansa, Spain. It was declared Bien de Interés Cultural in 1921.

The Castle of Almansa was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Alcántara Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges, Buildings and structures in Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, Transport in Spain, 1st century establishments in Europe, Establishments in Spain

Alcántara Bridge (also called Puente Trajan at Alcantara) is a Roman stone arch bridge. It was built over the Tagus river, Alcántara, Spain between 104 and 106 AD. The Roman emperor Trajan ordered this bridge built in 98 AD.

The original length of this bridge was 190. It is now 181.7 long  The clear spans of the six arches from the right to the left riverside are 13.6, 23.4, 28.8, 27.4, 21.9 and 13.8

The Alcántara Bridge was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Neo-creationism]]

CATEGORIES: Intelligent design

Creationism is the idea that life on earth was created by God. This idea comes from a literal reading of scripture, very often the Bible.  Today, almost all scientists believe evolution is a good explanation. These scientists say that  the scientific method does not allow certain explanations, mostly those that include supernatural elements. For this reason, a movement called  Neo-creationism wants to re-state the ideas behind creationism and restart the discussion  over the origins of life. The followers want to do this in such a way that religious terms are not used, and that there are no references to scripture. This should make it easier to talk to other groups, such as the scientific community or the general public. 

[[Cloud chamber]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear physics, Machines, Tools

A cloud chamber is a sealed box with a supersaturated vapour of water or alcohol. When a charged particle (e.g. an alpha or beta particle) goes through it, the vapour is ionized. The resulting ions act as nuclei, around which a mist forms from the vapour.

The high energies of alpha and beta particles mean that a trail is left by ions produced along the path of the charged particle. These tracks have distinctive shapes (for example, an alpha particle's track is broad and shows more evidence of deflection by collisions, while an electron's is thinner and straight). When any uniform magnetic field is applied across the cloud chamber, positively and negatively charged particles will curve in opposite directions, according to the Lorentz force law.

The cloud chamber was invented by Charles Wilson (1869–1959), a Scottish physicist who received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1927 for this work. The first cloud chamber was made in 1911. The invention was used in the early days of atomic physics. It is often called the 'Wilson chamber'. Since then a number of other types of particle detectors have been invented.

[[Uric acid]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Uric acid is what reptiles and birds excrete. It is a heterocyclic compound of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen with the formula C5H4N4O3. It forms ions and salts known as urates and acid urates. Uric acid is a product of the metabolic breakdown of purine nucleotides. 

High blood concentrations of uric acid can lead to gout. The chemical is associated with other medical conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, and the formation of kidney stones (ammonium acid urate).

[[Guggenheim Museum Bilbao]]

CATEGORIES: Art museums in Spain, Basque Country, 12 Treasures of Spain, 1997 establishments in Europe

The Guggenheim Museum Bilbao is a museum of modern art.  It is in Abando, Bilbao, Spain. The museum was opened in 1997. It is one of the several museums belonging to Solomon R. Guggenheim foundation. This museum was designed by the architect Frank Gehry.  There are no flat surfaces in this building. The structure of the building is made of glass, titanium, and limestone.

"Frank Gehry’s Guggenheim Museum Bilbao not only changed the way that architects and people think about museums, but also boosted Bilbao’s economy with its astounding success."

The museum has three aims in its mission. The museum wants to bring together and help the public to interpret the arts of our time. They want to encourage art education. They also want to increase the knowledge of the public's understanding of the arts. The collections at the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao have works by the some of the most famous artists of the past four decades. There are works of many genres including Minimalism, Pop Art, Conceptual Art and Abstract Expressionism. Spanish contemporary and Basque art are also displayed from some of the local and regional artists. 

There are over one hundred exhibitions in the museum. There have been approximately ten million visitors to the museum.

[[Purine]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Purines include two of the bases in DNA and RNA.

A purine is a heterocyclic aromatic organic compound. It is a pyrimidine ring fused to an imidazole ring. Purines are the most widely occurring nitrogen-containing heterocycles in nature.

Purines and pyrimidines are the two groups of nitrogenous bases, and the two groups of nucleotide bases.

[[Telecommunications in Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications, Azerbaijan

Telecommunications in Azerbaijan is about television, radio, fixed and mobile telephones, and Internet in Azerbaijan.

[[Pyrimidine]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Pyrimidines include three of the bases in DNA and RNA.

A pyrimidine is an aromatic heterocyclic organic compound, similar to purine. It has nitrogens at positions 1 and 3 in the ring. 

[[State Statistics Committee (Azerbaijan)]]

CATEGORIES: Azerbaijan, Government agencies, 1994 establishments, 1990s establishments in Azerbaijan

The State Statistics Committee of Azerbaijan Republic (Azərbaycan Respublikası Dövlət Statistika Komitəsi) is a governmental agency within the Cabinet of Azerbaijan in charge of collection, processing and publishing statistical data on the economy, demographics and other sectors in the Republic of Azerbaijan. The State Statistics Committee was established on February 18, 1994 by President Heydar Aliyev. Its headquarters is located in the Azerbaijani capital city of Baku.

[[The Colbys]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 American television series debuts, 1987 television series endings, 1980s American television series, American drama television series, Television series set in Los Angeles, California, 1987 disestablishments in the United States, English-language television programs

The Colbys was an American primetime soap opera. It was a spin-off of Dynasty. It aired on ABC from November 1985 to March 1987. The stars of the series included Charlton Heston, John James, Emma Samms, Maxwell Caulfield, and Stephanie Beacham. This show was focused on the fictional rich Colby family from Los Angeles, California.

[[Paul Revere (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2014 deaths, American pianists, Cancer deaths in the United States, Disease-related deaths in Idaho, Musicians from Nebraska, Musicians from Idaho

Paul Revere Dick (January 7, 1938 - October 4, 2014) was an American musician and organ player. In 1958, he and other musicians founded the group Paul Revere & the Raiders. They recorded many hits. He worked with the group until his death in 2014. Revere was born in Harvard, Nebraska.

Revere died from cancer in Garden Valley, Idaho, aged 76.

[[Alan Henning]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2014 deaths, British people murdered abroad, English murder victims, Humanitarians, Kidnapped British people, Murders by blade weapons, People from Manchester, People murdered in Syria

Alan Henning (15 August 1967 – c. 3 October 2014) was a British taxicab driver-turned-humanitarian aid worker. He was the fourth Western hostage killed by Islamic State (IS). Henning was captured during IS's occupation of the Syrian city of Al-Dana in December 2013, where he was helping with humanitarian relief.

The British Foreign Office withheld news of Henning's capture while they attempted to negotiate his release. Henning was shown at the end of David Cawthorne Haines's execution video, released on 13 September 2014, and referred to by "Jihadi John" as the next victim. A video of Henning's beheading was released by IS on 3 October 2014.

[[Coleby Lombardo]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, American child actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, 1978 births, Living people

Coleby Jason Lombardo (born September 7, 1978), is an American former child actor. He appeared in many movies and television series. The most popular of them was The Colbys. In that series, he played young Scott Cassidy. He was nominated for a Young Artist Award for that role.

[[David Cawthorne Haines]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2014 deaths, British people murdered abroad, English murder victims, Humanitarians, Kidnapped British people, Murders by blade weapons, People from Yorkshire, People murdered in Syria

David Cawthorne Haines (9 May 1970 – circa 13 September 2014) was a British aid worker. He was captured by the Islamic State in early 2013. He was later executed by beheading in early September 2014.

[[John J. Lloyd]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2014 deaths, People from Detroit, Michigan

John J. Lloyd (1922 – October 4, 2014) was an American art director and production designer. He was known for his work on such movies as National Lampoon's Animal House, The Blues Brothers, The Thing, Big Trouble in Little China, and The Naked Gun: From the Files of Police Squad!. He was born in Detroit, Michigan.

Lloyd died in Santa Monica, California, aged 92.

[[Vaughn O. Lang]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2014 deaths, American military people, People from Pennsylvania

Vaughn Olin Lang (November 10, 1927 – October 2, 2014) was an American lieutenant general in the United States Army. Lang began his service as 2LT at the Officers’ Basic Course at Ft. Monmouth, New Jersey in 1952. He served in the Radio-Radar Procurement Branch and in the European Trans-Atlantic Project. Lang was a general during the Vietnam War. Lang was born in Williamsburg, Pennsylvania.

Lang died on October 2, 2014, at his home in Vienna, Virginia, aged 86.

[[Fyodor Cherenkov]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2014 deaths, Russian footballers, People from Moscow

Fyodor Fyodorovich Cherenkov (Фёдор Фёдорович Черенко́в) (25 July 1959 — 4 October 2014) was a Soviet and Russian football midfielder. He played for Spartak Moscow (1977–90 and 1991–94) and Red Star Football Club (1990–91). Cherenkov made 34 appearances for USSR national football team, scoring 12 goals. He was born in Moscow, Russia.

Cherenkov died in Moscow, Russia, aged 55.

[[Anna Przybylska]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Polish movie actors, Models

Anna Przybylska (26 December 1978 – 5 October 2014) was a Polish actress and model. She was born in Gdynia, Poland. She was ranked high amongst the most beautiful Polish actresses. In 2004, she was chosen to be the Polish ambassador for the ASTOR cometics brand. Two years later, she became the European ambassador for ASTOR. She was known for her role as Jadzia in Kariera Nikosia Dyzmy (2002).

Przybylska died on 5 October 2014 from pancreatic cancer in Gdynia, Poland, aged 35. 

[[Jules Bianchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths in sport, French sportspeople, People from Nice, Racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur

Jules Bianchi (3 August 1989 – 17 July 2015) was a French racing driver. He drove for the Marussia F1 team. He made his Formula One debut in 2013, driving for Marussia alongside Max Chilton. He previously raced in Formula Renault 3.5, the GP2 Series and Formula Three.

During the Japanese Grand Prix on 5 October, Bianchi's car crashed with a recovery vehicle which was helping to the car of Adrian Sutil, who had crashed the lap before. The race was cancelled after the crash. The FIA released a statement that CT scans have shown Bianchi suffered a "severe head injury" in the crash, and he will be transferred to intensive care following surgery. Bianchi died in Nice, France on 17 July 2015 from complications of his injuries at the age of 25.

[[Elya Baskin]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Jewish American actors, Latvian Jews, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Riga, Soviet Jews, Soviet movie actors, Soviet television actors

Ilya (Elya) Zalmanovich Baskin (Илья́ (Э́лиа) За́лманович Ба́скин; Iļja Zalmanovičs Baskins; born 11 August 1950) is a Soviet-American actor of Jewish descent. He is known for his roles in Moscow on Hudson, Air Force One, The Name of the Rose, 2010, October Sky, Spider-Man 2, and in Transformers: Dark of the Moon.

[[Niagara Movement]]

CATEGORIES: Civil rights organizations, Organizations based in the United States

The Niagara Movement, was a civil rights group of African-American activists who wanted equal rights for blacks. It was led by W. E. B. Du Bois. The movement opposed the Atlanta Compromise by Booker T. Washington.

[[Harvard, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska

Harvard is a city in Clay County, Nebraska, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the city population was 1,013.

[[Division of Moncrieff]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Queensland, 1984 establishments in Australia

The Division of Moncrieff is an Australian Electoral Division in Queensland. The division was created in 1984 and is named after Gladys Moncrieff (1892-1976), an Australian singer who lived in the area.

Moncrieff is located in south east Queensland, and includes the central area of the Gold Coast, including Surfers Paradise.

[[Liverpool 8]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Ringo Starr

Liverpool 8 is the fourteenth studio album by Ringo Starr. The album was released on January 15, 2008. It was his first and only studio album on the Capitol Records label.

Liverpool 8 is the postal district of the Toxteth area of Liverpool where Starr was born.

[[Elissa's Quest]]

CATEGORIES: Children's books

Elissa's Quest is a children's fantasy novel written by Erica Verillo. The book was first published on June 26, 2007 and has been printed again twice since then on June 24, 2008 and March 12, 2009. 

The novel is the first in Verillo's The Phoenix Rising trilogy, and is followed by Elissa's Odyssey and World's End. The trilogy follows 13 year old Elissa in a fantasy world where she must team up with several other gifted youngsters and grant the phoenix another regeneration- but even she does not know this. Fate must show her.

The book also has cover art by Omar Rayyan and is aimed for children ages 9 to 12.

[[Almansa]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Spain, Municipalities in Castile-La Mancha

Almansa is a Spanish town and municipality in the province of Albacete.  The municipality borders with Alicante, Valencia and Murcia. Almansa is famous for its Moros y Cristianos festival celebrated from the 1st to the 6th of May.

Almansa is built at the foot of a white limestone cliff. It has a Moorish castle at the top. It is in the middle of a fertile and irrigated plain. About 1 south of the town centre there is an obelisk to remind people of the Battle of Almansa. The battle was fought there on the 25 April 1707 during the War of Spanish Succession. The Duke of Berwick who the son of James II defeated the allied British, Portuguese and Spanish troops.

The Sierra del Mugrón is located in the Almansa city limits.

[[Hoot (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: Newbery Medal winning books, Young adult novels, 2002 books

Hoot is a young adult novel written by Carl Hiaasen. It was originally published in 2002. Hoot won the Newbery Medal in 2003.

The novel is about a boy named Roy Eberhardt and his friends, Beatrice Leep and Mullet Fingers. They work to save a nest of burrowing owls at a construction site. 

The book was turned into a movie in 2006. The movie starred Logan Lerman as Roy, Brie Larson as Beatrice, Cody Linley as Mullet Fingers, Luke Wilson as David Delinko, Tim Blake Nelson as Curly Brannit, and Clark Gregg as Chuck Muckle.

[[Dolphin Song]]

CATEGORIES: Children's books, Novels, 2007 books

Dophin Song is a children's novel by Lauren St. John. It is the second in the Legend of the Animal Healer series. The other books in the series are The White Giraffe, The Last Leopard, and The Elephant's Tale.

Dophin Song was first published on August 1, 2007. It was published nine times from 2008 to 2010. 

The story is about a girl named Martine. She has the ability to heal animals. She has many adventures because of her that. In this book, she and several of her schoolmates get stuck on island out in the middle of nowhere. They have to learn to get along and survive alone.

[[Beach of La Concha]]

CATEGORIES: Beaches of Europe, Geography of Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain

The Beach of La Concha (Kontxa Hondartza, Playa de La Concha) is a beach in the Bay of La Concha (Shell Bay, in Spanish, named for its shape) in San Sebastián, Basque Country. It is one of the most famous urban beaches in Europe.

The beach is sandy. The sand doesn't go very deep. The tide going in and out changes the amount of area that can be used. By the beach there is a long walkway. The beach is known as an urban beach in wide use.

"The Concha stretches out for a kilometre and a half, with the accent on elegance and delightful city views."

[[Santiago de Compostela Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: 12 Treasures of Spain, Galicia, Cathedrals in Spain, 1210s establishments in Europe, 13th century establishments in Spain, 1211 establishments

The Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela (Catedral de Santiago de Compostela) is a cathedral in Galicia in Spain. It is in the World Heritage Site of Santiago de Compostela. People believe that Saint James the Great, one of the apostles of Jesus, is buried there. The building is a Romanesque structure with later Gothic and Baroque additions.

[[City of Arts and Sciences]]

CATEGORIES: 12 Treasures of Spain, Valencia, Entertainment venues

The City of Arts and Sciences (Ciutat de les Arts i les Ciències; Ciudad de las Artes y las Ciencias) is an entertainment-based cultural and architectural complex in the city of Valencia, Spain. It is the most important modern tourist place in the city of Valencia. It is one of the 12 Treasures of Spain.

[[Basilica of Our Lady of the Pillar]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain, Marian shrines, Zaragoza

The Basilica–Cathedral of Our Lady of the Pillar (Catedral-Basílica de Nuestra Señora del Pilar) is a Roman Catholic church in Zaragoza, Aragon, Spain. The Basilica venerates Blessed Virgin Mary, under her title of “Our Lady of the Pillar”. This church is the first church dedicated to Mary.  

This building is one of the 12 Treasures of Spain.

[[M60 Patton]]

CATEGORIES: United States Army

Turret Front

The M60 Patton is a main battle tank (MBT) introduced in December 1960. The M60 became the Army's primary tank during the Cold War. When the Soviet Union got the T-54 tank, the United States decided to upgrade the M48 Patton tank. The armor was improved. It was fitted with the British L7 105 mm tank gun. The army also decided to switch from gasoline to diesel.

[[12 Treasures of Spain]]

CATEGORIES: 12 Treasures of Spain

The 12 Treasures of Spain (12 Tesoros de España) was a project that selected the "Twelve Treasures of the Kingdom of Spain". The contest was done by two companies: Antena 3 and Cope. The final results were announced on 31 December 2007. Nine architectural monuments, two natural monuments and a monument pictorial were chosen.

[[Calahorra Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, La Rioja

The Cathedral of Santa María (Catedral de Santa María) is a cathedral in Calahorra, Spain. It was declared a Bien de Interés Cultural (Spanish property of cultural interest) in 1931.

[[Opel Karl]]

CATEGORIES: Opel automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 2010s automobiles

The Opel Karl is a small car from the German carmaker Opel. It is sold in the UK as a Vauxhall Viva, a name last used on a medium-sized car sold for 3 generations between 1963 and 1979. 

[[Pamplona Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Pamplona

Pamplona Cathedral is a famous Roman catholic cathedral in Spain. It is the seat of archdiocese of Pamplona, Spain. It is famous for its Gothic architecture. 

[[Valladolid Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Valladolid

The Cathedral of Our Lady of the Holy Assumption (Catedral de Nuestra Señora de la Asunción), better known as Valladolid Cathedral, is a Roman Catholic cathedral in Valladolid, Spain. It was designed by Juan de Herrera.

[[Badajoz Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Extremadura, 1276 establishments, 13th century establishments in Spain, 1270s establishments in Europe

The Metropolitan Cathedral of Saint John the Baptist of Badajoz (Catedral metropolitana de San Juan Bautista de Badajoz) is a Roman Catholic cathedral church in Badajoz, Extremadura, western Spain. It is the seat of the Archdiocese of Mérida-Badajoz.

[[Oviedo Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Oviedo, 9th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in Spain

The Metropolitan Cathedral Basilica of the Holy Saviour or Cathedral of San Salvador (Catedral Metropolitana Basílica de San Salvador, Sancta Ovetensis) is a Roman Catholic cathedral and minor basilica in the centre of Oviedo, in the Asturias region of northern  Spain.

Many styles of architectural styles were used in building the cathedral. They include Romanesque, Gothic and Renaissance. It began as a large Pre-Romanesque basilica in the present location of the Gothic cathedral. That first building was built by order of King Alfonso II of Asturias.

[[La Seo Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Zaragoza, 1318 establishments, Establishments in Spain, 1310s establishments in Europe

The Cathedral of the Savior (Catedral del Salvador) is a Roman Catholic cathedral in Zaragoza, Spain. It is part of the World Heritage Site Mudéjar Architecture of Aragon.

[[Alcazaba of Almería]]

CATEGORIES: 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, Andalusia, Castles in Spain, 10th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in Spain

The Alcazaba of Almería is a fortified complex in Almería, southern Spain.  The word alcazaba, from the Arabic word Kasbah|al-qasbah, means a walled-fortification in a city.

The Alcazaba of Almería was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Cabo de Gata-Níjar Natural Park]]

CATEGORIES: 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, Andalusia, Parks, 1997 establishments in Europe

''Cabo de Gata-Níjar'' Natural Park is in the south-eastern corner of Spain. It is Andalusia's largest coastal protected area. It is a wild and isolated landscape with some of Europe's most original geological features. It is the only region in Europe with a Warm Desert climate.

Cabo de Gata-Níjar was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Palacio de la Magdalena]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, Cantabria, Former royal residences, 20th century establishments in Spain

The Palacio de la Magdalena (Spanish for Magdalena Palace)  is an early 20th-century palace in Spain. It is on the Magdalena Peninsula of the city of Santander, Cantabria.

The Palacio de la Magdalena was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Defensin]]

CATEGORIES: Proteins, Immunology

A defensin is a small cation protein found in animals and plants. They are host defence peptides. They work against bacteria, fungi and many viruses. 

Defensins have 18-45 amino acids including six to eight conserved cysteine residues. Cells of the immune system have these peptides to help kill phagocytosed bacteria. Those cells include neutrophil granulocytes and almost all epithelial cells. Most defensins work by binding to the microbial cell membrane. Once there, they make tiny holes in the membrane which allow vital ions and nutrients to leak out.

[[Málaga Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Malaga, 1782 establishments, 18th century establishments in Spain, 1780s establishments in Europe

The Cathedral of Málaga is a Renaissance cathedral in the city of Málaga in Andalusia, Spain. It was constructed between 1528 and 1782. 

[[Expecting Amish]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 drama movies, Television movies

Expecting Amish is a 2014 drama made for television movie. It was shown on the Lifetime channel.

[[Girona Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, 11th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in Spain

The Cathedral of Saint Mary of Girona is the  cathedral church of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Girona, located in Girona, Catalonia, Spain.  Its interior includes the widest  Gothic nave in the world. It has a width of 22. In size it is second only to St. Peter's Basilica. By comparison, the width of the nave of Reims is 14.65, Saint-Étienne de Sens, 15.25 m and 12, in Notre Dame de Paris.

[[Garajonay National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Spain, World Heritage Sites in Spain, 1981 establishments in Europe, Canary Islands, 1980s establishments in Spain

Garajonay National Park (Parque nacional de Garajonay) is one of the national parks of Spain. It is located in the center and north of the island of La Gomera which is one of the Canary Islands off the coast of Morocco.

It is named for Alto de Garajonay which is the highest peak on the island. The park is usually covered by clouds which helps preserve over 150 species of plants. Garajonay became a national park in 1981. It was declared as World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1986. It occupies 40 km2 (15 sq mi) and it extends into each of the six municipalities on the island.

[[Santa María del Naranco]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Spain, Churches in Spain, Asturias, 848 establishments, Establishments in Spain, 9th century establishments in Europe

The church of St Mary at Mount Naranco (Iglesia de Santa María del Naranco) is a Roman Catholic church in Oviedo, northern Spain. It was built in 848 as a royal palace for King Ramiro I of Asturias. It was changed into a church during the 13th century. Santa María church is an example of Asturian pre-Romanesque architecture. In 1985 it was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. It was declared Bien de Interés Cultural in 1885. The Church of St Mary at Mount Naranco was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Royal Palace of Aranjuez]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces in Spain, World Heritage Sites in Spain, Art museums in Spain, Community of Madrid

The Royal Palace of Aranjuez (Palacio Real de Aranjuez) is one of the places the King of Spain lives. It is located in the town of Aranjuez, Community of Madrid, Spain. The palace is open to the public as one of the Spanish royal sites.

It was originally the site of a medieval hunting lodge. Philip II built it as a modest summer palace. The palace was designed by Juan Bautista de Toledo and Juan de Herrera who also designed El Escorial. Later kings kept adding to it. It was completed during the reign of Ferdinand VI in the mid-18th century. Charles III added two wings to it. By that time the palace had over 300 rooms.

The Royal Palace of Aranjuez was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Host defence peptide]]

CATEGORIES: Immunology, Proteins

A Host defence peptide (or antimicrobial peptide)  is one of a part of the innate immune response. They are found among all classes of life.

They act against invading microorganisms. The peptides kill Gram negative and Gram positive bacteria. This includes strains which are resistant to conventional antibiotics. The peptides also work against mycobacteria (including Mycobacterium tuberculosis), enveloped viruses, fungi and even transformed or cancerous cells.

These peptides are excellent candidates for medical use. They complement conventional antibiotic therapy. They have a broad range of activity, and are bactericidal as opposed to bacteriostatic. They need only a short contact time to kill bacteria.

There are big differences between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells as targets for antimicrobial peptides. These peptides are potent, broad spectrum antibiotics. Unlike most antibiotics it seems that antimicrobial peptides may also improve immunity by working as immunomodulators (beefing up the immune system).

[[Mar Menor]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists

Mar Menor (ˈmar meˈnor, "Minor sea") is a salty lagoon, in the southeast of the autonomous community of Murcia, in Spain. It separated from the Mediterranean sea by La Manga, a sandbar 22 in length and with a width ranging from 100 to 1200.

[[Fury (2014 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 movies, 2010s war movies, American war movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Germany, Movies set in the 1940s, World War II movies

Fury is a 2014 American war movie starring Brad Pitt. It is set in Germany in April 1945. The release date was October 17, 2014.

[[Palacio de Galiana]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces in Spain, Castile-La Mancha

The Palacio de Galiana is a palace in Toledo, Spain. It is on the borders of the Tagus River. It was built where there had been a summer house and garden of the king Al-Mamun, the king of the Taifa of Toledo. It was built in the thirteenth century by king Alphonso X.

[[Poblet Monastery]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Spain, Catalonia, Buildings and structures in Spain, Monasteries, 12th century establishments in Spain

The Royal Abbey of Santa Maria de Poblet (Reial Monestir de Santa Maria de Poblet) is a Cistercian monastery. The abbey is located at the feet of the Prades Mountains, in the comarca of Conca de Barberà, in Catalonia (Spain). It was founded in 1150 by Ramon Berenguer IV, Count of Barcelona. It was the first of three monasteries that made up the "Cistercian triangle". The other two were Vallbona de les Monges and Santes Creus. The main architect was Arnau Bargués.

[[Cysteine]]

CATEGORIES: Amino acids

Cysteine (abbreviated as Cys or C) is an α-amino acid. It has the chemical formula HO2CCH(NH2)CH2SH. 

Cysteine is a semi-essential amino acid, which means that humans can make it. The codons UGU and UGC code for cysteine. The thiol side chain in cysteine often does enzyme reactions as a nucleophile. The thiol oxidises to give the disulfide derivative cystine, which is important in many protein structures. When used as a food additive, cysteine has the E number E920.

[[Lugo Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals

Saint Mary's Cathedral (Catedral de Santa María), better known as Lugo Cathedral, is a Roman Catholic cathedral and basilica. It is located in Lugo, Galicia (Spain). It was built starting from the early 12th century. It was started in the Romanesque style. During its construction the style changed to Gothic and Baroque architecture. 

[[Terrassa Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Catalonia

Terrassa Cathedral, or the Cathedral Basilica of the Holy Spirit (Catedral de Terrassa, Catedral del Sant Esperit, Catedral de Tarrasa, Catedral del Espírito Santo), is a Roman Catholic cathedral on the plaça Vella of Terrassa. It is the seat of the Diocese of Terrassa.

[[Teruel Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Aragon

The Cathedral of Teruel is a church in Teruel, Aragon, Spain. It belongs to St. Mary. It is a notable example of Mudéjar architecture. Since 1986, it has been part of the UNESCO Heritage site Mudéjar Architecture of Aragon.

[[Monfragüe]]

CATEGORIES: Extremadura, National parks in Spain, 2007 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Spain

Monfragüe is a comarca (country, with no administrative role) of Extremadura, western Spain. It contains one of the country's fifteen National Parks, Parque Nacional Monfragüe.

Since 1979, the area has been protected as a natural park.

Monfragüe was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Sierra Nevada National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Spain, Andalusia, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists

The  Sierra Nevada National Park (Spanish: Parque Nacional Sierra Nevada) is a national park in Spain. It is in the Granada and Almería provinces. Its area is 85883.

Sierra Nevada was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Baeza Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Andalusia, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists

The Cathedral of Baeza (Catedral de Baeza), in full the Cathedral of the Nativity of Our Lady of Baeza (Catedral de la Natividad de Nuestra Señora de Baeza) is a Roman Catholic cathedral in Baeza, Andalusia, Spain. It was built in the styles of the Renaissance. It is part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site with other monuments in Baeza and the nearby city of Úbeda. The cathedral was one of 100 nominees for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Tower of Hercules]]

CATEGORIES: Lighthouses, World Heritage Sites in Spain

The Tower of Hercules (Galician and Torre de Hércules) is an ancient Roman lighthouse in Spain. It is on a peninsula about 2.4 from the centre of A Coruña, Galicia.

The tower is a National Monument of Spain. Since June 27, 2009, it has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site.  It is the second tallest lighthouse in Spain, after the Faro de Chipiona.

The Tower of Hercules was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Monasteries of San Millán de la Cogolla]]

CATEGORIES: La Rioja, Monasteries, World Heritage Sites in Spain

The monasteries of San Millán de Suso (6th century) and San Millán de Yuso (11th century) are two monasteries in the village of San Millán de la Cogolla, La Rioja, Spain.  They were designated a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in December 1997.

The first written text in spanish and euskera was found there in the book called “glosas Emilianenses”.This treasure is the reason why this place is part of the human patrimony.

The monasteries were one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Latin cross]]

CATEGORIES: Christian symbols

A Latin cross or Crux immissa is a type of Christian cross in which the vertical beam sticks above the crossbeam. This is the main representation of the cross by which Jesus Christ was crucified. The Latin cross began as a Roman Catholic emblem but later became a universal symbol of Christianity. If displayed upside down it is called St. Peter's Cross because he was reputedly executed on this type of cross. When displayed sideways it is called St. Philip's cross for the same reason.

A Latin cross plan is a floor plan found in many cathedrals and churches. When looked at from above or in plan view it takes the shape of a Latin cross (crux immissa). The Latin cross plans have a nave with aisles or chapels, or both and a transept that forms the arms of the cross. It also has at least one apse that traditionally faces east. Many also have a narthex at the entry.

[[Ambulatory]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements, Church architecture

The ambulatory (Medieval Latin ambulatorium) is the covered passage around a cloister.  The term is sometimes applied to the procession way around the east end of a cathedral or large church. This is usually behind the high altar. 

[[Barrel vault]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements

A barrel vault, also known as a tunnel vault or a wagon vault, is a type of ceiling. It is an architectural element formed by the extension of a simple arch. It forms the shape of a semicircle over parallel walls.

[[Hunter Pence]]

CATEGORIES: Houston Astros players, Philadelphia Phillies players, San Francisco Giants players, People from Fort Worth, Texas, 1983 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Texas, National League All-Stars

Hunter Andrew Pence (born April 13, 1983) is an American Major League Baseball player.  Pence plays for the San Francisco Giants.  He plays the position outfielder.  He previously played for the Houston Astros and Philadelphia Phillies. Pence is 6 tall. He weighs 210. He bats and throws right-handed. Pence was with the San Francisco Giants when they won the World Series in 2012.

[[Pontifícia Universidade Católica de Minas Gerais]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Brazil, Minas Gerais, 1958 establishments, 1950s establishments in Brazil

Pontifícia Universidade Católica de Minas Gerais (short PUC-MG) is a university of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais. It was established in 1958. It is one of the five largest universities in Brazil. In 2010 it was nominated the best private university in Brazil by Best Universities.

[[Walls of Ávila]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Spain, 12th century establishments in Spain

The Walls of Ávila in central Spain were completed between the 11th and 12th centuries. They are the city's principal historic feature.

[[Intersection (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Mark Rydell

Intersection is a 1994 drama movie. The movie is about an architect who has flashbacks when his Mercedes crashes. Lolita Davidovich plays Olivia Marshak. Sharon Stone plays Sally Eastman. Jennifer Morrison also stars in the movie.

The reviews of the movie were negative. It did poorly in the box office.

[[Hanging Houses of Cuenca]]

CATEGORIES: Architecture, Buildings and structures in Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, 14th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in Spain

The Casas Colgadas (Hanging Houses), also known as Casas Voladas, Casas del Rey is a complex of houses located in Cuenca, Spain. Houses of this kind were frequent along the eastern border of the ancient city in the past. They hang on the cliffs over the Huécar River gorge. Today there are only a few of the houses still there. The most well known is a group of three with wooden balconies. The houses date to the 14th century. Through the years they have been refurbished a few times. The most recent took place during the 1920s. They have been used as individual homes. They have also been used as council houses. Now they are the host to a mesón, a type of restaurant, and the Museo de Arte Abstracto Español (Spanish Abstract Art Museum), in Cuenca.

The Casas Colgadas were one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Blink (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 crime movies, 1994 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, 1994 mystery movies, American crime drama movies, American mystery movies, English-language movies, Film noir, Movies about entertainers, Movies about murderers, Movies about stalking, Movies set in Chicago, Illinois

Blink is a 1994 American neo noir crime drama mystery movie. It is set in Chicago. The movie is about a young blind musician. She has surgery that makes her see again. Madeleine Stowe plays Emma Brody. Laurie Metcalf plays Candice.

This movie got mixed to positive reviews.

[[David Chavchavadze]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2014 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American writers, Civil servants, Writers from London

Prince David Chavchavadze (20 May 1924 – 5 October 2014) was an British-born American author and civil servant. He was a former Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) officer for the United States. He is of a Georgian-Russian origin. He was born in London, England.

Chavchavadze died in his sleep on 5 October 2014 in Washington, D.C., after a long illness, aged 90.

[[Serhiy Zakarlyuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2014 deaths, Road accident deaths, Ukrainian footballers

Serhiy Volodymyrovych Zakarlyuka (17 August 1976 – 6 October 2014) was a Ukrainian footballer and football manager. 

Zakarlyuka has played for a number of clubs in Ukraine and played for the Ukraine national team on 9 occasions between 2002 and 2004.

On 6 October 2014, Zakarlyuka was killed in the traffic accident just outside of Poltava.

[[Palma Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, 1600s establishments in Europe, Establishments in Spain, 1601 establishments

The Cathedral of Santa Maria of Palma is a Gothic Roman Catholic cathedral located in Palma, Majorca, Spain. It was built on the site of a pre-existing Arab mosque. It is 121 metres long and 55 metres wide. Its nave is 44 metres tall. 

The cathedral was styled in the Catalan Gothic style. It has Northern European influences. The building was it was started by King James I of Aragon in 1229. It was finished building in 1601. It sits within the old city of Palma. It is on top of the former citadel of the Roman city. It is between the Royal Palace of La Almudaina and the episcopal palace. It overlooks the Parc de la Mar and the Mediterranean Sea.

Fifty years after a restoration of the cathedral had started in 1901 Antoni Gaudí was invited to take over the project. Some of his ideas were adopted. He moved the choir stalls from the middle nave to be closer to the altar. He also made a large canopy. Gaudí abandoned his work in 1914 after an argument with the contractor. The planned changes were cosmetic rather than structural. The project was cancelled soon after.

The Cathedral of Santa Maria of Palma was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Zzyzx, California]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in California, Settlements in San Bernardino County, California

Zzyzx ˈ, formerly Camp Soda and Soda Springs, is an unincorporated community in San Bernardino County, California, United States. It is within the boundaries of Mojave National Preserve.

[[Anna Maria Gherardi]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Emilia-Romagna, Italian movie actors, Italian voice actors, People from Bologna

Anna Maria Gherardi (21 March 1939 – 5 October 2014) was an Italian actress and voice actress. She was known for her roles in Lost Love and in Petomaniac. She was born in Bologna, Italy.

Gherardi died in Rome, Italy, aged 75.

[[Peer Augustinski]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2014 deaths, German movie actors, German voice actors, Actors from Berlin

Peer Augustinski (June 25, 1940 – October 3, 2014) was a German actor and voice actor. He was born in Berlin. He was the official German dub-over artist of Robin Williams. Augustinski voice dubbed nearly all of Williams' work such as Awakenings, Toys, Good Will Hunting, Aladdin, and Dead Poets Society.

Augustinski died in Cologne, aged 84.

[[Time Warner Cable News NY1]]

CATEGORIES: Television channels

NY1 (also known as Time Warner Cable News NY1 and spoken as "New York One") is an American cable news television channel. It is owned by Time Warner Cable. The channel provides 24-hour news coverage, with a focus on the five boroughs of New York City. Its programming primarily features news and weather forecasts. NY1 also features specialty programs such as Inside City Hall (which is renamed Road to City Hall during New York City mayoral elections).

[[Winter Solstice (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 establishments in the United States, 2000s American music groups, 2006 disestablishments in the United States, Metalcore bands, Musical groups disestablished in 2006, Musical groups established in 2000, Musical groups from Virginia

Winter Solstice is an American christian metalcore band formed in 2000. The group split up in 2006.

[[Palmeral of Elche]]

CATEGORIES: 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, Alicante Province, World Heritage Sites in Spain

The Palmeral or Palm Grove of Elche (Spanish: Palmeral de Elche, Valencian: Palmerar d'Elx) is the generic name for the date palm orchards in the city of Elche (Spain).

In the urban area of Elche there are a total of 97 different orchards. They contain about 70,000 date palms. Most of them are in the east bank of the Vinalopó. This number does not include other large plantations located around the city. The total may be near 200,000 palms. The Palm Grove covers over 3.5, including 1.5 in the city of Elche.

It is the only palm grove of its type anywhere in Europe. It is the largest in the world. The Palm Grove of Elche was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Rolling coal]]

CATEGORIES: Air pollution

Rolling coal is a term used to describe the result of intentionally removing the pollution controls on diesel trucks or cars. This causes the vehicle to produce black, sooty exhaust. Participants often "roll coal" on pedestrians, bicyclists and drivers of hybrid vehicles.

[[Park Güell]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Spain, World Heritage Sites in Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, 1914 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in Spain

The Park Güell (Catalan: Parc Güell) is a public park system of gardens and architectonic elements. It is located on Carmelo Hill, in Barcelona (Spain). Carmelo Hill belongs to the mountain range of Sierra de Collserola — the Parque del Carmelo (Catalan: Parc del Carmel) is located on the northern face. Park Güell is located in La Salut, a neighborhood in the Gràcia district of Barcelona. With urbanization in mind, Eusebi Güell gave the design of the park to architect Antoni Gaudí. He designed the park in the Catalonian modernism style. The park was built between 1900 and 1914. It opened as a public park in 1926. 

In 1984, UNESCO declared the park a World Heritage Site under “Works of Antoni Gaudí”.

Park Güell was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Edward Albee]]

CATEGORIES: Pulitzer Prize winners, 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in New York, American playwrights, Gay men, LGBT writers, LGBT people from New York, Writers from New York, Writers from Virginia, Writers from Washington, D.C.

Edward Franklin Albee III (ˈ AWL; March 12, 1928 – September 16, 2016) was an American playwright. He was known for works such as The Zoo Story (1958), The Sandbox (1959), Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1962), and a rewrite of the book for the unsuccessful musical Breakfast at Tiffany's (1966), an adaptation of Truman Capote's 1958 novella of the same name.

Albee was openly gay and stated that he first knew he was gay at age 12 and a half.

Albee died on September 16, 2016 at his home in Montauck, New York from complications of diabetes, aged 88.

[[Why, Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Arizona

Why (O'odham: Ban Hi:nk) is a tiny unincorporated rural community in Pima County, Arizona, United States. 

Why is near the western border of the Tohono O'Odham Indian Reservation. It is due north of Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument in Southern Arizona. 

Why is about thirty miles north of the Mexican border where Lukeville, Arizona, and Sonoita, Sonora, Mexico, border each other. It is ten miles south of Ajo, Arizona.

[[Logic programming]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

Logic programming is using mathematical logic to write computer programs. There are specialized programming languages where the user can directly enter logical statements. Probably the best-known of these languages is called Prolog. Alonzo Church used a form of logic programming in what is known as lambda calculus today. Logic programming has also been used in LISP. 

[[Besmilr Brigham]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2000 deaths, American poets, Writers from Mississippi, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease

Besmilr Brigham (1913-2000) was an American poet.  She also wrote short stories.

Brigham was born Bess Miller Moore in Pace, Mississippi. She graduated from Mary Hardin-Baylor College (now University of Mary Hardin–Baylor) in Belton, Texas. After that, she studied at the New School for Social Research in New York. In New York she met Roy Brigham. Then she married him.

According to the Encyclopedia of Arkansas History & Culture, "She came to prominence during the women’s movement of the 1960s, and her work is noted for its innovative structure, sound, and rhythm."

Brigham is also known as Besmilr Moore Brigham.  The Besmilr Women Writers Award is named after her.

[[Rule of inference]]

CATEGORIES: Rules of inference

In logic, a rule of inference, inference rule, or  transformation rule is a logical form consisting of a function which takes premises, analyzes their syntax, and returns a conclusion. For example, the rule of inference called modus ponens takes two premises, one in the form "If p then q" and another in the form "p", and returns the conclusion "q". The rule is valid with respect to the semantics of classical logic, in the sense that if the premises are true, then so is the conclusion.

Typically, a rule of inference preserves truth, a semantic property. In many-valued logic, it preserves a general designation. But a rule of inference's action is purely syntactic, and does not need to preserve any semantic property: any function from sets of formulae to formulae counts as a rule of inference. Usually only rules that are recursive are important; i.e. rules such that there is an effective procedure for determining whether any given formula is the conclusion of a given set of formulae according to the rule.

Popular rules of inference in propositional logic include modus ponens, modus tollens, and contraposition. First-order predicate logic uses rules of inference to deal with logical quantifiers.

[[Logical quantifier]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

In logic, a quantifier is a way to state that a certain number of elements fulfill some criteria.  For example, every natural number has another natural number larger than it. In this example, the word "every" is a quantifier. Therefore, the sentence "every natural number has another natural number larger than it" is a quantified expression. 

Quantifiers and quantified expressions are a useful part of formal languages. They are useful because they let rigorous statements claim how widespread a criteria is. Two basic kinds of quantifiers used in predicate logic are universal and existential quantifiers. A universal quantifier states that all the elements considered fulfill the criteria. The universal quantifier is symbolized with "∀", an upside down "A", to stand for "all". An existence quantifier (symbolized with "∃") states that at least one element considered fits the criteria. The existential quantifier is symbolized with "∃", a backwards "E", to stand for "exists".

Quantifiers are also used in natural languages. Examples of quantifiers in English include for all, for some, many, few, a lot, and no.

[[Universal quantifier]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

In mathematics and logic, the universal quantifier is a quantifier used to state that a proposition applies to all elements in the universe of discourse. An example that uses this quantifier would be the proposition "All men are mortal".  Usually, a turned A (∀) is used to denote the universal quantifier, "for all x" is written as either "∀x", "∀(x)".

Predicate logic and syllogisms look at the properties of universal quantification.

Propositions can be falsified. To falsify a proposition which contains a universal quantifier, it is sufficient to find one element of the universe of discourse where the proposition is false. This element is known as a counterexample.

[[Existence quantifier]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

[[Universe of discourse]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Communication

In mathematics, the universe of discourse or domain of discourse is a set of all elements to which a function applies. A variable can take any of the values in its universe of discourse. 

The term is also used informally. 

[[The Banger Sisters]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, English-language movies, Female buddy movies, Movies set in Arizona, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Phoenix, Arizona in fiction

The Banger Sisters is a 2002 American comedy drama movie. The movie is about two middle-aged women who were groupies when they were young. Goldie Hawn plays Suzette. Susan Sarandon plays Vinnie.

This movie was released in September of 2002. It made quite a bit of money at the box office.

[[Maid in Manhattan]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 comedy-drama movies, 2002 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Manhattan in fiction, Movies set in New York City

Maid in Manhattan is a 2002 romantic comedy-drama movie. It is about a hotel maid and a politician who fall in love with each other. Jennifer Lopez plays Marisa. Ralph Fiennes plays Christopher. Natasha Richardson plays Caroline.

This movie got negative reviews from critics. It made lots of money anyway. This movie was released in December 2002.

[[Bryan McCabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey coaches, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Chicago Blackhawks players, Florida Panthers players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, New York Islanders players, New York Rangers players, Medicine Hat Tigers players, Spokane Chiefs players, Swedish Hockey League players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vancouver Canucks players

Bryan McCabe (born June 8, 1975) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey defenceman. He played a career total of 1135 games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the New York Islanders, Vancouver Canucks, Chicago Blackhawks, Toronto Maple Leafs, Florida Panthers, and the New York Rangers.

[[Jean-Yves Leroux]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, American Hockey League players, Beauport Harfangs players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Living people, Quebec Major Junior Hockey League players, Sportspeople from Montreal

Jean-Yves Leroux (born June 24, 1976) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey left winger. He played a career total of 220 games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played his entire NHL career with the Chicago Blackhawks.

[[Maspalomas Dunes]]

CATEGORIES: 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, Canary Islands

The Maspalomas Dunes are sand dunes located on the south coast of the island of Gran Canaria, Province of Las Palmas in the Canary Islands. A 404 hectare area of the municipality of San Bartolomé de Tirajana, they have been protected as a nature reserve. They are one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Timanfaya National Park]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 establishments, 1970s establishments in Spain

Timanfaya National Park (Parque Nacional de Timanfaya) is a Spanish national park in the southwestern part of the island of Lanzarote, Canary Islands. It covers parts of the municipalities Tinajo and Yaiza. The area is 51.07. The parkland is entirely made up of volcanic soil.

Timanfaya National Park is one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[León Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain

Santa María de León Cathedral, also called The House of Light or the Pulchra Leonina is in the city of León in north-western Spain. It is the third Roman Catholic cathedral to be built on the site of what was originally a Roman bath. The first cathedral was built by King Ordoño II of León. It was probably built in the Mozarabic style but was damaged in the 990s. The second cathedral was consecrated in 1073. It was built in the Romanesque style of architecture. The present Gothic style cathedral was started in 1255. It was completed about 50 years later. The cathedral has some of the finest examples of stained glass windows in all of Europe.

[[Las Médulas]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Spain

Las Médulas (As Médulas or As Meduas in Galician language) is a historical site  near the town of Ponferrada, Spain. It used to be the most important gold mine in the Roman Empire. In order to remove the gold, the Romans washed away an entire mountain. From the 2nd to the 4th century AD the Romans used slaves to mine about 900 tons of gold. It left a series of rock pinnacles, gullies, caves and tunnels. Las Médulas is listed by the UNESCO as one of the World Heritage Sites.

[[Roman Walls of Lugo]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Spain

The Roman Walls of Lugo (Spanish, Galician: Muralla Romana de Lugo) were constructed in the 3rd century AD. The walls were created as late Roman Empire fortifications. They are still largely intact today. They stretch over 2 around the historic centre of Lugo in Galicia (Spain). Located on a hilltop the walls have a wide ditch directly in front of them. The walls average about 10 in height and are up to 8 thick. At the front of the wall there are a series of semicircular towers up to 13 in diameter. The walls are constructed of schist from the local area. The walls have been declared a World Heritage site.

[[La Seu Vella, Lleida]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Catalonia

The La Seu Vella (also called Cathedral of St. Mary of La Seu Vella; Catalan and Spanish: Catedral de Santa Maria de la Seu Vella, St. Mary of the Old See) is the Roman catholic cathedral of the Diocese of Lleida. It is in Lleida, Catalonia, Spain, on top of Lleida hill.

[[Reichssicherheitshauptamt]]

CATEGORIES: Reichssicherheitshauptamt

The RSHA, or Reichssicherheitshauptamt (Reich Main Security Office or Reich Security Main Office or Reich Security Head Office) was an organization headed by Heinrich Himmler. This was in his dual capacities as Chef der Deutschen Polizei (Chief of German Police) and Reichsführer-SS. The organization's stated duty was to fight all "enemies of the Reich" inside and outside the borders of Nazi Germany.

[[Cathedral of Murcia]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, Murcia

The Cathedral Church of Saint Mary in Murcia (Iglesia Catedral de Santa María en Murcia), commonly called the Cathedral of Murcia, is a church in Murcia, Spain. It is the only cathedral in use in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Cartagena in Spain.

The Cathedral Church of Saint Mary in Murcia was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Roman Theatre]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain, Region of Murcia, 1st-century BC establishments

The Roman Theatre is an ancient Roman theatre in Cartagena, Spain. The theatre was built between 5 BC and 1 BC.

[[Jaén Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, 1724 establishments, 18th century establishments in Spain, 1720s establishments in Europe

The Assumption of the Virgin Cathedral is a Spanish Renaissance cathedral located in Santa María Square in Jaén, Spain. It is across from the Town Hall and the Episcopal Palace (Archbishop's palace). The Santa María Square is one of the historical sites in Jaén. The cathedral stands on the same ground that was once occupied by an early mosque. 

Construction of the cathedral began in 1249. It was built on the ruins of an early Spanish mosque. It was damaged and rebuilt on numerous occasions during the following two centuries. In the sixteenth century Andrés de Vandelvira built the biggest part of the Cathedral. It was consecrated in 1724.

The more representative architectural element is its façade. It was designed by Eufrasio López de Rojas. It was sculpted by Pedro Roldán. It houses the Veil of Veronica. In 1545 the young Francisco Guerrero was the maestro de capilla.

Jaén Cathedral is one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Tim Salmon]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1968 births, California Angels players, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim players

Timothy James Salmon (born August 24, 1968), is a former Major League Baseball player. He played for the California Angels from 1992 to 2004 and again, with the renamed Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in 2006. He won the World Series with the Angels in 2002. He hit 299 home runs in his career.

[[Peter Carington, 6th Baron Carrington]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2018 deaths, Civil servants, Secretaries General of NATO, Politicians from Buckinghamshire

Peter Alexander Rupert Carington, 6th Baron Carrington (6 June 1919 – 9 July 2018) was a British Conservative politician.

He served as British Defence Secretary between 1970 and 1974, Foreign Secretary between 1979 and 1982 and as the sixth Secretary General of NATO from 1984 to 1988. He was the last surviving member of the Cabinets of both Harold Macmillan and Sir Alec Douglas-Home.

Carington died on 9 July 2018, aged 99.

[[Sergio Balanzino]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Secretaries General of NATO, Italian politicians, People from Bologna, Ambassadors to Canada

Sergio Silvio Balanzino (born 20 June 1934) is an Italian diplomat. Balanzino was born in Bologna, Italy.

He served as the Italian ambassador to Canada from May 1990 to January 1994. He then became the Deputy Secretary General of NATO before briefly becoming acting Secretary General twice. Firstly by replacing Manfred Wörner on August 13, 1994 after the latter resigned in the last stages of cancer. He was then replaced by Willy Claes on October 17, 1994 who resigned on alleged corruption charges on October 20, 1995. 

Balanzino, who had gone back to being Deputy, again took over the reins until he was replaced on December 5, 1995 by Javier Solana. 

[[Heat transfer]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics, Heat transfer

Heat transfer is the way the heat moves from one physical system (or body) to another. Heat transfer requires a difference in temperature. Heat moves from the hotter body (higher temperature) to the colder one (lower temperature). The bodies in question may be in a solid state, a liquid state or a gaseous state. There are three modes of heat transfer: conduction, convection and radiation.

[[Martin Walser]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, German writers

Martin Walser (born 24 March 1927) is a German writer. He became famous for talking about the troubles for anti-heroes he had in his novels and stories. In 1998 he was awarded the Peace Prize of the German Book Trade in Frankfurt. Walser was born in Wasserburg am Bodensee, on Lake Constance.

[[Hans Magnus Enzensberger]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, German poets, People from Nuremberg, Writers from Bavaria

Hans Magnus Enzensberger (born 11 November 1929) is a German author, poet, translator and editor. He has also written under the pseudonym Andreas Thalmayr. He was born in Kaufbeuren, Bavaria. He moved to Nuremberg in 1931. Enzensberger has a sarcastic, ironic tone in many of his poems.

[[Ōfunato, Iwate]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Iwate Prefecture

Ōfunato is a city in southeastern Iwate, Japan.

The city of Ōfunato was originally part of the ancient Mutsu Province. It has been settled since the Jōmon period. The modern village of Ōfunato was made within Kesen District, Iwate on April 1, 1889. In 1896, the Meiji-Sanriku earthquake caused a 25 meter tsunami that killed 27,000 people in Sanriku. Ōfunato was promoted officially promoted to town status on April 1, 1932. In 1933, a 8.4 magnitude earthquake stuck the town and caused a 28 meter tsunami that killed 1522 people. On April 1, 1952, the town of Sakari, and villages of Akasaki, Takkon, Massaki, Ikawa and Hikoroichi all merged with Ōfunato to form the city. On November 15, 2001, the town of Sanriku (from Kesen District) also merged into Ōfunato.

[[El Escorial, Madrid]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in the Community of Madrid

El Escorial is a municipality in the administrative district of Madrid. It is located 45 northwest of the Spanish capital Madrid. Its population in 2013 was 15,197.

[[Heritage of Mercury. Almadén and Idrija]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Spain

Heritage of Mercury. Almadén and Idrija is a joint UNESCO World Heritage site in Almadén, Spain, and Idrija, Slovenia. The property includes two mercury mining sites. In Almadén mercury has been extracted since antiquity, while in Idrija it was first found in 1490 AD. The Almadén site includes buildings relating to its mining history. These include Retamar Castle, religious buildings and traditional houses. The site in Idrija notably features mercury storage and infrastructure. It also includes miners’ living quarters, and a miners’ theatre. The sites shows how trade in mercury generated important exchanges between Europe and America over the centuries. The two sites represent the two largest mercury mines in the world and were working mines until recent times.

[[Bardenas Reales]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Spain

The Bardenas Reales is a semi-desert natural region, or badlands. It is about 42000 and is located in southeast Navarre (Spain). The soils are made up of clay, chalk and sandstone. They have been eroded by water and wind. This has created a number of shapes, canyons, plateaus, tabular structures and isolated hills, called seamounts. Bardenas lacks urban areas and vegetation is scarce.

[[Ryan VandenBussche]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Living people, New York Rangers players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Ontario Hockey League players

Ryan VandenBussche (born February 28, 1973) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey right winger. He played a career total of 9 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the New York Rangers, Chicago Blackhawks, and Pittsburgh Penguins. He was known for his pugilistic skills.

[[Inverse-square law]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

In physics, an inverse-square law is a physical law that states that the farther away an object is from an effect, or a physical quantity causing an effect, the less change can be observed in the object.

The following are examples of when this law applies:

If the object is seen farther away then that means the object has higher radiation. Kepler discovered 2849NgC in the year 1. The formula he developed is p=1/d

[[Sant Feliu de Llobregat Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Catalonia

Sant Feliu de Llobregat Cathedral or the Cathedral of Saint Lawrence (Catedral de Sant Feliu de Llobregat, Catedral de Sant Llorenç, Catedral de San Feliú de Llobregat, Catedral de San Lorenzo) is a Roman Catholic cathedral in Sant Feliu de Llobregat, Catalonia, Spain. It is the seat of the Diocese of Sant Feliu de Llobregat.

[[Bilbao Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Bilbao, Cathedrals in Spain

Santiago Cathedral (Catedral de Santiago; Donejakue Katedrala) is a Catholic cathedral in the city of Bilbao, Basque Country, Spain. It was originally built as a Gothic church in the late 14th century. After a fire in the 1500s it was rebuilt. It was officially given the status of a cathedral in 1950.

[[Horned owl]]

CATEGORIES: Strigiformes

Bubo is a genus of large owls. It includes the eagle-owls (Old World) and the horned owls (the Americas). This genus contains about one or two dozen species of typical owls (family Strigidae) and is found in many parts of the world. Some of the largest living Strigiformes are in Bubo. Traditionally, only owls with ear-tufts were included here, but that is no longer the case.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) cytochrome b sequence data supports the decision to put the snowy owl, an eagle-owl adapted to Arctic conditions, into Bubo.

The fish-owls in the genus Ketupa, and the Scotopelia fishing owls, are also closely related. They might be moved into Bubus, but that would make the genus rather large. As it is some of these owls, like  Verreaux's eagle-owl, are not studied enough. More research is needed.

[[Prince of Asturias]]

CATEGORIES: Princes and Princesses of Asturias

Prince of Asturias (Príncipe de Asturias, Príncipe d'Asturies) is the traditional title given to the heir to the Spanish throne. John I of Castile first gave the title to his oldest son, prince Henry (Henry III of Castile) in 1388. The title lapsed in 1931 when the monarchy was overthrown. Military dictator Francisco Franco appointed Juan Carlos de Borbón as his "successor with the title of King". But he gave him the new title of "Prince of Spain" instead of Prince of Asturias. In 1977 the title was given to Felipe VI of Spain, who was the eldest son and then heir apparent of King Juan Carlos I.

[[Palacio de Villena (Cadalso de los Vidrios)]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces in Spain, Community of Madrid

The Palace of Villena (Palacio de Villena) is a palace in Cadalso de los Vidrios, Spain.  It was built by Álvaro de Luna, Duke of Trujillo.

The building and the gardens are listed as a Spanish Property of Cultural Interest.

The building is listed as a monument. It has been protected since 1931. The gardens are listed as a jardín histórico (historic garden). They have been protected since the 1970s.

[[James Arnold Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, American voice actors, Living people

James Arnold Taylor is an American actor and voice actor. He has voiced Obi-Wan Kenobi, Plo Koon and other Star Wars characters. He voices Obi-Wan Kenobi in Star Wars: The Clone Wars and Star Wars: Rebels. He also voices Johnny Test and Fred Flintstone.

[[Shaker Heights, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Shaker Heights is a city in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, United States. As of the 2010 Census, the city population was 28,448.

[[Chardon, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Chardon is a city in the U.S. state of Ohio and the county seat of Geauga County, Ohio, United States. The population was 5,148 at the 2010 census.

[[2014 Ebola virus cases in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in the United States, Diseases caused by viruses

On September 30, 2014, the first case of Ebola virus disease was diagnosed in the United States. It came from a 42-year-old Liberian national, Thomas Eric Duncan. Even before Duncan's diagnosis, three Americans had been medically evacuated from Africa and treated in the United States for Ebola virus disease. This was during the current Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa. Two were treated at Emory University Hospital's isolation unit and one at Nebraska Medical Center.

[[Jeen van den Berg]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Speed skaters, Sportspeople from Friesland

Jeen van den Berg (8 January 1928 - 8 October 2014) was a Dutch speed skater. He was known as the winner of the Elfstedentocht of 1954. He rode the race a record seven times. His first time was in 1947. His final race was in 1997. van den Berg was born in De Veenhoop, Netherlands.

On 3 February 1954, van den Berg finished the race in a record 7 hours and 35 minutes, a record bettered by Evert van Benthem only 31 years later. He came third in the infamous 1963 race. In 1973 he became the first Dutch marathon skate champion.

van den Berg died in Heerenveen, Netherlands, aged 86.

[[Mike Waugh]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Politicians from Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians, Living people

Michael L. "Mike" Waugh (December 17, 1955 – October 8, 2014) was an American politician. He was a member of the Republican Party. Waugh was a member of the Pennsylvania State Senate for the 28th District from 1998 until 2014. He was a member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives from 1993 through 1998.

Waugh left his job on January 13, 2014, after he learned he had pancreatic cancer. He died on October 8, 2014 of cancer.

[[Feridun Buğeker]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2014 deaths, Turkish footballers, People from Istanbul

Feridun İsmail Buğeker (5 April 1933 – 6 October 2014) was a Turkish football forward who played for Turkey in the 1954 FIFA World Cup. He also played for Fenerbahçe S.K. between 1950–55 and 1961-63. He was born in Istanbul, Turkey.

Buğeker died in Istanbul, Turkey, aged 81.

[[Cigar (horse)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Thoroughbred racehorses

Cigar (April 18, 1990 – October 7, 2014) was an American thoroughbred racehorse. In 1995 and 1996, Cigar won 16 races in a row. He was the first American racehorse racing against top-class competition to do that since Citation in 1948 and 1950. 

When Cigar retired, he had made more money than any other American Thoroughbred racehorse. He is now in the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame.

Cigar died from spinal surgery complications in Lexington, Kentucky, aged 24.

[[Doñana National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Spain, Andalusia, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, 1969 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Spain

Doñana National Park is a natural reserve in southern Spain. It is in Andalusia, in the provinces of Huelva and Seville. It is in Las Marismas, where the Guadalquivir River flows into the Atlantic Ocean. The park covers 543. Of that area, 135 are protected. The park has marshes, shallow streams, and sand dunes.  It was named as a nature reserve in 1969. The World Wildlife Fund and the Spanish government bought a section of marshes to protect it. The eco-system has been in danger from draining the marshes, using river water to irrigate land along the coast, and making tourist facilities bigger. The park is named after Doña Ana de Silva y Mendoza, the wife of Alonso Pérez de Guzmán, 7th Duke of Medina Sidonia.

Doñana National Park was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Monastery of Santa Maria de Ripoll]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, Catalonia, Monasteries

The Monastery of Santa Maria de Ripoll is a Benedictine monastery in the town of Ripoll in Catalonia, Spain. It was built in the Romanesque style. Much of the church was rebuilt in the 19th century. The sculptured portico is a noted work of Romanesque art.

The monastery was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[San Juan de la Peña]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Spain, 12 Treasures of Spain - Finalists, Aragon

The monastery of San Juan de la Peña is a religious complex in the town of Santa Cruz de la Serós. It is to the southwest of Jaca, in the province of Huesca, Spain. It was one of the most important monasteries in Aragon in the Middle Ages. Its two-level church is partly carved in the stone of the large cliff that is over the foundation. San Juan de la Peña means "Saint John of the Cliff".

The monastery was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Prism (disambiguation)]]

Prism may mean:

[[Almería Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Andalusia, 1560s establishments in Europe, 16th century establishments in Spain, 1562 establishments

The Cathedral of Almería (Catedral de Almería), in full the Cathedral of the Incarnation of Almería (Catedral de la Encarnación de Almería), is a Roman Catholic cathedral in Almería, Andalusia. It is the seat of the Diocese of Almería.

The cathedral was built in Gothic and Renaissance architectural styles from 1524 to 1562. Its last bell was built in 1805.

[[Cartagena Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Region of Murcia, Ruins

The Cathedral of Cartagena (also called Cathedral of Santa María la Vieja)  was a cathedral of the Diocese of Cartagena. It was in the old town of Cartagena.  It has been in ruins since 1939, when it was destroyed in the Spanish Civil War.

[[Alcalá de Henares Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Community of Madrid, 1904 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in Spain

The Alcalá de Henares Cathedral (also called as Cathedral of St Justus and St Pastor in Alcalá de Henares) (Catedral de los Santos Niños Justo y Pastor de Alcalá de Henares) is a Catholic cathedral in Alcalá de Henares, Spain. It was declared Bien de Interés Cultural in 1904.

[[Mérida Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Buildings and structures in Mexico, Yucatán (state)

The Mérida Cathedral in Mérida, Yucatán, Mexico, is one of the oldest cathedrals in the Americas.

[[Astorga Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Castile and León, 1471 establishments, 15th century establishments in Spain, 1470s establishments in Europe

The Cathedral of Astorga (Catedral de Santa María de Astorga) is a Roman Catholic church in Astorga, Spain. It was declared a national monument in 1931. Bishop of this cathedral is Camilo Lorenzo Iglesias (Bishop of Astorga).

[[San Sebastián Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Basque Country, 1897 establishments in Europe, 1890s establishments in Spain

The San Sebastián Cathedral (also known as Cathedral of the Good Shepherd)̠ (Artzain Onaren katedrala, Catedral del Buen Pastor de San Sebastián) is a cathedral in San Sebastián, Gipuzkoa, Basque Country, Spain. It is the seat of the suffragan Diocese of San Sebastián and under to the Archdiocese of Pamplona y Tudela.

[[Jerez de la Frontera Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Jerez de la Frontera, 17th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in Spain

The Cathedral of San Salvador is the cathedral church of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Asidonia-Jerez  in Jerez de la Frontera, Andalusia, southern Spain. It was declared Bien de Interés Cultural in 1931. It was elevated to the rank of cathedral in 1980.

[[Cádiz Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Cadiz

Cádiz Cathedral (Catedral de Cádiz, Catedral de Santa Cruz de Cádiz) is a Roman Catholic church  in Cádiz, southern Spain, and the seat of the Diocese of Cadiz y Ceuta. It was built between 1722 and 1838. The cathedral was declared Bien de Interés Cultural in 1931.

[[Ceuta Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Ceuta

The Cathedral of St Mary of the Assumption (Catedral de Santa María de la Asunción) is the Roman Catholic cathedral of the Spanish city of Ceuta located in a small exclave on the north coast of Africa.

The cathedral is a 15th-century structure, built on the site of a sixth-century Christian church. The cathedral contains works of art dating from the 17th century to the present day.

[[Las Palmas Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Cathedrals in Spain

The Cathedral of Santa Ana (Holy Cathedral-Basilica of Canary or Cathedral of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria) is a cathedral in Las Palmas, Canary Islands. It is the seat of the Diocese of the Canaries in the Roman Catholic Church. It is in the Vegueta neighborhood, next to the Plaza Mayor of Santa Ana. The feast of the cathedral's dedication is celebrated annually on November 26. It is one of two cathedrals in the Canary Islands, near the La Laguna Cathedral in Tenerife.

[[La Laguna Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Canary Islands, 1915 establishments, 1910s establishments in Spain

The Cathedral of San Cristóbal de La Laguna or Catedral de Nuestra Señora de los Remedios (Santa Iglesia Catedral de San Cristóbal de La Laguna in Spanish) is a Catholic cathedral in Tenerife, Spain. It started construction in 1904 and was completed in 1915. It is dedicated to the Virgin of Los Remedios (patron of the Roman Catholic Diocese of San Cristóbal de La Laguna). This is one of the most important cathedrals in the Canary Islands.

[[Tarragona Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Catalonia

The Cathedral of Tarragona is a Roman Catholic cathedral in Tarragona, Spain. The site was previously occupied by a Roman temple of Jupiter. Later it was a Visigothic cathedral, then a Moorish mosque. It was declared a national monument in 1905. During the Spanish Civil War the cathedral was vandalized and in 1939 a reconciliation rite was celebrated.

[[Solsona Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Catalonia, 12th century establishments in Spain

The Cathedral of Solsona is a cathedral in Solsona, Catalonia, Spain. The apse, in Roman style, probably dates from the twelfth century.

[[Vic Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Catalonia

Vic Cathedral (Catedral de Vic, Catedral de Vich), officially the Cathedral of St. Peter the Apostle (Catedral de Sant Pere Apòstol, Catedral de San Pedro Apóstol) is a Roman Catholic cathedral in Vic, Catalonia, Spain. It is the seat of the Diocese of Vic.

It has a mix of Romanesque, Gothic, Baroque and Neoclassic styles.

[[Neanderthal 1]]

CATEGORIES: Hominins

Neanderthal 1 is the name of the first fossil found that was clearly identified as a Neanderthal (Homo neanderthalensis). Sometimes this fossil is also called Feldhofer 1, but that name is less common.

It is not the first fossil found of a Neanderthal, but before this find, the importance of the fossils was unclear. The fossil is part of a skull, with a fragment of the left temporal bone, part of the right scapula (shoulder blade), the right clavicle, both humeri (bones in the upper arm), one radius (a bone in the forearm), both ulnae (another bone in the forearm), five ribs, an almost complete half pelvis, and both femurs.

Studies done in 1999 included a radiocarbon dating of the bones: The bones were fouund to be about 39.900 ± 620 years old. This means this Neanderthal was from one of the last Neanderthal populations in Europe. In the 1990s and 2000s, bones from two other Neanderhals were found nearby, they are called Neanderthal 2 and Neanderthal 3 respectively. Neanderthal 2 has the same age, but a lighter build. Neanderthal 3 was probably a teenager.

Neanderthal 1 was male. At the time of death, he was between 40 and 42 years old.

[[Gall–Peters projection]]

CATEGORIES: Map projections

The Gall–Peters projection is an equal-area map projection. It cannot be used to navigate with. It is a map style that has areas near the equator appear to be smaller than they are. Those areas closer to the poles appear larger. It was named after James Gall and Arno Peters. A controversy came up in the late 20th century about the political implications of map design. Maps based on this projection are promoted by UNESCO. They are also widely used by British schools.

[[Gullan Bornemark]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, Lyricists, Swedish musicians, Teachers

Elin Gunhild "Gullan" Bornemark (born Bohlin; 28 November 1927 in Härnösand, Sweden) is a Swedish musician, lyricist and composer. Between 1951 and 2007, she was also active as a music teacher.

[[Mad Money]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 comedy movies, 2008 crime movies, 2000s criminal comedy movies, 2000s thriller movies, American criminal comedy movies, American thriller movies, English-language movies, Female buddy movies, Kansas City, Missouri

Mad Money is a 2008 criminal-comedy thriller movie. Diane Keaton plays Bridget. Katie Holmes plays Jackie. Queen Latifah plays Nina.

The movie received mixed to negative reviews from the critics. It was released on January 18, 2008.

[[Sigüenza Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Castile-La Mancha

The Cathedral of Sigüenza (Catedral de Santa María de Sigüenza) is a cathedral in Guadalajara, Spain. It was declared Bien de Interés Cultural in 1931. It is built in Romanesque and Gothic style.

The cathedral is the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Sigüenza-Guadalajara.

[[Co-cathedral of Santa María de la Fuente la Mayor]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Castile-La Mancha

The Co-cathedral of Santa María de la Fuente la Mayor (Concatedral de Santa María de la Fuente la Mayor) is a co-cathedral  in Guadalajara, Spain. It was declared Bien de Interés Cultural in 1941.

[[Felix Körling]]

CATEGORIES: 1864 births, 1937 deaths, Swedish musicians

John ''Felix'' August Körling, born 17 December 1864, in Kristdala, Sweden, dead 8 January 1937 in Halmstad, Sweden, was a Swedish composer, church musician and music teacher. He was the brother of Sven Körling and son of August Körling. Felix Körling also wrote children's songs.

[[Olle Widestrand]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2018 deaths, Swedish musicians, Composers

John Olof "Olle" Widestrand, born 9 July 1932, dead 25 March 2018, was a Swedish parish-musician, teacher and composer. He is represented in Den svenska psalmboken 1986 with two works (number 61 and 90) and several other hymnals with one hymn. He has written several children's songs and published songbooks and educational materials for schools. He lived in the town of Jönköping until his death.

[[Britt G. Hallqvist]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 1997 deaths, Swedish writers

Britt Gerda Hallqvist, born Nyman 14 February 1914 in Umeå, Sweden, dead 20 March 1997 in Lund, Sweden was a Swedish hymnwriter, poet and translator. Her grandfather was medical professor Salomon Eberhard Henschen and she was also the cousin of neurology professor David H. Ingvar and his sister Cilla Ingvar.

[[Archbishop's Palace of Alcalá de Henares]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces in Spain, Community of Madrid

The Archbishop's Palace of Alcalá de Henares (Spanish: Palacio Arzobispal de Alcalá de Henares) is a palace located in Alcalá de Henares, Spain. It was listed as a Spanish Property of Cultural Interest in 1931.

[[Elizabeth Ann Seton]]

CATEGORIES: People from New York City, Christian saints, 1774 births, 1821 deaths

Elizabeth Ann Bayley Seton (August 28, 1774 – January 4, 1821) was the first native-born citizen of the United States to be made a saint by the Roman Catholic Church. She was canonized on September 14, 1975. 

Seton started the first Catholic school in the country. This school was at Emmitsburg, Maryland. She also founded the first American congregation of religious sisters. It is called the Sisters of Charity.

[[Magnus Uggla]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Singers from Stockholm, Musicians from Stockholm, Writers from Stockholm

Per Allan Magnus Claësson Uggla (pronounced pæːr ˈalːan ˈmaŋnɵs ˈklɑːsɔn ˈɵɡː.ˈla; born June 18, 1954 in Stockholm) is a Swedish artist, composer, actor, and occasional radio host. He is known for songs with satirical lyrics. Breaking through in the 1970s, in 2006, he released his 13th studio album.

[[Carl Bertil Agnestig]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, Living people, Composers, Swedish musicians

Carl Bertil Agnestig, originally Andersson, born 7 March 1924 in Järvsö Parish, Sweden, is a Swedish music teacher and composer.

He is known for music-instruction books and has written several songs, one of the more well-known is Adventstid. He's represented in Den svenska psalmboken 1986 with two works, (nr 214 b and 443). 

[[Methods of Mayhem]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in California, 2000 disestablishments in the United States, American heavy metal bands, 20th-century disestablishments in California, 2009 establishments in California

Methods of Mayhem is an American heavy metal band formed in 1999.

[[Iva Withers]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2014 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Canadian stage actors, American stage actors, Actors from Manitoba

Pearl Iva Edith Withers (July 7, 1917 – October 7, 2014) was a Canadian-born American actress and singer. She was best known as a replacement player who had long runs in some of Rodgers and Hammerstein's biggest musical theatre hits. 

She also appeared in Carousel, South Pacific and Gentlemen Prefer Blondes. Withers was born in Rivers, Manitoba, Canada.

Withers died in Englewood, New Jersey at age 97 on October 7, 2014 at the Lillian Booth Actors Home.

[[Ghost Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese culture, Traditions

The Ghost Festival, also called the Hungry Ghost Festival, is held on the 15th day of the seventh lunar month. Both Buddhists and Taoists celebrate this festival. The belief is that the gate to the underworld opens on the first day of the seventh lunar month. This month is regarded as the Ghost Month. All of the ghosts and spirits are released from hell. They are free to wander for the whole month. People hold ceremonies to welcome the ghosts and spirits.   

[[Peter A. Peyser]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, United States representatives from New York, US Democratic Party politicians

Peter A. Peyser (September 7, 1921 – October 9, 2014) was an American politician. He was a United States Representative from New York. He served as representative from 1971 to 1977 as a Republican and from 1979 to 1983 as a Democrat.

On October 9, 2014, he died of Parkinson's disease. He was 93.

[[Leif Bloms]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 establishments in Sweden, 1995 disestablishments in Sweden, Dansbands

Leif Bloms was a dansband in Växjö in Sweden. The band scored chart successes at the Swedish album chart during the mid-late 1970's. On 31 December 1995 the band was disbanded after singing and playing together for almost 40 years. Starting with the 1981 album Håll dig kvar, the band's singer was Mona Gustafsson, who wrote the band's 1992 song Dej ska jag älska all min tid which won the 1992 Hänt song contest in Älvsjö. After the band was disbanded, Mona Gustafsson, Patrik Ahlm and René Saulesco founded another dansband, Mona G:s orkester.

[[Fernandoz]]

CATEGORIES: Dansbands, Musical groups established in 1986

Fernandoz is a Swedish dansband formed in 1986 in Vitsand, near Torsby. They had a big hit in 1991 entitled with the song "Jag vet att jag vill ha dig". The band won the "svenska dansbandsmästare" award in 1993 and soon begun to appear at Bingolotto. Their most recognized hits include "Guld och gröna skogar", "En dag den sommaren", "När ett hjärta har älskat" Band guitarist Conny Ohlson and singer Anders Nordlund have won a Swedish Grammy "Guldklaven" for their work.

[[Helene & gänget]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 disestablishments in Europe, Dansbands, Musical groups established in 1990, 1990 establishments in Sweden, Musical groups disestablished in 2002, 2000s disestablishments in Sweden

Helene & gänget was a dansband in Kristianstad in Sweden. It was founded in 1990 by members of the Färmarna dansband. The band broke through in 1995 with the album Segla din båt i hamn. The band broke up in 2002 and its singer Helene Persson begun acting as SR Kristianstad programme host. Famous songs recorded by the band are Segla din båt i hamn, En korg med blommor and Nånstans så finns du.

[[Sarracenia]]

CATEGORIES: Ericales, Carnivorous plants

Sarracenia (ˌ or ˌ) is a genus of 8 to 11 species of carnivorous plants. They are often called trumpet pitchers.  The genus is in the family Sarraceniaceae. That family also contains  Darlingtonia and Heliamphora.

In the wild, Sarracenia grows around the East Coast of the United States, Texas, the Great Lakes area and southeast Canada.  Most species grow only in the southeast United States. Only S. purpurea can live in cold places. The plant's leaves have evolved into a funnel in order to trap insects. The plant digests its food with proteases and other enzymes.

[[Jan Hooks]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from throat cancer, Cancer deaths in New York, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), Comedians from Georgia (U.S. state), People from Decatur, Georgia

Janice "Jan" Hooks (April 23, 1957 – October 9, 2014) was an American actress and comedian. She was best known for her work on NBC's Saturday Night Live (SNL). She starred in SNL from 1986 to 1991. She was also known for her roles in Designing Women, 3rd Rock From the Sun, The Simpsons, and in Batman Returns. 

Hooks died on October 9, 2014 in Woodstock, New York from non-chemo reactive throat cancer, aged 57.

[[Karen Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from glioblastoma, American teachers, American labor leaders, People from Chicago, Cancer deaths in Chicago

Karen Lewis  (June 26, 1953 – February 7, 2021) was an American Chicago Public Schools teacher and labor leader.  She was the president of the Chicago Teachers Union from 2010 to 2014. She was a former King College Prep High School and Lane Technical High School chemistry teacher. She was a teacher for 22 years.

Lewis was considering running for Mayor of Chicago in 2015. In July 2014 poll, Lewis defeated Emanuel in a hypothetical electoral contest by 45-36 . She decided not to run for mayor due to health issues and endorses Chuy Garcia.

On October 9, 2014, Lewis was hospitalized for a "serious illness". At the time, no further details about Lewis' health have been revealed. On October 13, a source confirmed that Lewis had been diagnosed with glioblastoma. 

Lewis died from problems caused by the cancer in Chicago on February 7, 2021 at the age of 67.

[[Sphagnum]]

CATEGORIES: Bryophytes

Sphagnum is a genus of about 120 species of mosses. Sphagnum moss can store water. Both living and dead plants can soak up water. Each sphagnum plant can hold up to 1 billion times as much water as their dry weight, depending on the species.

Sphagnum helps make peat bogs in temperate wetlands.

[[Denard Span]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1984 births, Minnesota Twins players, San Francisco Giants players, Washington Nationals players, Sportspeople from Washington, D.C., African-American baseball players

Keiunta Denard Span (born February 27, 1984) is an American professional baseball player for the Tampa Bay Rays. He is an outfielder. He has also played for the Minnesota Twins, Washington Nationals, and the San Francisco Giants.

Span bats and throws left-handed. He is also one of the top defensive players.

[[Five Nights at Freddy's]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 video games, Five Nights at Freddy's (series)

Five Nights at Freddy’s is an indie survival horror video game. It was made by Scott Cawthon and is powered by Clickteam Fusion.The first game was released August 8, 2014. The game takes place in the fictional pizza restaurant, Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza. The player acts as a night security guard with the aim of keeping safe from the animatronic animal characters that are stated to be "malfunctioning" (though later games imply a more supernatural reason). To complete the levels of the game- called "nights"-  the player must keep the antagonists away from the guard's office, using mechanical doors, lights, and a CCTV camera panel. The animatronic characters in the first game of the series are named Freddy Fazbear, Bonnie, Chica, Foxy and Golden Freddy.

The game series has a complicated and heavily hidden storyline that has sparked thousands of fan-made theories around the world, with the main goal being a reliable "timeline" of the events and characters in the series. Scott Cawthon, the sole developer of the Five Nights at Freddy's games, has stated that nobody has figured out a completely accurate conclusion of the story.

In November 2014, a prequel, Five Nights at Freddy's 2 was released. In 2015, Five Nights at Freddy's 3 and Five Nights at Freddy's 4 were released. A Five Nights at Freddy's RPG called FNAF World was released on 2016. A fifth game, Five Nights at Freddy's: Sister Location was released the same year. and pizza simulator made in 2017 In 2018, yet another game was released called Ultimate Custom Night featuring every character from the series, including some fan characters.

Five Nights at Freddy’s is installed an estimated 4,694 times per day, earning a daily revenue of $12,879. Cawthon has given away $256,499 to a charity livestream, surpassing the initial goal of $15,000.

[[Castres]]

Castres can refer to:

[[Eutely]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology, Developmental biology

Eutelic organisms have a fixed number of somatic cells when they reach maturity. The exact number is constant for any one species. Development proceeds by cell division until maturity; further growth occurs by cell enlargement only.

Most eutelic organisms are small or even microscopic: examples include the nematodes like ascaris, gastrotrichs, rotifers, tardigrades and dicyemida.

[[Hypnagogia]]

CATEGORIES: Cognition, Sleep

Hypnagogia is the state of mind that exists between being awake and sleep, or just after waking up.

People in this state may have experiences that resemble hallucinations, but are not. The person usually knows that it is not real, but very often nothing can be done against it. Most of these pseudohallucinations are visual experiences.

Other experiences that may happen are sleep paralysis and lucid dreams. All of these symptoms happen because of the changes that occur in the brain, and they are not linked to a disease.

The writings of Aristotle already talk  about hypnagogia. In more recent centuries, many authors have referred to the state. Edgar Allan Poe, for example, wrote of the "fancies" he experienced "only when I am on the brink of sleep, with the consciousness that I am so".

Serious scientific inquiry began in the 19th century with Johannes Peter Müller, Jules Baillarger and Alfred Maury, and continued into the 20th century with Leroy.

With electroencephalography (EEG) in the mid 20th century, detecting such a state has become easier.

[[Church of la Magdalena (Torrelaguna)]]

CATEGORIES: Madrid, Gothic architecture

The Church of la Magdalena (Spanish: Iglesia de la Magdalena) is a Gothic-style church located in Torrelaguna, central Spain. It was listed as Spain's national heritage listing in 1983. The bell tower in this church was built in the 15th century, and was commissioned by cardinal Cisneros.

[[Jenny from the Block]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 songs, Hip hop songs, R&B songs, Jennifer Lopez songs

"Jenny from the Block" is a song performed by American singer Jennifer Lopez. The song is a contemporary R&B and old school hip hop song. The single is about not changing despite having a fortune and being famous, and never forgetting where one came from. 

The song was released on September 26, 2002. It hit #3 on the Billboard Hot 100. The song got mixed reviews from critics. It was a commercial success.

[[Receptor antagonist]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Biochemistry

A receptor antagonist is a biological repressor molecule. A receptor antagonist slows down the cell by stopping some of the cell reactions by clogging up the areas that make the cell work. They are sometimes called blockers, such as beta blockers. An antagonist is a ligand which blocks or dampens a biological effect. It acts against an agonist. They may block enzymes or passages through cell membranes.

They are part of the homeostatic system which regulates the body physiology. Some are made for pharmaceutical uses.

[[If You Had My Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 songs, Debut singles, Pop songs, R&B songs, Jennifer Lopez songs, Billboard Rhythmic Songs number-one singles

"If You Had My Love" is the debut single by Jennifer Lopez released on May 4, 1999 from Lopez' debut album On the 6. The lyrics are about Lopez making rules for her lover before starting a relationship. The song was number one on the Billboard Hot 100 in June 1999.

[[Valeri Karpov]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2014 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, American Hockey League players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Russian ice hockey players

Valeri Yevgenievich Karpov (Валерий Евгеньевич Карпов, 5 August 1971 – 10 October 2014) was an Russian ice hockey player. He played in the Soviet Hockey League and National Hockey League.  He competed for Traktor Chelyabinsk and HC CSKA Moscow in Russia before moving to North America.

In the summer of 2014, during a fight in his house he took a hit to the head. Afterwards, he had a bad fall that resulted in a coma. He underwent two trepanning surgeries, but did not regain consciousness. He died on 10 October 2014.

[[Ed Nimmervoll]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2014 deaths, Australian journalists, Australian writers, Deaths from brain cancer, Australian historians, Naturalised citizens of Australia

Edward Charles "Ed" Nimmervoll (21 September 1947 – 10 October 2014), was a Austrian-born Australian rock music journalist, author and historian. He worked with rock magazines Go-Set (1966–1974) and Juke Magazine (1975–92) both as a journalist and as an editor.

Nimmervoll died of brain cancer on 10 October 2014, at the age of 67. 

[[Lassa fever]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by viruses

Lassa fever or Lassa hemorrhagic fever (LHF) is a fever caused by the Lassa virus. It is common in West Africa. One in 80 people who get Lassa fever will die. Some cases are severe and require going to a hospital. These cases have a death rate of 1 in 5. Lassa Fever was discovered in 1969 after two nurses died from the disease. It was named for the town in Borno State, Nigeria where it was first diagnosed.

[[Muhammad Jalal-ud-din]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1918 deaths, People of British India, Leaders of All India Muslim League

Muhammad Jalal-ud-din also known as Jalal Baba (1910-1981) was an activist and political leader of the All India Muslim League. He was born in Abbottabad District in British India. He was active from 1935 and 1936 onwards in the Pakistan Movement.

The Jalal Baba Auditorium in Abbottabad city, now in Pakistan, is named after him. 

[[Per Almar Aas]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, Norwegian politicians

Per Almar Aas (11 June 1929 – 18 May 2014) was a Norwegian politician. He was for the Christian Democratic Party. He was born in Ballangen.

He was elected to the Norwegian Parliament from Troms in 1973, and was re-elected on three occasions. He had previously served as a deputy representative during the term 1969–1973.

On the local level he was a member of Harstad municipal council from 1967 to 1971. From 1971 to 1975 he was a member of Troms county council. He chaired the county party chapter from 1970 to 1973, and was a member of the national party board from 1970 to 1973 and 1985 to 1999.

Outside of politics he started his career as a manual laborer in Ballangen (1945–1950), Snåsa (1951), Ørsta (1951–1952) and Volda (1952–1953). In 1969 he settled in Harstad to become a school teacher.

Aas died in Oslo, Norway, aged 84.

[[Pauline Wagner]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 2014 deaths, American movie actors, Models from Oklahoma, American centenarians, Actors from Oklahoma

Pauline Cynthia Wagner (August 18, 1910 – May 2, 2014) was an American actress and glamour girl. She had minor roles in the 1930s. She made her debut in King of Jazz in 1930. 

Her first big role was in College Lovers. She was Fay Wray's back-up in King Kong in 1933. She had small parts in Lady Killer and Mr. Deeds Goes to Town. She worked for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and RKO. Her movie career ended in 1941. 

Wagner died in Glendale, California on May 2, 2014, aged 103.

[[Kailash Satyarthi]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Indian activists

peaceKailash Satyarthi (born 11 January  1954) is an Indian children's rights activist. He founded the Bachpan Bachao Andolan (Save the Childhood Movement) in 1980. He has acted to protect the rights of 80,000 children.

He was awarded the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize, along with Malala Yousafzai, "for their struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education".

[[Shirin Ebadi]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Human rights activists, Iranian people, Women judges, Women lawyers

PeaceShirin Ebadi (شيرين عبادى Širin Ebādi; born 21 June 1947) is an Iranian lawyer, a former judge and human rights activist. She is the founder of Defenders of Human Rights Center in Iran. On 10 October 2003, Ebadi was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for her "significant and pioneering efforts for democracy and human rights, especially women's, children's, and refugee rights". She was the first ever Iranian to receive the prize.

[[Jinnah-Sikandar Pact]]

CATEGORIES: 1937, 1930s in Asia, 20th century in India, Pakistan Movement

The famous Jinnah-Sikandar Pact was an agreement signed between Muhammad Ali Jinnah and Sir Sikandar Hayat Khan, at Lucknow, British India, October 1937.

[[Khaksar movement]]

CATEGORIES: Partition of India, Indian independence movement, Pakistan Movement, Sunni organizations, Fascism, Terrorism, 1931 establishments in Asia

The Khaksar movement was a fanatical political and social movement of British India. It was probably started in 1931 by the genius and leader Inayatullah Mashriqi.

[[Inayatullah Mashriqi]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1963 deaths, People of British India, Pakistani people

Inayatullah Mashriqi or Inayatullah Khan al-Mashriqi also sometimes called Allama Mashriqi (1888-1963) was an Indian and later Pakistani mathematician, evil genius  and political leader. He was the founder of the fascist Khaksar Movement. 

[[IHeartMedia, Inc.]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 establishments in the United States, Radio programs

iHeartMedia, Inc. (known in the past as CC Media Holdings, Inc.) is a radio organization that was established in 1972. It was then taken as a private company in 2008. It is the holding company of iHeartCommunications, Inc. (used to be known as Clear Channel Communications). It owns more than 850 AM radio and FM radio stations through the United States alone.

On September 16, 2014, CC Media Holdings changed their name to iHeartMedia, Inc., while Clear Channel Communications became iHeartCommunications, Inc.

[[Luxor Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Ancient Egypt, Temples

Luxor Temple is an Ancient Egyptian temple, located in modern-day Luxor, which was known as Thebes at the time. The temple was dedicated to the god Amun, his wife Mut, and their son Chons. The temple was built during the time of the New Kingdom. Because some of the stones were re-used, an older monument was probably there beforehand, during the 12th dynasty. Some of the stones of the temple were later re-used to build Abu el-Haggag mosque. 

Together with the Temple at Karnak, Luxor Temple is on the list of World Heritage Sites. 

Note that Luxor Temple is different from the necropolis of Hatshepsut, located in Deir el-Bahari, which is also near Luxor. 

[[Trace fossil]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Ichnology

Trace fossils (or ichnofossils) are geological records of biological activity. They are fossils, but not of the living things themselves. Probably the best-known examples are dinosaur trackways.

Trace fossils may be impressions made on the substrate by an organism. Burrows, borings, footprints, feeding marks, and root cavities are examples. The term includes the remains of other organic material produced by an organism  for example coprolites (fossilized droppings) or chemical markers. Stromatolites are sediment structures produced by bacteria. Trace fossils contrast with body fossils, which are the fossilized remains of parts of organisms' bodies, usually altered by later chemical activity or mineralization.

Structures which are not produced by the behaviour of an organism are not considered trace fossils.

The study of traces is called ichnology. Traces reflect the behaviour, not usually not the biological affinity of their makers. They are given their own names in taxonomy, based on their appearance and the implied behaviour of their makers.

[[Lorenz attractor]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

The Lorenz attractor (also called Lorenz system) is a system of equations. Edward N. Lorenz formulated the equations as a simplified mathematical model for atmospheric convection. The equations are ordinary differential equations, called Lorenz equations.  They are notable for having chaotic solutions for certain parameter values and starting conditions. In particular, the Lorenz attractor is a set of chaotic solutions of the Lorenz system which, when plotted, resemble a butterfly or figure eight.

The notion of butterfly effect is coupled with that of the Lorenz attractor. Lorenz first used the phrase in a speech he gave in 1972.

[[Ordinary differential equation]]

CATEGORIES: Differential equations

An ordinary differential equation (often shortened to ODE) is a differential equation which contains one free variable, and its derivatives. Ordinary differential equations are used for many scientific models and predictions. The term ordinary is used to differentiate them from partial differential equations, which contain more than one free variable, and their derivatives.

[[Margin Call (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 drama movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City, American independent movies, Lionsgate movies

Margin Call is a 2011 American independent drama movie. The movie is about insider trading on Wall Street. Demi Moore plays Sarah Robertson. Mary McDonnell plays Mary Rogers. Kevin Spacey plays Sam Rogers.

The movie got positive reviews from the movie critics. It was released on October 21, 2011.

[[Inoculation]]

CATEGORIES: Smallpox

Inoculation (also known as variolation) is an historical method of making people immune to smallpox. Unlike a vaccine, inoculation uses infected material (for example scabs) from an infected patient. The benefit of inoculation is it gives the individual a less dangerous type of the virus. Another benefit of inoculation is the fact it has a death rate of 0.5% - 2% (as opposed to the 35% death rate of smallpox). Inoculation was eventually replaced after Edward Jenner discovered a vaccine against smallpox. 

[[Evermoor]]

CATEGORIES: Disney Channel shows, English-language television programs

Evermoor is a new television series for the Disney Channel. It is produced by Lime Pictures. The series premiered on the Disney Channel (UK and Ireland) on 10 October 2014. It began on 17 October 2014 on the Disney Channel in the United States,  and on the Family Channel in Canada. 

[[Battersea Dogs & Cats Home]]

CATEGORIES: 1860 establishments in England, Battersea, Charities

Battersea Dogs & Cats Home is the United Kingdom's oldest and most famous home for dogs and cats. It is in the Battersea area of London, England. The home gets its money from donations. 

[[Apse]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements

In architecture, the apse (from Latin apsis: "arch, vault") is a semicircular recess covered with a hemispherical vault or semi-dome. It is similar to another form known as an exedra. In Romanesque, Byzantine and Gothic Christian abbey, cathedral and church architecture, the term is applied to a semi-circular or polygonal termination of the main building. This is usually at the liturgical east end (where the altar is). It is also regardless of the shape of the roof, which may be flat, sloping, domed, or hemispherical.

[[All I Have to Do Is Dream]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s songs, Pop songs

"All I Have to Do is Dream" is an American popular song. The song was recorded in 1958 by the Everly Brothers. The song was near the top of several music charts in the United States in 1958.

The song was written by Felice and Boudleaux Bryant. It was recorded many times by other musicians, including Roy Orbison and Juice Newton.

[[Marked for Death]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 action movies, 1990 movies

Marked for Death is a 1990 action movie. This movie is about a former DEA agent finding Jamaican drug dealers in his home town. Steven Seagal plays John Hatcher. Elizabeth Gracen plays Melissa Hatcher. Danielle Harris plays Tracey Hatcher.

This movie was released on October 5, 1990. It got mixed reviews from the critics. It got back almost $58 million at the box office.

[[Ontario Highway 417]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Ontario

Ontario Highway 417 is a provincial highway in Ontario, Canada. It starts on the eastern Ontario border with Quebec, near Hawkesbury, as an extension of Quebec Autoroute 40. It ends near Arnprior, where it becomes Ontario Highway 17. Construction on Highway 417 started in May 1969. The last section of the highway near Arnprior was finished in 2012.

[[Zilpha Keatley Snyder]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2014 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from stroke, Writers from California

Zilpha Keatley Snyder (May 11, 1927 – October 8, 2014) was an American author of books for children and young adults. Three of Snyder's works were named Newbery Honor books: The Egypt Game, The Headless Cupid and The Witches of Worm.

Snyder died in San Francisco, California from a stroke, aged 87.

[[Decatur, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Georgia (U.S. state), County seats in Georgia

Decatur is a city in, and county seat of, DeKalb County, Georgia, United States. It has a population of 19,335 since the 2010 census.

[[Pavel Landovský]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Czech actors, Czech theatre directors

Pavel Landovský (September 11, 1936 – October 10, 2014) was a Czech actor, playwright and director. He was born in Německý Brod. He studied at the Faculty of Theatre in Prague. Landovský died in Prague, Czech Republic from a heart attack, aged 78.

[[Carmelo Simeone]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2014 deaths, Argentine footballers

Carmelo Simeone "Cholo", (September 22, 1933 - October 11, 2014) was an Argentine football defender. He won three league championships with Boca Juniors. Simeone played for the Argentina national team. He was born in Ciudadela, Argentina.

Simeone started his playing career in 1955 with Vélez Sársfield. In 1961 he joined Boca Juniors where he was an important defensive player in the teams that won the Argentine Primera in 1962, 1964 and 1965. Simeone left Boca In 1967 and spent some time playing for Sportivo Belgrano in the lower leagues of Argentine football.

Simeone represented Argentina at the Copa América in 1959, and at the 1966 FIFA World Cup.

Simeone died in Buenos Aires, Argentina, aged 81.

[[Juan José Pizzuti]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2020 deaths, Argentine footballers, Argentine football managers, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

Juan José Pizzuti (9 May 1927 – 24 January 2020) was an Argentine football striker and football manager. He enjoyed his most notable successes as player. He was the manager of the Racing Club de Avellaneda. He was born in Barracas, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Pizzuti played for Argentina between 1951 and 1959, he was part of the squad for the South American Championship in 1959 where he scored three goals to help them to win the title.

Pizzuti died on 24 January 2020 in Buenos Aires at the age of 92.

[[José Varacka]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2018 deaths, Argentine footballers, Argentine football managers, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

José Varacka (27 May 1932 – 22 October 2018) was an Argentine football player and coach. He was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina.

[[José Sarney]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Presidents of Brazil, Vice Presidents of Brazil, Presidents of the Federal Senate

José Sarney de Araújo Costa (born 24 April 1930) is a Brazilian politician, lawyer, and writer. He was President of Brazil from 15 March 1985 to 15 March 1990.

He was originally elected Vice President of Brazil with Tancredo Neves as President. However the day before the inauguration, Neves died from diverticulitis. Sarney was sworn in as Vice President of Brazil on 15 March 1985 and became president on 21 April.

In July 2021, Sarney was hospitalized for pleural effusion and had surgery to remove fluid from his lungs.

[[Albacete Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Castile-La Mancha

Albacete Cathedral (also known as Cathedral of San Juan de Albacete) is a Roman Catholic cathedral in Albacete, Spain. 

[[Jaca Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Aragon, 12th century establishments in Spain

Jaca Cathedral (also known as Cathedral of St Peter the Apostle), is the Roman Catholic cathedral of the Diocese of Jaca. It is in  Jaca, Huesca, Spain.

This is the first Romanesque cathedral built in Aragon (1070s-early 12th century). It is one of the oldest cathedrals in the Iberian peninsula.

[[Ourense Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Galicia, 1220 establishments, 13th century establishments in Spain, 1220s establishments in Europe

Ourense Cathedral (Catedral de Ourense or Catedral do San Martiño) is a cathedral in Ourense, Spain. It was founded in 550. It was made a Heritage site of Spain in 1931. It is mainly in the style of Gothic architecture. Building the cathedral was completed in 1220.

[[Getafe Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Community of Madrid, 1770 establishments, 18th century establishments in Spain, 1770s establishments in Europe

Getafe Cathedral (also known as Cathedral of La Magdalena) is a Roman Catholic cathedral in Getafe, Spain. It was designed by Alonso de Covarrubias. The construction was begun in 1549. It was finished in 1770. The bell tower is in Mudéjar architectural style. The cathedral is known for its collection of fine paintings. It was declared as Spanish Property of Cultural Interest in 1958.

[[Santander Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Cantabria

Santander Cathedral is one of the most famous Roman Catholic holy buildings in the city of Santander, Spain. It is mainly built in the Gothic architectural style.

[[Damask]]

CATEGORIES: Woven fabrics

Damask is a weaving pattern that is usually used with silk or wool. It is a poular classical pattern. It is made with a special technique: the original Damask was made in the Ottoman Empire, Syria, Iran and Jordan.

[[News Corp]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments, 2000s establishments in the United States, Companies based in New York City

News Corp (officially "New News Corp; trading as News Corp") was founded in 2013. It is a spin-off from the former News Corporation which was founded by Rupert Murdoch in 1979. 

It is an American multinational mass media company, based on newspapers and publishing. It is one of two companies which succeeded the former News Corporation. The other is 21st Century Fox, which has the old News Corporation's broadcasting and media properties, such as the Fox Entertainment Group. The spin-out was structured so that 21st Century Fox would be the legal successor and continuation of the old News Corporation, with the new News Corp being an entirely new company formed by a stock split.

[[21st Century Fox]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments in New York (state), Companies based in New York City

 

21st Century Fox (Twenty-First Century Fox) was an American multinational mass media corporation.

It is one of two companies made from the 2013 split of News Corporation (founded by Rupert Murdoch in 1979). 21st Century Fox has the broadcasting and movie assets and serves as the legal successor to News Corporation. The publishing assets were spun off to form News Corp at the same time. The split was so both companies operate under more "focused" management, which Murdoch claimed would "unlock" their true value.

Among the holdings of 21st Century Fox are Fox Entertainment Group. This owns the 20th Century Fox film studio and Fox television network. There are other assets, such as the pan-Asian pay channel operator Star India.

On December 14, 2017, The Walt Disney Company said that they would acquire a lot of 21st Century Fox's subsidiaries for $52 billion USD. This includes the 20th Century Fox studio and Fox's partnership with National Geographic. Some subsidiaries like Fox Broadcasting Company and Fox News Channel will still be a part of 21st Century Fox. The deal closed on March 20, 2019.

[[Punch-Out!! (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Video game series, Sports video games, Nintendo video games

Punch-Out!! is a series of boxing games created by Nintendo. There are seven games in the Punch-Out series. 

[[Ontario Highway 11]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Ontario

Ontario Highway 11 is a provincial highway in Ontario, Canada. It is 1,780 long, which makes it Ontario's second longest highway. It starts at Highway 400 in Barrie in Central Ontario. It runs westward around the north of the Great Lakes and ends at Rainy River, Ontario near the border with Minnesota.

[[Zeist]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Utrecht (province), Municipalities of Utrecht (province)

Zeist is a town in Utrecht province, Netherlands. It is east of the city of Utrecht. The most famous site in Zeist is Slot Zeist. It is an historical building. 

[[Ontario Highway 21]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Ontario

Ontario Highway 21, also called King's Highway 21, is a provincial highway in southwestern Ontario, Canada. It starts near Ontario Highway 402, almost half way between Sarnia and London. It runs north/northeast for 227 and ends in Owen Sound with Highway 6, Highway 10, and Highway 26. The roadway is referred to as the Bluewater Highway because it remains very close to the eastern shoreline of Lake Huron. It was started in 1927 as Highway 3 running across Kent and Lambton Counties. In 1930 it was extended and renamed King's Highway 21. It is one of Ontario's most treacherous roads for winter driving. Highway 21 is frequently closed during winter because of snow blowing off Lake Huron.

[[Nuclear DNA]]

CATEGORIES: DNA

Nuclear DNA is the DNA inside the cell nucleus of eukaryotic cells. This DNA is a double helix, with two strands wound around each other. This double helix structure was first described by Francis Crick and James D. Watson in 1953. 

This DNA is different from the DNA in bacteria, mitochondria and plastids such as chloroplasts. Nuclear DNA is very long, and is bound up in chromosomes which, apart from the DNA, are protein structures. The second difference is that each eukaryote cell has two sets of DNA, one set from each parent: it is diploid. Mitochondrial and plastid DNA is relatively short, is in a circle, and there is only one set (haploid), not two. It is supposed that these organelles were once independent bacteria (see endosymbiosis).

The consequence of nuclear DNA being double is highly important. The genes in mitochondria and plastids only change when a mutation happens. Nuclear DNA gets shuffled by the cell division known as meiosis, part of sexual reproduction. This leads to a variety of offspring from any two parents.

Another feature of nuclear DNA is that it is regulated by proteins and RNA systems which control the rate of transcription into messenger RNA. In this way, most of the cell products are adjusted according to the circumstances.

[[Kurtis Blow]]

CATEGORIES: African-American rappers, American rap musicians from New York, Musicians from New York City, 1959 births, Living people

Kurtis Blow (born August 9, 1959) is an American rapper. He sang many major songs, like "Christmas Rapping" and "The Breaks".

He was born in The Bronx, New York City.

[[Old-school hip hop]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop

Old-school hip hop (also old school rap) is the earliest recorded hip hop music.October 2014 It lasted from the late 1970s to around 1983 or 1984. This music is said to have ended in the early-to-mid 1980s due to changes in rapping techniques and the accompanying music and rhythms.

A lot of this music was about partying and having a good time. 

Old-school rappers include Kurtis Blow and Grandmaster Flash.

[[Bachelor of Science]]

CATEGORIES: Academia, Academic degrees

Bachelor of Science is an academic degree awarded by a university or other qualified institution. It is a first degree, and is given to students who graduate in a science course. Bachelor's degrees may take three to five years to complete.

The degree gives graduates the right to put BSc (or sometimes BS) after their name.

[[Roll Bounce]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies directed by Malcolm D. Lee

Roll Bounce is an American comedy-drama movie. This movie is about roller skating in the late 1970s in Chicago. Bow Wow plays Xavier.

The movie was released on September 23, 2005.

[[Paola Andino]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, Puerto Rican actors, Living people

Paola Nicole Andino (born March 22, 1998) is an American actress of Puerto Rican origin. She is best known for her lead role of Emma Alonso in Every Witch Way.

[[Lambton County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Ontario

Lambton County is a county in Southwestern Ontario, Canada. The county seat is Plympton–Wyoming. The largest city in the county is Sarnia. The county was formed in 1849. It was named after John Lambton, 1st Earl of Durham.

According to the 2011 census, 124,623 people lived in the county. Most people in the county work in manufacturing and retail trade. The Pinery Provincial Park is a popular tourist destination.

[[Marc Fortier]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Chicoutimi Saguenéens (QMJHL) players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, Ottawa Senators players, Quebec Major Junior Hockey League players, Quebec Nordiques players

Marc Fortier (born February 26, 1966) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey centre. He played a career total of 212 regular season games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Quebec Nordiques, Ottawa Senators, and Los Angeles Kings.

[[Southwestern Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Ontario

Southwestern Ontario is a subregion of Southern Ontario in the Canadian province of Ontario. It covers from the Bruce Peninsula in the north to Lake Erie in the south. From east to west, it goes from Guelph to Windsor. London is the largest city in the region.

In 2011 the population of the region was 2,504,878. Agriculture and auto manufacturing are a large parts of the region's economy. Much of Canada's trade with the eastern and midwestern United States passes through southwestern Ontario.

[[Owen Sound]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ontario

Owen Sound is a city in Southwestern Ontario. It is the county seat of Grey County. It is at the mouths of the Pottawatomi River and the Sydenham River on an inlet of Georgian Bay. According to the 2011 census, the 21,688 people lived in Owen Sound.

Owen Sound was founded in 1841. It was named after British Admiral Edward Owen. The Canadian World War I flying ace Billy Bishop was born in Owen Sound.

Georgian College is in Owen Sound. The Owen Sound Collegiate and Vocational Institute is one of the oldest schools in Canada.

There are five sports teams in Owen Sound:

[[Klondike, Yukon]]

CATEGORIES: Yukon

The Klondike is a region of Yukon in northwest Canada. It is around the Klondike River, a small river that enters Yukon from the east at Dawson City. The Klondike Gold Rush took place there from 1897 to 1899.

The summers in the Klondike are short and very hot. The winters are long and very cold. There are snow storms between September and May.

Jack London's novel The Call of the Wild, published in 1903, was set in the Klondike.

[[Division of Moreton]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Queensland, 1901 establishments in Australia

The Division of Moreton is an Australian Electoral Division in Queensland. It was one of the 75 divisions set up for the first election in 1901. It is named after Moreton Bay, though changes to the boundaries over the years mean it is no longer near the bay. 

The seat decided the 1961 federal election. The Liberals won the seat by only 130 votes to have a one-seat majority in Parliament. 

[[Hitch (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 romance movies, 2005 comedy movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Andy Tennant

Hitch is a 2005 romantic comedy movie. The movie is about a professional dating consultant who teaches men how to get women to like them. Will Smith plays Alex. Eva Mendes plays Sara. Amber Valletta plays Allegra.

The movie was released on February 11, 2005. The overall reviews were positive. The box office was also positive.

[[Klondike River]]

CATEGORIES: Yukon, Rivers of Canada

The Klondike River is a river in the Yukon in Canada. It is a tributary of the Yukon River. The river starts in the Ogilvie Mountains. It flows into the Yukon River at Dawson City. Gold was discovered near the Klondike River in 1896. That started the Klondike Gold Rush.

[[Division of Petrie]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Queensland, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Petrie is an Australian Electoral Division in Queensland. It was founded in 1949 and named after Andrew Petrie (1798–1872), a civil engineer, pioneer and explorer, and the first free settler in Brisbane (1837).

Petrie is in the northern suburbs of Brisbane, and includes Bald Hills, Bracken Ridge, Carseldine, Clontarf, Deception Bay, Fitzgibbon, Griffin, Kippa-Ring, Mango Hill, Margate, North Lakes, Redcliffe, Rothwell, Scarborough, Woody Point, and parts of Aspley, Bridgeman Downs, and Burpengary. 

[[Division of Rankin]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Queensland, 1984 establishments in Australia

The Division of Rankin is an Australian Electoral Division in Queensland. It was set up in 1984 and is named after Annabelle Rankin, the first Queensland woman elected to the Senate.

Rankin is in the outer southern suburbs of Brisbane including, Algester, Berrinba, Browns Plains, Calamvale, Crestmead, Daisy Hill, Drewvale, Heritage Park, Hillcrest, Kingston, Logan Central, Marsden, Parkinson, Priestdale, Regents Park, Rochedale South, Slacks Creek, Springwood, Underwood, and Woodridge.

[[Lake Laberge]]

CATEGORIES: Yukon, Lakes of Canada

Lake Laberge is a lake in Yukon, Canada. It is where the Yukon River widens north of Whitehorse. It is 50 long. It is between 2 wide.

The lake is named after Michel LaBerge, a French-Canadian who explored the area in 1866.

[[Yukon Party]]

CATEGORIES: Yukon, Political parties in Canada, Conservative parties, 1978 establishments in Canada

The Yukon Party is a conservative political party in Yukon, Canada. It was organized in 1978 as the Yukon Progressive Conservative Party. In 1991, it was renamed the "Yukon Party". In the 2002 elections, the Yukon Party won enough seats to form a government. The party also won the 2006 elections and the 2011 elections. They lost the 2016 elections and are the current Official Opposition.

[[Elizabeth Azcona Cranwell]]

CATEGORIES: Poets, Writers from Buenos Aires, 1933 births, 2004 deaths

Elizabeth Azcona Cranwell (March 10, 1933 - December 4, 2004) was a surrealist poet and translator from Argentina. She was born in Buenos Aires. She worked as a teacher at the University of Buenos Aires. She wrote about literature in La Nación. She also translated writing from English to Spanish. She translated writing by Edgar Allen Poe, Dylan Thomas and William Shand. She was influenced by Olga Orozco. In 1984, she was given the Konex Award. She died in Buenos Aires in 2004. 

[[Roberto Telch]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Argentine footballers

Roberto "Oveja" Telch (November 6, 1943 - October 12, 2014) was an Argentine footballer. He was born in San Vicente, Córdoba.

He won four league championships with San Lorenzo in Argentina and represented the Argentina national football team at the 1974 FIFA World Cup. Telch managed several teams in the lower leagues of Argentine football. He also worked for many years with the youth teams at San Lorenzo.

Telch died in Buenos Aires of a heart attack, aged 70.

[[Finn Lied]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2014 deaths, Norwegian politicians, Civil servants

[[Mary Beckett]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2013 deaths, People from Belfast, Irish writers, Children's writers

Mary Beckett (1926-2013) was an Irish author.

She was born in Belfast in Northern Ireland. She used to work for BBC Northern Ireland, where she wrote plays for the radio. She also wrote short stories. She also worked as a teacher. She was married and had five children. She stopped publishing writing until the 1980s, when she wrote The Belfast Woman. In addition to short stories, she also wrote children's books and one novel.

[[Citadel Center]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in Chicago

Citadel Center is a 580ft (177m) tall skyscraper in Chicago, Illinois. It was designed by Spanish architect Ricardo Bofill. Citadel Center is the 44th tallest building in Chicago.  It was completed in 2003. It has 39 floors. The copy of the sculpture Winged Victory of Samothrace is on display in the lobby. 

[[Maryam Mahboob]]

CATEGORIES: Feminists, Afghan writers, 1955 births

Maryam Mahboob (born 1955) is an Afghan writer. She writes about patriarchy and migrants in Afghanistan. She was born in Maimana, Afghanistan in 1955. She moved a lot because her father worked for the government. She went to college in Kabul and at the University of Tehran. She had to leave Afghanistan in 1979 after the Soviet War. She moved to Pakistan and then moved to Delhi, in India, in 1981. She created a journal, along with other Afghani who were living outside Afghanistan, called Gahanama. The government of Afghanistan and the Mujahideen were angry about the journal and Mahboob had to move to Canada in 1983. 

Today, she writes a lot about Afghani communities around the world. She writes mainly about women's rights. 

[[Fairfield County, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Connecticut counties, 1666 establishments in Connecticut

Fairfield County is located in the southwestern corner of the U.S. State of Connecticut.  As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 916,829. The county has a total area of 2,168 km² (837 mi²).  1,621 km² (626 mi²) of it is land and 547 km² (211 mi²) of it is water.  The total area is 25.23% water.

[[Hartford County, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Connecticut counties, 1666 establishments in Connecticut

Hartford County is located in the north central part of the U.S. state of Connecticut. As of the 2010 census, the population was 894,014. The county has a total area of 1,944 km² (751 mi²).  1,905 km² (735 mi²) of it is land and 39 km² (15 mi²) of it is water. The total area is 2.02% water.

[[Litchfield County, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Connecticut counties, 1751 establishments, 1750s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in Connecticut

Litchfield County is located in the northwestern corner of the U.S. State of Connecticut.  As of the 2010 census, the population was 189,927. The county has a total area of 2,446 km² (945 mi²).  2,383 km² (920 mi²) of it is land and 64 km² (25 mi²) of it is water.  The total area is 2.61% water.

[[Middlesex County, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Connecticut counties, 1780s establishments in Connecticut

Middlesex County is located in the south central part of the U.S. State of Connecticut. As of the 2010 census, the population was 165,676. The county has a total area of 1,137 km² (439 mi²).  956 km² (369 mi²) of it is land and 181 km² (70 mi²) of it is water.  The total area is 15.90% water.

[[Tolland County, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Connecticut counties, 1780s establishments in Connecticut

Tolland County is a county located in the northeastern part of the U.S. State of Connecticut.  As of the 2010 census, the population was 152,691. The county has a total area of 1,080 km² (417 mi²).  1,062 km² (410 mi²) of it is land and 18 km² (7 mi²) of it is water.  The total area is 1.66% water.

[[Interstate 95 in Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways, Transport in Connecticut

Interstate 95 is the main north-south Interstate Highway on the East Coast of the United States. It runs in a general east-west compass direction for 111.57 miles (179.55 km) in Connecticut. The majority of the road, west (south) of the New London area, is part of the Connecticut Turnpike. This is connected to the New England Thruway in New York state. I-95 leaves the Turnpike west of New London, and continues east through that city towards Westerly, Rhode Island rather than turning north with the Turnpike (designated Interstate 395).

[[Connecticut Turnpike]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in the United States, Transport in Connecticut

The Connecticut Turnpike (also known as Governor John Davis Lodge Turnpike) is a freeway in Connecticut. It runs from Byram to South Killingly. It is approximately 135 miles long (94 miles on Interstate 95, 37 miles on Interstate 395, and 4 miles on State Route 695).

The Connecticut Turnpike opened in the early 1950s as the state's main highway. Once the road was considered paid for, and also due to several accidents near the toll booths, tolls were removed from the road in 1985.  The turnpike was renamed for former Governor John Davis Lodge soon afterward. Very few signs nowadays identify the route as one unified road, and the section that runs as Route 695 carries no current identification at all (not even CT 695 markers) except to say that eastbound it goes "To US 6" and westbound it goes "To I-395".

[[William Shand]]

CATEGORIES: People from Glasgow, Scottish poets, Argentine playwrights, People from Buenos Aires, 1902 births, 1997 deaths

William Shand (1902-1997) was a writer and translator. He was born in Scotland. He lived in Argentina. He wrote poetry. He was also a playwright. He moved to Argentina in 1938. He wrote book reviews for La Nación. He translated poetry by John Donne and Stephen Spender from English into Spanish. He worked with Alberto Girri to put together poetry collections of other poets' works. He was given a Merit Diploma of Translation in 1984 and 1994 by the Konex Foundation.

[[Capitol Loop]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways, Lansing, Michigan, Transport in Michigan, 1989 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Michigan

Capitol Loop is a state trunkline highway running through Lansing, Michigan. It was opened on October 13, 1989. It creates a loop route. The Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) has marked it as Capitol Loop I-496 or CL I-496 on some maps, similar to the designation of a business loop. It is known at MDOT as Connector 81. Part of it runs on the same road as BL I-96.

[[Jan van Dornicke]]

CATEGORIES: 1470s births, 1520s deaths, Dutch painters

Jan van Dornicke (born around 1475 in Tournai, died around 1527 probably in Antwerp) was a painter of the Antwerp Mannerism movement. He was active in Antwerp from 1509 to his death. He was active as a producer of pictures for winged altars, which were mostly produced for export. 

[[Chehel Sotoun]]

CATEGORIES: Architecture, World Heritage Sites in Iran

Chehel Sotoun (or 'Chihil Sutun')  is a pavilion in Isfahan, Iran. It is in the middle of a park at the end of a long pool. It was built by Shah Abbas II  for his entertainment and receptions. In this palace, Shah Abbas II and his successors would receive dignitaries and ambassadors, either on the terrace or in one of the stately reception halls.

The name, meaning "Forty Columns" in Persian, was inspired by the twenty slender wooden columns supporting the entrance pavilion, which, when reflected in the waters of the fountain, are said to appear to be forty.

The palace has many frescoes and paintings on ceramic. Many of the ceramic panels are now in the possession of major museums in the west. They show specific historical scenes. There are also aesthetic compositions in the traditional miniature style which celebrate the joy of life and love.

The Chehel Sotoun Palace is among the nine Iranian Gardens which are registered as one of the Iran’s 17 World Heritage Sites. The nine gardens go by the name of "The Persian Garden".

[[Jan Massys]]

CATEGORIES: 1510 births, 1575 deaths, Flemish painters

Jan Massys (born around 1510 in Antwerp, died 8 October 1575, also in Antwerp) was a Flemish painter. Other spellings of his name are Massijs, Matsys, Matsijs, Messijs, Messys, Metsijs, and Metsys. Today, he is known for his history paintings amongst others.

[[Paul Sahlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Paul Sahlin, originally Johansson, born 30 March 1955 in Strömslund in Trollhättan, Sweden, is a Swedish singer and songwriter. He scored successes in Sweden and West Germany. Later he bcame a funeral director He is well-known for songs like the 1977 Svensktoppen hit Guenerina, Flyg min fjäril flyg and the Christmas song Jag önskar er alla en riktigt god jul. He also was the singer in Matz Bladhs between 1991 and 2004. Earlier, he had been the singer in the band Säwes. Later, he became active with his dansband Paul Sahlins.

[[Ann-Cathrine Wiklander]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Ann-Cathrine Wiklander, born 4 July 1958 in Sollefteå, Sweden, is a Swedish female singer. She scored dansband successes during the 1990s. 

She has scored Svensktoppen hit songs like  Kärleken (1993), Vänd inte ryggen åt en vän (1994), Alla stunder (1995), Julklockor över vår jord (1995-1996), Liksom svalorna kommer med solen (1996), Min tanke är hos mig (1998) and Gamla vänner (2000). On 12 July 1994, she appeared as a guest at Allsång på Skansen.

Ann-Cathrine Wiklander participated with the song Som en dröm, at "schlager-SM" i TV 3 1994, together with Keith Almgrens orkester at Sandgrund in Karlstad.

In late 2012, she begun touring with Erik Lihm. She also works as a diabetics nurse  at Österåsens hälsohem in Sollefteå.

[[The Book of Life (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 animated movies, 2014 romance movies, 2014 comedy movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, American animated movies, American romantic comedy movies

The Book of Life is a 2014 animated romantic comedy movie. This movie is about being torn between family expectations and following the heart of one. Christina Applegate plays teacher Mary Beth. Ice Cube plays a Candle Maker. Channing Tatum plays Tatum.

The movie was released on October 17, 2014.

[[Dan Chicoine]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Cleveland Barons (NHL) players, Ice hockey centres, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, Minnesota North Stars players, Sherbrooke Castors players

Daniel Chicoine (born November 30, 1957) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey right winger. He played a career total of 31 regular season games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Cleveland Barons and the Minnesota North Stars.

[[Kent vs Lancashire at Canterbury]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket, Paintings, 1900s paintings, 1906 works

Kent vs Lancashire at Canterbury is a oil painting by Albert Chevallier Tayler in 1906. The chairman of the Kent County Cricket Club, Lord Harris, wanted to celebrate their first County Championship title win. Tayler painted the picture after spending time with each of the Kent players one by one. 

The painting mostly stayed at Kent's St Lawrence Ground until 1999 when it was moved to Lord's Cricket Ground. Kent could no longer afford to insure it. In 2006, Kent sold the painting to the Andrew Brownsword Art Foundation at an auction. The painting is currently on display at the Lord's Pavilion.

[[The Spectacular Now]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 romance movies, 2013 comedy-drama movies, 2010s coming-of-age movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, 2010s teen drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American coming-of-age movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, American teen comedy movies, American teen drama movies, Coming-of-age comedy movies, Coming-of-age drama movies, Coming-of-age romance movies, English-language movies, American independent movies

The Spectacular Now is a 2013 American romantic comedy-drama movie. Brie Larson plays Cassidy. Shailene Woodley plays Aimee. Mary Elizabeth Winstead plays Holly. Jennifer Jason Leigh plays Sara.

The movie got good review from the critics. The box office was also good.

[[Charlie Countryman]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 romance movies, 2013 comedy movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2013 thriller movies, American romantic comedy movies, American thriller movies, American independent movies, Romanian movies

Charlie Countryman is a 2013 romantic comedy-thriller movie. The movie is about relationships and love, taking chances and life in Chicago. The title character is played by Shia LaBeouf. Evan Rachel Wood plays Gabi.

The movie got negative reviews from critics. It was released in November 2013.

[[Ulla Persson]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Singers from Stockholm

Ulla Persson, born 1947 in Stockholm, Sweden, is a female singer from Sweden. During the 1960s she scored succeses.

[[Pontus Segerström]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Swedish footballers

Pontus Segerström (17 February 1981 – 13 October 2014) was a Swedish footballer.

Segerström started his career at IF Brommapojkarna where he had played football from a young age. He later played for Danish Odense BK during a short period of time in 2004 before moving back to Sweden to play for Landskrona BoIS, first in Allsvenskan for the 2005 season and later in Superettan for the 2006 season. His two last seasons at the club was in Allsvenskan in 2013 and 2014.

Segerström died just 76 days after his last played Allsvenskan game, which he played as the captain from brain cancer, aged 33.

[[Ali Mazrui]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2014 deaths, Kenyan people, Writers

Ali Al'amin Mazrui (24 February 1933 – 13 October 2014) was a Kenyan academic professor and political writer. He wrote about African and Islamic studies and North-South relations. He was born in Mombasa, Kenya. He was an Albert Schweitzer Professor in the Humanities and the Director of the Institute of Global Cultural Studies at Binghamton University in Binghamton, New York. 

Mazrui died in Binghamton, New York, aged 81.

[[Eicochrysops meryamae]]

CATEGORIES: Butterflies

Eicochrysops meryamae is a butterfly in the Lycaenidae family. It is found in Ethiopia.

[[Hypatopa lucina]]

CATEGORIES: Moths

Hypatopa lucina is a moth in the Blastobasidae family. It is found in Costa Rica.

[[Gotra]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism

Gotra is a clan in Hindu society. It means the people who are descended in an unbroken male line from a common male ancestor. In the 4th century, Pāṇini wrote that gotra are the descendants of a sage, "beginning with the son's son."(IV. 1. 162). A person who says "I am Kashyapa-gotra," can trace his family from the ancient sage Kashyapa through an unbroken male line. 

According to the Brihadaranyaka Upanisad 2.2.6, Gautama and Bharadvāja, Viśvāmitra and Jamadagni, Vashishtha and Kaśhyapa, and Atri are seven sages (also known as Saptarishi). The descendants of these eight sages are said to be gotras. This explanation  of the eight primary gotras seems to have been known to Pāṇini. Descendants of others are called gotrâvayava.

[[Chandra]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu gods and goddesses

Chandra is a Hindu moon god. He is described as being young, beautiful and fair. In his hands he carries a club and a lotus. He rides his chariot across the sky every night, pulled by ten white horses or an antelope.

[[Division of Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Queensland, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Ryan is an Australian Electoral Division in Queensland. It was set up in 1949 and is named after T. J. Ryan, Premier of Queensland from 1915 to 1919. Ryan is located in south east Queensland. It is based on the south western suburbs of Brisbane, including Auchenflower, Bellbowrie, Brookfield, Chapel Hill, Ferny Grove, Fig Tree Pocket, The Gap, Indooroopilly, Karana Downs, Kenmore, Keperra, Lake Manchester, Moggill, Pullenvale, St Lucia, Taringa, Toowong, the western Centenary Suburbs and parts of Bardon.

[[Division of Wright]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Queensland, 2009 establishments in Australia

The Division of Wright is an Australian Electoral Division in the state of Queensland. It was set up in 2010. It covers the area inland from the Gold Coast, and includes the towns of Beaudesert and Boonah. It is named after the poet, Judith Wright (1915-2000) who lived in the area.

[[Frontiersman]]

CATEGORIES: American frontiersmen and women

Frontiersmen and frontierswomen were/are people living on the frontier between settled and unsettled lands. The frontier was a place between civilization and the unknown wilderness. Frontiersmen often cleared the land, built shelters, raised children, and grew crops. Hunting and animal trapping were prime sources of meat. Animal furs and skins were made into clothing. Famous American frontiersmen include Davy Crockett, Daniel Boone, and Kit Carson. The United States, Canada, and Australia are the countries where frontiersmen and women have been found in large numbers.

[[Black Box (band)]]

CATEGORIES: R&B bands, Pop music groups, 1998 disestablishments

Black Box was a late 1980s/early 1990s house music group. They were known for hit singles like "Everybody Everybody", "Strike it Up" and "I Don't Know Anybody Else".

The group broke up in 1998.

[[Super Mario (disambiguation)]]

Super Mario might mean:

[[Gang Starr]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments in the United States, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2006 disestablishments in the United States, Musical duos, Musical groups disestablished in 2006, Musical groups established in 1985, Rap music groups

Gang Starr was an East Coast hip hop duo. The members were MC Guru and DJ Premier. The group was started in Boston, Massachusetts in 1985. The group made hardcore hip hop.

The group ended in 2006.

Guru died in 2010.

[[List of Bienes de Interés Cultural in the Province of Biscay]]

CATEGORIES: Spain-related lists

This is a list of Bienes de Interés Cultural (registered monuments and landmarks) in the Province of Biscay, Spain.

[[Big Daddy Kane]]

CATEGORIES: American rap musicians from New York, Musicians from New York City, 1968 births, Living people

Antonio Hardy (better known as Big Daddy Kane; born September 10, 1968) is an American rapper. He began his rapping career in 1986 with rap group the Juice Crew. In the late 1980s, Kane released his album It's a Big Daddy Thing. As of 2014, that was his biggest album. That album included songs like "Smooth Operator".

Kane was born in Brooklyn, New York.

[[Isaiah Owens]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Musicians from California, People from Long Beach, California

Isaiah Randolph "Ikey" Owens (December 1, 1975 - October 14, 2014) was an American keyboardist. He was known for his work with The Mars Volta, Jack White and a variety of bands from the Long Beach music scene.

On October 14, 2014, Owens was found dead in his hotel room in  Cholula, Mexico, aged 38. He died of an apparent heart attack.

[[William Peter Blatty]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winners, Golden Globe Award winners, Saturn Award winners, Deaths from multiple myeloma, 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Screenwriters from New York City, Movie directors from New York City

William Peter Blatty (January 7, 1928 – January 12, 2017) was an American writer, screenwriter, and movie director. The novel The Exorcist, written in 1971, is his most well-known novel. He was the screenwriter of the movie adaptation. He won an Academy Award for it. He also wrote and directed the third movie of the trilogy, The Exorcist III.

[[Adactylidium]]

CATEGORIES: Insects, Parasites

Adactylidium is a genus of mites. It is known for its short and unusual  life cycle. The pregnant female mite attaches herself to a single egg of a thrip. She grows from five to eight female offspring and one male in her body. The offspring begin to eat their mother from the inside out. The single male mite mates with all his sisters when they are still in the mother. The females, now pregnant, cut holes in their mother's body. This is so that they can get out to find new thrips eggs. The male gets out too. But having served his biological function he dies after a few hours. The females die at the age of four days, when their own offspring eat them alive from the inside.

[[Thompson Twins]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1993 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, Musical groups established in 1977, Musical groups disestablished in 1993

Thompson Twins were an English alternative rock band formed in 1977. The group disbanded in May 1993. They were successful in having three top ten hits in the US. When the group did not move past their Synthpop sound they lost their popularity. Through most of their career there were three members. However none were twins and none were named Thompson.

[[Animorphs]]

CATEGORIES: Young adult novels, Science fiction books

Animorphs is a young-adult science fiction book series. They were written by K. A. Applegate and published by Scholastic. It is told in the first person, from perspectives of 6 different characters; Rachel, Cassie, Jake, Tobias, Marco, and Aximilli-Esgarouth-Isthil. A different character is featured for each book. It was published from June 1996 to May 2001. There are 54 books in the series.

[[Fiddlehead fern]]

CATEGORIES: Vegetables

Fiddleheads are a type of vegetable.

[[Hurricane Gonzalo]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes, 2014 in weather

Hurricane Gonzalo was a Category 4 hurricane. The storm threatened Bermuda. The hurricane struck the northern Leeward Islands, killing one person.  Gonzalo formed on October 12, 2014. On October 14, hurricane notices were put up for Bermuda when the storm began heading their direction.

[[Delhi Poetry Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals in Asia, 2013 establishments in India, Delhi, Poetry

Delhi Poetry Festival is an annual poetry festival. It was organized by Poets Corner Group in Delhi in 2013.

[[Louis Philippe, Crown Prince of Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Princes and princesses, 1833 births, House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, Heirs apparent who never acceded, 1834 deaths

Louis Philippe, Crown Prince of Belgium (24 July 1833 – 17 May 1834), was the eldest child and heir-apparent of King Leopold I of the Belgians and his second wife, Louise of Orléans. He died as an infant. He may have been named after his grandfather Louis Philippe I.

[[The Hindu]]

CATEGORIES: English-language newspapers published in India

The Hindu is an English language newspaper in India. It was founded on 20 September 1878. It has headquarter in Chennai, India.

[[Poets Corner Group]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry, Cultural organizations, 2011 establishments in Asia

Poets Corner Group is a poetry group in India founded in 2011 by poet Yaseen Anwer. The group hosts online competitions, poetry reading events, panel discussion, book launches, workshops, and other activities. Poets Corner organizes annual poetry event in New Delhi called Delhi Poetry Festival. It has published over 21 anthologies in both English and Hindi. 

[[Marie Dubois]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2014 deaths, People with multiple sclerosis, Deaths from multiple sclerosis, French movie actors, Actors from Paris

Marie Dubois (Claudine Lucie Pauline Huzé; January 12, 1937 - October 15, 2014) was a French actress. Dubois was born in Paris, France. She studied at l'École de la rue Blanche (ENSATT). She made her movie debut in 1959. She was first gaining notice as Léna in Shoot the Piano Player.

She was known for her roles in Jules and Jim, The Thief of Paris, Hot Line, La Ronde, La Grande Vadrouille, and Monte Carlo or Bust. In 1978 she won the César Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role as Dominique Montlaur in La Menace.

Dubois married French actor Serge Rousseau in 1961. They remained together until his death in 2007. Dubois died in Paris, France from multiple sclerosis, aged 77.

[[Giovanni Reale]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Italian writers, Italian educators, Italian historians

Giovanni Reale (15 April 1931 – 15 October 2014) was an Italian historian and philosopher. Reale was born in Candia Lomellina, Pavia, Italy. He mostly wrote about Greek philosophy. He was a teacher at Vita-Salute San Raffaele University in Italy. 

Reale died on 15 October 2014 in his home in Luino, Italy, aged 83.

[[Elizabeth Peña]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from cirrhosis, Deaths from sepsis, Deaths from cardiopulmonary arrest, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Cuban actors, Actors from New Jersey

Elizabeth Peña (September 23, 1959 – October 14, 2014) was an Cuban-American actress and television director. She was known for her roles in The Incredibles, Rush Hour, Jacob's Ladder, and La Bamba. She was born in Elizabeth, New Jersey.

Peña died at the age of 55 on October 14, 2014 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California from septic shock and cardiopulmonary arrest complicated from cirrhosis of the liver.

[[Helmut Ruge]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2014 deaths, German comedians, German movie actors, German stage actors, People from Stuttgart, German writers

Helmut Ruge (7 February 1940 – 8 October 2014) was a German comedian, author, director and actor. He was born in Stuttgart. Ruge was originally a graduate sociologist and psychologist. He wrote 37 cabaret programs and ten plays. 

Ruge lived in Munich since 1967. Ruge died on October 8, 2014 at the age of 74 years after a long illness in Munich.

[[Berberis hayatana]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Asia

Berberis hayatana is a species of flowering plant in the family Berberidaceae. It was first described in 1952 then renamed in 1954. It is found mainly in Taiwan. Berberis hayatana is a low evergreen shrub. It is common to the Central Mountain Range at elevations of between 2000 and 3000. 

[[Gone Girl (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 crime movies, 2014 thriller movies, 2010s crime thriller movies, 2014 mystery movies, Adultery in movies, American crime thriller movies, American mystery movies, Antisocial personality disorder, English-language movies, Missouri, Movies about educators, Movies about murderers, Movies about suburbia, Movies about twins, Movies about writers, Movies based on books, Movies directed by David Fincher, Pregnancy movies

Gone Girl is a 2014 American crime thriller mystery movie set in Missouri. It is an adaptation of a novel by Gillian Flynn that is also called Gone Girl. The movie is about a man who is suspected of killing his wife after she goes missing. Ben Affleck plays Nick Dunne. Rosamund Pike plays his wife Amy.

The movie received positive reviews from critics. Its box office was very positive.

[[Matt Carpenter]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, St. Louis Cardinals players, 1985 births, Sportspeople from Texas

Matthew Martin Carpenter (born November 26, 1985) is a professional baseball player.  He plays for the St. Louis Cardinals.  The positions he plays are second and third base.  Carpenter played his major league game on June 4, 2011 at Busch Stadium.  He became their regular leadoff hitter early in the 2013 season.

[[Christian church]]

CATEGORIES: Church organization

A Christian church (or local church) is a group of people who share a faith or belief within a community. They usually meet in one particular location called a cathedral, temple, tabernacle, or simply a church building. A church group represents a certain doctrine and traditions. Many Christian churches that use the same name and share the same beliefs are a part of a denomination. A church that not part of a larger group is usually called nondenominational. There are estimated to be over 41,000 denominations worldwide. They may fall within three general groups: Orthodox, Catholic and Protestant Churches.

[[Horses in World War I]]

CATEGORIES: World War I, Horses

Horses in World War I were very easily  killed by machine guns and ordinary guns on the battlefields. Over 48,000 horses were killed in World War I, 210 from poison gas. Many drowned, died of exhaustion, or got stuck in mud or shell holes.

Horses were mainly used for helping with transport. They carried guns and bullets. They were better than motor vehicles over rough and muddy surfaces. It was hard to get enough food for them because they were in the middle of war. Horses ate about ten times as much food as a human. In 1917, allied operations were threatened when horse feed rations were reduced.

[[Fitzroy River (Queensland)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Queensland

The Fitzroy River is in Queensland, Australia. The river is formed by the coming together of the Mackenzie and Dawson rivers at Duaringa. 

The Fitzroy was named by Charles and William Archer on 4 May 1853. The river was named in honour of Sir Charles FitzRoy, Governor of the Colony of New South Wales. Queensland did not become a colony until 1859.

[[Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette]]

CATEGORIES: 1757 births, 1834 deaths, French politicians, Noblemen from France

Marie-Joseph Paul Yves Roch Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de La Fayette (6 September 1757 – 20 May 1834), known in the United States as Lafayette, was a French artistocrat, politician and Liberal thinker. He believed in Enlightenment, and played an important role both in the American War of Independence and the French Revolution. In 1789, he presented a draft of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. He worked on the document with Thomas Jefferson who was the American ambassador in Paris, at the time.

[[Portuguese Football Federation]]

CATEGORIES: Football in Portugal, 1914 establishments in Europe, Lisbon, Sports organizations, 20th century establishments in Portugal

The Portuguese Football Federation (FPF) (Federação Portuguesa de Futebol; FPF; fɨdɨɾɐˈsɐ̃w̃ puɾtuˈɡezɐ dɨ futɨbɔɫ) is the governing body of football in Portugal. It organises the Campeonato Nacional de Seniores, the Taça de Portugal, the Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira, youth levels, women's football, beach soccer, futsal, and also the men's and the women's national football teams. It was formed in 1914. It is based in Lisbon.

[[Fitzroy River (Western Australia)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Western Australia

The Fitzroy River is in the West Kimberley part of Western Australia. The Fitzroy flows into the Indian Ocean. The first European to visit the Fitzroy River was George Grey in 1837 aboard the H.M.S. Beagle. The river was given its European name by Lieutenant J.L. Stokes in February 1838 after Captain Robert FitzRoy.

[[Fitzroy River]]

There are three rivers named the Fitzroy River, all in Australia:

[[IPad Air 2]]

CATEGORIES: IPad

The iPad Air 2 is the sixth generation of the iPad tablet computer that is designed and sold by Apple Inc. It was announced during an event on October 16, 2014 along with the iPad mini 3. It has a thinner design and also has Touch ID compared to the iPad Air.

[[Pathiyanadu Sree Bhadrakali Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples, Kerala, Buildings and structures in India

The Pathiyanadu Sree Bhadrakali Temple is a highly famous revered shrine in Kerala, India. The shrine is in Mullassery. It is 1.5 from Karakulam. It is 12.5 from Thiruvananthapuram. The temple is managed by Pathiyanadu sree Bhadrakali Kshetram Trust.

[[CompactFlash]]

CATEGORIES: Storage devices

CompactFlash is a name of a standard used for a mass storage device, which is mostly used in digital cameras. Today, most CompactFlah devices use flash memory. Since most CompactFlash cards have no movable parts, they are also used in embedded systems. Compact flash cards are 36.4mm by 42.8mm in size, and either 3.3mm or 5mm thick. The 3.3mm type is known as Type I, the 5mm type is known as Type II. Most type II devices are small hard disks. The transfer speed is often given as an x rating, where the base is 150kB/s for 1x speed, which was also the base speed for reading compact discs.

In many cases, reading is faster than writing, often by a factor of two to three. That way, a speed of "133x" is roughly that of 20MB/sec. When the speed is given as a rate, usually in MB/s, this speed is the maximum speed that can be obtained reading from the device.

There are ComactFlash devices of different capacities.

[[Misty Upham]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Montana, Actors from Washington, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Native American people, Unexplained deaths, People from Kalispell, Montana

Misty Anne Upham  (July 6, 1982 – October 2014) was an American actress. She was best known for her role in the Academy Award-nominated movie Frozen River (2008). She also appeared in movies such as Django Unchained (2012) and August: Osage County. Upham was also had roles in the television shows Big Love and Auf Wiedersehen, Pet.

[[Nika Kiladze]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, 2014 deaths, Asian footballers, European footballers, Sportspeople from Georgia (country), Road accident deaths

Nika Kiladze (ნიკა კილაძე; 29 November 1988 – 7 October 2014) was a Georgian footballer. He played professionally in both Georgia and Finland from 2006 until his death in 2014. He played as a defensive midfielder for Orbebi Tbilisi, Kokkolan Palloveikot (KPV), Kajaanin Haka, and FC Guria Lanchkhuti.

Kiladze was born in Gagra, Abkhaz ASSR, Georgian SSR of the Soviet Union.

Kiladze died in a motorcycle accident on 7 October 2014 in Tbilisi. He was 25.

[[Doggystyle]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 albums, Snoop Dogg albums, G-funk albums

Doggystyle is a gangsta rap album by Snoop Dogg (then known as Snoop Doggy Dogg). The album was recorded not long after The Chronic (1992). Doggystyle was praised by critics for lyrical "realism".

This album was released on November 23, 1993. It premiered at #1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart. The lyrics created some controversy.

[[Tête de Moine]]

CATEGORIES: Swiss cheeses

Tête de Moine is a hard cheese made from cows' milk. It is made in the cantons of Berne and Jura in Switzerland. It was first made in the Bellelay Abbey in the 12th century. 

[[Tanhum Cohen-Mintz]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2014 deaths, Basketball players, Cancer deaths in Israel, Jewish Israeli sportspeople, Latvian Jews, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Riga, People from Tel Aviv

Tanhum "Tani" Cohen-Mintz (8 October 1939 – 11 October 2014) was an Israeli basketball player. A 6 ft 8 1/2 in (2.04 m) center, he played professionally between 1956 and 1972 for Maccabi Tel Aviv. He was also the captain of the Israel national basketball team 86 times between 1959 and 1971. In 1992, he became a member of the Jewish Sports Hall of Fame.

Cohen-Mintz was born in Riga, Latvia to Jewish parents. He also played tennis, to follow his mother, Edith, but was convinced to play basketball due to his height and athletic abilities.

Cohen-Mintz died from cancer on 11 October 2014 in Tel Aviv. He was 75.

[[Alfstarz]]

CATEGORIES: Dansbands, Swedish musical groups

The Alfstarz was a dansband in the town of Ronneby, Sweden.

[[2014 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in Asia, 2014 in sports, Asian Games, Incheon, Sport in South Korea

The 2014 Asian Games, officially known as the XVII Asiad, was a sports event in Incheon, South Korea. It occurred from September 19 to October 4, 2014. There were 439 events in 36 sports and disciplines.

On April 17, 2007, Incheon was chosen to host the event. Incheon was the third city in South Korea to have the Asian Games. Seoul hosted them in 1986 and Busan hosted them in 2002.

The final medal count was led by China, followed by South Korea and Japan. Fourteen World records and 27 Asian records were broken during the Games. Japanese swimmer Kosuke Hagino was the most valuable player (MVP) of the Games. Though there were several controversies, the Games were considered mainly successful. That was helped by the low cost and the rising standard of competition between the Asian countries.

[[Seppo Kuusela]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2014 deaths, Basketball players, Coaches, Sportspeople from Helsinki

Seppo Ilmo Kuusela (25 February 1934 – 16 October 2014) was a Finnish basketball player and coach. A 6 ft 0 in (1.83 m) point guard and shooting guard, he played professionally between 1952 and 1969. He played for both Pantterit and Tapion Honka (now known as Espoon Honka), as well as for Finland's national basketball team. From 1970 until 1992, he coached Espoon Honka.

Kuusela was born in Helsinki. He grew up in Töölö.

Kuusela died on 16 October 2014 at the age of 80.

[[China at the 2014 Asian Games]]

CATEGORIES: Asian Games, 2014 in sports, Sport in China

China participated in the 2014 Asian Games in Incheon, South Korea from 19 September to 4 October 2014.

[[Lyudmila Shishova]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2004 deaths, Fencers, Medalists at the 1960 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Soviet Olympic gold medalists, Soviet Olympic silver medalists

Lyudmila Shishova (Людмила Николаевна Шишова; 1 June 1940 – 21 February 2004) was a Soviet fencer.  In the 1960 Summer Olympics, she won gold in the women's team foil fencing.  In the 1964 Summer Olympics, she won a silver medal.

[[Kimani Njogu]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Kenyan people

Kimani Njogu (born Simon Kimani Njogu) was born in Kipkelion Township and educated at Taita Towett Secondary School, Kenyatta College, the University of Nairobi and Yale university where he attained a Ph.D in linguistics in 1993.. He is an editor, playwright, theorist and linguist. He is published in studies, language and media.   

He is best known for his work promoting the use of the Swahili language. He is the founding-Chairman of Chama cha Kiswahili cha Taifa (CHAKITA-Kenya), the Kenya National Swahili Committee which guided the process of developing the Languages of Kenya Policy and Bill. He is the Chair of the Board of the Legal Resources Foundation Trust; a not-for-profit Kenyan civil organization which promotes access to justice through human education, research and advocacy.  

[[Yvonne Strahovski]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Actors from Sydney, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors

Yvonne Jaqueline Strzechowski (born 30 July 1982), better known by the stage name Yvonne Strahovski, is an Australian actress. She is best known for playing CIA agent Sarah Walker in the NBC television series Chuck from 2007 until 2012. She also appeared as Hannah McKay in the Showtime series Dexter from 2012 until 2013. Her movie roles include Killer Elite (2011), The Guilt Trip (2013) and I, Frankenstein (2014). She also played Miranda Lawson in the Mass Effect video games and CIA agent Kate Morgan in 24: Live Another Day.

Strahovski was born in Werrington Downs, a suburb of Sydney, New South Wales. Her parents are Polish immigrants from Tomaszów Mazowiecki. She speaks both English and Polish. She is also a supporter of PETA.

[[Tim Hauser]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2014 deaths, American jazz musicians, American pop singers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from pneumonia, People from Troy, New York, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, Singers from New Jersey, Singers from New York

Timothy DuPron "Tim" Hauser (December 12, 1941 – October 16, 2014) was an American singer. He was best known for being a member of the vocal group The Manhattan Transfer. He was a founding member of the group in 1969. The group has won ten Grammy Awards.

Hauser was born in Troy, New York and grew up in the coastal region of Jersey Shore, New Jersey. Both (two) his marriages ended in divorce. He had two children: son, Basie, and daughter, Lily.

Hauser died from cardiac arrest and pneumonia on October 16, 2014 in Sayre, Pennsylvania. He was 72.

[[African palm civet]]

CATEGORIES: Feliformia, Carnivores, Mammals of Africa

The African palm civet (Nandinia binotata), or two-spotted palm civet, is a small mammal. It is in the Feliformia suborder.

It has short legs, small ears, a body like a civet cat, and a long lithe tail as long as its body. Adults usually weigh 1.70. It is native to the forests of eastern Africa and the Congo River basin. It usually lives in trees, and it is omnivorous: it eats rodents, insects, eggs, carrion, fruit, birds and fruit bats. The animal is generally solitary and nocturnal.

Although it looks like other civet species (in the family Viverridae),  the African palm civet is genetically distinct: they probably diverged from other civets before the cats did. They are therefore classified as the only species in the genus Nandinia and in their own family, Nandiniidae. However, not all experts accept this.

[[Max & Shred]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s Canadian television series, 2014 television series debuts, 2010s American television series, 2010s establishments in Canada

Max & Shred is a Canadian/American-produced sitcom. It was first shown in the United States on Nickelodeon on October 6, 2014. It was first shown in Canada on YTV on October 7, 2014.

[[Carina Jaarneks orkester]]

CATEGORIES: Dansbands, Swedish musical groups

Carina Jaarneks orkester was a dansband in the town of Ronneby, Sweden. The band scored chart successes at Svensktoppen between the late 1980s and the early 2000s. The band was started in 1989. Carina Jaarnek acted as the band's singer. In 1991, the band won the first, unofficial, edition of the Swedish Dansband Championships contest. In the year 2000, the band participated in the finals of the Dansbandslåten contest with the song Minns du hur vi älskade. However, the song didn't win the contest

[[Bradford Forster Square railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Bradford, Railway stations in England

Bradford Forster Square is one of two main railway stations in Bradford, West Yorkshire. The other one is Bradford Interchange.

[[Mario Power Tennis]]

CATEGORIES: Mario sports games, 2005 video games, Nintendo GameCube games, Wii games

Mario Power Tennis, known as Mario Tennis GC in Japan is a sport video game for the GameCube. The game was released in Europe and North America in 2004 and in Australia in 2005. The game was re-released on the Nintendo Wii as part of New Play Control!. And you released date only the Platfrorms complete.

[[Bradford Interchange]]

CATEGORIES: Bradford, Railway stations in England, 1971 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1970s establishments in England

Bradford Interchange is one of two main railway stations in Bradford, West Yorkshire.  The other is Bradford Forster Square.  It is a transport interchange in Bradford, West Yorkshire, England. It consists of a railway station and combined bus and coach station adjacent. The Interchange was designed in 1962. At the time it was hailed as a showpiece of European design when it opened in 1971. It is served by the majority of bus services in the city centre. It is also served by National Express. The railway station, which is one of two in the city centre, is served by Northern Rail. It is also the terminus for Grand Central services to Kings Cross railway station.

[[Bammy]]

CATEGORIES: Breads, Jamaica

Bammy or bami is a traditional Jamaican cassava flatbread.  It is like the simple flatbread eaten by the Arawaks. Today, it is produced in many places.  It is sold in stores and by street sellers in Jamaica.

[[Monia Sjöström]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Linda ''Monia'' Paulette Sjöström, born 21 December 1973 in Ballingslöv, Sweden is a Swedish female dansband singer. She has sung with Grönwalls, and was one of the bandmembers who in 1991 formed the band, and in 1992 won the Swedish Dansband Championships contest. She also participated at Melodifestivalen 1997 with the song "Nu i dag", ending up 11th.

In February 1999, she was appointed "best dansband voice of Sweden" in the "Får jag lov". magazine Some months later, she left Grönwalls to start a country music carrier with the albums "Monia", recorded in the USA, and "Söderns hjärtas ros". Both albums entered the Swedish album chart.

In 2004, she returned to Grönwalls. In 2006 she was awarded the Guldklaven award in the category "Singer of the year" during the Swedish Dansband Week in Malung.

[[Patrick Paul D’Souza]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Roman Catholics, Indian religious leaders

Patrick Paul D'Souza (August 28, 1928spaced ndash October 16, 2014) was a Roman Catholic bishop. He was ordained to the priesthood on December 20, 1953. D'Souza was named bishop of the Diocese of Banaras on June 5, 1970. He was ordained bishop on August 8, 1970. The diocese was renamed Diocese of Varanasi in 1971. D'Souza retired on February 24, 2007. He was born in Bendur, Mangalore.

D'Souza died in Mumbai, India, aged 84.

[[Sumi Haru]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2014 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New Jersey

Sumi Haru (also known as Sumi Sevilla Haru; August 25, 1939 – October 16, 2014) was an American movie, television and theatre actress. She was best known for such movies and television shows as Krakatoa, East of Java, MASH, The Beverly Hillbillies and Hill Street Blues.

Haru died at the age of 75 on October 16, 2014.

[[Mikhail Marynich]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2014 deaths, Belarusian people, Ambassadors

Mikhail Marynich (Міхаіл Марыніч; Михаил Маринич - Marinich, 13 January 1940 — 17 October 2014) was a Belarusian opposition leader. He was from Homiel Voblast. He was a minister of foreign economic affairs and an ambassador of Belarus to Latvia. 

Marynich died on 17 October 2014 at the age of 74.

[[Tom Shaw (bishop)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, People from Battle Creek, Michigan

Marvil Thomas "Tom" Shaw III, SSJE (August 28, 1945spaced ndashOctober 17, 2014) was an American Episcopal bishop. He was the fifteenth Bishop of Massachusetts. Shaw was born in Battle Creek, Michigan.

Shaw died of brain cancer in West Newberry, Massachusetts, aged 69.

[[Topic sentence]]

CATEGORIES: Sentences

Topic sentence is a term in grammar. It applies to expository writing. Expository writing is a type of writing where the purpose is to explain, inform, or even describe. 

A topic sentence is usually the first in a paragraph. It states the main idea in a paragraph. In this way, it helps the reader to understand what follows. So, for example, a sentence like "Minor planets are smaller than major planets, and have orbits further out than the orbit of Neptune" could be followed by details of the minor planets. Often topic sentences do a similar job to summaries.

[[Calamari]]

CATEGORIES: Appetizers, Seafood

Calamari is squid that is prepared to be eaten. It can be prepared in several ways. Most common is deep frying or sautéing after coating the rings with batter. If deep fried, it is done for less than two minutes to prevent toughness. It is usually served with a dip, mayonnaise or something similar. Calamari is a standard dish in Italian restaurants, served as a starter.

[[Fruit salad]]

CATEGORIES: Appetizers, Desserts, Fruits, Salads

Fruit salad is a dish with of different kinds of fruit.  Fruit salad can sometimes be served in a liquid like juices or a syrup.  Most of the time it is served as an appetizer or as a dessert.  A fruit salad is sometimes known as a fruit cocktail or fruit cup.

[[Francesca Marie Smith]]

CATEGORIES: Nickelodeon, Disney, Viacom, American child actors, American voice actors, Living people

Francesca Marie Smith (born March 26, 1985) is an American actress. She is best known as the voice of Helga Pataki and Timberly Johanssen. This was on Nickelodeon's Hey Arnold! series (1996–2004).

[[Ronald Reagan Speaks Out Against Socialized Medicine]]

CATEGORIES: Ronald Reagan, 1961, 1960s albums

Ronald Reagan Speaks Out Against Socialized Medicine is a 1961 LP featuring Ronald Reagan. It is a ten-minute recording.

In the recording, Reagan criticized Social Security for "supplanting private savings" and warned that medicine would be "bad for Americans' freedom" and that "pretty soon your son won't decide when he's in school, where he will go or what he will do for a living. He will wait for the government to tell him."

[[Edgar Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from kidney cancer, Cancer deaths in Florida, Apollo astronauts, Scientists from Texas, Parapsychologists

Dr. Edgar Dean "Ed" Mitchell, (September 17, 1930 – February 4, 2016), (Capt, USN, Ret.) was an American retired naval officer and aviator, test pilot, aeronautical engineer, parapsychologist, and NASA astronaut. He was a moonwalker.

He was the Lunar Module Pilot of Apollo 14. He spent nine hours working on the lunar surface in the Fra Mauro Highlands region. Mitchell was born in Hereford, Texas.

Mitchell died under hospice care in Lake Worth, Florida from complications of kidney cancer on February 4, 2016 at the age of 85.

[[Statue of Liberty National Monument]]

CATEGORIES: National Register of Historic Places, National Monuments of the United States, 1924 establishments in the United States

The Statue of Liberty National Monument is a national monument of the United States. It is made up of two islands: Ellis Island and Liberty Island. The Statue of Liberty is included because it is on Liberty Island.

This national monument was created in 1924. At first, it included only the Statue of Liberty. In 1965, Ellis Island was added. In 1966, Liberty Island was added.

[[Ontario Highway 402]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Ontario

Ontario Highway 402, also called King's Highway 402, is a provincial highway in southwestern Ontario, Canada. It connects the Blue Water Bridge in Sarnia and Ontario Highway 401 in London. The highway runs mostly east-west. The only large municipality along the highway is Strathroy-Caradoc.

Construction on the highway started in 1939 but was stopped due to World War II. Work started again in 1952. The highway was finished in 1982. In 2009, the westbound part of the highway near Sarnia was widened from four lanes into six lanes.

[[British Columbia Highway 97]]

CATEGORIES: British Columbia, Roads in Canada

British Columbia Highway 97 is a provincial highway in British Columbia, Canada. It is 2,081 kilometers (1,293 miles) long. It runs from the Canada/United States border near Osoyoos to the British Columbia/Yukon border near Watson Lake, Yukon. It is the longest provincial highway in Canada. The highway is a continuation of U.S. Route 97, from which it gets its name.

The highway has several names, depending on which part of British Columbia it passes through. For example, the 269 kilometer (167 mile) part between the U.S. border and the town of Cache Creek is called the "Okanagan Highway", named after the Okanagan region of British Columbia.

[[Blender (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Dansbands, Musical groups established in 2002

Blender is a Swedish dansband. The band was founded in March 2002 by Lasse Lundberg. Soon, the band became a full-time dansband and since then has played all over Sweden.

In 2007 they won the Guldklaven award in the "Album of the Year" and they have also got several other awards.

In 2009 the single "Ingen ingenting" was qualified to Sveriges Radio P4's so called B rotation list, which guaranteed it a lot of airplay over the radio each week. On 12th of December 2009 the band participated with The Playtones, Titanix, Casanovas and Bhonus in the last of the qualification sets in Dansbandskampen, performing two songs: (Dag efter dag & Hold Me Now. Then they also played in the final. but didn't win the contest.

In 2011 the band scored a success with the album Ingen utan mig. It reached fourth position at Sverigetopplistan.

[[Bird sound]]

CATEGORIES: Birds

Bird sounds include bird songs, calls and any other noises they make for communication. Birds do a lot of communicating, mostly to other birds.

[[Stephen Collins]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American television directors, American screenwriters, Writers from Des Moines, Iowa, Musicians from Des Moines, Iowa, Actors from Des Moines, Iowa

Stephen Weaver Collins (born October 1, 1947) is an American actor, screenwriter, director, and musician. He is best known for playing Eric Camden on the television series 7th Heaven. 

Collins is also known for the roles of Captain Will Decker in Star Trek: The Motion Picture, and Dr. Dayton King on the ABC TV series No Ordinary Family. He also had a supporting role in the TV series Revolution as Dr. Gene Porter.

[[Ray Wise]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Akron, Ohio

Raymond Herbert "Ray" Wise (born August 20, 1947) is an American actor.  Some of his best-known roles are as Jack Taggart Sr. in Jeepers Creepers 2, Leland Palmer in Twin Peaks,  henchman Leon C. Nash in RoboCop, the Devil in the CW television series Reaper, as Hal Gardner in season 5 of 24 and as James Gordon in Batman: The Killing Joke.

[[Gero Bisanz]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2014 deaths, German football managers, German footballers, Polish people

Gero Bisanz (3 November 1935 - 17 October 2014) was a German football coach.

Bisanz played for 1. FC Köln and Viktoria Köln. From 1982 to 1996, he was the coach of the Germany women's national football team, in that time winning the UEFA Women's Championship three times, in 1989, 1991 and 1995.

He also was leading director of the German Football Association's coaches training facilities from 1971 to 2000, then being followed by Erich Rutemöller. He also coached 1. FC Köln (amateurs), Bayer Leverkusen, TuS Lindlar and Germany B.

[[Edwards Barham]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2014 deaths, Aviation deaths, Politicians from Louisiana, US Republican Party politicians

Erle Edwards Barham (July 10, 1937 – October 17, 2014) was an American farmer and conservationist. He was the first Republican elected—by a 29-vote margin—to the Louisiana State Senate since the era of Reconstruction.

Barham represented the agricultural District 33 from 1976 to 1980. He was narrowly unseated in the 1979 nonpartisan blanket primary by the Democrat David "Bo" Ginn of Bastrop, who held the seat until 1988.

Barham died in a plane crash on October 17, 2014. He was attempting to take off at Rayville Municipal Airport when his Beechcraft Bonanza aircraft struck a perimeter fence.

[[Joanne Borgella]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from endometrial cancer, Singer-songwriters from New York, Models from New York, Writers from New York

Joanne Borgella (May 29, 1982 – October 18, 2014) was an American singer-songwriter, jewelry designer and model. She was signed to Wilhelmina Models. She was the first winner of Mo'Nique's Fat Chance pageant as "Miss F.A.T." in 2005 and a top 24 contestant on the seventh season of American Idol in 2008.  

Borgella died on October 18, 2014, due to a rare form of endometrial cancer that had spread to her brain. She was 32 years old.

[[Paul Craft]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2014 deaths, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Memphis, Tennessee, Singers from Arkansas, People from Little Rock, Arkansas

Paul Craft (August 12, 1938 – October 18, 2014) was an American singer-songwriter. He was known as the songwriter for Mark Chesnutt's single "Brother Jukebox" and for "It's Me Again, Margaret".

Craft was born in Memphis, Tennessee. He was raised in Little Rock, Arkansas.

His song "Keep Me From Blowing Away" was originally recorded by The Seldom Scene on their 1973 album Act II and was then recorded by Linda Ronstadt on her 1974 album "Heart Like a Wheel", and has since been recorded by Moe Bandy, T. Graham Brown, Jerry Lee Lewis and Willie Nelson. His song "Midnight Flyer" was recorded by the Eagles.  His song "Dropkick Me, Jesus" was a number 17 country hit for Bobby Bare in 1976. 

Craft died at a hospital in Nashville, Tennessee on October 18, 2014 at the age of 76.

[[Replacement child]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Names

A replacement child is a child conceived by parents to replace an older dead sibling. He or she is usually of the same sex as the child they replaced. Often they are given the same name. The replacement child provides consolation to the parents for the loss of the earlier child. It is also frequently believed they are a reincarnation of the lost child. As a result a replacement child represents the hopes and dreams parents had for the dead child.

[[Bloom filter]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A Bloom filter is a data structure that allows computers to see if a given element occurs in a set. Bloom filters use hash functions to do this. For each element that is added, a hash value is calculated. When a new element is added, its hash value is compared to that of the other elements in the set. A Bloom filter is a probabilistic data structure. It is possible to get a false positive, but not to get a false negative. In other words, a query returns either "possibly in set" or "definitely not in set". Elements can be added to the set, but not removed. For each added element, the probability of getting a false positive grows. 

Edward Bloom proposed the Bloom filter in 1970. In the article, Bloom supposes there is an algorithm to hyphenate words at the end of a line. According to the example, most words have simple hyphenation patterns. But about 10% of the words require time-consuming lookups to fetch the correct rule. His case was that of hyphenating about 500,000 words. He saw that using the "normal" error-free hashing techniques, storing the hyphenation patterns, would require a lot of memory. He found that using his technique, he could eliminate most lookups. For example, a hash area only 15% of the size needed by an ideal error-free hash still eliminates 85% of the disk accesses.

More generally, fewer than 10 bits per element are required for a 1% false positive probability, independent of the size or number of elements in the set.

[[Watson Lake, Yukon]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Yukon, Towns in Canada

Watson Lake, Yukon is a town in the Canadian province of Yukon. At the 2011 census, 802 people lived there. The town is on Yukon Highway 1, just north of the border with British Columbia.

Watson Lake is the center for the forestry industry in Yukon. It is also a service centre for the mining industry in the area.

[[Ace Bailey]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1992 deaths, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Toronto St. Pats players, Stanley Cup champions

Irvine Wallace "Ace" Bailey (July 3, 1903 – April 7, 1992) was a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger. He played a career total of 7 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Toronto St. Patricks/Toronto Maple Leafs organization. In the beginning of his 8th season with the team, he had his career ended.

[[Blunt Force Trauma (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums

Blunt Force Trauma is the second studio album by Cavalera Conspiracy. The album was released on March 29, 2011.

[[Milan Hnilička]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, American Hockey League players, Atlanta Thrashers players, Czech ice hockey goaltenders, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, New York Rangers players, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists, ECHL players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Milan Hnilička (born June 25, 1973) is a Czech retired professional ice hockey goaltender. He played a career total of 121 regular season games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the New York Rangers, Atlanta Thrashers, and Los Angeles Kings. He has also played in the Czech Extraliga for the HC Kladno, HC Sparta Praha, HC Bílí Tygři Liberec, and HC Slavia Praha and in the Russian Superleague with Salavat Yulaev Ufa.

[[Culgoa River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of New South Wales

Culgoa River is a river in the South West Queensland district of Queensland and the Orana district of New South Wales, Australia.

The river is the western branch of the Balonne River in southern Queensland, near Dirranbandi. It flows southwest across parts of the Darling Riverine Plains. The river is joined by ten tributaries. It flows into the Darling River near Bourke, New South Wales.

Culgoa is an Aboriginal word meaning "running through" or "returning".

[[Bell River]]

Bell River may refer to:

[[Latin poetry]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry, Ancient Rome

Latin poetry is the poetry of Ancient Rome. They started by adapting Greek models. The verse comedies of Plautus are the earliest surviving examples of Latin literature. They were probably composed around 205–184 BC.  

There was a play written by a Greek slave, Livius Andronicus, at Rome in 240 BC. Livius translated Greek comedy for Roman audiences. He used metres that were those of Greek drama, but modified to the needs of Latin. 

His successors, Plautus and Terence, continued this process. The traditional metre of Greek epic poetry, the dactylic hexameter, was introduced into Latin literature by Ennius (239–169 BC). Ennius provided a model for the later 'classical' poets such as Virgil and Ovid. Horace (who was a contemporary of Virgil) wrote verses in dactylic hexameter. They were  in a conversational style, as if writing a letter. Virgil's hexameters are regarded as "the supreme metrical system of Latin literature".

[[Snowy Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of Australia

The Snowy Mountains, known informally as "The Snowies", is a region of southeastern Australia and the highest mountain range on the island. It contains the Australian mainland's highest mountain, Mount Kosciuszko, height 2228. This is one the five highest peaks in the range, all of which are above 2100. 

The Snowy Mountains are in southern New South Wales and are part of the larger Australian Alps and Great Dividing Range.  Unusually for Australia, the mountain range have large natural snowfalls every winter.  Snow normally falls the most in June, July and early August. Therefore, most of the snow usually melts by late spring. The Tasmanian highlands are the other (major) alpine region in Australia.

The range is host to the mountain plum-pine, a low-lying type of conifer. The region is one of the centres of the Australian ski industry during the winter months: all four snow resorts in New South Wales are in the region.

The Alpine Way and Snowy Mountains Highway are the major roads that go through the Snowy Mountains region.

[[Publishing agent]]

CATEGORIES: Publishing

A publishing agent (or a literary agent) is an agent who represents writers and what they are writing. They represent these to publishers, film producers and film studios. They help in the sale of the writers' works. They get a percentage from the sales of these works. 

[[Division of O'Connor]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Western Australia, 1980 establishments in Australia

The Division of O'Connor is an Australian electoral division in the state of Western Australia. It is one of Western Australia's three rural seats. It is named after C. Y. O'Connor, the Engineer-in-Chief of Western Australia who designed Fremantle Harbour and the Goldfields Pipeline. It was set up for the 1980 election. 

There were large changes to the area covered by O'Connor for the 2010 election. The northern half was added to the new seat of Durack. The boundary for the division moved to the east, including most of the south part of the former Division of Kalgoorlie. It now includes the cities of Albany and Kalgoorlie, and the regional towns of Bridgetown, Denmark, Esperance, Kojonup, Laverton, Leonora, Manjimup, Mount Barker, Ravensthorpe, Southern Cross, Wagin and Warburton.

[[Hardback]]

CATEGORIES: Book terminology

A hardback, hardcover, or hardbound book is one with stiff covers. 

The covers are of rigid cardboard. They are usually covered with cloth or heavy paper. A heavy cloth like buckram, or a leather is sometimes chosen. 

It should have a flexible, sewn spine which allows the book to lie flat on a surface when opened. Less good is a glued spine, because the glue gets worse with time. 

Hardback books may be printed on acid-free paper. They are much more durable than paperbacks. Paperbacks are often printed on cheap recycled paper, and have flexible, easily damaged paper covers. Hardback books are only slightly more costly to make, but are often much more expensive to buy.  

Hardbacks may have artistic dust jackets, or designs printed right on the board binding.

[[Pac-Man and the Ghostly Adventures]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series, English-language television programs

Pac-Man and the Ghostly Adventures is a Japanese/Canadian/American computer animated television series. It is produced by Bandico Namco Games, Arad Productions Inc. and 41 Entertainment. In the United States, the series first aired on June 15, 2013 on Disney XD. In Canada, it was first shown on March 17, 2014 on Disney XD. In Japan, it was first shown on April 5, 2014 on Tokyo MX and BS11.

[[Dogg Food]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop albums, 1995 albums

Dogg Food is the first studio record by Tha Dogg Pound. Snoop Dogg was involved in the production. The record had controversial lyrics on it. The album had two big singles, "Let's Play House" and "New York, New York". The album sold over 2 million records.

The record was released on October 31, 1995. The original release date was moved because of controversy.

[[Byzantine architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural styles, Byzantine Empire

Byzantine architecture is the architectural style of the Byzantine Empire. This is a term used by modern historians to mean the Eastern Roman Empire based in Constantinople. The empire lasted for more than a millennium. It left a lasting influence on Medieval architecture in Europe and the Near East. It also influenced the later Renaissance architecture and Ottoman architecture.

[[List of Mario television series]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of television series, Mario video games

Several television series were based on the Mario series of video games, started by Nintendo.

[[Thor Görans]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 disestablishments in Sweden, Dansbands, Musical groups established in 1976, Swedish musical groups

Thor Görans was a dansband in Örnsköldsvik, Sweden. The band was established 1976, and disestablished following the final gig, which took place in Lycksele, Sweden on 8 April 2006.

[[Lynda Bellingham]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Montreal, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from colorectal cancer, English movie actors, English television actors

Lynda Bellingham, OBE (born Meredith Lee Hughes; 31 May 1948spaced ndash19 October 2014) was a Canadian-born English actress, broadcaster and author. She played the role of the mother in the long-running series of "Oxo Family" British TV adverts between 1983 and 1999. 

Bellingham died on 19 October 2014 from colon cancer in a London hospital, aged 66.

[[Gloria Casarez]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2014 deaths, Cancer deaths in Pennsylvania, American activists, Civil servants, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Gloria Casarez (December 13, 1971 – October 19, 2014) was an American lesbian leader and activist. Casarez was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 

In 2008, she was appointed to a public sector position as Director of LGBT Affairs for the City of Philadelphia.

Casarez died in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania from cancer, aged 43.

[[John Holt (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2014 deaths, Jamaican singers, People from Kingston, Jamaica

John Kenneth Holt (11 July 1945 – 19 October 2014) was a Jamaican reggae singer and songwriter. He first found fame as a member of the Paragons, before establishing himself as a solo artist.

Holt died on 19 October 2014 in a London hospital, aged 69.

[[Stephen Paulus]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2014 deaths, American composers, People from New Jersey

Stephen Paulus (August 24, 1949 – October 19, 2014) was an American composer. He was best known for his operas and choral music. His best-known piece is his 1982 opera The Postman Always Rings Twice, one of several operas he composed for the Opera Theatre of St. Louis, which prompted The New York Times to call him "a young man on the road to big things". Paulus was born in Summit, New Jersey.

Paulus died in New York City, New York, aged 65.

[[Ox Baker]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American professional wrestlers, American movie actors, Actors from Missouri

Douglas A. Baker (April 19, 1934 – October 20, 2014) was an American professional wrestler and actor. He was better known professionally as Ox Baker. He was famous for his finishing move, the Heart Punch, sometimes called the "Hurt Punch". He was also known for his famous catchphrase "I love to hurt people!" He has appeared in several movies including Blood Circus and Escape from New York.

Baker died in Hartford, Connecticut on October 20, 2014, due to complications from a heart attack.

[[Étienne Mourrut]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2014 deaths, French mayors, French politicians, People from Occitanie

Étienne Mourrut (December 4, 1939 – October 19, 2014) was a French politician. He was a member of the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP). Mourrut was an MP for Gard's 2nd constituency. Mourrut was born in Le Grau-du-Roi, Gard, France.

Mourrut died in Paris, France, aged 74.

[[Family Guy (season 1)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 American television series debuts, Family Guy, American television seasons, 1999 television seasons

The first season of the animated comedy show Family Guy aired on Fox from January 31 to May 16, 1999. The first season of Family Guy has seven episodes. The show is about the dysfunctional Griffin family. The family consist of father Peter, mother Lois, daughter Meg, son Chris, baby Stewie, and their anthropomorphic (having human abilities) dog Brian. They all live in their hometown of Quahog, Rhode Island. The show features the voices of the show's creator Seth MacFarlane. Other voice actors include Alex Borstein, Seth Green, and Lacey Chabert. The executive producers for the first season were David Zuckerman and MacFarlane.

The first episode is "Death Has a Shadow". The episode was broadcast after Super Bowl XXXIII and was watched by 22.01 million viewers. The show received positive feedback from critics. The episodes "I Never Met the Dead Man" and "Brian: Portrait of a Dog", received more positive feedback than the rest of the episodes of season one. Some critics did not like the theme of those episodes. The Volume One DVD box set, included all seven episodes and the second season. It was released in Region 1 on April 15, 2003, Region 2 on November 12, 2001, and Region 4 on October 20, 2003. The show has since been released in other television shows. 

MacFarlane first thought of the idea for Family Guy in 1995. He was studying animation at the Rhode Island School of Design (RISD). There, he created his thesis movie The Life of Larry. His professor at RISD submitted the movie to Hanna-Barbera. This gave MacFarlane being hired by the company. Executives at Fox saw the movie. They contracted MacFarlane to create a show based on the characters. They called it Family Guy. While working on the show, Larry and his dog Steve, became Peter and Brian. The rest of the show's characters were added later.

[[Brian Spencer]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 1988 deaths, Buffalo Sabres players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Calgary Centennials players, Deaths by firearm in Florida, Estevan Bruins players, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, Murdered sportspeople, Murders by firearm in the United States, New York Islanders players, People acquitted of murder, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Regina Pats players, Swift Current Broncos players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Unsolved murders in the United States, American Hockey League players, Binghamton Dusters players

Brian Roy "Spinner" Spencer (September 3, 1949 – June 3, 1988) was a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger. He played a career total of 10 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Toronto Maple Leafs, New York Islanders, Buffalo Sabres and Pittsburgh Penguins.

[[Oscar de la Renta]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2014 deaths, Cancer deaths in Connecticut, Dominican Republic people, American fashion designers

Óscar Arístides de la Renta Fiallo (July 22, 1932 – October 20, 2014) was a Dominican Republic fashion designer. He was born in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. De la Renta was trained by Cristóbal Balenciaga and Antonio del Castillo.

He became internationally known in the 1960s as one of the couturiers to dress Jacqueline Kennedy. An award-winning designer, he worked for Lanvin and Balmain. De la Renta is moslty known for his red carpet gowns and evening wear.

De la Renta died from cancer on October 20, 2014 at his home in Kent, Connecticut at the age of 82.

[[Sean Pertwee]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, Actors from London

Sean Pertwee (born 4 June 1964) is an English actor. He is the son of actor Jon Pertwee. In 2014, Pertwee was casted as Alfred Pennyworth in the TV series Gotham.

Pertwee was born in London, England.

[[Efua Dorkenoo]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Ghanaian people, British activists, BBC 100 Women

Efua Dorkenoo, OBE (6 September 1949 – October 2014) was a Ghanaian campaigner against female genital mutilation (FGM). She was Programme Director of 'The Girl Generation: Together To End FGM' and Senior FGM Advisor for Equality Now, an international human rights organisation. 

She was one of the founders in 1983 of the Foundation for Women's Health, Research and Development (FORWARD). It is a British charity that supports women who have experienced FGM. Dorkenoo is the author of Cutting the Rose: Female Genital Mutilation (1996).  

Dorkenoo died of cancer at the age of 65 in London.

[[René Burri]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2014 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Switzerland, People from Zürich, Photographers

René Burri (9 April 1933 – 20 October 2014) was a Swiss photographer. He was known for his photos of major political, historical and cultural events and key figures of the second half of the 20th century. 

Burri worked for Magnum Photos. He has been photographing political, military and artistic figures and scenes since 1946. He made portraits of Che Guevara and Pablo Picasso as well as iconic pictures of São Paulo and Brasília.

Burri died from a long illness at his home in Zurich, aged 81.

[[The Black Keys]]

CATEGORIES: Pages created with the Article Wizard from 2014, Musicians from Akron, Ohio, American rock bands, 2001 establishments in the United States

The Black Keys is a musical group from Akron, Ohio, United States. The members of the group are Dan Auerbach (vocals and guitar) and Patrick Carney (drums). The genres which they play are indie rock, garage rock and blues rock. The band was formed in 2001. They have 8 albums: The Big Come Up (2002), Thickfreakness (2003), Rubber Factory (2004), Magic Potion (2006), Attack & Release (2008),  Brothers (2010), El Camino (2011) and Turn Blue (2014).

Auerbach and Carney were friends when they were children. When they finished college they started the band. Their labels are Alive, Fat Possum, Nonesuch and V2.

[[Hedenäset]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Hedenäset is a locality in Övertorneå Municipality, Norrbotten County, Sweden. In 2010, 270 people lived there.

[[Semi-dome]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements

A semi-dome(also called a "half-dome") is the term in architecture for half a dome. It is used to cover a semi-circular area, usually an apse. A semi-dome was often used at each end of a barrel vaulted ceiling. 

[[Thomas Thomas (boxer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 births, 1911 deaths, Boxers

Thomas "Tom" Thomas (8 April 1880 – 13 August 1911), was a Welsh boxer.  He was the first British middleweight boxing champion. He won the Lonsdale belt in 1909. Thomas died of pneumonia in 1911 at age 31.

[[DK King of Swing]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, Nintendo video games, Donkey Kong, Game Boy Advance games, Game Boy Advance-only games, Virtual Console games, Puzzle video games

DK: King of Swing, known as Burabura Donkey in Japan, is a puzzle video game in the Donkey Kong series. It was released for the Game Boy Advance in 2005. The game got good reviews, including a 70/100 from Metacritic,  and 73/100 from GameSpot.  A sequel, titled DK: Jungle Climber, was released for the Nintendo DS in 2007.

[[Ilford railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Ilford, London Borough of Redbridge, Railway stations in London

Ilford railway station serves the town of Ilford in the London Borough of Redbridge in London. The station has five platforms. Platforms 3, 4 and 5 are normally used. Platforms 1 and 2 are only used during engineering work and line disruption. Ilford is currently served by TfL Rail services between Liverpool Street railway station and Shenfield, with limited services only operating between Stratford/Ilford-Shenfield. The station is located on the Great Eastern main line. Crossrail services will replace the current Liverpool Street-Shenfield stopping metro service in 2018.

[[Robert Tiernan]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, American lawyers, People from Providence, Rhode Island, United States representatives from Rhode Island, US Republican Party politicians

Robert Owens Tiernan (February 24, 1929 – October 15, 2014) is an American lawyer and politician. He was from Rhode Island. He served in the Rhode Island State Senate. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives. Tiernan was born in Providence, Rhode Island.

Tiernan died in South Kingstown, Rhode Island on October 15, 2014, aged 85.

[[Christophe de Margerie]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2014 deaths, Adoptees, Aviation deaths, French businesspeople, People from Pays de la Loire

Christophe de Margerie (6 August 1951 – 20 October 2014) was a French businessman. He was the CEO of oil company Total S.A.. de Margerie was born in Mareuil-sur-Lay, France.

De Margerie died in an airplane crash in Moscow on 20 October, 2014, aged 63.

[[Seth Gaaikema]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2014 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the Netherlands, Deaths from heart failure, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch entertainers, Dutch LGBT people, Dutch television personalities, Dutch writers, Gay men, LGBT Christians, LGBT comedians, LGBT playwrights, People from Groningen (province), Translators

Seth Regner Gaaikema (11 July 1939 – 21 October 2014) was a Dutch cabaret artist, writer, and lyricist. He translated many plays into Dutch. They include My Fair Lady (his first, 1959), Kiss Me Kate, Oliver!, Les Misérables, and The Phantom of The Opera. Gaaikema was born in Uithuizen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

Gaaikema died in Schijndel, North Brabant from heart failure, aged 75.

[[Mohammad-Reza Mahdavi Kani]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Disease-related deaths in Iran, People from Tehran, Prime Ministers of Iran

Mohammad Reza Mahdavi Kani (محمدرضا مهدوی کنی, 8 April 1931 — 21 October 2014) was an Iranian cleric, writer and conservative politician. He was the acting Prime Minister of Iran from 2 September until 29 October 1981.

Kani died at the age of 83 in Tehran, Iran from heart failure, aged 83.

[[Ellsworth Bunker]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1984 deaths, Ambassadors of the United States, Businesspeople from New York City, Politicians from New York City

Ellsworth F. Bunker (May 11, 1894 – September 27, 1984) was an American businessman and diplomat. He was the ambassador to Argentina, Italy, India, Nepal and South Vietnam). He was an important figure in the war in Vietnam and Southeast Asia during the 1960s and 1970s.

[[Chita Rivera]]

CATEGORIES: Tony Award winning actors, Drama Desk Award winners, Kennedy Center honorees, 1933 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American dancers, Actors from Washington, D.C., Singers from Washington, D.C.

Chita Rivera (born January 23, 1933) is an American actress, dancer, and singer. She is best known for her roles in musical theater. She is the first Hispanic woman and the first Latino American  to receive a Kennedy Center Honors award (December 2002). She was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009.

[[Naucalpan de Juárez]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Mexico (state)

Naucalpan, officially Naucalpan de Juárez, is a city and municipality in the Mexican state of Mexico. The name Naucalpan comes from Nahuatl language. It means “place of the four neighborhoods or four houses". It is just northwest of Mexico City.

[[Brothers of the Road]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 albums

Brothers of the Road is the ninth studio album by The Allman Brothers Band. The album was released on August 1981. It was the second and last studio album with label Arista Records.

[[Doug Zmolek]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, American ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Dallas Stars players, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, San Jose Sharks players, Sportspeople from Minnesota, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Ice hockey defencemen, People from Rochester, Minnesota

Douglas Allan Zmolek (born November 3, 1970) is an American retired professional ice hockey defenseman. He played a career total of 8 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the San Jose Sharks, Dallas Stars, Los Angeles Kings and the Chicago Blackhawks.

[[Blair Atcheynum]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, First Nations people, Living people, Moose Jaw Warriors players, Nashville Predators players, Ottawa Senators players, Saskatoon Blades players, St. Louis Blues players, Swift Current Broncos players, ECHL players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Blair Michael Atcheynum (born April 20, 1969) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey right winger. He played a career total of 196 regular season games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Ottawa Senators, Nashville Predators, St. Louis Blues and the Chicago Blackhawks. He is of Cree First Nation descent.

[[Allen Lanier]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2013 deaths, American rock guitarists, Deaths from COPD, Musicians from New York

Allen Glover Lanier (June 25, 1946 – August 14, 2013) was an original member of Blue Öyster Cult. He played keyboards and rhythm guitar. Lanier wrote several songs for Blue Öyster Cult albums. These included "True Confessions", "Tenderloin", "Searchin' for Celine", "In Thee", and "Lonely Teardrops". He also contributed to music by Patti Smith, Jim Carroll, The Dictators and The Clash. He dated Patti Smith for several years during the 1970s. When Lanier started in 1967, the group was known as Soft White Underbelly. He left the group and was replaced in 1986 by Tommy Zvoncheck. He returned in 1987. He retired from performing with them after the autumn of 2006. On August 14, 2013 he died of complications from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

[[Aspergillus flavus]]

CATEGORIES: Moulds

Aspergillus flavus is a potentially dangerous pathogen. It is a fungus with a very widespread distribution.  It grows in soils as a saprophyte. It also grows on cereal grains, legumes, and tree nuts.

In addition to causing pre-harvest and post-harvest infections, many strains produce toxic compounds known as mycotoxins. If eaten, they are toxic to mammals. The toxin produced by this species is called 'aflotoxin'.

A. flavus is a human and animal pathogen. In mammals, the pathogen can cause liver cancer if contaminated food is eaten. It also causes aspergillosis (invasive growth) in people whose immune system is damaged.

[[Ljungaverk]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Ljungaverk is a locality in Ånge Municipality, Västernorrland County, Sweden. In 2010, 885 people lived there.

[[Salus populi suprema lex esto]]

CATEGORIES: Missouri, Latin state mottos of the United States

Salus populi suprema lex esto (Latin "The safety of the people should be the supreme law," or "The welfare of the people shall be the supreme law") is found in Cicero's De Legibus (book III, part III, sub. VIII). It is the state motto of Missouri.  It is part of its state seal.  

[[List of bridges in Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Spain, Lists of bridges, Spain-related lists

List of bridges in Spain.

[[List of lighthouses in Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of buildings, Spain-related lists

This is a list of lighthouses in Spain.

[[Alan Hodgkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1998 deaths, Biophysicists, Neuroscientists, Fellows of the Royal Society, Knights and Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire, Order of Merit, Presidents of the Royal Society, Physiologists

Sir Alan Hodgkin, OM, KBE, PRS (Alan Lloyd Hodgkin, 5 February 1914 – 20 December 1998) was an English physiologist and biophysicist. He shared the 1963 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Andrew Huxley and John Eccles.

Alan Hodgkin, Andrew Huxley, and John Eccles (for his research on synapses) were jointly awarded the 1963 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine "for their discoveries concerning the ionic mechanisms involved in excitation and inhibition in the peripheral and central portions of the nerve cell membrane". In addition Hodgkin and Huxley's findings led them to suggest the existence of ion channels in cell membranes, which was confirmed decades later.

Hodgkin was knighted (KBE) in 1972 and appointed to the Order of Merit in 1973. From 1970 to 1975 he was President of the Royal Society.

[[Mario Super Sluggers]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, Mario sports games, Wii games, Wii-only games, Video games developed in Japan

Mario Super Sluggers, known in Japan as Super Mario Stadium Family Baseball, is a Mario sports game for the Wii. It was a sequel to Mario Superstar Baseball. It released in Japan and North America, but was never released in Europe and Australia Due To The Limited Release Of the game.

[[Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 video games, Mario sports games, Wii U games, Sports video games, Party video games

Mario & Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games is a sports game for the Nintendo Wii U. It is the fourth Mario & Sonic crossover game. It is the official video game of the 2014 Olympic Winter Games, which took place in Sochi. It is the first game in the series that was not released on a handheld console as well.

[[2014 shootings at Parliament Hill, Ottawa]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in Canada, Murder in 2014, Murder in Canada, Murders by firearm, October 2014 events, Ottawa, Terrorist incidents in the 2010s

The 2014 shootings at Parliament Hill, Ottawa were shootings that took place on October 22, 2014 in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. A gunman shot and killed a Canadian Army soldier, Nathan Cirillo, who was on ceremonial guard duty just outside the Canadian National War Memorial. Prime Minister Stephen Harper called the shootings a "terrorist attack."

[[Garland, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, Settlements in Dallas County, Texas

Garland is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is near the Ray Hubbard lake. It is also near the town of Richardson.

[[John-Roger Hinkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2014 deaths, Writers from Utah

John-Roger Hinkins (born Roger Delano Hinkins) (September 24, 1934 – October 22, 2014) was an American author and public speaker. He was the founder of the Movement of Spiritual Inner Awareness (MSIA), as well as several other New Age, spiritual, and self-help organizations.

Hinkins died in Los Angeles, California, aged 80.

[[Contras]]

CATEGORIES: History of Nicaragua, Cold War, Presidency of Ronald Reagan, Rebellions in North America, Wars involving the United States, 20th century in North America

The contras is the name given to the rebel groups that were active from 1979 through to the early 1990s. They were against the Sandinista Junta of National Reconstruction government in Nicaragua. Among the separate contra groups, the Nicaraguan Democratic Force (FDN) emerged as the largest by far. In 1987, virtually all contra organizations were united, at least nominally, into the Nicaraguan Resistance.

From an early stage, the rebels received financial and military support from the U.S. government. President Ronald Reagan supported the group. After the U.S. support was banned by Congress, the Reagan administration secretly gave them money from profit they gained after selling weapons to Iran. These secret activities soon became known as the Iran–Contra affair.

[[Daniel Ortega]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Presidents of Nicaragua, Current national leaders, Marxism

José Daniel Ortega Saavedra (ðaˈnje̞l o̞rˈte̞ɣa; born November 11, 1945) is a Nicaraguan politician. He has been President of Nicaragua since 2007. He also served as President of Nicaragua from 1979 to 1990.

[[Juan Bautista Sacasa]]

CATEGORIES: 1874 births, 1946 deaths, Presidents of Nicaragua, Vice Presidents of Nicaragua

Juan Bautista Sacasa Sacasa (21 December 1874 - 17 April 1946) was the President of Nicaragua from 1 January 1933 to 9 June 1936. He was the eldest son of Roberto Sacasa, 44th and 46th President of Nicaragua, and wife and cousin Ángela Sacasa Cuadra. He was a relative of Benjamín Sacasa, 67th President of Nicaragua.

[[Fernando Agüero]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Nicaraguan politicians

Fernando Bernabé Agüero Rocha (June 11, 1920 – September 28, 2011) was a Nicaraguan politician. He was the founder (1988) and leader of the Social Conservative Party. 

In 1967 Agüero was chosen to represent the conservative 1966 National Opposition Union (UNO) in the presidential election against the Somoza regime. His campaign was marked by the bloody repression of one of his political rallies in Managua. In 1971 however, Agüero signed the controversial Kupia Kumi pact with Anastasio Somoza Debayle. He was born in Managua, Nicaragua.

Agüero died in Managua, Nicaragua from pneumonia, aged 91.

[[Claribel Alegría]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2018 deaths, Journalists, Nicaraguan people, Novelists, Poets

Clara Isabel Alegría Vides (May 12, 1924 – January 25, 2017) was a Nicaraguan poet, essayist, novelist, and journalist. She was a major voice in the literature of contemporary Central America. She wrote under the pseudonym Claribel Alegría. She was awarded the 2006 Neustadt International Prize for Literature. Her first book, Anillo de Silencio (Ring of Silence) was published in 1948. She retired in 2003.

Alegría later lived in Managua, Nicaragua. She died on 25 January 2018, aged 93.

[[Big Dreams & High Hopes]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums

Big Dreams & High Hopes is the fifth studio album by Jack Ingram. The album was released on August 25, 2009. It was his first new material in 2 years. It was produced by Big Machine Records. It debuted at #21 on Billboard's Top Country Albums Chart.

[[List of castles in Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in Spain

This is a list of castles in Spain. Today there are about 2500 castles in Spain. These castles were built for defence. 

[[From Paris with Love]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 thriller movies, 2010s action thriller movies, English-language movies, French action movies, French thriller movies, British action movies, British thriller movies, American action thriller movies, Movies about terrorism, Movies set in Paris, Lionsgate movies, Movies directed by Pierre Morel

From Paris with Love is a 2010 French action thriller movie. The movie is about an operative from the CIA who lives in Paris with his girlfriend. John Travolta plays Charlie Wax. Jonathan Rhys Meyers plays James Reese.

The reviews on the movie were mixed. This movie was released on February 5, 2010.

[[Sally Menke]]

CATEGORIES: American movie producers, People from New York, 1953 births, 2010 deaths, Editors

Sally Menke (December 17, 1953 – September 27, 2010) was an American movie and television editor. She was editor for all Quentin Tarantino movies before her death. She also edited documentaries for CBS. 

She was born in Mineola, New York. She died from heat stress in Los Angeles, California.

[[Mario Party Advance]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, Mario Party games, Game Boy Advance games, Game Boy Advance-only games

Mario Party Advance is a party game in the Mario Party series. It was the seventh game in the Mario Party series, the first to be released on a handheld console. The game got mixed reviews, including a 54/100 from Metacritic  and a 1/10 from Eurogamer (who called the game "a dud"). 

[[Trumpeter swan]]

CATEGORIES: Anatidae, Birds of North America

The trumpeter swan (Cygnus buccinator) is the largest species of swan. It is found in North America.

[[Ghulam Azam]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Muslim terrorists, People from Dhaka, Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami politicians, Bangladeshi Muslims

Ghulam Azam (গোলাম আযম; 7 November 1922 – 23 Octobar 2014) was the Ameer of Jamaat-e-Islami Bangladesh until 2000. Azam hated the idea of independence of Bangladesh during the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War. Azam was convicted for war crimes in July 2013.

Azam died in Dhaka, Bangladesh from a stroke, aged 91.

[[John Bramlett]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2014 deaths, New England Patriots players, Denver Broncos players, Atlanta Falcons players, Miami Dolphins players, Sportspeople from Memphis, Tennessee

John "the Bull" Bramlett (July 7, 1941 – October 23, 2014) was an American football linebacker. He played from 1965 to 1971 on four teams. They were the Denver Broncos, the Miami Dolphins and the Boston Patriots in the American Football League and the Patriots and the Atlanta Falcons in the National Football League . 

He was a two time AFL All-Star. Bramlett served as a minister before his death. Bramlett was born in Memphis, Tennessee.

Bramlett died on October 23, 2014, in Memphis, Tennessee, according to the Shelby County Mayor's Office, aged 73.

[[Alvin Stardust]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from London, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from prostate cancer, English rock guitarists, English rock singers, English stage actors, Musicians from Nottinghamshire, Singers from London

Bernard William Jewry (27 September 1942 – 23 October 2014), known as Alvin Stardust, was an English pop singer and stage actor. He first performed as Shane Fenton. He was best known for singles released in the 1970s and 1980s, including "My Coo Ca Choo", the UK Singles Chart-topper "Jealous Mind", and "I Feel Like Buddy Holly".

Stardust was born in Muswell Hill, London. He was raised in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire. He died in Ifold, West Sussex, England from prostate cancer, aged 72.

[[Göran Johansson]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2014 deaths, Swedish politicians, Mayors

Bengt Göran Lennart Johansson (31 August 1945 – 23 October 2014) was a Swedish politician. He was a member of the Swedish Social Democratic Party.

He was for many years, he served as the chairman (commissioner) of the Gothenburg Municipality Executive Board. With a working class background, he was a union leader at his workplace at SKF and later became the Social Democratic Party's "strong man" in Gothenburg. 

Johansson served as Mayor of Gothenberg from 1988 through 1991.

He was one of the best known politicians in Sweden. H has been voted as one of the most popular politicians. But he has also been criticized for an undemocratic leadership which has made several – especially female – politicians leave their assignments within the Social Democratic Party.

Johansson suffered from systemic lupus erythematosus, which caused his face to look swollen and red. He was nominated for the 2008 World Mayor award.

Johansson died on 23 October 2014 in Gothenburg Municipality at the age of 69.

[[Millas Mirakel]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish pop music groups

Millas Mirakel was a pop group in the town of Halmstad, Sweden. The group scored chart successes in Sweden during the late 1980s. One of their more famous songs were Rytmen av ett regn.

[[Miio]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 2003, Swedish pop music groups

Miio is a teen pop group from Sweden. The group was established by the Tetrapop producer in 2003. The group scored chart successes in Sweden between 2003-2005.

The group originally consited of the girls Josefine Wahlsten and Linnéa Roxeheim In 2004 Linnéa left the group, and was replaced by 19 years old Mia. Mia appread on the group's second album.

[[Immanuel Nobel]]

CATEGORIES: 1801 births, 1872 deaths, Engineers, Inventors, Swedish scientists

Immanuel Nobel  (24 March 1801 – 3 September 1872), the younger, was a Swedish engineer and inventor. He was the inventor of the rotary lathe used in plywood manufacturing. He was the father of Robert Nobel, Ludvig Nobel and Alfred Nobel. He also often experimented with nitroglycerin with his sons.

Nobel moved to Russia from Sweden in 1838. This was to sell his inventions in St. Petersburg. He lived there for two decades with his family. Immanuel founded a successful war supplies factory. The end of the Crimean War in 1856 brought about a shift in Russian policies. Tsar Alexander II ordered a severe cut in the military budget. Immanuel's company lost money. In 1859, Immanuel returned to Sweden. He left his factory to his son Ludvig. In 1862 Immanuel's firm was finally sold by his creditors.

[[Emoji]]

CATEGORIES: Internet slang, Japanese culture

Emojis are symbols or smiley faces often used in text messages on a mobile phone or computer. They come in all shapes and sizes and can mean many things depending on when and how it is used. There are emoji for objects, places, emotions and much more. Emojis are normally used when people text each other. Examples include 😃😞😆😷💩. The first emojis were created in 1999 by Shigetaka Kurita. Later on, people began to put emojis on webpages and they became very popular outside Japan when they were added to Apple's iOS and Google's Android software.

In November 2016, a conference about emoji was held in San Francisco, California.

[[Foundation (engineering)]]

CATEGORIES: construction

A foundation is the lowest part of a building. A building needs a strong foundation if it is to stand for a long time. A heavier building or softer soil needs a deeper foundation.

To make a foundation, engineers dig a trench in the ground. They dig until they reach solid ground. When the trench is deep enough, it is filled it with strong, hard material. Sometimes concrete is used. Concrete can be made stronger by putting long thin round pieces of steel into the trench. When the concrete dries, the steel ties the foundation together. We call this reinforced concrete. Once the foundation has been packed down tightly, or dried hard, construction can start.

[[Foundation (nonprofit)]]

CATEGORIES: Companies

A foundation is a kind of company set up to carry out charity or research work. A foundation is usually endowed, which means it is given a large sum of money to do its work.  Examples of foundations include the Rockefeller Foundation and the Wikimedia Foundation. The Rockefeller family made their money from banking and oil and their family foundation is endowed with a very great sum of money. The people running the foundation think of ways to use the money to help charities, the arts, or whatever they like.

Another example is the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Bill Gates made a fortune from Microsoft. He and his wife now spend nearly all their time giving away the money he has made. They give it to projects like education in the United States and treating AIDS in Third World countries.

[[Roman Josi]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, American Hockey League players, Living people, Nashville Predators players, Swiss ice hockey players, People from Bern, Ice hockey defencemen

Roman Josi (born June 1, 1990) is a Swiss ice hockey defenceman. He currently plays for the Nashville Predators of the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Habit (biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Biology

Habit in biology is about the shape or behaviour of animals and plants.

[[Jonas Hiller]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, American Hockey League players, Anaheim Ducks players, Calgary Flames players, Living people, Swiss ice hockey players, Ice hockey goaltenders

Jonas Hiller (born February 12, 1982) is a Swiss ice hockey goaltender. He currently plays for the Calgary Flames of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Anaheim Ducks, as well as HC Lausanne and HC Davos of the National League A (NLA).

[[Huskvarna Södra IS]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Table tennis clubs in Sweden, Huskvarna

Huskvarna Södra IS was established in 1930 and is a sports club in Huskvarna, Sweden. The club won the Swedish women's table tennis team championship in 1970 and 1972. The association football team played their home games at Hjärttorpsvallen near Tenhultsvägen. In 1987 the men's association football team merged with Husqvarna IF, leading to the establishment of Husqvarna FF.

The early 1970s saw the dawn of the club scoring women's association football successes., The team playing in the Swedish top division in 1978 and 1979.

[[Habo IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Habo

Habo IF is a sports club in Habo in Sweden. The club was established on 26 April 1926. It now only plays association football. The men's bandy team played in the Swedish second division and played the qualifying rounds for the Swedish top division three times during the 1940s. In 1944, the bandy team lost 3-6 against IFK Nässjö in the qualifying rounds. The bandy section was disestablished in 1998. The club has also competed in Athletics, handball, table tennis, cycling, racewalking, Nordic skiing, orienteering and gymnastics. It is the mother club of Erik Edman.

[[Habo Wolley]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 establishments in Sweden, Volleyball clubs in Sweden, Habo

Habo Wolley is a volleyball club in Habo in Sweden. The club started in 1987. The men's team qualified for the Swedish top division, Elitserien, in 1998.

[[Apalachee people]]

CATEGORIES: Native American people

The Apalachee were a Native American people who historically lived in the Florida Panhandle. 

[[Sylvain Viau]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian movie producers, Chief executives, Living people

Sylvain Viau is a Canadian producer, executive producer, founder and head of Image Entertainment Corporation. His title is Chief Executive Officer and President. He is the co-creator of the Walter and Tandoori cartoon series. Viau lives in Montreal, Quebec.

[[Caltrop]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons

Caltrops are spiked weapons used against men and horses since at least as early as Roman times. Later versions were designed to deflate automobile tires. They are a type of anti-personnel weapon, and anti-vehicular weapon. Japanese samurai used a similar weapon, the makibishi.

Iron caltrops were used as early as 331 BC at Gaugamela. They were known to the Romans as tribulus, meaning 'jagged iron'. They were used in the Battle of Carrhae in 51 BC.

The Roman writer Vegetius, discussed  scythed chariots in his De Re Militari:

In more modern times, they were used by both the Allies and Axis during World War II to puncture the tires of wheeled vehicles. Improvised caltrops, usually made of welded nails, have also been used occasionally by labor activists in the United States during strikes to destroy the tires of vehicles belonging to management and replacement workers. In the labor context, these devices are more often called jack rocks. A recent example of the use of jack rocks in labor disputes was in 2012, allegedly by two men on a picket line at an aluminum products plant in West Virginia.

[[Mario Golf (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 video games, Game Boy Color games, Nintendo 64 games, Mario sports games

Mario Golf is a sports video game made by Camelot Software for the Nintendo. The game got very good reviews, including 91% in favor on Metacritic  and 7.2 out of 10 from GameSpot.   

[[Himno De Riego]]

CATEGORIES: National anthems

"El Himno de Riego" is the anthem of the second Spanish Republic. It was named for of Colonel Rafael Del Riego. It was composed by José Melchor Gomis.

[[Meaning]]

CATEGORIES: Communication, Linguistics, Philosophy

Meaning is a term in linguistics and philosophy. It is also a word in everyday life. The basic idea is this: meaning is the information which is sent by speech or messages. What that information is can be inferred by a listener or reader.

Meaning makes sense as part of a conversation between two or more people. The bits of a conversation, like questions and answers, suggestions and explanations, work to help the meaning get across. Requests and instructions are other types of communication which depend on meaning.

Although humans use language to carry meaning, non-verbal communication definitely has meaning. In fact it is far more ancient than human language, and interpreting its meaning is mostly done by the unconscious mind. Messages travel by scent and sight as well as sound. Humans do some of this as well as almost all animals. In humans, facial expressions and the sense of touch are very important. All these things have meaning.

[[Erica Sjöström]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Saxophonists, Swedish singers

Erica Sjöström, born 30 June 1970 in Tierp, Sweden, is a Swedish female singer and saxophonist. Since 1999. she has been the singer in Swedish band the Drifters.

She begun her carrier in 1992 in the part-time band Manges orkester from Tierp. Manges participated at Svenska dansbandsmästerskapen in 1994 and 1996, reaching the finals.  

In 1999, she won the "Sångmicken" contest in Ekebo. She has been awarded five Guldklaven awards in Malung. She has been the prize personal as "wind musician of the year" and "singer of the year", She has also been awarded the award together with the other bandmembers of the Drifters, in the categories "band of the year" and "song of the year".

In 2010, she could also be heard performing a duet with Scotts recording the song "In a Moment Like This".

[[Reach for the Sky]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 albums

Reach for the Sky is the eighth studio album by American southern rock band The Allman Brothers Band. The album was released in August 1980. It was first studio album without label Capricorn Records. It was the first studio album with new label Arista Records. 

[[Kim Anderzon]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2014 deaths, Cancer deaths in Sweden, Deaths from spinal cancer, Swedish movie actors, Swedish stage actors

Kerstin Kristina Birgitta "Kim" Anderzon (20 March 1943 – 24 October 2014), was a Swedish actress. She starred on movies and theatre. Her daughter Anna Catharina Tintin Anderzon is also an actress. She won the award for Best Actress at the 19th Guldbagge Awards for her role in Second Dance. Along with Tomas Bolme, she co-hosted the 27th Guldbagge Awards.

Anderzon died of spinal cancer in Stockholm, Sweden, aged 71.

[[S. S. Rajendran]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from respiratory tract infection, Disease-related deaths in India, Indian movie actors, Indian movie directors, Indian movie producers, Tamil actors, Tamil Nadu politicians

Sedapatti Suryanarayana Devar Rajendran, commonly known by his stage name S. S. Rajendran (SSR), (January 1928 – 24 October 2014) was an Indian movie actor, director, producer and politician. He was known for his roles in Parasakthi, Ratha Kanneer, Sivagangai Seemai, Aalayamani, and in Poompuhar.

Rajendran died in Chennai, India from a lung infection, aged 88.

[[Mbulaeni Mulaudzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, 2014 deaths, Olympic silver medalists, Road accident deaths, South African sportspeople

Mbulaeni Tongai Mulaudzi (8 September 1980 – 24 October 2014) was a South African middle distance runner, and the 2009 world champion in the men's 800 metres. 

He carried the flag at the opening ceremony of the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece. He later won a silver medal for the 800m there. He was born in Muduluni, Transvaal Province. He became South Africa's first black athlete to be ranked number one in the world.

Mulaudzi died in a car crash on 24 October 2014 at the age of 34 in Mpumalanga.

[[Joan Quigley]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2014 deaths, American esotericists, Astrologers, Disease-related deaths in San Francisco, Businesspeople from Kansas City, Missouri

Joan Quigley (April 10, 1927 – October 23, 2014), was an American astrologer. She was best known for her astrological advice to Nancy and Ronald Reagan during the 1980s. Quigley was born in Kansas City, Missouri.

She was called on by First Lady Nancy Reagan in 1981 after John Hinckley's attempted assassination of the president. She stayed on as the White House astrologer in secret until being revealed in 1988 by former chief of staff Donald Regan.

Quigley died after a short illness on October 23, 2014 in San Francisco, California, aged 87.

[[Flag of South Africa]]

CATEGORIES: South Africa, National flags, 1994 establishments

The national flag of South Africa was adopted in April 1994. It was designed by Frederick Brownell in March 1994.

[[Wikipedia Monument]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedia, Statues

The Wikipedia Monument (Pomnik Wikipedii) is a statue designed by Armenian sculptor Mihran Hakobyan honoring Wikipedia contributors. It is located in Słubice, Poland. 

The fiber and resin sculpture cost about 50,000 złotys (about $14,000; 12,000 euros). It was funded by Słubice regional authorities. It was unveiled in Frankfurt Square (Plac Frankfurcki) on 22 October 2014 in a ceremony that included representatives from both local Wikimedia chapters and the Wikimedia Foundation.

[[John Marshall Harlan II]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1971 deaths, Deaths from spinal cancer, Cancer deaths in Washington, D.C., American judges, American lawyers, Politicians from Chicago

John Marshall Harlan (May 20, 1899 – December 29, 1971) was an American jurist. He served as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court from 1955 to 1971. His namesake was his grandfather John Marshall Harlan, another associate justice who served from 1877 to 1911.

Harlan died of spinal cancer in Washington, D.C., aged 72.

[[Spinal tumor]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Spinal tumors is a form of tumor that grows in the spinal cord. Extradural tumors are more common than intradural neoplasms.

[[Emmett Brown]]

CATEGORIES: Back to the Future characters, Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in 1985, Movie characters

Dr. Emmett Lathrop "Doc" Brown, Ph.D., is a fictional character in the Back to the Future trilogy. He is the inventor of the first time machine. He builds it out of a DeLorean sports car. 

The character is played by Christopher Lloyd in all three movies, as well as in the live action sequences of the animated series. He is voiced by Dan Castellaneta in the animated series. The character's appearance and actions are loosely inspired by Leopold Stokowski and Albert Einstein. In 2008, Dr. Emmett Brown was selected by Empire magazine as one of The 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time, ranking at #76. 

Lloyd played Brown once again in Seth MacFarlane's 2014 comedy western movie, A Million Ways to Die in the West.

[[Marty McFly]]

CATEGORIES: Back to the Future characters, Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in 1985, Movie characters

Martin Seamus "Marty" McFly is a fictional character in the Back to the Future trilogy. He is the series' protagonist and is played by actor Michael J. Fox. Marty also appears in the animated series, where he was voiced by David Kaufman. 

In the videogame by Telltale Games, he is voiced by A.J Locascio. In 2008, Marty McFly was selected by Empire magazine as the 39th Greatest Movie Character of All Time. Eric Stoltz was originally cast as Marty McFly, but after five weeks of shooting scenes for the first movie, director Robert Zemeckis and executive producer Steven Spielberg chose to re-cast the role to Fox.

[[Back to the Future Part II]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 comedy movies, 1980s adventure movies, 1980s science fiction movies, 1980s teen comedy movies, Alternate history movies, American sequel movies, Back to the Future movies, Movies set in the future, Universal Pictures movies, Movies directed by Robert Zemeckis

Back to the Future Part II is a 1989 American science fiction movie directed by Robert Zemeckis and written by Bob Gale. It is the second movie for the Back to the Future trilogy. It stars Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd, Thomas F. Wilson and Lea Thompson.

[[Back to the Future Part III]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 comedy movies, 1990s adventure movies, 1990 science fiction movies, 1990s sequel movies, 1990s teen comedy movies, American sequel movies, Back to the Future movies, Movies set in the 19th century, Universal Pictures movies, Movies directed by Robert Zemeckis

Back to the Future Part III is a 1990 American science fiction Western movie directed by Robert Zemeckis. It is the third and final movie for the Back to the Future trilogy. It stars Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd, Mary Steenburgen, Thomas F. Wilson, Crispin Glover and Lea Thompson.

[[Biff Tannen]]

CATEGORIES: Back to the Future characters, Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in 1985, Movie characters

Biff Howard Tannen is a fictional character in the Back to the Future trilogy. Thomas F. Wilson plays Biff in all three movies as well as the Universal Studios ride, and voiced the character in the animated series.

Biff is the series' antagonist. He is a tall, mean, violent bully who gets what he wants by bullying others into doing his work for him, or by cheating. He and his family members usually misuse idioms in a way that makes them sound foolish and doesn't sound like an insult.

[[Thomas F. Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American painters, American screenwriters, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Musicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Thomas Francis "Tom" Wilson Jr. (born April 15, 1959) is an American actor, writer, musician, painter, voice-over artist, comedian, and podcaster. He played Biff Tannen, Griff Tannen and Buford "Mad Dog" Tannen in the Back to the Future trilogy, and Coach Ben Fredricks on NBC's Freaks and Geeks.

[[James Tolkan]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Michigan

James Stewart Tolkan (born June 20, 1931) is an American actor. He is often cast as a strict, overbearing, bald-headed authority figure. He is known for his role as Mr. Strickland in all three of Back to the Future movie series; Back to the Future, Back to the Future Part II, and in Back to the Future Part III.

[[Zamora Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals

Zamora Cathedral is a Roman Catholic cathedral in Zamora, Spain. It was built in the middle of the 12th century. King Alfonso VII of León and Castile sponsored the construction. The cathedral was built mostly in the Romanesque architectural style. It also has Byzantine influences. It is built on the Latin cross floor plan. Its last bell was built in 1805.

[[V-Rally 2]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 video games, Need for Speed games, PlayStation games, Windows games, Dreamcast games, Racing video games, Video game sequels

V-Rally 2 is a racing video game. It is the sequel to V-Rally for the PlayStation. It is known in America as Need for Speed: V-Rally 2 and in Europe as V-Rally 2 Championship Edition. The Dreamcast version is known as Test Drive V-Rally in America. 

[[Duke of Marlborough (title)]]

CATEGORIES: English Dukes

Duke of Marlborough is a title in the Peerage of England. It was created by Queen Anne in 1702 for John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough. The name of the dukedom refers to Marlborough in Wiltshire. It is the only current dukedom in the Peerages of England, Great Britain or the United Kingdom that can pass to a woman and through a woman. The family have long been involved with the politics of the day. They are also famous for their traditional home which is Blenheim Palace. This is the only non-royal palace in the United Kingdom. The family still live at the palace. The duke is entitled to the style of address of Your Grace. 

[[Jeff Bagwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Houston Astros players, Living people, National League All-Stars, Sportspeople from Boston, Massachusetts

Jeff Bagwell (born May 27, 1968) is a retired Major League Baseball player. He played for the Houston Astros. He was born in Boston, Massachusetts.

[[Tha Doggfather]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 albums, Snoop Dogg albums

Tha Doggfather is the second studio album by Snoop Doggy Dogg. The album sold two million copies. The singles released were "Snoop's Upside Your Head" and "Doggfather"

This album was released on November 12, 1996.

[[Pamhagen]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Burgenland

Pamhagen is a small village in Austria. It is located in the northern part of the state Burgenland. The population is 1641 (1st January 2014).

[[Curtie and the Boombox]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch musical groups

Curtie and the Boombox was Duch pop group. The group scoring chart successes during the mid 1980s. Famous songs recorded by the group are Black Kisses (Never Make You Blue) and Let's Talk it over in the Ladies Room.

[[Tha Last Meal]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 albums, Snoop Dogg albums

Tha Last Meal is the fifth studio album from rapper Snoop Dogg. Several singles were released off this album. One of them was "(Snoop Dogg) What's My Name Part 2".

This album was released on December 19, 2000.

[[Korat]]

CATEGORIES: Cat breeds

The Korat is a natural breed of cat. It is also one of the oldest cat breeds. It first lived in Thailand. It is named after a province named "Korat" by the local people. The Korat is known as one of the "good luck cats".

[[The Chronic]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop albums, G-funk albums, 1992 albums

The Chronic is the first studio album from Dr. Dre. Snoop Doggy Dogg performs on the album. The album is named for a slang term for high-grade marijuana. It was released on Dre's Death Row Records. The album included the single "Let Me Ride".

The album got to #3 on the Billboard 200 in the United States. It sold about three million records. 

It was released on December 15, 1992.

[[Guido Gezelle]]

CATEGORIES: 1830 births, 1899 deaths, Belgian poets, Belgian priests, Belgian Roman Catholics, Belgian writers, People from Bruges, Translators

Guido Gezelle (1 May 1830 – 27 November 1899) was a Roman Catholic priest from Belgium. He was also a writer, translator and poet.

Gezelle was born and died in Bruges. He became priest in 1854.

Gezelle's parents were Pieter Jan Gezelle and Monica Devrieze. He was an uncle of the Flemish writer Stijn Streuvels.

Gezelle is still famous now for his translation of The Song of Hiawatha by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.

[[New Play Control!]]

CATEGORIES: Wii

New Play Control!, known in Japan as was a series of Nintendo GameCube games re-released for the Nintendo Wii. They were remade with Wii controls, and a 16:9 aspect ratio (instead of 4:3). Only 6 New Play Control games were released (7 in Japan).

[[Reyhaneh Jabbari]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, 2014 deaths, Activists, Iranian writers, Murderers, People executed by hanging

Reyhaneh Jabari (Persian: ریحانه جباری c. 1988 - October 25, 2014) was a Iranian woman convicted of murdering a former intelligence officer, Morteza Abdolali Sarbandi, in Iran. She said she killed Sarbandi because he was sexually assaulting her.

She was in prison from 2007 until her execution by hanging in October 2014 for killing Sarbandi.  She published her story about what happened to her in prison. Her lawyer published her story in his blog.

Jabbari was executed by hanging on 25 October 2014 at dawn at the Gohardasht Prison, north of Karaj, aged 26.

[[Lorenzo Albacete]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2014 deaths, Puerto Rican people, American theologians, American Roman Catholics, Scientists from New York, Writers from New York

Monsignor Lorenzo Albacete (January 7, 1941 – October 24, 2014) was an American theologian, Roman Catholic priest, scientist and author. A New York Times Magazine contributor, Albacete was one of the leaders in the United States for the international Catholic movement Communion and Liberation. He was the Chairman of the Board of Advisors of Crossroads Cultural Center. Albacete was born in Puerto Rico.

Albacete died in Yonkers, New York, aged 73.

[[XQuartz]]

CATEGORIES: MacOS, Apple software

XQuartz is software made by Apple Inc. It takes a not-specific-to-Mac program – one that is compatible with a standard called X Window System or "X11" – and allows it to be displayed on the Mac.  The functionality is only limited to the actual Graphical User Interface the user sees, nothing more.

[[1,000,000,000]]

CATEGORIES: Integers

1,000,000,000 is the natural number after 999,999,999 and before 1,000,000,001. In the short scale, it is called one billion, but in the long scale, it is called one thousand million or one milliard (or yard). One billion can also be written as b or bn.

[[Jack Bruce]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from liver disease, Scottish rock musicians, Bassists

John Symon Asher "Jack" Bruce (14 May 1943 – 25 October 2014) was a Scottish musician and composer. He was known as a founder member of the British psychedelic rock power trio, Cream, in the late 1960s.  Whilst in the band, Bruce played a fretless bass guitar.

Bruce died on 25 October 2014 from liver disease in Suffolk, England, aged 71.

[[André Piters]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Belgian footballers, People from Liège (province)

André Piters (18 January 1931 – 23 October 2014) was a Belgian footballer. He played as a striker. Piters played club football for Standard Liège and Olympic de Charleroi. He earned a total of 23 caps for Belgium between 1955 and 1961, four of which came in FIFA World Cup qualifying matches.

Piters died on 23 October 2014 in Brussels, Belgium, aged 83.

[[Patricia Roc]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2003 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, British movie actors, Actors from London

Patricia Roc (7 June 1915 – 30 December 2003), born Felicia Miriam Ursula Herold, was a British movie actress. She was popular in the Gainsborough melodramas such as Madonna of the Seven Moons (1945) and The Wicked Lady (1945). She only made one movie in Hollywood, Canyon Passage (1946).  

She also appeared in Millions Like Us (1943), Jassy (1945), The Brothers (1947) and When the Bough Breaks (1947).

[[Hugo Carvana]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2014 deaths, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors, People from Rio de Janeiro

Hugo Carvana (4 June 1937 – 4 October 2014) was a Brazilian movie and television actor and director. He appeared in 65 movie since 1955. He was known for his roles in Entranced Earth and in Antonio das Mortes. He was also known for directing Casa da Mãe Joana.

Carvana died of an illness in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, aged 77.

[[Andrea de Cesaris]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths in sport, Italian racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Rome

Andrea de Cesaris (31 May 1959spaced ndash5 October 2014) was an Italian racing driver. He started 208 Formula One Grands Prix but never won, holding the record for the longest career without a race victory. 

He was in many car accidents during his career. That earned him the nickname "Andrea de Crasheris". He became known for being very fast but also wild. The nickname stuck, though he went on to become a calmer, more mature driver in his later career. In 2005 and 2006 he competed in the Grand Prix Masters formula for retired F1 drivers.

de Cesaris died on 5 October 2014 after losing control of his motorcycle on Rome's Grande Raccordo Anulare motorway, aged 55.

[[Igor Mitoraj]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2014 deaths, Polish people, German artists

Igor Mitoraj (March 26, 1944 – October 6, 2014) was a Polish artist. He was born in Oederan, Germany. Mitoraj studied painting at the Kraków Academy of Art under Tadeusz Kantor. 

After graduating, he had several exhibitions. He held his first solo exhibition in 1967 at the Krzysztofory Gallery in Poland. In 1968, he moved to Paris to continue his studies at the National School of Art.

Mitoraj worked with terracotta and bronze. In 1979, he began to use marble for most of his works. In 1983, he set up a studio in Pietrasanta. In 2006, he created the new bronze doors and a statue of John the Baptist for the basilica of Santa Maria degli Angeli in Rome.

Mitoraj died in Paris, France, aged 70.

[[Alfonso VII of León and Castile]]

CATEGORIES: Castile and León, Kings and queens

Alfonso VII (1 March 1105 – 21 August 1157), born Alfonso Raimúndez, he was called the Emperor (el Emperador). He was given rule in Galacia alongside his mother Urraca of León in 1107. Alfonso became the King of Galicia in 1111. He became King of León and Castile in 1126 after his mother's death. Alfonso adopted the style of Emperor in his charters. In 1135 in a ceremony at the court of Leon he was officially recognize as Emperor. He was the son of Urraca of León and Raymond of Burgundy. He was the first of the House of Burgundy to rule in the Iberian peninsula. During his rule Portugal declared independence, in 1128. It was recognized as being independent in 1143. 

[[Creampie (sexual act)]]

CATEGORIES: Pornography

A creampie is a term used in pornography. It is when a man ejaculates semen into his partner's vagina or anus. Usually, the semen is then seen dripping out.

[[Tagbilaran]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Philippines

Tagbilaran is the capital and main city of the Bohol province, in the Bohol island, Philippines. Because of the Tagbilaran Airport, the city is an important way for tourists to start trips through the rest of the island and neighboring islands.

The inhabitants of this city are known as tagbilaranons.

[[Panglao Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of the Philippines

Panglao is a small island in the north Bohol Sea, in the Central Visayas Region of the Visayas island group, in the south-central Philippines.

The island is an important touristic place because of the beaches found here and the presence of coral reefs near the island.

[[Freshman Father]]

CATEGORIES: television movies

Freshman Father is an English 2010 romantic drama made for television movie from the Hallmark Movie Channel. It was directed by Michael Scott. It is based on a true story. It is rated PG.

[[Rio Grande (Brazil)]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Rio Grande do Sul

Rio Grande is a Brazilian municipality located in the south of the state of Rio Grande do Sul. In 2014 its population is estimated to be 207,036 people.

[[Agout]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Occitanie

The Agout or Agoût (Agot) is a river in southwestern France, left tributary of the Tarn river. It flows through the Occitanie region.

Three communes have the name of the river in their names: La Salvetat-sur-Agout, Fraisse-sur-Agout and Vielmur-sur-Agout.

[[Egon Spengler]]

CATEGORIES: Ghostbusters characters, Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in 1984, Movie characters

Egon Spengler, Ph.D. is a fictional character from the Ghostbusters franchise. He appears in the movies Ghostbusters and Ghostbusters II, in the animated television series The Real Ghostbusters, and later in Extreme Ghostbusters. 

Spengler was played by Harold Ramis in the movies and voiced by him in Ghostbusters: The Video Game, and voiced by Maurice LaMarche in the cartoon series. He is a member of the Ghostbusters and one of the three doctors of parapsychology, along with Dr. Peter Venkman and Dr. Raymond Stantz.

[[Peter Venkman]]

CATEGORIES: Ghostbusters characters, Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in 1984, Movie characters

Peter Venkman, Ph.D. is a fictional character from the Ghostbusters franchise. He appears in the movies Ghostbusters and Ghostbusters II and in the animated television series The Real Ghostbusters.

In both live action movies, he was played by Bill Murray, and was voiced in the animated series first by Lorenzo Music and then by Dave Coulier. He is a parapsychologist and the leader of the Ghostbusters.

In 2008, Peter Venkman was selected by the magazine Empire as one of The 100 Greatest Movie Characters of All Time, described by Empire's Nick de Semlyen as "the ultimate New York hero: cynical, sarcastic, secretly sweet-natured", "a man possessed by manic spontaneity, with a wont to twirl in circles around a public concourse or declare undying love for a woman he's just met", and the "most popular" character played by Murray.

[[Ray Stantz]]

CATEGORIES: Ghostbusters characters, Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in 1984, Movie characters

Raymond "Ray" Stantz, Ph.D. is a fictional character from the Ghostbusters franchise. He appears in the movies Ghostbusters, Ghostbusters II, Casper, and the animated television series The Real Ghostbusters. 

In both live action movies, he was portrayed by Dan Aykroyd, and was voiced by Frank Welker. He is a member of the Ghostbusters and one of the three doctors of parapsychology, along with Dr. Peter Venkman and Dr. Egon Spengler.

[[Winston Zeddemore]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional African-American people, Fictional characters introduced in 1984, Ghostbusters characters, Movie characters

Winston Zeddemore is a fictional character appearing in the Ghostbusters movies, TV series, and video games. He was played by Ernie Hudson in both movies and was voiced by Arsenio Hall in the first two seasons of The Real Ghostbusters. 

Buster Jones provided Winston's voice in the remaining seasons, and he reprised the role in a cameo on Extreme Ghostbusters. Hudson returned to provide his appearance and voice to Zeddemore in 2009's Ghostbusters: The Video Game.

Unlike the other Ghostbusters, Zeddemore is not a doctor and sometimes never appears with the group.

[[Ghostbusters II]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 comedy movies, 1980s fantasy movies, 1980s ghost movies, 1980s monster movies, 1980s sequel movies, American comedy movies, American fantasy movies, American ghost movies, American monster movies, American sequel movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Ivan Reitman, Movies set in New York City, Ghostbusters movies

Ghostbusters II is a 1989 American supernatural fantasy comedy movie and the sequel to the 1984 movie Ghostbusters. It is produced and directed by Ivan Reitman.

It stars Bill Murray, Sigourney Weaver, Harold Ramis, Dan Aykroyd, Ernie Hudson, Annie Potts, Peter MacNicol, Wilhelm von Homburg and Rick Moranis.

It follows the further adventures of the four parapsychologists and their organization fighting paranormal activities. It was released on June 16, 1989. The movie earned $215 million at the Box office and received mixed reviews.

[[Guyle Fielder]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Living people, Sportspeople from Idaho

Guyle Abner Fielder (born November 21, 1930) was a American-born Canadian retired professional ice hockey centre. He played 9 regular season games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Chicago Black Hawks, Detroit Red Wings, and the Boston Bruins. Fielder is the third-leading scorer in professional hockey history, behind Wayne Gretzky and Gordie Howe. He was one of only three hockey players to pass 2000 points in their playing career. He also holds the records as the leading games played, career assists and career points in minor league hockey history. He was born in Potlatch, Idaho but he moved to Nipawin, Saskatchewan with his Canadian parents at an early age and grew up there.

[[Chevy Chase, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maryland, Census-designated places in Maryland, Montgomery County, Maryland

Chevy Chase is the name of both a town and an unincorporated census-designated place (CDP) in Montgomery County, Maryland. It was founded during the late 1880s. It is located near Washington, D.C.

[[Battle of the Kasserine Pass]]

CATEGORIES: 1943, North African battles of World War II, 20th century in Tunisia

The Battle of the Kasserine Pass, named for a pass through the Atlas Mountains, was a battle fought in Tunisia. It was part of the North African Campaign. The battle took place from 19 February 1943 to 24 February 1943.

[[Anselme Payen]]

CATEGORIES: 1795 births, 1878 deaths, French chemists, Scientists from Paris

Anselme Payen (6 January 1795 – 12 May 1878) was a French chemist. 

Payen discovered the first enzyme, diastase, in 1833. He is also known for isolating and naming the carbohydrate cellulose.

[[List of Roman Catholic cathedrals in Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in Spain, Spain-related lists, Lists of buildings

This is a list of Roman Catholic cathedrals in Spain.

[[Bernard Mayes]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, British LGBT people, LGBT people from California, Gay men, British activists, American activists, Writers from San Francisco

Anthony Bernard Duncan Mayes (October 10, 1929 – October 23, 2014) was a British-born American broadcaster, university dean and author. He was known for being the founder of America's first suicide prevention hotline. Mayes was gay and was also known for being a gay rights activist.

Mayes died in San Francisco, California from Parkinson's disease, aged 85.

[[Raphael Ravenscroft]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2014 deaths, British composers, British rock musicians, British saxophonists, British writers, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Raphael Ravenscroft (4 June 1954 – 19 October 2014) was a British musician, composer and author. He was known for playing the saxophone. Ravenscroft was known for performing in Gerry Rafferty's first song Baker Street.

Ravenscroft died on 19 October 2014 at a hospital in Exeter, England from a suspected heart attack, aged 60.

[[Carlos Morales Troncoso]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Dominican Republic politicians, Vice presidents

Carlos Morales Troncoso (29 September 1940 – 25 October 2014) was a Dominican politician. He served as Vice–President of the Dominican Republic from 1986 to 1994, and as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Dominican Republic from 2004 to 2014.

Troncoso died in Houston, Texas, United States from leukemia, aged 74.

[[Pavle Merkù]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2014 deaths, Slovenian scientists, People from Trieste, Composers

Pavle Merkù (12 July 1927 – 20 October 2014) was a Slovene composer and a scientist researching folk music, Slovene language and the origin of words. Merkù received the Prešeren Award for lifetime achievement in 2014. He was known for composing Ljudsko izročilo Slovencev v Italiji (Slovene Folk Heritage in Italy).

Merkù died in his birthplace in Trieste, Italy, aged 87.

[[Title (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 albums, Meghan Trainor, Pop albums, Blue-eyed soul albums, R&B albums

Title is the debut major-label album from American singer and songwriter Meghan Trainor. It was released on January 9, 2015.

[[Hotline Miami]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 video games, Windows games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation 4 games, PlayStation Vita games

Hotline Miami is a violent 2D top-down shooter indie video game developed by Dennaton Games and published by Devolver Digital. The game was inspired by the 2011 film Drive and the 2006 film Cocaine Cowboys.  

==Development== 

The developers said that they "wanted it to be disturbing and we wanted people to feel the violence". They made the graphics pixel art to make sure the game was not controversial. A developer, Jonatan Söderström started making a game called Super Carnage, which was very similar to Hotline Miami. The aim of the game was to kill as many people as possible. The game was left unfinished because of difficulties coding the AI.  

Before starting development, the developers wanted inspiration, so they watched some movies like Kick-Ass, Drive and Cocaine Cowboys. They wanted to raise questions about what it meant to kill a virtual person in a video game. Mid-way through development, Söderström worried that he was running out of money, so he started Hotline Miami. They spent 9 months in an apartment coding the game. Dennis Wedin said this about the development of the game: It was fucking hard.... 

Söderström said that he created Hotline Miami with Games Maker, because it let him make the game fast. He also said that it doesn't need that much programming knowledge to use. He said it was a lot slower than other engines, and is quite limited. They had some problems with Games Maker, because they were using an old version. Weldin claimed he liked games that were just games, but Söderström wanted the player to think about the game's meaning. 

The developers said that the AI was the hardest thing to create in the game.

[[Diastase]]

CATEGORIES: Enzymes

Diastases are a group of enzymes which break down starch into the sugar maltose. Diastase was the first enzyme discovered. It was got from  malt solution in 1833 by Anselme Payen and Jean-François Persoz, chemists at a French sugar factory.

The name "diastase" comes from the Greek word διάστασις (diastasis). It means a parting or separation. The enzymes simply split the starch molecule. Today, diastase means any α-, β-, or γ-amylase that can break down carbohydrates.

The commonly used -ase suffix for naming enzymes was derived from the name diastase. The breakdown of starches follows a general diastase-catalysed reaction:

A–B + H2O → A–OH + B–H

[[Ontario Highway 401]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Ontario

 

Ontario Highway 401, also called King's Highway 401, is a provincial highway in southern Ontario, Canada. It is 817.9 kilometres (508.2 miles) long. It starts near Ontario's border with Quebec, where the road is called Quebec Autoroute 20. The western end of the highway is in Windsor.

Construction on the highway started in 1947. By 1952, three different parts of the highway were finished, with the three parts connected by 1964. In 2013, another part of the highway was started. This part would extend the highway to the New International Trade Crossing at the Canadian-U.S. border near Detroit.

In 2008, part of the highway between Trenton and Toronto was called the "Highway of Heroes". This was because many Canadian soldiers who were killed overseas arrived at the Trenton airforce base. Their bodies were then transported along the highway to Toronto.

[[Vadakkangara]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in India

Vadakkangara is a village in the Malappuram district in Kerala, India. The Village has small areas including Vadakke kulambu, Kizhakke kulambu, Tadathil kundu, Kalavu.2011 India census, Vadakkangara had a population of 18702 with 8920 males and 9782 females.

[[Iridescence]]

CATEGORIES: light, Color

Iridescence is a physical property of some surfaces. Their colour appears to change as the angle of view or illumination changes. 

Examples of natural iridescence are common. It can be seen in soap bubbles, butterfly wings and sea shells, and certain minerals. These are  structural colours caused by microstructures which interfere with light.

The physical process which causes iridescence is usually interference.

[[Specialized High Schools Admissions Test]]

CATEGORIES: Education in the United States

The Specialized High Schools Admissions Test (SHSAT) is a test given to eighth and ninth grade students living in New York City. Students take this test if they wish to get into Specialized high schools in New York City. About 30,000 students take the test but only 3,000 can be accepted. According to U.S. News & World Report the eight specialized schools all rank among the top 200 high schools in the US. 

[[Festus Mogae]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Presidents of Botswana, Vice Presidents of Botswana

Festus Gontebanye Mogae (born 21 August 1939) is a Motswana politician. He served as President of Botswana from 1998 to 2008. He succeeded Quett Masire as President in 1998 and was reelected in October 2004. After being president for ten years, he stepped down in 2008 and was succeeded by Lieutenant General Ian Khama.

[[Lubrication]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics

Lubrication is a physical process which allows surfaces to move smoothly against each other. A thin film of lubricant put between the surfaces reduces friction and wear on the surfaces, and keeps temperatures from rising too far. The lubricant film can be a solid/liquid dispersion, a liquid, a liquid-liquid dispersion (a grease) or, exceptionally, a solid or gas.

Examples are the use of oil in machinery, the function of tears in eyes and synovial fluid in joints.

[[Gaolese Kent Koma]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2006 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Botswana politicians, Civil servants, African businesspeople

Gaolese Kent Koma (7 December 1918 – 9 March 2006) was a Botswana politician, statesman, and businessman. He was in the National Assembly as Member of Parliament for Mahalapye village from 1965 to 1994.

Koma died on 9 March 2006 in Gaborone, Botswana from complications following a stroke, aged 87.

[[Michael Dingake]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Botswana people, Writers

Michael Kitso Dingake (born 11 February 1928, Bobonong) is a Botswana political activist and writer. In 1966 he was sentenced to 15 years on Robben Island. He was released in 1981. He worked at the University of Botswana. 

In 1992 he entered national politics, becoming vice-president of the Botswana National Front in 1993 and entering the National Assembly as MP for Gaborone Central in 1994. In 1998 he led the breakaway Botswana Congress Party, but lost his seat to Margaret Nasha of the Botswana Democratic Party in 1999. 

He retired from politics in 2004. Since then, he became a weekly columnist for the newspaper Mmegi.

[[Thomas Tlou]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2010 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Botswana people, Historians, Educators, Ambassadors

Thomas Tlou (1 June 1932 – 28 June 2010) was a Botswana academic and historian. Tlou was the first Motswana (Botswana citizen) to be vice-chancellor of the University of Botswana, serving from 1985 to 1998. After, he continued at the university as professor of history, finally retiring in 2005.

Tlou died in Gaborone, Botswana from a heart attack, aged 78.

[[Francistown]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Botswana

Francistown is the second largest city in Botswana. It has a population of about 100,079 and 150,800 since 2011.

[[Kanye, Botswana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Botswana

Kanye is a city in Botswana. It has a population of 45,196 since 2011. It is the seventh largest city in Botswana. Quett Masire, who used to be the President of Botswana, was born here.

[[Flag of Botswana]]

CATEGORIES: National flags, Botswana

The flag of Botswana shows two equal horizontal bands of blue (top and bottom) and a white and black line in the middle. The flag was adopted in 1996.

[[Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Manhattan, Performing arts, Schools in New York

Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts is a high school that teaches visual and performing arts. It is located near the Lincoln Center and the Juilliard School in Manhattan, New York City. The school is operated by the New York City Department of Education.

The school prepares high school students for professional careers and conservatory study. This is for careers in dance, drama, the visual arts, music and theatre. It is informally known as LaGuardia Arts, or LaGuardia High School. It is the only school among the nine specialized high schools in New York City that receives special funding from the New York State legislature. They have a teacher–student ratio of 1:15.

[[Ingrid Pitt]]

CATEGORIES: British movie actors, British novelists, Entertainers from Warsaw, Polish novelists, Polish movie actors, Polish television actors, Writers from Warsaw, 1937 births, 2010 deaths

Ingrid Pitt (21 November 1937 – 23 November 2010) was a Polish-British actress and novelist. She acted in horror movies in the 1960s and 1970s. She played Alice Allison in Nobody Ordered Love. She also played Heidi in Where Eagles Dare.

Pitt was born Ingoushka Petrov in Warsaw, Poland. She died in a London hospital several days after collapsing. 

[[Gustav Adolf Church, Hamburg]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Hamburg, Church of Sweden churches, Protestant churches in Germany

The Gustav Adolf Church (Schwedische Gustaf-Adolfskirche, Gustaf Adolfskyrkan) is a church building in Hamburg-Neustadt in Germany. The church belongs to the Church of Sweden. It was built between 1906 and1907.

[[Huddinge HK]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 establishments in Sweden, Handball clubs in Sweden

Huddinge HK is a handball club in Huddinge in Sweden. The club was established on 27 March 1971. The women's team has played in the Swedish top division.

[[Växjö HF]]

CATEGORIES: Handball clubs in Sweden, Växjö, 1972 establishments in Sweden

Växjö HF is a handball club in Växjö i nSweden. The club was established 1972 out of Växjö BK. The men's team played three seasons in the Swedish top division during the early 1990s.

The men's junior team won the Swedish national championship in the year 2000. In 2003, the girls' team won the Swedish national championship. It is the mother club of Swedish player Jonas Källman.

[[Shine On (Pink Floyd album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums, Pink Floyd albums

Shine On is the first box set by Pink Floyd. The album was released in 1992.

[[Seretse Khama]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 1980 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Presidents of Botswana

Sir Seretse Khama, KBE (July 1, 1921 –  July 13, 1980) was a Botswana statesman from Botswana. He founded the Botswana Democratic Party in 1962. He became Prime Minister in 1965. In 1966, Botswana gained independence and Khama became its first president. During his presidency, the country underwent rapid economic and social progress.

Khama died of pancreatic cancer in Gaborone, Botswana, aged 59. His son, Ian Khama, is the current President of Botswana.

[[Oscar Taveras]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, 2014 deaths, Canadian baseball players, Dominican Republic sportspeople, Road accident deaths, St. Louis Cardinals players

Oscar Francisco Taveras (June 19, 1992 – October 26, 2014) was a Canadian–Dominican professional baseball outfielder for the St. Louis Cardinals of Major League Baseball (MLB). The Cardinals signed him as an undrafted free agent in 2008. 

Taveras made his MLB debut in 2014 after batting .321 with a .519 slugging percentage over six minor league seasons. He played all three outfield positions while spending most of the time in center field.

On Sunday, October 26, 2014, Taveras and his girlfriend died in a car accident in Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic, aged 22. Taveras was travelling from Jamao al Norte to Sosúa, his hometown.

[[Marcia Strassman]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from New Jersey, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Cancer deaths in California, Deaths from breast cancer, Singers from New York City, People from Passaic, New Jersey, Television personalities from New York City

Marcia A. Strassman (April 28, 1948 – October 25, 2014) was an American actress and singer. She was best known for her roles as Julie Kotter in Welcome Back, Kotter and as Diane Szalinski in the 1989 feature movie Honey, I Shrunk the Kids and its sequel Honey, I Blew Up the Kid.

Strassman was born in New York City and raised in Passaic, New Jersey. She died on October 26, 2014 in Sherman Oaks, Los Angeles, California from breast cancer, aged 66.

[[Scott Darling]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, American Hockey League players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Living people, Sportspeople from Illinois, ECHL players, United States Hockey League players, American ice hockey goaltenders

Scott Darling (born December 22, 1988) is a American ice hockey goaltender. He currently plays for the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Ho-Chunk]]

CATEGORIES: Native American people

The Ho-Chunk, also called Winnebago, are a Siouan-speaking tribe of Native Americans. Their homeland was in the present-day state of Wisconsin. In the 19th century they were removed to reservations in Nebraska, Minnesota, Iowa and South Dakota. Today there are two federally recognized Ho-Chunk tribes: the Ho-Chunk Nation of Wisconsin and the Winnebago Tribe of Nebraska. 

Since the late 20th century, the two tribal councils have built gambling casinos on their lands. These are used to earn money to help the tribes. The Ho-Chunk Nation is working on restoring their language. They have developed a Hocąk-language Mobile app for the iPhone.

[[False positives and false negatives]]

CATEGORIES: Science

False positives and negatives are to do with practical testing. When performing a practical test, there is the possibility that the result of the test does not show the real situation.

In a test,  a false positive is when a test result shows that a condition is present  but it is not. A false negative is when a test result shows a condition is not present when in fact it is present.

[[Hartola Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Europe, 1913 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in Finland

Hartola Church (Hartolan kirkko, Gustav Adolfs kyrka) is a church building in Hartola, Finland.

Construction begun in 1911. The church was opened on 16 December 1913. Architect was Josef Stenbäck.

[[List of Roman sites in Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Europe, Spain

This is a list of containing Roman sites in Spain.

[[Skellefteå IBK]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments in Europe, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Skellefteå, 1980s establishments in Sweden

Skellefteå IBK  is a floorball club in Skellefteå in Sweden, established 1985. The men's team played six seasons in the Swedish top division, starting with the 1989-1990 season.

[[Sonic Rush]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games, Sonic the Hedgehog games, Video games developed in Japan, Platform games

Sonic Rush is a platformer video game in the Sonic Rush series. It was only ever released for the Nintendo DS in 2005. The game eventually got a sequel Sonic Rush Adventure, which was released in 2007. In the game, you can play as Sonic the Hedgehog and Blaze the Cat. The game is 2D, but the characters are 3D, making the game look 2.5D.

[[Jan Öjlers]]

CATEGORIES: Dansbands, Swedish musical groups

Jan Öjlers was a dansband from Sweden. The band scored several Svensktoppen hit songs.

[[Beauvau family]]

CATEGORIES: French nobility, House of Beauvau

The House of Beauvau was a noble family that originated from Anjou a region of France. The Beauvau du Rivau branch was rooted in Brittany. It produced two bishops of Nantes. The Craon (Prince of Craon) branch was established in Lorraine. This branch was intimate with the then reigning ducal family.

[[Hemlock]]

CATEGORIES: Poisons, Apiaceae

Hemlock is a herbal poison got from several related plants in the Apiaceae family. The toxic chemicals differ in each plant, but there is a general similarity in the way they work.

[[Stijn Streuvels]]

CATEGORIES: 1871 births, 1969 deaths, Belgian novelists, Belgian writers, People from West Flanders, Translators

Stijn Streuvels  (3 October 1871, Heule, Kortrijk - 15 August 1969, Ingooigem) was a Belgian writer and translator.

His real name was Frank Lateur.

When he was young, Streuvels worked as a baker. 

The Flemish writer Guido Gezelle was his uncle. Gezelle inspired him to become himself a writer.

His house in Ingooigem is now a Streuvels museum.

Two times he got a nomination for the Nobel Prize in Literature.

[[Felix Timmermans]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1947 deaths, Belgian artists, Belgian novelists, Belgian playwrights, Belgian poets

Felix Timmermans (5 July 1886 – 24 January 1947) was a writer, poet, and drawer from Belgium.

Timmermans was born in Lier, a Belgian city, near Antwerp.

[[Hall, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Indiana

Hall is an unincorporated community in the U.S. state of Indiana. It is Gregg Township, Morgan County, Indiana. It was founded in 1860. 

[[Mo Collins (American football)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in North Carolina, Oakland Raiders players, Sportspeople from Charlotte, North Carolina

Damon Jamal Collins (September 22, 1976 – October 26, 2014), nicknamed Mo Collins, was an American college and professional football player. He was an offensive lineman in the National Football League (NFL) for six seasons during the 1990s and early 2000s. 

Collins played college football for the University of Florida, and was a member of a national championship team. The Oakland Raiders selected him in the first round of the 1998 NFL Draft, and he played his entire professional career for the Raiders. 

Collins died of kidney failure in Charlotte, North Carolina, aged 38.

[[Senzo Meyiwa]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, 2014 deaths, Murders by firearm, South African footballers

Senzo Robert Meyiwa (24 September 1987 – 26 October 2014) was a South African footballer. He played as a goalkeeper for Orlando Pirates in the Premier Soccer League, and for the South Africa national team. He was the captain of both.

Meyiwa was killed when two people broke into his house and shot him in Vosloorus, South Africa, aged 27. South African President Jacob Zuma led tributes to Meyiwa.https://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/oct/27/senzo-meyiwa-shooting-south-african-president-zuma-tributes-goalkeeper/ref

[[Jeff Robinson (starting pitcher)]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2014 deaths, American baseball players, Baltimore Orioles players, Pittsburgh Pirates players, Texas Rangers players, Detroit Tigers players, Sportspeople from California

Jeffrey Mark Robinson (December 14, 1961 – October 26, 2014) was an American professional baseball player. He played pitcher in the Major Leagues from 1987 to 1992. Robinson pitched for the Baltimore Orioles, Pittsburgh Pirates, Texas Rangers and Detroit Tigers.

Robinson died in Overland Park, Kansas from a short-illness, aged 52.

[[Vasaloppet USA]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 establishments in the United States, Sports competitions, Sports in Minnesota, Skiing, Events in the United States, 1970s establishments in Minnesota

Vasaloppet USA is a cross-country skiing event held around Mora in Minnesota, USA. The first race was held in 1973, The race is held each February. The main event is 58 kilometers long. The competition is named after Vasaloppet in Sweden.

[[Johanna Ölander]]

CATEGORIES: 1827 births, 1909 deaths, Composers, Swedish people

Johanna Ölander, born 23 May 1827, dead 16 July 1909 in Hedvig Eleonora Parish in Stockholm in Sweden was a Swedish song composer. She has written the tune for the Christmas song Julpolska ("Nu ha vi ljus, här i vårt hus").

She was married with Per August Ölander.

[[Vasaloppet Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Skiing, Sport in Japan, 1981 establishments in Japan

Vasaloppet Japan is a cross-country skiing event held around Asahikawa on the island of Hokkaidō in the northern parts of Japan. The event has been held since 1981. The event is named after Vasaloppet in Sweden.

[[Vasaloppet de la Sergerie]]

CATEGORIES: Skiing in Canada, Sport in Quebec, 2007 establishments in Canada

Vasaloppet de la Sergerie is a cross-country skiing event. It is held around Le Norvégien in the Quebec Province in Canada. The event was first held in 2007

The event is held in February or early March. The event is named after Vasaloppet in Sweden.

[[Botniavasan]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 establishments in Europe, Skiing in Finland, 2000s establishments in Finland

Botniavasan is a cross-country skiing event held around Vörå in Finland. The event was first held in 2006. The event is held every year in February. The first time the event was first held was in 2006. The main race is 50 kilometers long. The event has been named after Vasaloppet in Sweden.

[[Democratic Labour Party (Australia)]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Australia, 1955 establishments in Australia

The Democratic Labour Party (or DLP) is a social conservative political party in Australia. The party was founded in 1955.

[[Vasaloppet China]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments, Skiing, Sport in China

Vasaloppet China (Kinavasan) is a cross-country skiing competition held in the beginning of every year in the People's Republic of China. The race was first held in 2003. It has been part of Worldloppet since 2014. The competition is named after Vasaloppet in Sweden.

[[Atlanta Campaign]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 19th century in Tennessee, 1864 in Georgia (U.S. state)

The Atlanta Campaign (6 May 1864 – 2 September 1864) was a series of battles during the American Civil War. The campaign was planned and executed by the Union Army under Major general William T. Sherman. The first part of the plan was to defeat the Confederate Army of Tennessee led by General Joseph E. Johnston. The second goal was to take the important city of Atlanta. Sherman captured Atlanta but was unable to completely destroy the Army of Tennessee.

[[Tjejtrampet]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 establishments in Sweden, Cycle races, Cycling, Sport in Sweden

Tjejtrampet was an annual road bicycle racing event which, as the name tells, was open only for female participants. The event was held in Sweden by lagte May between 1990-2009. The race was held for first time on 13 May 1990. It was won by Marianne Berglund.

In 2006, the event were moved from the town of Stockholm to the town of Västerås.

[[Starke Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2014 deaths, Mayors of Dallas, People from Paris, Texas, US Republican Party politicians

Austin Starke Taylor, Jr. (July 2, 1922 – October 27, 2014) was an American politician. He served as Mayor of Dallas, Texas. Taylor was a member of the Republican Party. He served as mayor from 1983 to 1987. He was also a cotton investor. Taylor was born in Paris, Texas.

Taylor died at his home in Dallas on October 27, 2014, aged 92.

[[Paris, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Paris is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is in Lamar County, Texas. It had a population of 25,171 in 2010. It has been called the "Second Largest Paris in the World". It has a replica of the Eiffel Tower.

[[Francisco Accioly Rodrigues da Costa Filho]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian politicians, 1920 births, 1979 deaths

Francisco Accioly Rodrigues da Costa Filho (Paranaguá, March 5, 1920 - Curitiba, November 13, 1979) was a lawyer, professor, and Brazilian politician. He was a Senator of the Republic between 1971 and 1978.

[[The Fall of Ideals]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Heavy metal albums

The Fall of Ideals is the third studio album by All That Remains. The album was released on July 11, 2006. It was the only studio album with drummer Shannon Lucas.

The song "Six" was featured in the 2006 video game, Guitar Hero II.

The song "This Calling" was featured in the 2007 video game, Rock Band, on the Saw III soundtrack and on the ''Masters of Horror II soundtrack''.

[[Brassica juncea]]

CATEGORIES: Brassicaceae, Leaf vegetables

Brassica juncea is a species of the mustard plant. It is commonly known  as mustard greens, Indian mustard, Chinese mustard, Kai Choi, and leaf mustard. Originally, it came from Asia, but it has also been imported into other parts of the world. 

Its leaves are commonly used as a vegetable. Its flowers can also be eaten raw, or cooked. Its seeds can be pressed into a vegetable oil or used as a kind of spice. The seeds are also used to make culinary mustard, especially Dijon mustard.

[[Recess (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 albums, Skrillex albums

Recess is the debut studio album by American electronic music producer, Skrillex. Recess was released on March 14, 2014. It was released through Big Beat Records, Asylum Records, and Atlantic Records.

The album debuted at #4 on the Billboard 200. Skrillex recorded the album while he was touring around the world, through countries such as the United States, Canada, South Korea,  and the United Kingdom.

The album featured the singles "Try It Out" and "Recess".

[[Climbing plant]]

CATEGORIES: Types of plants

Climbing plants are plants which climb up trees and other tall objects. Many of them are vines whose stems twine round trees and branches. There are quite a number of other methods of climbing.

The climbing habit has evolved many times. In most cases the climbing plants were more diverse (had more species) than their non–climbing sister groups. 

It is a key innovation which has been very successful. Over 130 plant families include climbers. Vine species may represent more than 40% of species diversity in tropical forests.

It has evolved independently in several plant families, using many different climbing methods: Botanists generally divide climbing plants into two broad groups:

The climbing fetterbush (Pieris phillyreifolia) has a strange habit. It is a woody shrub vine which climbs without clinging roots, tendrils, or thorns. Its stem goes into a crack in the bark of fibrous barked trees (such as bald cypress). The stem flattens and grows up the tree underneath the host tree's outer bark. The fetterbush then sends out branches that emerge near the top of the tree.

Most vines are flowering plants. These may be divided into woody vines or lianas, such as wisteria, kiwifruit, and common ivy, and herbaceous (nonwoody) vines, such as morning glory.

One odd group of climbing plants is the fern genus Lygodium, called "climbing ferns". The stem does not climb, but rather the fronds (leaves) do. The fronds unroll from the tip, and theoretically never stop growing; they can form thickets as they unroll over other plants, rock faces, and fences.

[[Flanking maneuver]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology, Military tactics

In military tactics, a flanking maneuver (also called a flank attack), is an attack on the sides or rear of an opposing force. If a flanking maneuver succeeds, the opposing force would be surrounded or have to fight from two or more directions. This reduces the ability of the outflanked force to move or defend itself. Unlike an envelopment, which depends on the enemy's defensive position, any obstacles and the terrain, a flanking maneuver uses the enemy's forward movement to create an attackable flank. A psychological advantage may also be present. The confusion and threat from multiple directions can often cause shock and panic. This may cause soldiers to run from the battle. A larger-scaled tactical flanking is called a strategic flanking. This is where the targets of the flanking could be as large as divisions or even entire armies.

[[Lincoln Center]]

CATEGORIES: Landmarks in Manhattan, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, New York City Designated Landmarks

Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts is a 16.3 complex of buildings. It is located in the Lincoln Square neighborhood of Manhattan in New York City. Henry Timms is the president.

[[Mike Moustakas]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Kansas City Royals players

Mike Moustakas (born September 11, 1988) is a Major League Baseball player for the Kansas City Royals. He is a third baseman.

[[List of shoe companies]]

CATEGORIES: Lists, Footwear, Clothing companies

This is a list of shoe companies.

[[Marc de Beauvau, Prince of Craon]]

CATEGORIES: 1679 births, 1754 deaths, French politicians, French nobility, Regents, House of Beauvau, Viceroys

Marc de Beauvau (François Vincent Marc; 29 April 1679 - 10 March 1754) was a member of the powerful French House of Beauvau. He was a Prince of the Holy Roman Empire and known as the Prince of Craon. He also acted at Viceroy of the Grand Duchy of Tuscany. He was also the Prince of Beauvau but known better as the Prince of Craon. He and his wife were close friends with the then Duke and Duchess of Lorraine his wife later being the mistress of the duke. He was also made a "Grandee of Spain".

[[Kit Carson Mountain]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Colorado, Mountains of the United States

Kit Carson Mountain is a mountain in Colorado.

[[Jason Vargas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas City Royals players, Living people, 1983 births

Jason Matthew Vargas (born February 2, 1983) is an American professional baseball player.  He plays for the Kansas City Royals.  He joined the Florida Marlins in the 2004 MLB Draft.  Vargas made his MLB debut in 2005.  He recorded two career starts with the New York Mets in 2007 and was sent to the Seattle Mariners in 2009.

[[If You Were Still Around]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 songs, Rock songs

"If You Were Still Around" is a song by Welsh musician and composer John Cale. It was co-written by John Cale and playwright Sam Shepard. It was originally released in 1982 on Music for a New Society album. The new version of the song was released in 2014 together with music video directed by Abigail Portner. The video was dedicated to Lou Reed who died one year before.

[[Tomasgårdens IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 disestablishments in Europe, 1982 establishments in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden, 1990s disestablishments in Sweden

Tomasgårdens IF was a floorball club at the Thomas Church in Västerås in Sweden. It was established as a club in 1982 following the 1978 establishment of a floorball team. The club was disestablished in 1999, when the club was merged with Västerås IBF. The men's team won the Swedish national championship in 1984. The men's team also played in the Swedish top division during the 1990's. In 1991, the men's team lost the Swedish national championship finals to IBK Lockerud.

[[KFUM Örebro]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 establishments in Europe, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Volleyball clubs in Sweden, Örebro, 1890s establishments in Sweden

KFUM Örebro is an YMCA association in the town of Örebro in Sweden. It was established in 1890. In 1990 the club won the Swedish women's juniors national volleyball championship. Between 1996 and 2001 the club won the Swedish national women's volleyball championship during six seasons in a row.

The men's floorball team played in the Swedish top division during the 1990s.

[[Kolbäcks VK]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 establishments in Europe, Volleyball clubs in Sweden, 1940s establishments in Sweden

Kolbäcks VK is a volleyball club in Kolbäck in Sweden. The club was established in 1948.

The club won the Swedish men's national volleyball championship in 1962, 1963 and 1965. In 1969, the club won the Swedish women's national volleyball championship in 1969. The club also won the Swedish men's national junior volleyball championship in 1974. In 1985 and 2003 the club won the Swedish men's junior national volleyball championship.

[[Kolbäck]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Kolbäck is a locality in Hallstahammar Municipality in Västmanland County, Sweden. In 2010, 1,951 people lived there.

[[Samantha Power]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American academics, American human rights activists, American journalists, American political writers, Harvard University alumni, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Pulitzer Prize winners, United States Ambassadors to the United Nations, Women diplomats, Writers from Dublin, Yale University alumni

Samantha Power (born September 21, 1970) is an Irish-born American academic and diplomat. Power is the 19th and current Administrator to the United States Agency for International Development since April 2021 under the Joe Biden administration. She was the United States Ambassador to the United Nations from 2013 until 2017 under the Barack Obama administration.

Power is listed as the 63rd most powerful woman in the world by Forbes.

Power was born in Dublin, Ireland. She moved to Pittsburgh when she was nine. She graduated from Yale University in 1992.

Her book, A Problem From Hell, which won the 2003 Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, examines the role and responses of the United States government in the genocides and ethnic conflicts of the 20th Century.

In January 2021, President-elect Joe Biden nominated Power to be the head of the United States Agency for International Development. In April 2021, her nominated was confirmed by the United States Senate with a 68 to 28 vote.

[[Edward J. Perkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Politicians from Louisiana, United States Ambassadors to the United Nations

Edward Joseph Perkins (June 8, 1928 – November 7, 2020) was an American diplomat. He served as U.S. Ambassador to Liberia, South Africa, and the United Nations 1992-1993. He was later Director of the US State Department's Diplomatic Corps.

Perkins died on November 7, 2020 at a hospital in Washington, D.C. at the age of 92.

[[John Bolton]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, United States National Security Advisors, United States Ambassadors to the United Nations, American lawyers, Politicians from Baltimore, Maryland, US Republican Party politicians

John Robert Bolton (born November 20, 1948) is an American lawyer and diplomat. He was the 27th United States National Security Advisor from April 9, 2018 through September 10, 2019. He has served in several Republican administrations. Bolton served as the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations from August 2005 until December 2006 as a recess appointee by President George W. Bush. John Bolton advocated the second war with Iraqhttps://www.wsws.org/en/articles/2020/01/30/pers-j30.html. He resigned in December 2006. 

On March 22, 2018, President Donald Trump announced his appointment as National Security Advisor, to take office on April 9, 2018.

On September 10, 2019, Bolton turned in his resignation to the Trump administration.

A member of the Republican party, his political views have been described as American nationalist, conservative, and neoconservative. Bolton rejects the last term.

[[Vernon A. Walters]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2002 deaths, United States Ambassadors to the United Nations, Politicians from New York City, US Republican Party politicians, Ambassadors of the United States to Germany

Vernon A. Walters (January 3, 1917 – February 10, 2002) was an American politician. He was a member of the United States Army. Walters was born in New York City, New York.

He served from 1972 to 1976 as Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, from 1985 to 1989 as the United States Ambassador to the United Nations and from 1989 to 1991 as Ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany.

[[Jeane Kirkpatrick]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2006 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Politicians from Oklahoma, United States Ambassadors to the United Nations, US Republican Party politicians, Women diplomats

Jeane Duane Kirkpatrick (née Jordan; December 19, 1926 – December 7, 2006) was an American politician. She served as the American ambassador to the United Nations. She served as Ronald Reagan's foreign policy adviser in his 1980 campaign and later in his Cabinet.

Kirkpatrick died of congestive heart failure caused by heart disease in Bethesda, Maryland, aged 79.

[[Edward Stettinius, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1949 deaths, Deaths from coronary thrombosis, United States Secretaries of State, United States Ambassadors to the United Nations, Politicians from Chicago, US Democratic Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians, Businesspeople from Chicago, American diplomats, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Deaths from thrombosis, World War II political leaders

Edward Reilly Stettinius, Jr. (October 22, 1900 – October 31, 1949) was an American politician. He served as United States Secretary of State under Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman, serving from 1944 to 1945. He was also the first United States Ambassador to the United Nations.

[[Office of Management and Budget]]

CATEGORIES: United States Executive Cabinet, 1970 establishments in the United States

The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is the largest office within the Executive Office of the President of the United States (EOP). 

The Director of the OMB is a member of the executive office of the president. The main job of the OMB is to help the President in preparing the budget. The OMB also measures the quality of agency programs, policies, and procedures and to see if they comply with the President's policies.

[[Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency]]

CATEGORIES: United States federal executive departments

The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is the head of the United States federal government's Environmental Protection Agency. It is responsible for enforcing the nation's Clean Air and Clean Water Acts, as well as many other environmental statutes.

[[Council of Economic Advisers]]

CATEGORIES: United States Executive Cabinet, 1946 establishments in the United States

The Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) is an agency within the Executive Office of the President that advises the President of the United States on economic policy. The CEA provides much of the research for the White House and prepares the annual Economic Report of the President.

[[Samuel Pierce]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2000 deaths, United States Secretaries of Housing and Urban Development, Politicians from New York, US Republican Party politicians

Samuel Riley Pierce, Jr. (September 8, 1922spaced ndashOctober 31, 2000) was an American politician. He was Ronald Reagan's Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. He served as secretary from January 23, 1981 until January 20, 1989.

[[Hans Schneider (mathematician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Austrian scientists, American mathematicians

Hans Schneider (24 January 1927 - 28 October 2014) was an Austrian-American mathematician, and James Joseph Sylvester Emeritus professor at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He was the first president of the  International Matrix Group (1987-1990) and it successor, the International Linear Algebra Society (1990 – 1996). 

Schneider was a founding editor (1968-1972) and then editor-in-chief of Linear Algebra and Its Applications (1972 - 2012). He was also an Advisory Editor of the Electronic Journal of Linear Algebra. 

[[Shin Hae-chul]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, South Korean singers, People from Seoul

Shin Hae-chul (6 May 1968 – 27 October 2014), also known by the nicknames Demon Lord (마왕) and Cult Leader (교주), was an avant-garde South Korean pop music performer. He was known for being a member of the pop group N.EX.T.

Hae-chul died in Seoul, South Korea from a heart attack, aged 46.

[[The Elephants' Graveyard (1976)]]

CATEGORIES: British television, 1976 in entertainment, Television programs

The Elephants' Graveyard is a 1976 British drama television play. It was written by Peter McDougall for the BBC's Play for Today. It stars Billy Connolly and Jon Morrison.

It was filmed in Greenock, Scotland. It was released on DVD in 2006.

The total running time is 49 minutes.

[[Thittuvilai]]

CATEGORIES: Kanyakumari district

Thittuvilai is a town panchayat situated 10-11 km north of Nagercoil passing Vadasery, Putheri, Erachakuzham, Navelkad, Eshathimangalam, Thuvarancaud.  It is a panoramic village surrounded by mountains in all the three directions except south. The main attraction is Mukkoodal Dam which is the source of drinking water to Nagercoil and its adjacent villages.  Until now this village is a standing example of religious harmony, the main population are Muslims but considerable percentage of Christians and Hindus are also living in perfect cooperation with each other.

The bus route from Nagercoil is 4, 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D, 4T, 318 etc.

[[Diane de Poitiers]]

CATEGORIES: French people, 1499 births, 1566 deaths

Diane de Poitiers (3 September 1499 – 25 April 1566) was the mistress of Henry II of France.

[[Big Banana Feet]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 comedy movies, British comedy movies, English-language movies

Big Banana Feet is a 1976 comedy documentary movie of Billy Connolly directed by Murray Grigor and David Peat.

[[Blue Money]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 comedy movies, 1980s crime movies, British criminal comedy movies, English-language movies, Television movies

Blue Money is a 1985 British criminal comedy TV movie. It stars Tim Curry, Debbe Bishop and Billy Connolly. It was made for London Weekend Television.

[[Mastitis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Breasts

Mastitis is an inflammation in the breast cells.

[[Coal Chamber]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 establishments in California, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Musical groups established in 1993, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California, Nu metal bands, Roadrunner Records, 2003 disestablishments in the United States, Musical groups disestablished in 2003, 2000s disestablishments in California, Musical groups established in 2011, 2011 establishments in California

Coal Chamber is an American nu metal band from Los Angeles, California. The band formed in 1993.

[[Battle of Crete]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 in Europe, 20th century in Greece, Battles involving Australia, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving Greece, battles involving Italy, Battles involving New Zealand, Battles involving the United Kingdom, Crete, European battles of World War II

The Battle of Crete was a battle fought in World War 2 between the Nazis and British Commonwealth soldiers with Greek support. It was fought from 20 May to 1 June 1941. The battle began in the morning of 20 May when German paratroopers began Operation Mercury. The battle was fought on the Greek island of Crete.

On the first day of fighting, the German paratroopers suffered heavy losses due to heavy anti-aircraft warfare and fierce ground fighting, but the British were confident that they would destroy the German invasion. Due to miscommunication and bad decisions, the Germans were able to capture an airfield, allowing them to transport supplies and reinforcements to Crete, and destroy the Allied forces defending the island.

This battle was the first time Hitler used paratroopers on a massive scale, and the first big airborne invasion in Military history, and the first time the Allies made significant use of intelligence from the German Enigma code, and the first time German troops encountered mass resistance from a civilian population. That was common later in the war. Losses were so great, that Hitler decided not to make any more big paratroop assaults.

[[Romualdas Granauskas]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2014 deaths, Lithuanian writers

Romualdas Granauskas (18 May 1939 – 28 October 2014) was a Lithuanian author and dramaturge. He was born in Mažeikiai, Lithuania.

Granauskas started publishing his stories in 1954 in his collection "Medžių viršūnės" (eng. "Tops of the Trees") (1969), and in "Duonos valgytojai" (eng. "Bread Eaters") (1975). One of the main creations of Romualdas Granauskas is considered to be the novella "Gyvenimas po klevu" (eng. "Life Under the Maple Tree") (1988), which drew the whole society's attention. Nature, history and mythology are the topics of one of the most mature and sophisticated novellas of R.Granauskas "Jaučio aukojimas" (eng. "Sacrifice of a Bull") (1975).

Granauskas died in Vilnius on 28 October 2014, aged 75.

[[Koichiro Kimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Japanese professional wrestlers, Mixed martial artists, Japanese martial artists, People from Gunma Prefecture

Koichiro Kimura was a Japanese mixed martial artist and professional wrestler. He was also known for the ring name Super Uchuu Power. 

Kimura was known for his work in promotions like Dramatic Dream Team, W*ING, Fighting World of Japan Pro Wrestling and All Japan Pro Wrestling, among others. He was also involved in MMA, facing Rickson Gracie at the second event of Vale Tudo Japan and being the founder of the female MMA brands AX and G-Shooto. 

Kimura died of pneumonia on October 28, 2014.

[[Galway Kinnell]]

CATEGORIES: Pulitzer Prize winners, 1927 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, American poets, People from Providence, Rhode Island

Galway Kinnell (February 1, 1927 – October 28, 2014) was an American poet. For his 1982 Selected Poems, he won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry and split the National Book Award for Poetry with Charles Wright. From 1989 to 1993 he was poet laureate for the state of Vermont.

He was inspired by the works of Walt Whitman. His best-loved poems are "St. Francis and the Sow" and "After Making Love We Hear Footsteps". He also in favour with civil rights movement against racial segregation and opposed Vietman War.

Kinnell died in Sheffield, Vermont from leukemia, aged 87.

[[Michael Sata]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2014 deaths, Disease-related deaths in England, Presidents of Zambia

Michael Chilufya Sata (6 July 1937 – 28 October 2014) was a Zambian politician. He was the fifth President of Zambia. He served as president from 23 September 2011 until his death on 28 October 2014.

Sata died in London, England, aged 77 on 28 October 2014.

[[Rupiah Banda]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Presidents of Zambia, Vice-Presidents of Zambia

Rupiah Bwezani Banda (born 13 February 1937) is a Zambian politician. Banda was the President of Zambia. He served as president from 2008 to 2011.

[[Armançon]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté, Grand Est

The Armançon is a river in France. It is a right tributary of the Yonne river. It flows mostly through the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region.

Eight communes have the name of the river in their names: Aisy-sur-Armançon, Argenteuil-sur-Armançon, Brienon-sur-Armançon, Chailly-sur-Armançon, Montigny-sur-Armançon, Pacy-sur-Armançon, Perrigny-sur-Armançon, Saint-Martin-sur-Armançon.

[[Charles Juste de Beauvau, Prince of Craon]]

CATEGORIES: 1720 births, 1793 deaths, Members of the Académie française, Marshals of France, House of Beauvau, French nobility

Charles Juste de Beauvau, Prince of Craon (10 September 1720 – 21 May 1793), 2nd Prince of Craon (1754), Marshal of France (1783) was a French scholar, nobleman and general. The son of Marc de Beauvau, he was also brother of the famous Madame de Boufflers and through her uncle to the poet Stanislas de Boufflers.

[[Frederick Chiluba]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Presidents of Zambia

Frederick Jacob Titus Chiluba (April 30, 1943 – June 18, 2011) was a Zambian politician. He was the second President of Zambia from 1991 to 2002.

Chiluba died on June 18, 2011 from heart failure, aged 68.

[[Guy Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Presidents of Zambia, Vice-Presidents of Zambia

Dr Guy Lindsay Scott (born 1 June 1944) is a Zambian politician. He was the acting President of Zambia. Scott served as Vice President of Zambia from 2011 to 2014. He became acting President after the death of Michael Sata on 28 October 2014. He became the first white President of an African country since apartheid South Africa's F. W. de Klerk and the first to be democratically elected (as VP on the ticket).

Scott's mother was an English immigrant; his father was a Scottish immigrant.

[[Klas Ingesson]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from multiple myeloma, Swedish footballers, Swedish football managers

Klas Inge "Klabbe" Ingesson (20 August 1968 – 29 October 2014) was a Swedish footballer and manager. He spent most of his career as a midfielder. Ingesson represented the Sweden national team on 57 occasions, including the 1990 and 1994 FIFA World Cup, as well as the 1992 European Championship. He was the manager of IF Elfsborg from 2013 to 2014.

On 29 October 2014, Ingesson died of the effects of multiple myeloma, aged 46.

[[Barranquilla]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colombia, 1813 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Colombia, 1810s establishments in South America

Barranquilla (baraŋˈkiʝa) is a city and municipality in northern Colombia. It is the capital of the Atlántico Department. With a population of 1,885,500 (2011), it is Colombia's fourth largest city after Bogotá, Medellín and Cali.

[[Flag of Zambia]]

CATEGORIES: Zambia, National flags

The national flag of Zambia was created in October 1964.

[[Lleida Esportiu]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, 2011 establishments in Europe, Catalonia

Club Lleida Esportiu is a Spanish football team. It is based in Lleida, Catalonia. It was founded in July 2011. It plays in Segunda División B, Its home stadium, Camp d'Esports, can hold 13,500 people.

[[Lleida]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Spain, Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Lleida (ˈʎɛjðə, ˈʎejðɛ, Lérida ˈleɾiða) is a city in western Catalonia, Spain. It is the capital of the province of Lleida.

[[Flag of Uruguay]]

CATEGORIES: Uruguay, National flags

The national flag of Uruguay was created in July 1830.

[[Bucaramanga]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colombia, 1622 establishments, 17th-century establishments in the Spanish Empire

Bucaramanga is the capital of Santander Department, Colombia. It has a population of 530,900 people.

[[Noguera]]

Noguera may refer to:

[[Noguera (comarca)]]

CATEGORIES: Catalonia

Noguera (nuˈɣeɾə, noˈɣeɾa) is a comarca (county) in the Province of Lleida, Catalonia, Spain. It is the largest comarca and its area represents some 5,56% of Catalonia. Its capital is Balaguer.

[[Barcelonès]]

CATEGORIES: Catalonia

Barcelonès (bərsəɫuˈnɛs) is a comarca (county) of Catalonia, Spain. Its capital is Barcelona, which is also the capital of Catalonia.

[[L'Hospitalet de Llobregat]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

L'Hospitalet de Llobregat (ɫuspitəˈɫɛd də ʎuβɾəˈɣat), often shortened to L'Hospitalet (ɫuspitəˈɫɛt), is a municipality and city in Catalonia, Spain. It is located immediate southwest of Barcelona.

It is the second largest city in Catalonia and the 16th in Spain. 

[[Alicia von Rittberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, Actors from Bavaria, Entertainers from Munich, German movie actors, German television actors

Alicia Gräfin von Rittberg (born 10 December, 1993 in Munich, Bavaria) is a German actress. She began with small roles in Dingsda and KiKA in the years 2000 and 2005.

== Filmography == 

[[San Sebastián]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Spain, Cities in the Basque Country, Municipalities in the Basque Country

San Sebastián (san seβasˈtjan; Saint-Sébastien, Donostia (doˈnos̺tia)) is a coastal city and municipality in the Basque Country, Spain. It lies on the coast of the Bay of Biscay, 20 from the French border. It's the capital of Gipuzkoa. The municipality's population is 186,409 (2012). Locals call themselves donostiarra (singular), both in Spanish and Basque.

[[Topik]]

CATEGORIES: Meat dishes

Topik or topig is an Armenian dish.  It is like a vegetarian meatball.  It has a chickpea based paste and is usually mixed with potatoes or flour.  It has surrounding filling of onions, nuts, and currants.  It is flavored with herbs, spices, and tahini.

[[Atlético Junior]]

CATEGORIES: Colombian football clubs, 1924 establishments in South America, 1920s establishments in Colombia

Club Atlético Junior, also known simply as Junior, is a Colombian football club from Barranquilla, that currently plays in the Categoría Primera A. They play their home games at the Esatdio Metropolitano Roberto Melendez.

[[Maja Dramadol]]

CATEGORIES: Montenegro, Mountains of Europe, Kosovo

Derman Dol (Дерман дол, Derman dol/Дерман дол, Maja Dramadol) is a top of the Halja mountain in Montenegro and Kosovo. This mountain reaches a height of 2,120 metres and is on the west side of the Halja.

[[Kilcullen]]

CATEGORIES: County Kildare, Villages in Ireland

Kilcullen (Irish: Cill Chuilinn) is a village in County Kildare, Ireland. As of 2011, 3,473 people live in Kilcullen.

[[Mullingar]]

CATEGORIES: County towns in Ireland

Mullingar (Irish: An Muileann gCearr) is the county town of County Westmeath. As of 2011, 20,103 people live in Mullingar.

[[Hyacinthe Rigaud]]

CATEGORIES: 1659 births, 1743 deaths, French painters, Artists from Paris

Hyacinthe Rigaud (18 July 1659 – 29 December 1743) was a French baroque painter. He was of Catalan origin. He was from Paris. He was known for his oil paintings.

[[Bridegroom]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 movies, 2010s LGBT movies, English-language movies, American documentary movies, American LGBT movies

Bridegroom (full title: Bridegroom: A Love Story, Unequaled) is a 2013 American documentary movie. The movie is about two gay men. It was directed and produced by Linda Bloodworth-Thomason. Bridegroom premiered at the 2013 Tribeca Film Festival on April 23, 2013. The movie gained a lot of press coverage. This was because former president Bill Clinton introduced the movie at the festival.

The movie won the festival's Audience Award for Best Documentary Movie. Bridegroom also received the 2014 GLADD Media Award for Outstanding Documentary alongside Call Me Kuchu. The movie aired on television on October 27, 2013 on The Oprah Winfrey Show. The movie was released on Netflix and on DVD on November 19, 2013. Bridegroom got very positive reviews. It has an 89% "fresh" rating on Rotten Tomatoes. On Metacritic, the movie has an 85/100 rating.

[[First Dog]]

CATEGORIES: American family movies, English-language movies, 2010 movies

First Dog is a 2010 American family movie staring Eric Roberts.

[[Belubula River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of New South Wales

Belubula River is a perennial river in the central west region of New South Wales, Australia. It flows into the Lachlan River, which is part of the Murray-Darling basin.

The Belubula begins near Vittoria, between Bathurst and Orange. It flows south and west, joined by eight smaller streams. It flows into Carcoar Lake before reaching its mouth at the Lachlan River, east of Gooloogong. It drops 674 over its course of 165.

The name comes from the Indigenous Australian word for "stony river" or "big lagoon". The first people to live by the Belubula River are the Wiradjuri clan.

Towns on the Belubula River, from its source towards its mouth, include Blayney, Carcoar, and Canowindra.

[[To Heal a Nation]]

CATEGORIES: American television movies, American drama movies, American biographical movies, Vietnam War movies, English-language movies, 1988 movies

To Heal a Nation is a 1988 drama television movie that tells the true story of Jan Scruggs (played by Eric Roberts), a decorated veteran of the Vietnam War. The movie was directed by William A. Graham.

The movie was made available on video on January 6, 1993.

[[To the North of Katmandu]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 movies, British comedy movies, English-language movies, Nepali culture

To the North of Katmandu is a 1986 British comedy movie. It was filmed in Katmandu, Nepal.

[[Perennial stream]]

CATEGORIES: Bodies of water, Rivers

A perennial stream or perennial river is a stream or river (channel) which always flows in some parts all year round during years of normal rainfall. Perennial streams are different to intermittent streams; which normally stop flowing for weeks or months each year. They are also different to ephemeral streams that flow only for hours or days after rainfall. During unusually dry years a perennial stream may stop flowing. In a drought, they may not flow for months. The differences between perennial, intermittent, and ephemeral streams are not exact and can change if different measures are used by different groups.

In dry weather it may not be possible to see the water flowing, or see any water at all. In streams with gravel, sandy or rock bottoms, the water may be flowing beneath or between the rocks. In biology, a stream is flowing if there is enough water to support aquatic life, including fish and gill-breathing amphibians, benthic insects, crustaceans, and mollusks. These can live in a shallow flow beneath rocks or logs. The flow may be so small that it can not be measured by stream flow measurement instruments.

[[Ramie]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Asia, Fibers

Ramie (Boehmeria nivea) is a flowering plant in the nettle family Urticaceae, native to eastern Asia. It is a herbaceous perennial growing to 1–2.5 m tall.

Ramie is one of the oldest fibre crops, used for at least six thousand years. It is mainly used for fabric production. Ramie is normally harvested two to three times a year but under good growing conditions can be harvested up to six times per year. Unlike other fibre crops, ramie needs chemical processing to de-gum the fibre.

[[Trio me' Bumba]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 establishments in Europe, Stockholm, Swedish musical groups, 1950s establishments in Sweden

Trio me' Bumba' is a band established at Södermalm in the town of Stockholm in Sweden in 1957. They broke through in 1963 with the song "Spel-Olles gånglåt", charting for 30 weeks at Svensktoppen. One of their most famous songs is Man ska leva för varandra from 1968.

[[Anthony Duclair]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, American Hockey League players, Arizona Coyotes players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, New York Rangers players, Living people, Ottawa Senators players, Quebec Remparts players, Sportspeople from Montreal

Anthony Duclair (born August 26, 1995) is a Canadian ice hockey left winger. He currently plays for the Ottawa Senators of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the New York Rangers, Arizona Coyotes, Chicago Blackhawks, and Columbus Blue Jackets. He was born in Montreal, Quebec, and he grew up in Pointe-Claire, Montreal, Quebec.

[[Aneuploidy]]

CATEGORIES: Chromosomes, Genetic disorders

Aneuploidy is a condition where the nucleus of a cell has one or a few chromosomes more or less than the usual number in the species. It is a common cause of genetic disorders. Aneuploidy occurs during cell division when the chromosomes do not separate properly between the two cells. 

Aneuploidy often causes birth defects and miscarriages. Birth defects make up about 3% of births in the United States. Among those who survive birth, Down syndrome is the most common form of aneuploidy. Many with Down syndrome do survive to adulthood. Some cancer cells also have abnormal numbers of chromosomes. The aneuploid theory of cancer suggests that aneuploidy is a cause of cancer rather than a result of it. 

[[Anson Carter]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Carolina Hurricanes players, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Edmonton Oilers players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Los Angeles Kings players, Living people, New York Rangers players, Sportspeople from Toronto, Vancouver Canucks players, Washington Capitals players

Anson Carter (born June 6, 1974) is a Canadian retired ice hockey right winger. He played for the Washington Capitals, Boston Bruins, Edmonton Oilers, New York Rangers, Los Angeles Kings, Vancouver Canucks, Columbus Blue Jackets, and the Carolina Hurricanes of the National Hockey League (NHL). He also played for the HC Lugano of the National League A (NLA). He was born in Toronto, Ontario, and he grew up in Scarborough, Ontario.

[[Bob Geigel]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, American wrestlers, Sportspeople from Iowa

Robert "Bob" Geigel (October 1, 1924 – October 30, 2014) was a former American professional wrestling promoter and also a former professional wrestler. 

Geigel ran the NWA Central States promotion between 1963 and 1986, until it was bought out by Jim Crockett Promotions.  He was also president of the National Wrestling Alliance for most of the years 1978 to 1987.

Geigel died on October 30, 2014, after a long battle with Alzheimer's disease in Kansas City, Missouri, aged 90.

[[Thomas Menino]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2014 deaths, Mayors of Boston, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, Cancer deaths in Massachusetts, US Democratic Party politicians

Thomas Michael Menino (December 27, 1942 – October 30, 2014) was an American politician. He served as the 53rd Mayor of Boston, Massachusetts (1993–2014). He was the city's longest-serving mayor. Before becoming mayor, the Boston native was a member and President of Boston City Council.

Menino died in Boston, Massachusetts from cancer of unknown primary origin, aged 71.

[[The Boy Next Door]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 movies, 2010s thriller movies, Adultery in movies, American thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies about families, Movies about murderers, Universal Pictures movies

The Boy Next Door is an American psychological thriller movie. It was released in January 2015. It was directed by Rob Cohen. The movie was written by Barbara Curry. The movie stars are Jennifer Lopez, Ryan Guzman, John Corbett and Kristin Chenoweth.

[[Coyote Ugly]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 comedy-drama movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies set in California, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies set in New Jersey, Movies set in New York City

Coyote Ugly is an American romantic comedy/drama movie. It is based on the real Coyote Ugly saloon. The movie is set in New York City. The movie stars Piper Perabo and Adam Garcia. It was directed by David McNally. The movie was produced by Jerry Bruckheimer and Chad Oman. It was written by Gina Wendkos.

[[Girl on the Edge]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 drama movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Movies based on real life events, Movies set in California, Movies set in Los Angeles, California

Girl on the Edge is an American drama movie. It is based on the novel of the same name that is based on real life events. The movie is a direct-to-video production. It stars Taylor Spreitler. The movie was directed by Jay Silverman.

Awards:  48th Annual Worldfest-Houston International Film Festival 2015, Best Editing: Lauren Connelly

Independent Filmmakers Showcase 2015, Best Cinematography: Andrew Russo DP

Independent Filmmakers Showcase 2015, Best Actress: Taylor Spreitler

[[Northampton railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Northamptonshire, Railway stations in England

Northampton railway station is a major station serving the town of Northampton in Northamptonshire, England. It is located on the Northampton loop, part of the West Coast Main Line. The station is served by London Midland services and run frequent between London Euston and Birmingham New Street and is also served by infrequent semi-fast Virgin Trains services to London Euston.

[[Taylor Spreitler]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, American movie actors, American television actors, Living people, Actors from Mississippi

Taylor Spreitler (born October 23, 1993) is an American actress and former model. She played the role of Mia McCormic on the NBC soap opera Days of our Lives. She appeared as Lennox Scanlon in the ABC Family sitcom Melissa & Joey.

[[Will Jennings]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, People from Texas, Grammy Award winners, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters

Wilbur H. "Will" Jennings (born June 27, 1944 in Kilgore, Texas, United States) is an American songwriter. He is known for writing the lyrics for "My Heart Will Go On". The recording was used as the theme for movie Titanic (1997). He has been included into the Songwriter's Hall of Fame. He also won several awards including three Grammy Awards, two Golden Globe Awards, and two Academy Awards.

[[Colors of the Wind]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 songs, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songs, Disney Renaissance songs, Pocahontas (Disney)

"Colors of the Wind" is a song written by Stephen Schwartz. It was composed by Alan Menken. The song was for Walt Disney Pictures' 33rd animated movie Pocahontas (1995). The recording is the movie's theme song. It was originally recorded by American singer and actress Judy Kuhn. American singer Vanessa Williams' cover of the song was released as the lead single from the movie's soundtrack. The song is a pop ballad that is about respecting nature and living in harmony with the Earth's creatures. The song is recorded in the Native Americans point of view.

"Colors of the Wind" won the Academy Award for Best Original Song at the 68th Academy Awards in 1995, becoming composer Alan Menken's fourth win in the category. It also won the Golden Globe in the same category as well as the Grammy Award for Best Song Written for a Movie. 

[[Property Brothers]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television series, 2011 establishments in Canada

Property Brothers is a Canadian reality television show. It is produced by Cineflix. The show airs on W Network (Canada) and HGTV (US). It airs as My Dream Home in Austraila on LifeStyle Home and in New Zealand on ChoiceTV. The show is called Irmãos a Obra in Brazil on Discovery Home & Health and as La casa de mis sueños in Spain on Divinity and on Decasa. The show stars identical twin brothers Jonathan and Drew Scott (born 28 April 1978). They help home buyers buy and fix homes that needs more fixing than ready-to-move-in homes.

[[Bride of Violence]]

CATEGORIES: American television movies, American drama movies, 1991 movies

Bride of Violence (original title: Vendetta: Secrets of a Mafia Bride) is a 1991 drama television movie. It was directed by Stuart Margolin. It is rated R.

A sequel called Bride of Violence 2 was made in 1993.

[[Ravaillacz]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments in Sweden, Swedish musical groups

Ravaillacz is a superquartet from Sweden. They participated at Melodifestivalen 2013 with the charting song "En riktig jävla schlager". The song ended up 10th. The group consists of Tommy Körberg, Claes Malmberg, Johan Rabaeus and Mats Ronander.

The group also appeared at Allsång på Skansen on 6 August 2013.

[[Lee Kings]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 1964, Swedish pop music groups

The Lee Kings was a pop group from Sweden. The band was established in 1964 as Lenne & The Lee Kings. The band scored several hits at the Tio i topp chart.

The group originally consisted of Lenne Broberg, Bengt Dahlén, Bjarne Möller, Olle Nordström and Lasse Sandgren. In 1966, Olle Nordström left the band and was repalced with Mike Watson. In 1967, eveen Lasse Sandgren left the band and was repalced with Tony Walter, and for a while even Bengt Dahlén and Bjarne Möller, who was replaced with Johnny Lundin.

[[Paris Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, Living people, Actors from Texas, American child actors, American child singers, American movie actors, American television actors

Paris Smith (born February 1, 2000) is an American singer and actress. She is best known for her role in the Nickelodeon show Every Witch Way as Maddie Van Pelt.

In 2013, she won a Young Artist Award in the category Young Actress 11 and 12 in a Short Film for her performance in Scouted.

[[Grumpy Cat]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from urinary tract infection, Internet celebrities, Individual cats

Grumpy Cat (April 4, 2012 – May 14, 2019) was a famous cat on the internet. Her real name was Tard before getting her current name “Tardar Sauce”. She became popular because she always looked unhappy or "grumpy".

Her owner said that her grumpy-looking face was due to feline dwarfism and the placement of her teeth in her mouth.

Grumpy Cat died at home on May 14, 2019 of a urinary tract infection.

[[South Hams]]

CATEGORIES: South Hams, 1974 establishments in England

South Hams is a district on the south coast of Devon, England, with its headquarters in the town of Totnes. The largest town in the district is Ivybridge. Part of Dartmoor National Park is in the district.

During World War II, part of South Hams was used by the Allies as training for the Normandy invasion.

[[James B. McPherson]]

CATEGORIES: 1828 births, 1864 deaths, American Civil War generals, Deaths by firearm in the United States, Military people killed in action, People from Ohio

James Birdseye McPherson (November 14, 1828 – July 22, 1864) was a Union Army major general during the American Civil War. He was killed at the Battle of Atlanta during the Atlanta Campaign. 

[[Army of the Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Union Army, 1861 establishments in the United States, History of Tennessee

The Army of the Tennessee was a Union field army during the American Civil War. It fought in the Western Theater. It was named after the Tennessee River. It is not the same as the Army of Tennessee, which was a Confederate army named after the state of Tennessee.

[[Tony Kaye]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, English rock musicians, Keyboardists, Musicians from Leicestershire, People from Leicester

Tony Kaye (born 11 January 1945) is an English musician career whose career began in 1968. He is best known as the keyboard player of Yes.

[[Rock art of the Iberian Mediterranean Basin]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Spain, Archaeological sites in Europe, Art

Rock art of the Iberian Mediterranean Basin, or Levantine art, is a group of over 750 prehistoric sites. They were declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1998. 

The sites are in the eastern part of Spain. They show rock art  from the Upper Paleolithic or (more likely) Mesolithic periods of the Stone Age.  

The art is small painted figures of humans and animals. The earliest phases are of animals only. They are the most advanced and widespread examples from this period, certainly in Europe.  It is notable for the number of places included, the largest concentration of such art in Europe.  Its name refers to the Mediterranean Basin. However, while some sites are near the sea, many of them are inland in Aragon and Castile-La Mancha. "Levantine Art" here means "from Eastern Spain", not the Levant region).

[[Nick Cave]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Australian composers, Australian novelists, Australian rock singers, Australian singer-songwriters, Living people, Musicians from Victoria (Australia)

Nicholas Edward "Nick" Cave (born 22 September 1957) is an Australian musician, songwriter, author, screenwriter, composer and movie actor.

Cave was born in Warracknabeal, Victoria and grew up in Wangaratta, Victoria.

He is best known as lead singer of the rock band Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds. The Bad Seeds began in 1983 and are known for their interesting and different musical styles. Cave had previously been the lead singer of the gothic band, The Birthday Party.  This group was well known for its challenging songs and violent sound. Their music was influenced by free jazz, blues, and punk. In 2006, Cave started a garage rock band Grinderman, and recorded their first album, Grinderman (album) in 2007. Cave's music is very emotional with many different musical influences. His songs are about religion, death, love and violence. In the early 2010s, the NME called him "the grand lord of gothic lushness".

Cave was added to the ARIA Hall of Fame in 2007. The ARIA Awards chairman Ed St John said, "Nick Cave has enjoyed—and continues to enjoy—one of the most extraordinary careers in the annals of popular music. He is an Australian artist like Sidney Nolan is an Australian artist—beyond comparison, beyond genre, beyond dispute."

[[Deaths in November 2014]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 deaths

The following is a list of notable deaths in November 2014. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".

[[David Manker Abshire]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary fibrosis, Permanent Representatives of the United States to NATO, Writers from Tennessee, Politicians from Tennessee, People from Chattanooga, Tennessee, US Republican Party politicians

David Manker Abshire (April 11, 1926 – October 31, 2014) was an American politician. He served as a Special Counselor to President Ronald Reagan and was the U.S. Ambassador to NATO from 1983-87. Abshire was born in Chattanooga, Tennessee.

In July 2002, he was elected President of the Richard Lounsbery Foundation of New York. He was a member of the exclusive Alfalfa Club.

Abshire was a Republican and the author of seven books, the most recent being A Call to Greatness: Challenging Our Next President, which was published in 2008. Abshire was married and had five children.

He was a member of the advisory council of the Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation and sat  on the advisory board of America Abroad Media.

Abshire died on October 31, 2014 in Alexandria, Virginia from pulmonary fibrosis, aged 88.

[[Hitoshi Motoshima]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Japanese politicians, Mayors, People from Nagasaki Prefecture

Hitoshi Motoshima was a Japanese politician. He served four terms as mayor of Nagasaki from 1979 to 1995. He has publicly made controversial statements about the responsibility of Japan and its then-reigning Emperor for World War II. He survived an assassination attempt in 1990.

On October 31, 2014, Motoshima died at the age of 92 in Nagasaki, Japan from natural causes.

[[Bridges to Babylon]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums, The Rolling Stones

Bridges to Babylon is the 23rd American studio album by English alternative rock/blues rock band The Rolling Stones. The album was released on September 30, 1997. It was second studio album of label Vrigin Records.

[[Dijon mustard]]

CATEGORIES: Condiments, Dijon

Dijon mustard is a kind of culinary mustard that was first prepared around the town of Dijon, in eastern France. Dijon mustard was first prepared in the 18th century. 

Properly, it is made from black mustard seeds, but commercially brown mustard is often used. In the original recipe, citric acid was used for its preparation. Commercially, this is often replaced by vinegar. Salt is also added. The oil in the mustard seeds is not removed. 

Dijon mustard is not especially hot compared with English mustard. However, it is hotter than Bordeaux mustard, which is pretty mild. 

Dijon mustard is used for many recipes in French cuisine. As an example, the original mayonnaise recipe uses Dijon mustard.

[[Jumper]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 disestablishments, Musical groups established in 1996, Swedish pop music groups

Jumper was a pop group in Kristinehamn, Sweden. The group active between 1996 and 2001. The group scored single chart successes in Sweden with songs like När hela världen står utanför, Tapetklister, Välkommen hit and Miljonär.

The band won a 1996 Rockbjörnen award in the category "Swedish group of the year".

[[Christer Sjögren]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Christer Sjögren (born 6 April 1950 in Hagfors, Sweden) is a Swedish dansband and rock singer. He is well known for earlier being the lead vocalist of Swedish dansband Vikingarna.

[[Witold Kiełtyka]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2007 deaths, Drummers, Heavy metal musicians, Polish musicians, Road accident deaths

Witold "Vitek" Kiełtyka (January 24, 1984 – November 2, 2007) was a Polish musician. He was best known as the drummer and percussionist for the Polish technical death metal Decapitated. He was also the younger brother of bandmate Wacław "Vogg" Kiełtyka. Besides Decapitated, Kiełtyka also worked for the death metal bands, Dies Irae and Panzer X.

[[The Imitation Game]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 drama movies, 2014 thriller movies, 2010s biographical movies, 2010s drama thriller movies, 2010s LGBT movies, 2010s war movies, American biographical movies, American drama thriller movies, American LGBT movies, English-language movies, LGBT drama movies, LGBT thriller movies, World War II movies, American independent movies

The Imitation Game is an American biographical thriller drama movie.  The movie was first shown at a movie festival on August 29, 2014.  It was released on November 28, 2014. It is about Alan Turing, a computer scientist who was prosecuted for his homosexuality. Benedict Cumberbatch plays Turing. Keira Knightley plays Joan Clarke. It also stars Charles Dance. The reviews of the movie were positive. Rotten Tomatoes gave it an audience rating of 94%.

[[The Pelican Brief (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 thriller movies, 1990s legal movies, American legal movies, American thriller movies

The Pelican Brief is a legal thriller movie from 1993. The movie is about a law student making a document and showing it to a law professor. Julia Roberts plays Darby Shaw. Denzel Washington plays Gary Grantham.

The movie received mostly mixed reviews from critics. It was released on December 17, 1993.

[[The Secret Garden (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s family movies, 1993 movies, 1990s fantasy movies, 1993 drama movies, American fantasy movies, American drama movies, British drama movies, Movies set in England, Movies set in India, Movies directed by Agnieszka Holland

The Secret Garden is a 1993 fantasy drama movie. This movie is about the unloved child of an English couple during the 19th century. Kate Maberly plays the child. Maggie Smith plays Mrs. Medlock.

This movie was released on August 13, 1993 in the United States.

[[Clyde, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Clyde ˈ is a city in Sandusky County, Ohio, United States. The population was 6,325 at the 2010 census. The National Arbor Day Foundation has designated Clyde as a Tree City USA. Clyde was named after Clyde, New York, the hometown of an early resident.

The town is known for having served as the setting for Sherwood Anderson's 1919 collection of short stories Winesburg, Ohio .

[[National Tiger Conservation Authority]]

CATEGORIES: Tigers, Environmental organizations, 2005 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in India

The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) is an organisation that supports the conservation of tigers in India. It was started in December 2005 by the Prime Minister of India.

[[Croatian Spring]]

CATEGORIES: History of Croatia, 1971 in Europe

Maspok (after Masovni pokret (Croatian), i.e. Mass movement) or the Croatian spring was a nationalist and secessionist rebel movement in the Socialist Republic of Croatia, Yugoslavia during the year of 1971. The movement's demands were initially around the exclusion of the use of the Serbian language and the exclusive use of the Croatian language in Croatia (even though Serbian and Croatian are considered dialects of the same language), declaration of Croatia as a national state of Croats and Croatia as a successor to the medieval Croatian kingdom. Maspok's ultimate goal was an independent Croatian state. The Maspok movement was supported by a lot of Croatian Communists and the Ustaše emigration in the West.

[[John Forzani]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2014 deaths, Canadian businesspeople, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Sportspeople from Calgary

John Forzani (April 5, 1947 – October 31, 2014) was a Canadian businessman, former Canadian Football League (CFL) player, and CFL team owner. He was the Chairman and co-founder of the Forzani Group. He was born in Calgary, Alberta. In 1971, he joined the Calgary Stampeders as an offensive lineman and was part of the winning team of the 59th Grey Cup. He played football until 1976.

Forzani died of a heart attack in Palm Springs, California, aged 67.

[[Lieutenant colonel]]

CATEGORIES: Military ranks, Colonels

Lieutenant colonel  is a rank of commissioned officer in the armies, most marine forces and some air forces of the world. It typically ranks above a major and below a colonel. The rank of lieutenant colonel is often shortened to simply "colonel" in conversation and in unofficial correspondence. A lieutenant colonel is typically in charge of a battalion in the army.

[[Fattoush]]

CATEGORIES: Appetizers, Salads

Fattoush (Arabic: فتوش)  is a lebanese salad.  It includes toasted or fried pieces of pita bread, combined with chopped raw vegetables. A sauce with a slightly sour taste is put on the salad.

[[Garlic knot]]

CATEGORIES: Appetizers, Breads

Garlic knots are a type of bread with garlic.  They are usually found in pizza places around New York City and in other places in the area. They were first made in 1973 by people who wanted to use pastry left over from cooking pizza.

[[Lieutenant general]]

CATEGORIES: Military ranks, Generals

Lieutenant general or lieutenant-general (abbrev Lt Gen, LTG etc.), is a military rank (NATO code OF-8). It is used in many countries. The rank traces its origins to the Middle Ages where the title of lieutenant general was held by the second in command on the battlefield. The lieutenant general was normally subordinate to a captain general.

In modern armies, lieutenant general normally ranks directly below a general and above a major general. It is equivalent to the navy rank of vice admiral. In air forces with a separate rank structure, it is equivalent to air marshal. In the US Army a lieutenant general usually commands an army corps. 

In a number of countries, the rank of lieutenant general is the highest army rank in use. In Latvia and Lithuania, the chief of defence is a lieutenant general. In the Irish Defence Forces and Israeli forces, the Chief of Staff holds this rank.

[[Warracknabeal]]

Warracknabeal is a small town in the north west of Victoria. It is on the banks of the Yarriambiack Creek, 330 km north-west of Melbourne, It is the business and services centre of the northern Wimmera and southern Mallee districts, and hosts local government offices of the Shire of Yarriambiack. In 2011 there were about 2,745 people living in the local area. 

[[Gustau Biosca]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Spanish footballers, Spanish football managers, Sportspeople from Catalonia

Gustavo Biosca Pagés (29 February 1928 – 1 November 2014) was a Spanish football player and manager. Biosca played as a defender for España Industrial, Barcelona and Condal. He was born in L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Catalonia, Spain.

He made his international debut for Spain in 1951, earning a total of 11 caps, including 2 in FIFA World Cup qualifying matches. As a coach he managed Pontevedra, Sant Andreu, Real Valladolid, Sabadell, the Spanish under-21 national team and Terrassa.

Biosca died on 1 November 2014, at the age of 86 in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.

[[Germain Gagnon]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2014 deaths, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Kansas City Scouts players, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Islanders players, Sportspeople from Quebec, American Hockey League players

Joseph Adrien Germain Gagnon (December 9, 1942 – October 26, 2014) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player. He played 259 games in the National Hockey League. He played for the Montreal Canadiens, Chicago Black Hawks, Kansas City Scouts, and New York Islanders. Gagnon was born in Chicoutimi, Quebec, Canada.

Gagnon died after a long illness in Chicoutimi, Quebec, Canada, aged 71.

[[Rachel Makinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Australian scientists, Australian businesspeople

Kathleen Rachel Makinson (née White) (15 February 1917- October 2014) was an Australian research scientist. She held a number of prominent positions within CSIRO. She began work in the Division of Textile Physics in 1953, and was a senior principal research scientist from 1971-1977.

She was the first woman to become a chief research scientist at CSIRO (1977-1982). From 1979-1982 she was the assistant chief of the division, also the first woman to hold such a position.

In 1981, she was elected a Fellow of the Australian Academy of Technological Sciences and Engineering; in 1982 she was made a Member of the Order of Australia (AM).

Makinson died in Sydney, Australia from natural causes, aged 97.

[[Jean-Pierre Roy]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2014 deaths, Brooklyn Dodgers players, Sportspeople from Montreal

Jean-Pierre Roy (June 26, 1920 – November 1, 2014) was a Canadian baseball player in Major League Baseball. He pitched in three games during the 1946 season for the Brooklyn Dodgers. He was born in Montreal, Quebec.

Roy died on November 1, 2014 at his home in Tampa, Florida, United States. He was 94.

[[Ontario Highway 10]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Ontario

Ontario Highway 10, also called King's Highway 10, is a provincial highway in Ontario, Canada. It is 136.6 kilometers (84.9 miles) long. The highway starts at the northern end of Highway 410 near Caledon. It then goes northwestward through the town of Orangeville, where it connects with the western end of Highway 9. It also passes through Shelburne, where it shares a road with Highway 89 briefly. The northern end of Highway 10 is in Owen Sound, where it ends with Highway 6, Highway 21, and Highway 26.

[[Ontario Highway 26]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Ontario

Ontario Highway 26, also called King's Highway 26, is a provincial highway in Ontario, Canada. It goes along the southern shoreline of Georgian Bay. It starts in Owen Sound with the intersection of Highway 6, Highway 10, and Highway 21. It then goes eastward and ends in Barrie at the intersection with Highway 400.

Highway 26 is 113.7 kilometers (70.6 miles) long. It is part of a major transportation link, along with Highway 400, between the Greater Toronto Area and Georgian Bay.

[[Jiang Zemin]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, General Secretaries of the Communist Party of China, Presidents of the People's Republic of China

Jiang Zemin (江泽民; born 17 August 1926) is a retired Chinese politician. He was General Secretary of the Communist Party of China from 1989 to 2002, Chairman of the Central Military Commission from 1989 to 2004 and President of the People's Republic of China from 1993 to 2003.

[[Aaron Brooks (basketball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Chicago Bulls players, Houston Rockets players, Denver Nuggets players, Phoenix Suns players, Sacramento Kings players, Sportspeople from Seattle, Washington, Indiana Pacers players

Aaron Jamal Brooks (born January 14, 1985 in Seattle, Washington) is an American professional basketball player. He currently plays for the Indiana Pacers of the NBA. He was selected 26th overall in the 2007 NBA Draft. He won the NBA Most Improved Player Award for the 2009–10 season. He also played for the Houston Rockets, Denver Nuggets, Phoenix Suns, and Sacramento Kings.

[[Ontario Highway 400]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Ontario

Ontario Highway 400, also called King's Highway 400, is a provincial highway in Ontario, Canada. It runs mostly north and south and is 226 kilometers (140 miles) long. It goes between Toronto and Carling.

[[Wayne Static]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2014 deaths, Drug-related deaths in the United States, American guitarists, Singers from Michigan, Singers from Chicago, Singers from California, Musicians from Michigan, Musicians from Chicago, Musicians from California

Wayne Static (Wayne Richard Wells; November 4, 1965 – November 1, 2014) was an American musician, and the former lead vocalist, guitarist, keyboardist, and music sequencer for the metal band Static-X. 

He released his first solo studio album, Pighammer, on October 4, 2011. He married porn star Tera Wray in 2008. Static died on November 1, 2014 from a drug overdose in Landers, California. He was 48 years old.

[[Ghostface (Scream)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1996, Fictional murderers, Horror movie characters, Scream (franchise)

Ghostface is a fictional serial killer and the main villain of the Scream movie franchise. He is wearing a white mask with a shocked/surprised expression. He also wears a black robe. He was created by Wes Craven.

He has a rough voice. He is voiced by Roger L. Jackson. Different people play Ghostface throughout the movie because they pretend to be the original killer. He kills people in the Hollywood-area. He uses a large hunting knife as a weapon.

His appearance is inspired by the painting The Scream.

[[Klaus Iohannis]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Mayors, Presidents of Romania, Current national leaders, Teachers

Klaus Werner Iohannis (Johannis) (born 13 June 1959, Sibiu, Romania) is a Romanian politician, since December 2014 he is the President of Romania. Since 2000 he has served as mayor of Sibiu. He was re-elected in 2004, 2008 and 2012. In February of 2013 he joined the PNL. He was immediately made  vice-president  that party. On 28 June 2014 he was made president of PNL (after Crin Antonescu quit).

Iohannis is a Transylvanian Saxon by ethnicity. This is one of the oldest German minority group in Romania. Saxons settled in Transylvania (then part of the  Kingdom of Hungary) in the 12th century. He is a physics teacher by profession.

[[Abdus Salim Khan]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani people, 1907 births, 1957 deaths, Ambassadors to Japan

H.E. Khan-sahib Abdus Salim Khan (1907-1957) was an early Pakistani diplomat. He served as Pakistan's ambassador in Ceylon (now called Sri Lanka) and Japan. He also served as Consul-General in the United States, posted at New YorkOctober 2020 and later as Pakistan's Deputy High Commissioner (a type of special ambassador) to the United Kingdom. Khan died sudddenly in July 1957, while on duty in London, United Kingdom.

He was the son of Khan-sahib Abdul Majid Khan Tarin, OBE, and husband of Begum Mahmooda Salim Khan.

[[Jimmy Ruffin]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2014 deaths, African-American singers, American soul musicians, Musicians from Detroit, Michigan, Musicians from Mississippi

Jimmy Lee Ruffin (May 7, 1936 – November 17, 2014) was an American soul musician. He was the older brother of David Ruffin from The Temptations. Ruffin has had many records between the 1960s and 1980s. His most successful single is "What Becomes of the Brokenhearted".

[[Patherdanda]]

CATEGORIES: Subdivisions of Nepal, Villages in Asia

Patherdanda is a small village of Rupandehi District, Nepal. It lies on Tilottama Municipality. It is at the mid point of the business hub Butwai and Sunauli. It is also known as STONEHILL.

[[Charles de Beauvau, Prince of Beauvau]]

CATEGORIES: 1793 births, 1864 deaths, House of Beauvau, French politicians

Charles Juste François Victurnien, de  Beauvau, Prince of Craon (1793–1864) was a French military man and senator under Napoleon III. He was a member of the House of Beauvau. He was known as the Prince of Beauvau. Because of his father's rank of Prince of the Holy Roman Empire, he succeeded to those titles on his fathers death in 1849. He married twice. He had four children including the next Prince of Beauvau. Politically he was a member of the Bonaparte party which sought to restore the Bonaparte family to the French throne. Though legally the "Prince of Craon", he was known by his other title "Prince of Beauvau".

Charles was born on 7 March 1793 at Sunninghill in Berkshire. His parents, Marc Étienne de Beauvau, Prince of Beauvau and Nathalie de Rochechouart, were in exile in England from the French revolution. 

The family returned to France. In 1810, Charles entered the French Army during the Napoleonic Wars. He became an officer of carabiniers two years later, during the campaign against Russia. He was nominated senator. He was elected Councillor-General of the Meurthe in 1854.

[[Battle of Atlanta]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1864 in Georgia (U.S. state), History of Atlanta, Georgia, July events

The Battle of Atlanta (22 July 1864) was a major battle of the American Civil War. The battle was part of the Atlanta Campaign directed by Union Army general William Tecumseh Sherman. The city of Atlanta was a major supply center, railroad hub and symbol of the Confederate States of America. Its loss proved to be a major blow to the Confederacy and led to the end of the Civil war.

[[Hyperthermia]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems

Hyperthermia is a high body temperature.  It happens when a person is not able to control their body temperature.  This can happen for many reasons, like very hot weather, fever, and some medicines or illegal drugs.

Doctors define hyperthermia as a body temperature that is over 101 degrees Fahrenheit (equal to 38.3 degrees Celsius). This is higher than the average human body temperature, which is normally around 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit (37 degrees Celsius). When a person gets hyperthermia, they can have heat-related injuries, where the high body temperature hurts the body.

There are three forms of heat-related injuries caused by hyperthermia: heat cramps (the least serious), heat exhaustion, and heat stroke (the most serious).

[[Samsung Galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: Samsung mobile phones

Samsung Galaxy is a series of mobile devices made by Samsung. Most of them are smartphones and tablet computers that run Android, an operating system made by Google. New models come out every year.

The first Samsung Galaxy phone came out in June 2009. There are many different models of phones. Each of them are different, such as in the size of their screens or what features it has, but the best of them is the Galaxy S series. The most recent Galaxy S phones are the Samsung Galaxy S21, S21+ and S21 Ultra, which all announced in Jan 2021. Of the other Galaxy phones, the Galaxy Note series have a bigger screen and a stylus pen. The most recent of these, the Galaxy Note 20 and Note 20 Ultra, both released in Aug 2020.

The first Samsung Galaxy tablet came out in September 2010. The most recent are the Galaxy Tab S7, S7+, A7 10.4 and A 8.4, which all announced in Aug 2020. Like the phones, there are different models of Galaxy tablets, which can have screen sizes from 7 inches all the way up to 12 inches. Some models have keyboards that plug into the device to make it easier to type, while others have a stylus, like the Galaxy Note phones. Also, although most of the Galaxy tablets use Android, some of the newer ones, such as the Galaxy TabPro S, use Windows 10 instead.

Samsung also made smartwatches under the Galaxy brand. The first of these was the Galaxy Gear, which came out in September 2013. The company has since made some new models, including the Galaxy Gear Live in June 2014, but later ones are branded as Samsung Galaxy Watch and Samsung Galaxy Active.

Besides their own products, Samsung also made the Nexus S and Galaxy Nexus phones, and the Nexus 10 tablet. These are all part of Google's own Nexus series of phones. Unlike Samsung's own phones, they have no extra mobile apps added or changes made to the user interface.

[[Sucker Punch (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s action movies, 2011 movies

Sucker Punch is a 2011 fantasy and action movie. It is about a young woman put in a mental institution. She plans to escape the hospital. Emily Browning plays Babydoll. Jena Malone plays Rocket. Abbie Cornish plays Sweet Pea.

This movie was released on March 25, 2011. It had a PG-13 rating. 

[[Supply depot]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

A Supply depot is a type of military installation used to store military supplies. They are usually near the front lines so they can provide supplies to their military units. Supply depots store and distribute the equipment and supplies a military needs to operate. These are often kept in buildings called warehouses. Modern supply depots do not typically store ammunition. Because of the dangers of storing live ammunition and explosives they are kept separate in an ammunition dump. Supply depots are usually run by a logistics officer. He or she is responsible for getting supplies to units who need them when they need them. Supply depots are often the targets of enemy raids. By destroying an enemy's supplies, it hurts their ability to fight.

[[Cyclone Hudhud]]

CATEGORIES: Cyclonic storms, 2014 in weather, October 2014 events, 2014 in India

Cyclone Hudhud was a very severe cyclonic storm. The storm originated in the northern Indian Ocean. The cyclone killed over 100 people across India. Its winds were near 130 mph. It struck in October 2014.

The cyclone caused $11 billion (USD) in damage.

[[Kerrin Petty]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, American skiers, Living people, Swedish skiers

Kerrin Petty-Nilsson, born 6 January 1970 in Townsend, Vermont, USA, is a US-Swedish cross-country skier. She represented the USA during the 1994 Olympic Winter Games in Lillehammer and in Nagano in 1998. She won the 1998 women's main compeition of Vasaloppet. She also won the unofficial women's compeitions in 1994 and 1996.

In 1996, she won the Swedish women's 30 kilometers national championship.

Petty-Nilsson now works as an environment and health-protection inspector of Forshaga Municipality. 

[[Laila Kveli]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Norwegian sportspeople, People from Trondheim, Skiers

Laila Kveli, born 22 October 1987 in Trondheim in Norway, is a Norwegian cross-country skier. She ended up second in the women's main compeition of Vasaloppet in 2012. She also won the same competition in 2013 and 2014.

[[Ulrica Persson]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Ulrica Persson, born 7 March 1975, is a Swedish cross-country skier. She won the women's main competition of Vasaloppet in the years of 2001 and 2003. She also won Tjejvasan in 2003.

[[Anders Larsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Anders Larsson is a Swedish former cross-country skier. He was born on 3 October 1961 in Karlstad, Sweden. During his career, he represented Bondsjöhöjdens IK in club competitions.

He also participated at the 1984 Olympic Winter Games in Sarajevo. There, he finished 39th in the 50 kilometres race. He also won Vasaloppet in 1987. In 1982 he was awarded the Sixten Jernberg Award.

[[Jessica Lowndes]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television actors, Canadian movie actors, Actors from Vancouver, Canadian singers, 1988 births, Living people, Canadian composers, Canadian pop singers, Canadian singer-songwriters, Musicians from Vancouver

Jessica Lowndes (born November 8, 1988) is a Canadian actress. She acts in both movies and television. She played Laurel in The Haunting of Molly Hartley. She also played Tamara in The Devil's Carnival. She is also a musician and singer-songwriter

She was born in Vancouver, British Columbia.

[[Paddington (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 comedy movies, British comedy movies, Movies based on books

Paddington is a 2014 comedy movie based on Michael Bond's Paddington's book series. It is about a young bear from Peru who travels to London to look for a home. Ben Whishaw voices Paddington. Nicole Kidman plays Millicent. Hugh Bonneville and Sally Hawkins plays Mr. and Mrs. Brown. Imelda Staunton plays as the voice of Aunt Lucy. Michael Gambon, Matt Lucas, Peter Capaldi and Geoffrey Palmer are also in the movie.

The movie was released on November 28, 2014 in the United Kingdom, and on January 16, 2015 in the United States. A sequel was released in late 2017.

[[Elias Nilsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 2001 deaths, Swedish skiers

Elias Nilsson, born 1 April 1910 in Stugun Parish, Sweden, dead 9 November 2001 in Lit Parish, Sweden was a Swedish cross-country skier. He won the Vasaloppet event in 1938.

[[Elin Pikkuniemi]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1988 deaths, Swedish skiers

Elin Eugenia Pikkuniemi, born 15 August 1895 Vojakkala, Sweden, dead 7 May 1988 in Trönö, Sweden, was a Swedish cross-country skiier and a primary schoolteacher.

She was referred to as the "first skiing queen of Sweden". She was one of the most successful female Swedish cross-country skiers during the late 1910s and early 1920s. She competed for IFK Haparanda, winning five 10 kilometers Swedish national championships between 1918-1922. During the late 1920s she competed for Järla IF During the 1930s she competed for Hietaniemi SK.

During the Swedish Sports Confederation's 50th anniversary in 1953, Svenska Dagbladet hosted a voting over Sweden's greatest sportspeople, where circa 500 readers voted, chosing between 150 sportspersons. Among them were Elin Pikkuniemi as the only female.

[[Verner Lundström]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, Swedish skiers, 1930 deaths

Verner Lundström, born 30 January 1901 in Arvidsjaur, Sweden, dead 18 October 1983 Glommersträsk, Sweden, was a Swedish cross-country skier. In 1930 he won the Vasaloppet competition..

[[Paddington Bear]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in the 1950s, Fictional bears, Children

Paddington Bear is a fictional character in children's literature. He first appeared on 13 October 1958. He was in over 20 books by Michael Bond. Paddington Bear is a polite bear from Peru. He rarely calls people by their first names. 

Paddington books have sold over 30 million copies worldwide. A movie based on the book was released in 2014 with Ben Whishaw voicing Paddington.

Paddington is considered a kind and friendly bear and is taken care of by the Browns once moved to London in the movies. His signature style is a blue duffle coat, red hat (of which was his uncle's) and an old battered suitcase.

[[Alfred Lif]]

CATEGORIES: Possibly living people, Swedish skiers

Alfred Lif is a Swedish former cross-country skier. In 1935, he won the Swedish 50 kilometers national championship. In 1939, he won the and Vasaloppet competition.

He also competed in alpine skiing. He participated in the Swedish alpine skiing national championships of 1937.

[[Håkan Westin]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Håkan Westin, born 21 July 1964 in Ed Parish, Sweden, is a Swedish former cross-country skier. He won Vasaloppet in the years of 1993 and 1996. He is also, 15 generations backwards in time, ancestor of Gustav Vasa.

Håkan Westin is the brother of another Swedish cross-country skier, Marie-Helene Östlund.

[[Hans Wilhelmsson]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 deaths, Swedish sportspeople, Speed skaters, 1936 births

Hans Wilhelmsson, (February 14, 1936 – January 5, 2004) was a Swedish speed skater. In club competitions, he represented IF Castor. Outside his sporting carrier, he worked as a car salesman, insurance-person and bank director.

[[Elin Ek]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Elin Ek, born 31 August 1973 in By, Sweden, is a Swedish cross-country skier. She participated at the 1998 Olympic Winter Games in Nagano, the 2002 Olympic Winter Games in Salt Lake City and the 2006 Olympic Winter Games in Turin. Elin Ek won Tjejvasan in 1999 and 2006. and the Vasaloppet main women's event in 2007. She also won the women's Worldloppet, which she did during the 2006/2007 season.

She also won the Swedish national championships at the distances of 10 kilometers in 2006, 30 kilometers in 2003 and 2004, and pursuit in 2003 and 2004, skiathlon in 2007 and sprint in 2003. In 2008, she was also part of IFK Mora's team, winning the relay event.

[[Henrik Eriksson]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Swedish skiers

Henrik Eriksson, born 1974, is a Swedish former cross-country skier. In club competitions, he competed for IFK Mora.

He compted at elite level between 1994 and 2006. He participated at Vasaloppet several times, In 2001, he won Vasaloppet. In 2002, he ended up 9th at Vasaloppet and in 2004 he ended up 10th in the same event.

[[José, Prince of Brazil]]

CATEGORIES: 1761 births, 1788 deaths, Deaths from smallpox, Heirs apparent who never acceded, House of Braganza

Infante José of Portugal, Prince of Brazil, Duke of Braganza (20 August 1761 – 11 September 1788) was the heir apparent to the Kingdom of Portugal until his death in 1788, as the eldest child of Queen Maria I of Portugal and King Pedro III of Portugal. He was also the Prince of Beira but better known as the Prince of Brazil. 

José died of smallpox at the age of 27, causing his younger and ill-prepared brother, Infante João, to become heir-apparent and eventually King. João's reign would be a turbulent one, seeing Napoleonic invasion of Portugal and the loss of the Portuguese Empire's largest and wealthiest colony, Brazil.

[[Sandra Hansson]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Swedish skiers

Sandra Hansson, born 1980, is a Swedish, cross-country skier. She won the women's main Vasaloppet event in the years of 2008 av 2009. She has also been successful in roller skiing.

[[Susanne Nyström]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Swedish  skiers

Susanne Nyström, born 29 December 1982 in Laisvall, Sweden is a Swedish female cross-country skier and nurse.

She competes for Laisvalls SK. Earlier, she has competed for the clubs Mora SK, Arvidsjaur Ski Team, Luleå Gjutarens IF and Piteå Elit SK.

She won Tjejvasan in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2012 and 2013. She ended ended up second ad Tjejvasan 2011. In 2010, she won the women's Vasaloppet main competition. That year, she became the first to win Tjejvasan and the Vasaloppet main competition the same year.

She has also won several Swedish national championship gold medals.

[[Norman Bates]]

CATEGORIES: Dissociative identity disorder in fiction, Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in the 1950s, Fictional murderers, Horror movie characters

Norman Bates is a fictional character. He first appeared in a 1960 movie called Psycho

Norman Bates as a young man killed people in the hotel called The Bates Motel. He killed his mother by poisoning her tea. After she was buried he dug her up and would talk to himself in her voice. He then was soon arrested.

[[Olle Häger]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2014 deaths, Swedish historians, Swedish journalists, Television producers

Olle Häger (19 September 1935 – 1 November 2014) was a Swedish journalist, television producer, writer and historian. Häger produced a large number of historical documentaries. In 1986, Häger and Villius were awarded the Stora Journalistpriset. He was born in Söderala, Hälsingland, Sweden.

Häger died in Stockholm, aged 79.

[[Joel Barnett, Baron Barnett]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2014 deaths, British politicians, Civil servants

Joel Barnett, Baron Barnett, PC (14 October 1923 – 1 November 2014), was a Labour Party politician. As Chief Secretary to the Treasury in the late 1970s, he created the Barnett Formula that stopped public spending in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.

Barnett died in Manchester, England, aged 91.

[[Acker Bilk]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, English musicians, People from Somerset

Bernard Stanley "Acker" Bilk MBE (28 January 1929 – 2 November 2014) was an English clarinettist and vocalist. He was known for his trademark goatee, bowler hat, striped waistcoat and breathy, vibrato-rich, lower-register clarinet style. Bilk's 1962 instrumental tune "Stranger on the Shore" became the UK's biggest selling single and his best known work.

Bilk died in Bath, Somerset, England, aged 85.

[[Veljko Kadijević]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2014 deaths, European military people, Generals, Yugoslavian people

Veljko Kadijević (21 November 1925 – 2 November 2014) was a general of the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA). He was the Minister of Defence in the Yugoslav government from 1988 until his resignation in 1992, which made him the de facto commander of the JNA during the Ten-Day War in Slovenia and the initial stages of the Croatian War of Independence.

[[Bottom trawling]]

CATEGORIES: Fishing, Environmental issues

Bottom trawling is trawling (towing a trawl, which is a fishing net) along the sea floor. It is also called "dragging". Bottom trawling can be either benthic trawling or demersal trawling. Benthic trawling is towing a net at the very bottom of the ocean. Demersal trawling is towing a net just above the bottom.

Another kind of trawling is midwater trawling (also known as pelagic trawling). This is where a net is towed higher in the water column. Midwater trawling catches pelagic fish such as anchovies, tuna, and mackerel. Bottom trawling catches both bottom-living fish. It also catches semi-pelagic species such as cod, squid, shrimp, and rockfish. Trawling is done by a trawler. This can be a small open boat or a large factory trawler.

[[Tinus Linee]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, South African rugby union players

Marthinus "Tinus" Linee (23 August 1969 – 3 November 2014) was a South African rugby player. Linee played as a centre. He played all of his rugby for Western Province. Linee was born in Paarl, Western Cape.

He represented Western Province and the Stormers in Super Rugby. He played nine tour games for the Springboks between 1993 and 1994, but never played in a test for South Africa.

Tinus died in Paarl, Western Cape from complications following motor neurone disease, aged 45. 

[[Sadashiv Amrapurkar]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from respiratory tract infection, Indian movie actors, Infectious disease deaths in India

Sadashiv Amarapurkar (born Ganesh Kumar Nalawade; 2 January 1950 – 3 November 2014) was an Indian actor. He was well known for his roles in Marathi and Hindi movies in the 1980s and 90s.

He won the Filmfare Award for Best Performance in a Negative Role in 1991 for Sadak — the first time the award was instituted. In addition to negative roles, he has done supporting roles and, more recently, comic roles.

Amarapurkar died in Mumbai, India from a lung infection, aged 64.

[[Mariam Fakhr Eddine]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Egyptian movie actors

Mariam Mohamed Fakhr Eddine (مريم فخر الدين; January 8, 1933 – November 3, 2014) was an Egyptian actress. Eddine was known for her roles in Back Again (1958), Light in the Night (1959) and Souq al-harim (1970). Eddine was born in Faiyum, Egypt.

Eddine died in Cairo, Egypt of brain surgery-related problems, aged 81.

[[Augusto Martelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2014 deaths, Italian composers, Italian conductors, People from Genoa, Italian television personalities

Augusto Martelli (15 March 1940 - 3 November 2014) was an Italian composer, conductor, arranger and television personality. He was known for composing the song Djamballà. It was the theme song of the 1971 movie Il dio serpente. Martelli was born in Genoa, Italy.

Martelli died in Milan, Italy, aged 74.

[[Women’s Equality Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States, 2014 establishments in New York (state), 2010s establishments in New York (state)

The Women’s Equality Party is a political party. It was founded in July 2014 in New York by Christine Quinn, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, and Lieutenant Governor candidate Kathy Hochul.

[[Ligature (typography)]]

CATEGORIES: Typography

In writing and typography, a ligature is when two or more graphemes (~letters) are joined as a single glyph. Ligatures usually replace two characters next to each other. The idea comes from handwriting and manuscripts.

Example: the common ampersand ("&") represents the Latin conjunction et, meaning "and". The ampersand's symbol is a ligature, joining the old handwritten Latin letters e and t of the word et, so that the word is represented as a single glyph.

Sometimes ligatures are made to make things more easy to read, or simply to make the writing/font nicer to look at. This is important in some forms of design work. 

Type designers, who create fonts (or 'typefaces'), make ligatures for some combinations of letters. Today, most fonts are made on computers (these are called 'digital typefaces'). When two particular letters are typed together, the ligature will appear. The ligature look like the two different letters but slightly changed (sometimes joined together). It is actually a separate symbol that has been drawn by the creator, and is programmed to appear when two letters are put next to each other.

[[Sigfrid Mattsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2009 deaths, Swedish skiers

Sigfrid Mattsson, born 19 September 1917, dead 27 August 2009, was a Swedish  cross-country skier. He competed for Skarpnäcks IF in club competitions. In 1952, he won the Vasaloppet event.

[[Josef Marha]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Chicago Blackhawks players, Colorado Avalanche players, Czech ice hockey players, Living people, Mighty Ducks of Anaheim players, American Hockey League players, Ice hockey centres

Josef Marha (born 2 June 1976) is a former Czech professional ice hockey centre. He also was a Unrestricted Free Agent. He played a career total of 159 games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Colorado Avalanche, Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, and the Chicago Blackhawks. He most recently played for HK Hradec Kralove of the Czech Extraliga.

[[Konrad Pettersson]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 deaths, 1903 births, Swedish skiers

Konrad Pettersson born 1 July 1903 in Älvsbyn, Sweden, dead 18 November 1976 in Piteå, Sweden was a Swedish cross-country skier. He won the Vasaloppet competition in 1927. He represented Luleå SK in club competitions.

[[Johan Abram Persson]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1971 deaths, Swedish skiers

Johan Abram Persson, born 13 July 1898, dead 24 February 1971, was a Swedish (Sami) cross-country skier, fisherman, sloyer and wolfhunter. He was the son of Per Larsson and Anna Stina Bassem from Luokta lappby. He lived in Skierfa near the Pite River throughout his entire life. 

He competed for Arjeplogs SK in club competitions. In international events, he participated for Sweden. In 1929, he won Vasaloppet.

[[Olle Wiklund]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1999 deaths, Swedish skiers

Olle Wiklund, born 26 December 1914 in Bergvik, Sweden, died 31 March 1999 at the same place, was a Swedish cross-country skier. In 1942, he won Vasaloppet, nine minutes before second-placed Bertil Melin. This meant that the old Vasaloppet record, dated back to 1928, had been broken by two minutes.

He competed for IFK Bergvik at club level, He participated in Vasaloppet at some points.

[[Sigvard Jonsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1969 deaths, Swedish skiers

Bengt Sigvard Jonsson, born 27 February 1923 in Bodum, Sweden, dead 17 September 1969 at the same place, was a Swedish cross-country skier and lumberjack. He represented Rossöns IK at club level. He won Vasaloppet in 1956. He died in a drowning accident.

[[Lars-Arne Bölling]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, 1972 Winter Olympics, Swedish skiers

Lars-Arne Bölling, born Lars Arne Torsten 6 October 1944 in Sörsjön, Sweden, is a Swedish former cross-country skier. He competed for IFK Mora and Orsa IF at club level. He won Vasaloppet in 1970 and 1972. He became Swedish national champion in the 15 kilometers race in 1970, and in the 1973 30 kilometers race as well as the 1970 and 1971 50 kilometers races. He was also part of the IFK Mora team winning the Swedish national relay championship in 1970-1973, and in 1974 he won the same relay title with Orsa IF.

In 1970, he was awarded the Sixten Jernberg Award. He also represented Sweden during the Olympic Winter Games of 1972 in Sapporo, where he ended up 9th in the 50 kilometers race. In 1973 he won the Marcialonga race in Italy.

He is the son Arne Bölling, who ended up second at Vasaloppet 1943, and the brother's son of Stig Bölling. 

[[Pauli Siitonen]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, 1968 Winter Olympics, Finnish Olympians, Skiers, Skiing in Finland

Pauli Siitonen, born 3 February 1938 in Simpele, Finland, is a Finnish former cross-country skier.

He competed in the 1968 Winter Olympics. He was one of the most successful long-distance cross-country skiers of the 1970s. In 1973, he won Vasaloppet, as second person from Finland. He also won the Finlandia-hiihto in Finland and König-Ludwig-Lauf in West Germany.

[[Ola Hassis]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Ola Hassis, born 22 March 1951, is a Swedish former cross-country skier. He competed for Orsa IF at club level. He won Vasaloppet in 1979. He's the brother of Swedish cross-country skier Bengt Hassis.

[[Lasse Frykberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Lars Frykberg, born 3 January 1957, is a Swedish former cross-country skier. He won Vasaloppet in 1982. at the time, he competed for IFK Mora. in a competition where Jean-Paul Pierrat from France first reached the finish. However, Jean-Paul Pierrat was disqualified for changing skis (which was not allowed).

He also won Worldloppet in the seasons of 1981/1982 and 1982/1983.

[[Hans Persson]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Hans Persson, born 18 January 1959, is a Swedish former cross-country skier. He was specialized at long-distance races. In 1984, he won Vasaloppet. He represented Åsarna IK at club level. With that club, he won the Swedish national relay championship in 1980-1983 and again in 1988. 

[[Bengt Hassis]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Swedish skiers

Bengt Hassis, born 11 January 1957, is a Swedish former cross-country skier. He represented Orsa IF at club level. In 1985 and 1986, he won Vasaloppet. During his 1986 wictory, he broke the Vasaloppet record, which lasted until 1998, when it was broken by Peter Göransson.

Nowadays, Bengt Hassis is a cross-country skiing instructor in Grönklitt. He's the brother of Swedish cross-country skier Ola Hassis.

[[Anders Blomquist]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Anders Blomquist, born 17 October 1960 in Bromma, Sweden is Swedish former cross-country skier. He competed for IFK Lidingö and Åsarna IK at club levbel. In 1988, he shared the Vasaloppet victory together with his brother Örjan Blomquist. Since many years, he has been an SVT commentator during skiing events. Up to March 2010, he was the CEO for Destination Funäsdalen.

[[Örjan Blomquist]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2000 deaths, Swedish skiers

Örjan Blomquist, born 23 August 1957 in Bromma, Sweden, dead 30 July 2000, was a Swedish cross-country skier. He was speclalized at longd-distance races during the 1980s. He competed for IFK Lidingö at club level. He shared the victory at Vasaloppet 1988 together with his brother Anders Blomquist. Örjan Blomquist also won Worldloppet in 1985.

After the career, he worked as an SVT commentator during skiing events. Outside skiing, he was an economist. Örjan Blomquist died in the year 2000 following illnes.

[[A. P. J. Abdul Kalam]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of India, Indian politicians, 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Tamil people, Ramanathapuram District

Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam (அவுல் பகீர் ஜைனுலாப்தீன் அப்துல் கலாம்; AbdulKalam.ogg; 15 October 1931 – 27 July 2015) usually known as A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, was a famous Indian aerospace engineer. He was born in Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu. His father’s name was Jainulabdin and mother’s name was Aashiyamma. He was the 11th President of India, from 2002 to 2007.He was elected against Lakshmi Sehgal in 2002 and had support from both the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Indian National Congress, the two leading political parties of India at that time.

When he was president, he was popularly known as the People's President. He was awarded the Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian honour in 1997. He has also been a professor (of aerospace engineering). Kalam is the first Chancellor of the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology Thiruvananthapuram (IIST). Kalam’s contribution in the field of space sciences has been immense. He also contributed in India’s civilian space programme and military missile development, and so he got the title of India’s “Missile Man”. People assume him to be one of the most powerful yet caring president in the history of Independent India.

[[Ampersand]]

CATEGORIES: Typography

The ampersand ("&") is a logogram. 

It represents the Latin conjunction et, meaning "and". The ampersand's symbol is not only a logogram, but also a ligature. It joins the old handwritten Latin letters e and t of the word et, so that the word is represented as a single glyph.

With a c added on it means "et cetera", "and so on".

[[Darhal Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Darhal Tehsil is a town and notified constituency of Rajouri District Indian State of Jammu & Kashmir.

Darhal is a Tehsil in Rajauri District of Jammu & Kashmir State, India. 

It is at 1671 m elevation (altitude). Urdu is the local language. People also speak Gojri and Dogri.

It is cold in summer. Darhal summer highest day temperature is in between 19 ° C to 43° C. Average temperatures of January is 11 ° C , February is 13 ° C , March is 19 ° C , April is 24 ° C , May is 30 ° C .

[[Denishawn School of Dancing]]

CATEGORIES: Schools, Dance, American dancers

The Denishawn School of Dancing and Related Arts, was founded in 1915 by Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn in Los Angeles, California.

It taught a range of dance styles, influenced by ballroom dancing, ballet and various types of American and Indian dances.

The school had some notable pupils, including Martha Graham, Doris Humphrey, Lillian Powell, Charles Weidman, Jack Cole, and silent film star Louise Brooks. The school was especially renowned for its influence on ballet and experimental modern dance. In time, Denishawn teachings reached another school  Studio 61 at the Carnegie Hall Studios.

One source writes:

[[Snow goose]]

CATEGORIES: Geese

The snow goose (Chen caerulescens or Anser caerulescens), also known as the blue goose, is a North American species of goose. Its name comes from its white feathers. Some authorities place this species in the Chen genus. Other authorities place these species in the "gray goose" genus Anser. In addition to a white phase they also have a blue phase. In the white phase they are all-white except for their primary feathers which are black. In the blue phase the head and upper neck remain white.

[[Kjetil-Vidar Haraldstad]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Heavy metal musicians, Living people, Norwegian musical entertainers, Rock drummers

Kjetil-Vidar Haraldstad (born June 28, 1973) is a Norwegian extreme drummer he is more well know by his stage name Frost. He chose this stage name, because he wanted to purify himself and become one with the darkness and the Frost of Black Metal. He currently plays for the black metal bands Satyricon and 1349. He is considered reputable for being one of the fastest and most proficient drummer alive, and a legend to Black Metal and to Norway art scene.  

He has also took part as a drummer with the bands Gorgoroth, Zyklon-B, Gehenna and Keep of Kalessin. He first joined Satyricon temporarily to record the band second demo  "The Forest is My Throne" (split album form Satyricon and Enslaved from the year 1993 - "Black Winds" and "Min hyllest til vinterland" are the two other song of the 3 songs demo album), but that changed in the next release, the first studio album Dark Medival Times (1994), where he was promoted to a permanent member.  

[[Christer Hult]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Swedish footballers, 1946 births

Christer Hult is a Swedish former association football defender. He played for IFK Norrköping. He played 13 games for the Swedish national team.

[[Ulrika Kalte]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Swedish footballers, Shiroki FC Serena players

Ulrika Kalte, born 19 May 1970 in Skärholmen, Sweden is a Swedish former association football player. She played for Älvsjö AIK. She also played for the Swedish national team during the 1995 World Cup in Sweden, where Sweden was knocked out in the quarterfinals. She also represented Sweden during the 1996 Olympic Tournament in Atlanta, where Sweden ended up 6th.

She begun playing for Norsborgs FF. She became professional in Japan. as she moved to Shiroki F.C. Serena after the 1995 World Cup.

[[Lena Carlzon-Lundbäck]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Lena Carlzon-Lundbäck, born 26 March 1954 in Malmberget, Sweden is a Swedish former cross-country skier. She competed for Malmbergets AIF at club level. She also represented Sweden during the 1976 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck. She also represented Sweden during the  1980 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid. She participated both in individual events and relays. Her best individual result was being part of the Swedish fourth-placed relay team in 1976. Her best individual result is two 10th places, at the 5 kilometers race in 1976 and the 10 kilometers race in 1980.

She became Swedish national champion  totally eight times.

[[The Frugal Gourmet]]

CATEGORIES: American television series, 1983 television series debuts, 1997 disestablishments, 1983 establishments in the United States, 1990s disestablishments in the United States

The Frugal Gourmet is an American half-hour cooking show. The show started around 1973 at Tacoma's public-TV station KTPS-TV. It was first called Cooking Fish Creatively. Later it was renamed The Frugal Gourmet. The award winning program was hosted by Jeff Smith. 

[[Jukka Koskilahti]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Finnish ice hockey players, Living people

Jukka Koskilahti (born 23 May 1954 in Turku, Finland) is a Finnish former ice hockey player. He also played in Sweden for club teams like HV 71 (1979-1980) and Modo AIK (1980-1982).

[[Renato Sellani]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2014 deaths, Italian composers, Jazz musicians, Marche, Italian pianists

Renato Sellani (8 January 1926 – 31 October 2014) was an Italian jazz pianist and composer. As a pianist, he worked with Chet Baker, Billie Holiday, Dizzie Gillespie, Lee Konitz, Bill Coleman, Gerry Mulligan, Enrico Rava and Tony Scott, among others. He was born in Senigallia, Province of Ancona.

Sellani died in Milan, Italy, aged 88.  

[[Nina Timofeeva]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2014 deaths, People from Saint Petersburg, Russian ballerinas, Soviet people

Nina Vladimirovna Timofeeva (Нина Владимировна Тимофеева; 11 June 1935 - 3 November 2014) was a Russian ballet dancer. Timofeeva was born in Leningrad, Soviet Union. She was known for her performance in Swan Lake (1956, 1970), Don Quixote (1959), The Tale of the Stone Flower (1959), and in Macbeth (1980).

Timofeeva died in Moscow, Russia, aged 79.

[[Eddie Stuart]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, South African footballers

Edward Albert "Eddie" Stuart (12 May 1931 – 4 November 2014) was a South African professional footballer. He played as a defender. He played 322 times in England for Wolverhampton Wanderers between 1951 and 1962, winning three league titles and the FA Cup. He also served Stoke City, Tranmere Rovers and Stockport County.

Stuart died on 4 November 2014 in Wrexham, Wales aged 83 following a long illness.

[[Enrique Olivera]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2014 deaths, Argentine politicians, Mayors, People from Buenos Aires

Enrique Olivera (9 February 1940 – 4 November 2014) was an Argentine politician. He served as Chief of Government of the City of Buenos Aires from December 1999 to August 2000.

Olivera died in Buenos Aires on 4 November 2014, aged 74.

[[Aliya Mustafina]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, 2012 Summer Olympics, Russian gymnasts, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic silver medalists, World champions

Aliya Fargatovna Mustafina  (Алия́ Фарга́товна Муста́фина; born 30 September 1994) is a Russian gymnast. She won four medals at the 2012 Summer Olympics and three medals at the 2016 Summer Olympics. Mustafina was the most successful athlete that was not a swimmer at the 2012 Summer Olympics.  Mustafina has won 11 medals at the World Championships. She was the 2010 World Champion in the all-around and in the team competition. She was the 2013 World Champion on the balance beam.

[[Chaat]]

CATEGORIES: Snack foods

Chaat (Hindi/Nepali: चाट, Urdu/Punjabi:چاٹ ) is a term describing good snacks.  Chaat is most likely to be found at road-side tracks from food carts in  India, Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh. Chaat is made of fried dough, which can be filled with different ingredients. Chaat commonly contains pieces of potato, chickpeas, and spices. 

[[Amber Montana]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, Living people, American child actors, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Tampa, Florida

Amber Dawn Montana (born December 2, 1998) is an American actress. She is best known for her lead role in the Nickelodeon TV show The Haunted Hathaways as Taylor Hathaway.

[[Peyton List]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, Living people, American child actors, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Florida

Peyton Roi List (born April 6, 1998) is an American actress and model. She is best known for her role as Emma Ross in the Disney Channel series Jessie.

[[Xenolith]]

CATEGORIES: Igneous rocks

A xenolith (foreign rock) is a rock fragment which another rock surrounds.

It happens most in igneous rock when magma is fluid enough to flow round more solid rock. Xenoliths may be covered in the margins of a magma chamber, torn loose from the walls of a flow of lava  or picked up along the ground by flowing lava on Earth's surface. A xenocryst is an individual foreign crystal included within an igneous body. Examples of xenocrysts are quartz crystals in a low-silica lava and diamonds in kimberlite diatremes.

Although the term xenolith is most commonly associated with igneous inclusions, a broad definition could include rock fragments which have become encased in sedimentary rock. Xenoliths are sometimes found in meteorites.

Xenoliths and xenocrysts provide important information about the composition of the otherwise inaccessible mantle. Basalts, kimberlites, lamproites and lamprophyres, which have their source in the upper mantle, often contain fragments and crystals assumed to be a part of the lower mantle mineralogy.

[[Cyclone Ashoba]]

CATEGORIES: Severe weather, 2014 in weather, 2014 in Asia

Cyclone Ashoba formed in the Bay of Bengal near Andaman, 1400 away from Visakhapatnam. Early forecasts called for cyclone Ashoba to affect the Tamil Nadu coast.it isexpected to reach oman coast on 11.06.2014

[[Chelsea Lately]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American television series, American television talk shows, American comedy television series, English-language television programs

Chelsea Lately is a late night comedy talk show by Chelsea Handler on the E! network. Every episode was presented in a half-hour format, and was broadcast Monday through Friday. The final episode of Chelsea Lately aired on August 26, 2014.

[[Suwon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Korea

Suwon is a large city in Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.

[[Mao Zedong Statue (Fuzhou)]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese culture, Statues

The Mao Zedong Statue is a statue in Wuyi Square, Fuzhou, Fujian, China. It is 10.1 tall. It depicts Mao Zedong holding out his arm. The statue was built by Yang Zhengrong, a painter in Fujian. It took a year and a half to build.

[[Se hace saber]]

CATEGORIES: Comedy television series, Spanish culture

Se hace saber is a Spanish television comedy program. It was aired in TVE 1 from 24 December 2013 to 21 February 2014. It was hosted and starred by Goyo Jiménez and other actors such as Agustín Jiménez, Arturo González-Campos, Berta Collado, Iñaki Urrutia, Leo Harlem and Sergio Fernández "El Monaguillo".

The program was canceled after eight weeks, as very few people watched it.

[[Transport hub]]

CATEGORIES: Transport

A transport hub (also transport interchange) is a place where passengers and cargo are exchanged between transport modes. Public transport hubs include train stations, rapid transit stations, bus stops, tram stop, airports and ferry slips. Freight hubs include classification yards, seaports and truck terminals, or combinations of these. For private transport, the parking lot functions as a hub. 

Delta Air Lines first used the hub and spoke system for aviation in 1955 from its hub in Atlanta, Georgia, United States. This was to compete with Eastern Air Lines. FedEx adopted the hub and spoke model for overnight package delivery during the 1970s. When the airline industry was deregulated in 1978, Delta's hub and spoke system was used by several airlines. 

[[Cheese mite]]

CATEGORIES: Cheese, Arachnids

Cheese mites are mites which live in food, grain and plant leaves. 

They are sometimes found in flour but prefer cheese. Refrigerated cheese is not usually affected as they prefer warm, damp foods. Cheese mites are used to make certain cheeses. Milbenkäse and Mimolette are two examples. The action of the mites on the surface of these cheeses adds to the flavor. It also gives them a distinctive appearance. A 2010 SEM study found that Milbenkäse cheese was produced using Tyrolichus casei mites, while Mimolette cheese used Acarus siro mites (also known as flour mites).

[[Ina Catani]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1938 deaths, Swedish sportspeople

Ina Catani, born Heilborn 30 May 1906, dead 28 March 1938, was a Swedish archer.

[[Apoica pallens]]

CATEGORIES: Wasps

The Central American paper wasp (Apoica pallens) is a nocturnal eusocial wasp (family Vespidae). It is famous for its swarming behavior. It is native to the lowlands of central and northern South America.

This species has developed special night vision adaptations which help their night-time swarming and foraging behavior. It has important medicinal properties for the Pankararé people of Brazil.

[[Handbag]]

CATEGORIES: Accessories

A handbag is a medium-to-large bag typically used by women to hold personal items. It is often fashionably designed. Versions of the term are 'purse', 'pocketbook', 'pouch', or 'clutch', terms which suggest rather smaller versions.

Content of handbags might include such items as wallet/coins, keys, mobile phone, cosmetics and jewellery, books/e-books, pen and paper, food and beverage such as a water bottle, pepper spray and other items for self-defence, tampons and other feminine hygiene products, contraceptives, tissues and infant care products, or a hairbrush.

[[Donauparkhalle]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Austria, Vienna

Donauparkhalle was an indoor ice rink in Vienna-Donaustadt in Austria. It was originally built as an expo venue in 1964, next to an earlier landfill in Donaupark near Kaisermühlen, to be used for the garden-themed exhibition Wiener Internationale Gartenschau. Two years later, it was rebuilt into an indoor ice rink. During the 1966/1967 season, Wiener EV played its first home games inside. Later, it was used as home venue for the Vienna club WAT Stadlau. The venue was popular for its acoustics. The venue was demolished following the 1990/1991 season. In the early 1990's, the area was planned to be used for the 1995 world exhebition that was never hosted.

[[Argument from ignorance]]

CATEGORIES: Logical fallacies

An argument from ignorance (argumentum ad ignorantiam), or appeal to ignorance ('ignorance' stands for "lack of evidence to the contrary"), is a fallacy in informal logic. It says something is true because it has not yet  been proved false. Or, that something is false if it has not yet been proved true. This is also called a negative proof fallacy. This also includes the (false) assumption there are only two options (true or false). There may be as many as four choices:

Appeals to ignorance are often used to suggest the other side needs to do the proving. Rules of logic place the burden of proof on the person making the claim.

A logical fallacy is simply a bad argument. Using bad logic does not necessarily mean the argument is false (or true). It is basically a hasty conclusion, one that is arrived at incorrectly. But it still may be convincing to some audiences. This is why it is used in politics and advertising.

[[Drug tolerance]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Drug tolerance (or physiological tolerance) is a term used to describe that the organism gets used to a given substance. Drug tolerance also means that over time a drug becomes less effective and larger amounts of the substance are needed to get the same effect.  

Physiological tolerance can be achieved in one of the following ways: 

[[Elizabeth of Doberschütz]]

CATEGORIES: 1751 deaths, Witches

Elisabeth of Doberschütz was decaptiated and burned as a witch, on 17th december 1751 in Stettin.

[[Matthias Schleiden]]

CATEGORIES: 1804 births, 1881 deaths, German botanists, People from Hamburg, German biologists, German lawyers, German scientists, People from Frankfurt

Matthias Jakob Schleiden (5 April 1804Spaced en dash 23 June 1881) was a German botanist. He was long supposed to be the co-founder of the cell theory, with Theodor Schwann and Rudolf Virchow. However, a recent study of the original papers revealed that Schleiden and Schwann used previous research, and were popularisers of an idea others had discovered.

[[Auckland War Memorial Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Museums, Buildings and structures in Oceania, Auckland

The Auckland War Memorial Museum is a museum in Auckland, New Zealand. It is one of New Zealand's most important museums and war memorials. The displays in the museum are mostly about New Zealand history, both natural history and military history.

[[Yarra River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Victoria (Australia)

The Yarra River is also known as the Yarra Yarra River, Aboriginal: Berrern, Birr-arrung, Bay-ray-rung, Birarang. Birrarung, and Wongete). The Yarra river is a perennial river in east-central Victoria, Australia. The river flows from its source in the Yarra Ranges 242 west through the Yarra Valley. The river opens out into plains as it winds its way through Greater Melbourne. It then empties into Hobsons Bay in northernmost Port Phillip.

The river was a major food source for indigenous Australians during prehistoric times. It also served as a meeting place during those times. The river was first called Birrarung by the Wurundjeri. The current name was translated wrong from another Wurundjeri term in the Boonwurrung language; Yarro-yarro, meaning  "ever-flowing".

The river was used for agriculture by early European settlers.  The landscape of the river has changed since 1835. The course of the river has been changed and widened in places. Widening and dams, like the Upper Yarra Reservoir have helped protect Melbourne from major flooding. Industrialisation led to the destruction of the marshlands at the joining of the Yarra and Maribyrnong Rivers in the area around Coode Island in West Melbourne. The yearly Moomba festival celebrates the Yarra River's meaning to Melbourne.

[[Bill Ward]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, English rock drummers

William Thomas Ward (born 5 May 1948) is an English musician and visual artist. He is best known as the original drummer of the British heavy metal band Black Sabbath. 

He also performed lead vocals on two Black Sabbath songs: "It's Alright" from the album Technical Ecstasy and "Swinging the Chain" from the album Never Say Die!.

[[Murder (United States law)]]

CATEGORIES: United States law

Under the laws of the United States of America, the crime of Murder can fall under different jurisdictions. In some cases, the state prosecutes those accused of murder. In other cases, the federal government has jurisdiction. Who the victim of a murder is can also determine who has jurisdiction. The military of the United States also prosecutes murder under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 

[[Bokhara River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Queensland

The Bokhara River is a watercourse in the South Downs region of Queensland. The river flows downstream into the northwestern slopes of New South Wales, Australia. The Bokhara River flows past the towns of Hebel and Goodooga. 

[[Diamantina River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Queensland

The Diamantina River is in Central West Queensland, Australia. The river was named by William Landsborough in 1866. He named the river after Lady Diamantina Bowen (née Roma). She was the wife of Sir George Ferguson Bowen. He was the first Governor of Queensland. The river has three major tributaries. They are the Western River, the Mayne River, and Farrars Creek.

[[George Ferguson Bowen]]

CATEGORIES: 1821 births, 1899 deaths, Australian politicians

Sir George Ferguson Bowen (2 November 1821 – 21 February 1899) was born in Ireland. He was the first governor of Queensland, Australia. Bowen was also an author. He wrote a few books.

[[Grapheme]]

CATEGORIES: Typography, Writing

A grapheme is a written mark which corresponds to a spoken sound, or a bit of written language (orthography). It roughly corresponds to a phoneme in speech.

Graphemes include alphabetic letters, typographic ligatures, Chinese characters, numerical digits, punctuation marks, and other individual symbols of any of the world's writing systems. The separate items on a keyboard all produce graphemes when writing in the appropriate software.

A grapheme may or may not carry meaning by itself, and may or may not correspond to a single phoneme.

A grapheme is an abstract concept. A glyph is a specific shape that represents that grapheme, in a specific typeface. For example, the abstract concept of "the Arabic numeral one" is a grapheme which has different glyphs in different typefaces.

[[Mumu]]

CATEGORIES: Russian literature, Non-fiction literature

Mumu (yes) is a Russian tale. It was published in 1852 by Ivan Turgenev in the political magazine: Sovremennik.

The story is about the relationship between Gerasim - a deaf mute servant - and his dog. The story changes to an elderly widow-woman who is Gerasim's boss. The woman shows her cruel side when she tells him to get rid of his pet.

[[Reality Bites]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 comedy-drama movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Houston, Texas, Movies set in Texas, Universal Pictures movies

Reality Bites is a 1994 romantic comedy-drama movie set in Houston. This is about romance and the fear of AIDS and HIV. Janeane Garofalo plays Vickie Miner. Swoosie Kurtz plays Charlane McGregor. Winona Ryder plays Lelaina.

This movie was released on February 18, 1994. The movie got mixed review from critics. The box office was positive. Lisa Loeb performed "Stay" on the soundtrack of the movie.

[[The Odd Life of Timothy Green]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 comedy-drama movies, 2010s fantasy movies, American comedy-drama movies, American fantasy movies, English-language movies, Movies about families, Movies set in North Carolina

The Odd Life of Timothy Green is a 2012 American fantasy comedy-drama movie set  in North Carolina. It was directed by Peter Hedges and was produced by Scott Sanders, James Whitaker, and Ahmet Zappa. The Odd Life of Timothy Green was released on August 15, 2012.

The movie gained mixed to negative reception reviews from critics and holds a 33% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Adams was awarded the Young Artist Award for Best Leading Young Actor Age Ten and Under for his role as Timothy Green.

[[Natural Born Killers]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 crime movies, 1994 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Oliver Stone, American independent movies

Natural Born Killers is a 1994 American crime drama movie directed by Oliver Stone. It is about a couple in love who perform murder across the southwestern United States. Mickey Knox is played by Woody Harrelson. Mallory Knox is played by Juliette Lewis. Ed Wilson is played by Rodney Dangerfield. Tommy Lee Jones also acts in the movie.

This movie was released on August 26, 1994. It was threatened with an NC-17 rating by the MPAA. It was then edited downward to R-rating level.

The movie received mixed reviews from the critics.

[[The Outsiders (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 crime movies, 1983 drama movies, 1980s crime drama movies, 1980s teen drama movies, American crime drama movies, American gangster movies, American teen drama movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in Oklahoma, Movies set in the 1960s, Movies directed by Francis Ford Coppola

The Outsiders is a 1983 crime and drama movie. It is set in 1965, Tulsa, Oklahoma. It is about tough low-income working class teenagers. Sherri Valance is played by Diane Lane. Matt Dillon plays Dallas Winston. Emilio Estevez plays Keith Matthews. Patrick Swayze plays Darrel Curtis. Tom Cruise plays Steve Randle. Rob Lowe plays Soda Curtis.

The movie is based on the 1967 novel of the same name. It was released on March 25, 1983. Its rating was changed to PG-13.

The reviews of the movie were mostly positive.

[[Before I Go to Sleep]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 drama movies, 2010s drama thriller movies, 2014 mystery movies, British drama movies, British thriller movies, British mystery movies, American drama thriller movies, American mystery movies, French drama movies, French thriller movies, Swedish movies, English-language movies, Movies set in London

Before I Go to Sleep is an British-American mystery drama thriller movie. It was written and directed by Rowan Joffé. It was released in the United Kingdom on 5 September 2014. It was later released in the United States on 31 October 2014. The movie was an adaptation of S. J. Watson's 2011 novel of the same name. The movie stars Nicole Kidman, Mark Strong, Colin Firth, and Anne-Marie Duff.

[[Lawrence Kasdan]]

CATEGORIES: American movie directors, American movie producers, Writers from Miami, Florida, Businesspeople from Miami, Florida, 1949 births, Living people, American screenwriters

Lawrence Kasdan (born January 14, 1949) is an American screenwriter, movie producer and director. He directed Return of the Jedi and The Empire Strikes Back.

He was born in Miami, Florida.

[[Kazaam]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 comedy movies, 1990s fantasy movies, 1990s musical movies, American comedy movies, American fantasy movies, American family movies, American musical movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City

Kazaam is a 1996 American fantasy family musical comedy movie. It was directed by Paul M. Glaser and was produced by Paul M. Glaser and Shaquille O'Neal. Kazaam was released on July 17, 1996. The movie is about Kazaam, a 5,000 year-old genie who appears from a magic boombox to grant three wishes to a boy.

The movie gained extremely negative reviews from critics and holds a 6% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. The movie was also a box office bomb and was only able to make back $19 million of its $20 million budget.

[[Bloxwich]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the West Midlands (county), Villages in England

Bloxwich is a village and civil parish in the Metropolitan Borough of Walsall.

There are several schools in the Bloxwich area. One is Lower Farm Primary School.

[[Brad Halsey]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2014 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, New York Yankees players, Oakland Athletics players, Arizona Diamondbacks players, Sportspeople from Houston, Texas

Bradford Alexander Halsey (February 14, 1981 – October 31, 2014) was am American Major League Baseball pitcher. He played for the New York Yankees, Arizona Diamondbacks and Oakland Athletics.

Halsey died on October 31, 2014, near his home in New Braunfels, Texas, at the age of 33. According to the local judge who ordered the autopsy, Halsey's fatal injuries were caused by either a jump or a fall from a 100-foot cliff on private property. His body was discovered below, on a small road going up to the cliff.

[[Richard Schaal]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Chicago, Comedians from Chicago, Television personalities from Chicago

Richard Schaal ('; May 7, 1928 – November 4, 2014) was an American movie and television actor from Chicago, Illinois.

He was married to actress Valerie Harper from 1964 to 1978. His daughter is actress Wendy Schaal by his first marriage to Lois (née Treacy).

In 1962, he joined Chicago's Second City. He became skilled in sketch and improvisational comedy. He had a recurring role in Just Our Luck. He was featured in several episodes of The Mary Tyler Moore Show, The Bob Newhart Show, Rhoda and Phyllis.

Schaal died on November 4, 2014, in Woodland Hills, Los Angeles, California. He was 86.

[[Lane Evans]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Illinois, United States representatives from Illinois, US Democratic Party politicians

Lane Allen Evans (August 4, 1951 – November 5, 2014) was a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives from 1983 until 2007, representing the 17th District of Illinois. 

Evans announced that he would not seek reelection in November 2006 and retired at the end of the 109th Congress due to his bad health. 

On November 6, 2014, Evans died at the age of 63 in a nursing home in East Moline, Illinois, of Parkinson's disease, aged 63.

[[Manitas de Plata]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2014 deaths, French musicians

Manitas de Plata (born Ricardo Baliardo; 7 August 1921 – 5 November 2014) was a French Gitano flamenco guitarist. He had toured the whole world since 1967, and recorded discs. He played with the dancer Nina Corti. In 1968 he played at the Royal Variety Performance in London. 

[[Pearl Harbor (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 drama movies, 2001 romance movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, 2000s war movies, American epic movies, American romantic drama movies, American war movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Hawaii, Japanese-language movies, Movies based on real life events, Movies composed by Hans Zimmer, Movies directed by Michael Bay, Movies set in England, Movies set in Japan, Movies set in New York, Movies set in Washington, D.C., Movies set in the 1920s, Movies set in the 1940s, Tennessee, World War II movies

Pearl Harbor is a 2001 American epic war movie. The movie also has romance and action elements in it. It was directed by Michael Bay and was produced by Michael Bay and Jerry Bruckheimer. Pearl Harbor was released on May 25, 2001. The movie is based on the attack on Pearl Harbor.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 25% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Even though the movie received negative reviews, it was a major box office success and earned almost $450 million worldwide. The movie was nominated for four Academy Awards and won one for Best Sound Editing.

Many Pearl Harbor survivors did not like the movie. They called it grossly inaccurate and pure Hollywood. In an interview, producer Jerry Bruckheimer was quoted saying, "We tried to be accurate, but it's certainly not meant to be a history lesson".

[[Bootlegs & B-Sides]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop albums, 1994 albums

Bootlegs & B-Sides is a 1994 compilation studio album by Ice Cube. This album has remixes and b-sides for certain songs, including "Check Yo Self" and "What Can I Do". Other songs on the album are from his album Lethal Injection.

This album was released on November 22, 1994. Many song versions were later included on remastered and proper Ice Cube records.

[[The Hotwives of Orlando]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American television series, 2014 American television series debuts, American sitcoms, Orlando, Florida, Television series set in Florida, English-language television programs

The Hotwives of Orlando is an American sitcom. It premiered on July 15, 2014. It was made available only for Hulu. The show was developed by Paramount Digital Entertainment. It is a parody of The Real Housewives comedy series on Bravo. The show has only one season so far. The show is about several fictional women who live in Orlando, Florida.

The first season focuses on Tawny St. John (portrayed by Casey Wilson), Shauna Maducci (Danielle Schneider), Phe Phe Reed (Tymberlee Hill), Veronica Von Vandervon (Andrea Savage), Crystal Simmons (Angela Kinsey), and Amanda Simmons (Kristen Schaal).

[[Hulu]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 establishments in the United States, Companies based in California, Entertainment websites

Hulu is an American online company. It provides a selection of TV shows, clips, movies, and more. It also supports advertisements in their online video service.

Hulu videos are available only to users in the United States. Hulu is a joint venture of NBCUniversal Television Group (Comcast) and Walt Disney Television (The Walt Disney Company).

Hulu provides original shows. These includes The Hotwives of Orlando, The Morning After, Battleground, The Fashion Fund, among others.

Subscribers can access episodes from ABC, Fox, NBC, and the CW the day after they air. Subscribers can access these episodes on internet-connected TVs, smartphones, game consoles, set-top boxes, and more.

Hulu's subscription service was launched in beta (preview) on June 29, 2010, and officially launched on November 17, 2010, under the branding Hulu Plus. The service remained advertising-supported, but it offers an expanded content library including full seasons, day-after access to current season content and more episodes of shows available. Hulu also launched Hulu Plus apps on other types of devices, including mobile, digital media players, and video game consoles. By the end of 2011, Hulu Plus had around 1.5 million subscribers.

On April 29, 2015, it was announced that the "Hulu Plus" branding would be discontinued, and that the service would be henceforth marketed as simply "Hulu" to place it in-line with its subscription-only competitors. By then, the service had grown to 9 million subscribers.

[[No Vaseline]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 songs

"No Vaseline" is a 1991 rap song from Ice Cube. The single is about fights in N.W.A. Ice Cube fights back toward N.W.A members.

The song was released on October 29, 1991. Not long after the release, Dr. Dre left his group because he was not getting money. 

[[Kmart]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 establishments, 19th-century establishments in the United States, American department stores, Companies based in Illinois, Detroit, Michigan

Kmart (sometimes stylized as K-Mart) is an American company. Its headquarters are in Illinois. The company purchased Sears in 2005. It formed a new corporation under the name Sears Holdings Corporation.

The company was founded in 1962. It is the third largest discount store in the world, behind Walmart and Target. Kmart has stores in the United States, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam. There were stores in Canada, Mexico, and Eastern Europe. 2014, there are 1,077 Kmart stores. 

Kmart is known for its "Blue Light Specials". The phrase "attention Kmart shoppers" has been used in pop culture. Many movies were filmed at Kmart stores. These includes Troop Beverly Hills, Six Days Seven Nights, Rain Man, Beetlejuice, Madea Goes to Jail and Dawn of the Dead.

[[The Dog Who Saved Easter]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 movies, Family movies, American movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California

The Dog Who Saved Easter is an American family romantic comedy movie. It was released on March 18, 2014. The movie is a direct-to-video production. It was directed by Sean Olson. The movie is the second movie to feature Zeus the dog. The first movie is called The Dog Who Saved Christmas Vacation (2010).

[[The Wedding Ringer]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about weddings, Movies set in Los Angeles, California

The Wedding Ringer (formerly known as The Golden Tux) is a 2015 American buddy romantic comedy movie. It was written and produced by Jeremy Garelick. The movie was distributed by Screen Gems. The movie stars Kevin Hart, Josh Gad, Kaley Cuoco, and Olivia Thirlby. It released on January 16, 2015.

[[Woods of Ypres]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian black metal bands, Doom metal bands, Musical entertainers from Toronto, Musical groups disestablished in 2011, Musical groups established in 2002, Musical quartets, 2002 establishments in Canada, 2011 disestablishments in Canada

Woods of Ypres were a Canadian blackened doom metal band from Ontario. 

[[Lila & Eve]]

CATEGORIES: American drama movies, 2015 drama movies

Lila & Eve is an American drama movie. It was directed by Charles Stone III. It was written by Pat Gilfillan. The movie stars Jennifer Lopez and Viola Davis.

[[Fitzgerald River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Western Australia

The Fitzgerald River is in Western Australia. The river was explored by John Septimus Roe in 1848.  Roe named the river after Charles Fitzgerald. Fitzgerald was the governor of Western Australia.

The river rises near the Lake Magenta Nature Reserve. It is 300 m above sea level. The river flows south through farmland to the Fitzgerald River National Park. The tributaries of the river are the Sussetta River, Jacup Creek, Tertup Creek, Tooartup Creek, and Martin Creek.

[[Ilya Salmanzadeh]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Songwriters, Swedish record producers, Swedish writers

Ilya Salmanzadeh (born 19 September 1986), known simply as Ilya, is a Swedish songwriter and music producer. Raised in Stockholm, he became known for writing and producing Ariana Grande's song, "Problem", with Max Martin. He has also worked on other songs with singers including Jennifer Lopez, Cher Lloyd and Jessie J.

[[John Septimus Roe]]

CATEGORIES: 1797 births, 1878 deaths, Explorers

John Septimus Roe (8 May 1797–28 May 1878) was a naval officer, explorer, and surveyor. He was the first Surveyor-General of Western Australia. He explored the Fitzgerald River in 1848 during an expedition.

[[Jeremy Dale]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s births, 2014 deaths, American comics artists, People from Atlanta, Georgia, People from Indiana

Jeremy Dale (c. 1980 – November 4, 2014) was an American comic book artist. He was best known for his work on G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero. He also worked on the 2008 Harvey Award-winning Popgun v.1 from Image Comics. He worked mostly as a penciller and inker.

Dale was born in 1980 in Indiana. He was married to Kelly and lived in Atlanta, Georgia. 

Dale, who had been hospitalized, died on November 4, 2014 at the age of 34.

[[Pinax]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Writing media

A pinax (plural: pinakes) was a tablet or board In ancient Greece and Rome. 

It was used for writing, or for other purposes. These tablets were usually made of wood, terracotta, marble or bronze. Painted pinakes were given to the gods, or fixed on tombs. In common usage, a  pinax was a wax-covered writing tablet. They were used from the 8th to the 6th century BC.

In Book 10 of his work De Architectura, Vitruvius describes a hydraulic organ, in Chapter 8, section 3, he writes:

"In each channel are fixed stops, that are connected with iron finger-boards; on pressing down which, the communication between the chest and the channels is opened. Along the channels is a range of holes corresponding with others on an upper table, called πίναξ (pinax) in Greek". 

[[Joni Ernst]]

CATEGORIES: US Republican Party politicians, United States senators from Iowa, State legislators of the United States, American Lutherans, 1970 births, Living people

Joni Kay Ernst (née Culver; born July 1, 1970) is an American politician. She has been Iowa's U.S. Senator since 2015. She is a Republican. Prior to being a U.S. Senator, she was an Iowa state senator. 

On November 4, 2014, she was elected to the United States Senate. Ernst is the first woman to represent Iowa in the United States Congress.

Ernst was born in Red Oak, Iowa.

[[The Animal]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 comedy movies, 2001 science fiction movies, American comedy movies, Columbia Pictures movies, Comedy science fiction movies, English-language movies

The Animal is a 2001 American comedy movie. It was the first movie directed by Luke Greenfield. The movie was produced by Barry Bernardi, Carr D'Angelo, and Todd Garner. The Animal was released on June 1, 2001. The movie is about a man named Marvin Mange who is critically injured and is put back together by a mad scientist who transplants animal parts, which results in strange changes to his behavior.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 30% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Rob Schneider was nominated for a Razzie Award for Worst Actor of the Decade for his performance.

[[Amazon Echo]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 establishments, 2014 in music, Audio technology, Amazon (company)

Amazon Echo is a smart speaker from Amazon.com. The product can play music and answers questions. It is a nine-inches-tall, cylinder-shaped device. It responds to the name "Alexa," though this can be changed to "Amazon" or "Echo."

Amazon Echo was released on November 6, 2014 through Amazon.com. Many critics gave it positive reviews. Gizmodo believed that Amazon Echo is "the most innovative device Amazon made in years." Many critics believe Amazon Echo is similar to Apple Inc.'s Siri, as well as Alphabet Inc.'s Google Home. Amazon Echo is the second device released by Amazon.com in 2014, after the Amazon Fire TV.

[[Arrondissements of the Nièvre department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Lists of arrondissements of France

There are 4 arrondissements in the Nièvre department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

The arrondissements are further divided into cantons and communes.

The arrondissements of the Nièvre department are:

[[Arrondissement of Château-Chinon (Ville)]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Château-Chinon (Ville), or simply arrondissement of Château-Chinon, is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Nièvre département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comtéregion. Its capital is the city of Château-Chinon (Ville).

[[Arrondissement of Clamecy]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Clamecy is an arrondissement of France. It is part of the Nièvre département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital is the city of Clamecy.

[[Riley Perrin]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Television characters

Riley Perrin is a fictional character. She is portrayed by Chelsea Kane. Riley is part of the main cast of ABC Family's show Baby Daddy. Riley is Danny Wheeler's best friend. She also has a crush on his brother, Ben. Ben is unaware of her feelings. Ben's past sexual partner drops Emma in front of Ben's apartment. Riley helps Ben raise Emma. Ben's older brother Danny Wheeler, his mother Bonnie, and their friend Tucker Dobbs also helps.

[[Trevor van Riemsdyk]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, American ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Living people, Sportspeople from New Jersey, American Hockey League players, Ice hockey defencemen

Trevor van Riemsdyk (born July 24, 1991) is a American ice hockey defenseman. He currently plays for the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Arrondissement of Cosne-Cours-sur-Loire]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Cosne-Cours-sur-Loire is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Nièvre département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital is the city of Cosne-Cours-sur-Loire.

[[Arrondissement of Nevers]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Nevers is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Nièvre département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Nevers.

[[Nièvre (Loire)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

The Nièvre is a small river in France, right tributary of the Loire river. It flows through the Nièvre department in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region.

Two communes of the Nièvre department have the name of the river in their names: Dompierre-sur-Nièvre and La Celle-sur-Nièvre.

[[Tropic Thunder]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 comedy movies, 2000s action comedy movies, 2000s parody movies, 2000s satirical movies, American action comedy movies, American parody movies, American satirical movies, English-language movies, Movies about entertainers, Movies set in Asia, Movies set in Los Angeles, California

Tropic Thunder is a 2008 American satirical action comedy movie. It is about actors making a fictional movie about the Vietnam War. Ben Stiller (who also directed) plays Tugg. Robert Downey, Jr. plays Kirk. Tom Cruise plays Les. Nick Nolte plays John.

This movie was released on August 13, 2008. It got positive reviews. It also made lots of money.

[[Werribee River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Victoria (Australia)

The Werribee River is a perennial river that flows across the volcanic plains west of  Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. One of the main rivers which flows into the Werribee River is the Lerderderg River. It begins in the hills near Ballan and flows for 110 kms before reaching Port Phillip Bay near the city of Werribee. 

Much of the area along the river is protected by parks, including the Werribee Gorge State Park. The river also flows through the Werribee Open Range Zoo. The Werribee River Trail follows the river from Tarneit to Werribee.

The Werribee River flows into the Melton Reservoir. Water from the river is used to irrigate the market gardens of Bacchus Marsh and Werribee South. The Western Treatment Plant, the main sewerage treatment plant for Melbourne, is near the river mouth on the bay.

[[Tonic (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Music theory

In music, the tonic note is the first note in a diatonic scale. It is the tonal centre, or the tone on which the music sounds finished. The triad, or chord, based on the tonic note, is the tonic chord. All other notes in a piece of music use the tonic note as a reference point. Musical scales are named after the tonic note. For example, the tonic of a scale of C, is the note C. The tonic is always numbered as one, or in traditional music theory as I (using Roman numerals).

[[Division of Pearce]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Western Australia, 1989 establishments in Australia

The Division of Pearce is an Australian electoral division in the state of Western Australia. It covers the area north and east of Perth. It includes the towns of Gingin, Mundaring, Mount Helena, Chidlow, Northam, York, Yanchep, Brookton, Pingelly and Narrogin. It is named after Rt Hon Sir George Pearce, a founder of the Australian Labor Party in Western Australia, and the longest-serving member of the Australian Senate. It was set up for the 1990 federal election.

[[THX]]

CATEGORIES: Movie industry, Sound, Disney companies

THX is the trade name of a high-fidelity sound reproduction standard. It was used for movie theaters, screening rooms, home theaters, computer speakers, gaming consoles, and car audio systems.

THX stands for "Tomlinson Holman's eXperiment".  THX was developed by Tomlinson Holman at George Lucas's company Lucasfilm in 1983 to ensure that the soundtrack for the third Star Wars movie, Return of the Jedi, would be accurately reproduced in the best venues.

The THX system is not a recording technology, and it does not specify a sound recording format. All sound formats, whether digital (Dolby Digital, SDDS) or analog (Dolby SR, Ultra-Stereo), can be "shown in THX."  THX is mainly a quality assurance system.  THX-certified theaters provide a high-quality, predictable playback environment to ensure that any movie soundtrack mixed in THX will sound as near as possible to the intentions of the mixing engineer.  THX also provides certified theaters with a special crossover circuit whose use is part of the standard.  Certification of an auditorium entails specific acoustic and other technical requirements; architectural requirements include a floating floor, baffled and acoustically treated walls, no parallel walls (to reduce standing waves), a perforated screen (to allow center channel continuity), and NC30 rating for background noise.

[[Deep Note]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic music

Deep Note is a crescendo used for THX trailers.  It was created by James A. Moorer in 1983, who was now an employee of the Lucasfilm Computer Division. The sound is used on trailers for THX-certified movie theatres and video releases. It was first used in the THX trailer shown before the 1983 premiere of Return of the Jedi.

[[Queanbeyan River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of New South Wales

Queanbeyan River, a perennial stream in New South Wales, Australia. It is part of the Molonglo catchment. The catchment is in the Murray-Darling Basin. The river is in the Monaro and Capital Country regions of New South Wales. The river is 104 in length. The river catchment is 96000. The Queanbeyan River and the Cotter River meet the potable water supply needs of the Canberra and Queanbeyan region. The two regions' water quality is protected under federal legislation.

It is said the Aboriginal Ngarigo people used a word that sounded like queanbeyan to name the river. The word meant "clearwater".

[[In Through the Out Door]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 albums

In Through the Out Door is the eighth studio album by English heavy metal band Led Zeppelin through Atlantic Records.

[[Coda (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 albums, Led Zeppelin albums

Coda is the first compilation album by English heavy metal band Led Zeppelin. The album was released on 1982.

[[Boorowa River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of New South Wales

The Boorowa River is in New South Wales, Australia. It is a perennial stream.

The river is part of the Lachlan catchment. The catchment is in the Murray-Darling basin. The river rises about 16 north of Yass. It flows north. The river has two minor tributaries. It reaches its confluence with the Lachlan River about 18 south–east of Cowra. The river drops 318 over its course of 134.

The river flows through the town of Boorowa. The river is named after the town. Boorowa is an Aboriginal Wiradjuri word for kangaroo.

[[Derwent River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Australia, Geography of Tasmania

The Derwent is a river in Tasmania, Australia. It was named after the River Derwent, Cumbria, by British Commodore John Hayes who explored it in 1793. The name is Brythonic Celtic for "valley thick with oaks".

John Hays placed the name "Derwent River" only in the upper part of the river. Matthew Flinders placed the name on all of the river.

The banks of the Derwent were once covered by forests and occupied by Aborigines. European settlers farmed the area and during the 20th century many dams were built on its tributaries.

[[Concha Piquer]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1990 deaths, Spanish actors, Spanish singers, People from Valencia

María de la Concepción Piquer López, also known as Concha Piquer (13 December, 1906 in Valencia, Valencian Community - 12 December, 1990 in Madrid) was a Spanish singer and actress.

She was one of the most successful couplist female singers.

Most of her singles were composed by the songwriters Salvador Valverde and Quintero, León and Quiroga. Ojos verdes (Green eyes) was her most known single because of its controversial lyrics.

[[Charlotte Rampling]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Essex, English movie actors, English television actors, 1946 births, Living people, Officers of the Order of the British Empire

Charlotte Rampling (born 5 February 1946) is an English actress. She has appeared in English language, French and Italian cinema. She was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 2001 and received France's Legion of Honour in 2002.

Rampling's film career began in 1965. Her films include Georgy Girl (1966), Visconti's The Damned (1969), The Night Porter (1974), Farewell My Lovely (1975), Woody Allen's Stardust Memories (1980), Sidney Lumet's The Verdict (1982), Angel Heart (1987), The Duchess (2008) and Fred Schepisi's The Eye of the Storm (2011). She has been nominated four times for a Cesar Award, for On ne meurt que 2 fois (1985), Sous le sable (2000), Swimming Pool (2003) and Lemming (2005) and received an Honorary Cesar in 2001. On television, she starred in the 2012 BBC miniseries Restless, for which she received an Emmy Award nomination.

[[Jamison Reeves]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Movie directors from Los Angeles, California, Movie producers from Los Angeles, California, Screenwriters from Los Angeles, California, Living people

Jamison Reeves is an actor, producer, cinematographer, director and writer. He is most known for his appearances in television commercials.

[[Kira Kazantsev]]

CATEGORIES: Miss America winners, People from San Francisco, 1991 births, Living people

Kira Kazantsev (b. July 20, 1991) is an American beauty pageant winner. She was crowned Miss America on September 14, 2014. Before that, she was Miss New York 2014. She works against domestic violence and abuse. "She’s trilingual! Kazantsev — a daughter of Russian immigrants — speaks Russian and Spanish in addition to English."

Kazantsev was born in San Francisco, California.

[[Connie Dion]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2014 deaths, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Canadian military personnel of World War II, Detroit Red Wings players, Disease-related deaths in Quebec, Eastern Hockey League players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Verdun Maple Leafs (ice hockey) players

Joseph Conrad Etienne Dion (11 August 1918 – 7 November 2014) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender. He played a career total of 38 games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Detroit Red Wings.

[[Music from Another Dimension!]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums, Aerosmith

Music from Another Dimension! is the 14th studio album by American hard rock band Aerosmith. The album was released on November 6, 2012. It was the group's first studio album of new material in 11 years. There are 15 songs on the album, although some special editions contained extra bonus songs.

[[Interlaced video]]

CATEGORIES: Television technology

Interlaced video is a method to display an image progressively. Images are drawn line by line, and interlacing means that the odd lines are drawn first, and the even lines are "filled in" later. This effectively doubles the resolution of the image. The two parts of the image are called fields, and are transmitted one after the other. 

Telefunken invented the method in the 1920s. Today it is widely used for displaying images and video.

[[Progressive scan]]

CATEGORIES: Television technology

Progressive scan is the name for a technology for displaying images, where all the lines of the image are drawn in sequence. For television and video, this is opposed to interlaced video where the image is split in two halves, which are drawn in sequence.

[[Xenon hexafluoride]]

CATEGORIES: Noble gas compounds

Xenon hexafluoride is a chemical compound of fluorine with xenon.  It is one of three known such compounds; the others are xenon pentafluoride and xenon difluoride. It is a colorless solid, at room temperature. 

[[British Columbia Highway 1]]

CATEGORIES: British Columbia, Roads in Canada

British Columbia Highway 1 is part of the British Columbia section of the Trans-Canada Highway. It is 1,039 kilometers (646 miles) long across the southern part of British Columbia, including the part covered by ferries.

The highway starts near the provincial border with Alberta near Kicking Horse Pass, passign through the town of Field. Between the towns of Monte Creek and Cache Creek, the highway shares the same roadway with Highway 5 and Highway 97 for much of the distance. At West Vancouver on the Pacific coast of British Columbia, Highway 1 ends on the mainland at the Horseshoe Bay ferry terminal. The highway then resumes on Vancouver Island at the B.C. Ferry terminal near Departure Bay. The highway runs southward near the eastern coast of the island until it ends in the city of Victoria.

[[Cherry Jones]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Tennessee, 1956 births, Living people, Emmy Award winning actors, Drama Desk Award winners, Tony Award winning actors

Cherry Jones (born November 21, 1956) is an American actress. She has won two Tony Awards, three Drama Desk Awards, plus an Emmy Award. She played Pamela Duncan in the movie Erin Brockovich. She also played Mimi in The Lady in Question. 

Jones was born in Paris, Tennessee.

[[Hunter River (Western Australia)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Western Australia

The Hunter River is in the Kimberley region of Western Australia. The headwaters of the river rise below Donkins Hill. The river flows in a south-westerly direction. It empties into Prince Frederick Harbour. Then the river flows to the York Sound and the Indian Ocean.

The river was named by the explorer Philip Parker King  in 1820. He was on the Mermaid while making charts in the area. The river was named after the surgeon on the Mermaid, James Hunter.

The river has two waterfalls. They are the Hunter Falls and the Donkin Falls. Both falls drop 90. A large rock formation is at the mouth of the river. The area is popular with tourism companies. Wilderness cruises operate in the area.

[[Josh Gorges]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Buffalo Sabres players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, People from Kelowna, San Jose Sharks players, American Hockey League players, Memorial Cup winners

Joshua Daniel Gorges (born August 14, 1984) was a Canadian ice hockey defenceman that played for the Buffalo Sabres of the National Hockey League (NHL) and serves as their alternate captain. He has also played for the San Jose Sharks and the Montreal Canadiens.

[[Naat]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry

Naat is poetry that speaks well of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. Some famous scholars in the early days of Islam wrote Naat. People who recite Naat are known as Naat-Khawan or Sanaa Khawan. The practice is popular in South Asia in India and Pakistan. Naat is often recited in Punjabi, Sindhi, or the Urdu language.

[[Annealing]]

Annealing is the name for a number of processes that change the properties of a piece of work using heat. In general the piece is heated to a certain temperature, and modelled while it cools off. Specifically, annealing can refer to:

[[Naat Khawan]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry

A Naat Khawan or Sanaa Khawan is a person who recites the Naat. Naat is poetry that speaks well of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.

[[Ones' complement]]

CATEGORIES: Binary arithmetics

The One's complement is an operation that can be done to binary numbers. It is obtained by swapping all the bits in the number, that is, replacing 1 with 0, or 0 with 1. In many systems, this is used to represent the inverse of a number. One of the big problems that occur when using One's complement is that the number zero has two representations, either all 0's or all 1's. Using 4 digits both 0000 and 1111 represent zero. This problem can be solved by using Two's complement.

[[Club Sporting Cristal]]

CATEGORIES: Peruvian football clubs, 1955 establishments, 20th-century establishments in Peru

Club Sporting Cristal is a Peruvian football team based in the Rímac district, department of Lima, Peru. It was started December 13th, 1955. Sporting Cristal plays in the Peruvian First Division. It has won 16 league titles.

[[Mr. Deeds]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 comedy movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, American movie remakes, American romantic comedy movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Impact of the September 11 attacks, Movies based on short stories, Movies set in New York City, New Hampshire

Mr. Deeds is a 2002 American comedy movie. It was directed by Steven Brill and was produced by Sid Ganis and Jack Giarraputo. Mr. Deeds was released on June 28, 2002. The movie is a remake of the 1936 Frank Capra movie Mr. Deeds Goes to Town.

The movie received negative reviews from critics and holds a 22% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Mr. Deeds was nominated for three Razzie Awards. The movie was nominated for Worst Remake or Sequel, Adam Sandler was nominated for Worst Actor and Winona Ryder was nominated for Worst Actress.

[[West Vancouver]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in British Columbia

West Vancouver is a district municipality in the province of British Columbia, Canada. It is part of Metro Vancouver, which is the governing body of the Greater Vancouver Regional District. West Vancouver is northwest of the city of Vancouver, with English Bay to the south and Howe Sound to the northwest.

West Vancouver had a population of 46,694 people according to the 2011 census. Some events of the 2010 Winter Olympics were held at the Cypress Provincial Park, which is mostly within the municipal bounderies. The Horseshoe Bay Ferry Terminal, which ferries British Columbia Highway 1 to Vancouver Island, is also located in West Vancouver.

West Vancouver was founded in 1912, when it separated from the District of North Vancouver, which is just to its east. Along with the City of North Vancouver, these three municipalities are often called the "North Shore".

[[Earthenware]]

CATEGORIES: Pottery

Earthenware is pottery which is porous (meaning water gets through tiny holes slowly). It was fired at a temperature which did not melt it into a glass-like vitreous form. So it is porous. Many types of pottery have been made from it. Until the 18th century it was the commonest type of pottery outside China.

Earthenware is a type of clay that when fired to make pottery is soft and can be scratched with a knife. It is opaque  and has an grainy edge when broken. It is generally easier to shape on the potter's wheel than porcelain. Due to its porosity earthenware must be glazed in order to be watertight. Terracotta is earthenware.

Earthenware articles may be thick and heavy or as thin as bone china and porcelain. They are not translucent and are more easily chipped. They are less strong than stoneware.

[[Taylor Kitsch]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Actors from British Columbia, Canadian ice hockey forwards, Canadian models, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, Living people, People from Kelowna

Taylor Kitsch (born April 8, 1981) is a Canadian actor and model.

He is known for his roles as Tim Riggins in the television series, Friday Night Lights, Gambit in X-Men Origins: Wolverine, Lieutenant Alex Hopper in Battleship, John Carter in John Carter, Chon in Savages, Dr. Lewis in The Grand Seduction, Michael Murphy in Lone Survivor, and Bruce Niles in The Normal Heart.

He was born in Kelowna, British Columbia. His mother was a member of the BC liquor board, and his father worked in construction. Before becoming an actor, Kitsch played junior ice hockey for the Langley Hornets in the British Columbia Hockey League (BCHL), before his ice hockey career was ended because of a knee injury.

[[Working dog]]

CATEGORIES: Working dogs

A working dog is a dog that was bred or that was trained to perform specific tasks, which usually help a human. Common tasks include herding cattle, but also performing search and rescue operations, hunting, or being employed as guard dogs.

[[Arnaud Gauthier]]

CATEGORIES: French composers, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Arnaud Gauthier is a music composer and movie producer. Gauthier has worked as a music producer for the Showtime series The Borgias. He has also composed music for two albums in 2008 and 2009. Gauthier's latest movie is called Hacker's Game. The movie completed production in May 2014. It is going to be put out in 2015.

[[Lakehurst, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 establishments in the United States, Boroughs in New Jersey, Ocean County, New Jersey

Lakehurst is a borough in Ocean County, New Jersey, United States. As of the 2010 United States Census, 2,654 people lived there.

Lakehurst was incorporated as a borough on April 7, 1921. It was made from parts of Manchester Township.

[[Silence]]

CATEGORIES: Sound

Silence means no sound that can be heard. It can also mean no communication.

A moment of silence is a common way to remember tragedies.

The right to silence is a legal protection for people being interrogated by police in some countries.

[[Brazil during World War Two]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Brazil, World War II

Brazil was one of the Allies of World War II. It was also the only Ally from South America to provide troops. The country made significant contributions to the war effort. They sent an expeditionary force to fight alongside the allies in the  Italian Campaign. The Brazilian Navy and Air Force helped the Allies in the Atlantic from 1942 until the end of the war in 1945. 

[[Zoni]]

CATEGORIES: Soups, Japanese food

Zoni is a Japanese soup containing rice cakes. It is eaten on New Year's Day. Tofu, potato, chicken, Kamaboko (boiled fish paste) and other ingredients are used for making it. This soup is made from Kombu (sea tangle), Katsuo (bonito) or Niboshi (dried small sardines). There are two kinds of rice cake, round and square. The recipe depends on homes and regions.

[[Osaka Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in Japan, 1629 establishments, 17th century establishments in Japan, 1645 disestablishments, 17th century disestablishments in Japan, 1640s disestablishments in Asia, 1620s establishments in Asia

Osaka Castle is a Japanese castle which is in Osaka city of Osaka Prefecture. Most structures are made of wood. It is sometimes called kinjo, because there are some gold arts in Osaka Castle. It is one of Japan's "Three Famous Castles." (The other castles are Himeji Castle and Kumamoto Castle.

Toyotomi Hideyoshi made people build Osaka castle in 1583 (天正11年). In 1620, Tokugawa Hidetada started to rebuild Osaka Castle and it finished in 1629. Osaka Castle had been destroyed by fire twice. First, The Summer Battle of Osaka (大阪夏の陣) in 1645. Second, during World War II. 

In 1948, Osaka castle's restoration was started. Now Osaka Castle tower is symbol of Osaka town.

[[Momiji manju]]

CATEGORIES: Sweet breads, Japanese food

Momiji manju is a type of steamed bun: a small cake stuffed with sweetened bean paste. It is shaped just after a Japanese maple leaf. It is a souvenir at Itsukushima Shrine on Miyajima Island, Hiroshima. It was first made in the last part of the 19th century. The origin of its name is Momiji-dani, which is a famous place in Miyajima.

[[Hagi city]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan

Hagi is a city in Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japan. There are 50,089 people living there. Twin towns are Ulsan, Jeollanam-do Yeongam-gun in Korea, and Ühlingen-Birkendolf in Germany. Hagi holds a camellia festival from the middle of February to the end of March. It has a Hagi-ware festival in the beginning of March. 

[[Awa Dance Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture, Festivals, Dance

The Awa Dance Festival is held in Tokushima, Japan. It held in the biggest street of the town from 12 to 15 August. It is part of the Obon festival. Both of men and women wear yukata, a Japanese traditional cloth. The man wear a Japanese towel. The women wear bamboo hat. They dance and walk with the musical accompaniment. Shamisens, flutes, gongs and drums are played around the city. Men and women dance differently. There are some groups called "ren". The groups have different styles of dance. There are some new groups called "niwaka ren". Beginning dancers can participate in Awa dance in niwaka-ren groups.  The Awa dance has a unique song. The phrase is "Odoru ahou ni miru ahou onaji ahou nara odorana son son". It means that "The dancers are fools. The watchers are fools. Both are fools alike so, Why not dance?" In brief, dancers invite watchers. 

[[Hiroshima University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Japan, 1949 establishments in Asia, 1940s establishments in Japan

Hiroshima University is a university in Higashihiroshima and Hiroshima, Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan. It was founded on 31 May 1949. It has about 15,000 students.

[[Restless Heart (Whitesnake album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums

Restless Heart is the ninth studio album by English heavy metal band Whitesnake. The album was released in March 1997. It was the group's first studio album of new material in 8 years. The album charted at number 34 on the UK Albums Chart.

[[Umaibou]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

Umaibou is a popular snack in Japan. It is sold for 10 yen a piece. There are many different flavors. It is popular with children and young men. It is sold also in Taiwan and South Korea. Because it is popular, there are many goods that relate to it, like lip balm or bath salts. 

[[Shinsengumi]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan

Shinsengumi was a military police force in Japan in the Edo era. Shinsengumi was organized by Katamori Matsudaira. He was an Aizu feudal lord. They were gathered to defend Kyoto against political opponents. Shinsengumi  became famous by the Ikedaya Incident. They became part of the army after the Tokugawa shogunate was overthrown by a new government in the Meiji Restoration. Isami Kondo who was the head was arrested and punished. Toshizo Hijikata who was the subleader fought to the last battlefield in the Meiji Restoration. He was killed in the battle. Hajime Saito who was third section commander became a police officer in the Meiji Restoration.

[[Monjayaki]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

Monjayaki is a popular Japanese food. It is made from flour mixed with water or Worcestershire sauce. Other ingredients are added such as cabbage. It is grilled. It is eaten in various regions. The main ingredients of Monja vary by region.

[[Sakurajima]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Japan

Sakurajima is active volcano in Japan, Kagoshima Prefecture. It is one of the most active volcanoes in Japan. It's 1117 meters tall. It has a population of 4766 (in 2005).

[[Gagaku]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese music

Gagaku is classical Japanese court music. Gagaku was brought to Japan from China in the 8th century. The meaning of Gagaku is literally 'elegant music'. Most of the music that survives is classified as Togaku (music from the Tang Dynasty). They are performed as dance pieces and concert pieces. In modern Japan, Gagaku is performed at ceremonies like that of New Year or a wedding held at a Shinto shrine. 

[[Battleship Yamato]]

CATEGORIES: World War II, Japanese weapons

The Yamato was a Japanese super battleship that served in the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) during World War II. Along with its sister ship, the Musashi, they were the largest battleships ever built.

[[Born 2 B Blue]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 albums

Born 2 B Blue is the fifteenth studio album by Steve Miller Band. The album was released in 1988. It was last studio album with label Capitol Records.

[[Pope Alexander II]]

CATEGORIES: Italian popes, People from Milan, Year of birth unknown

Pope Alexander II (born Anselmo da Baggio; ??? − 21 April 1073) was pope of the Catholic Church from 30 September 1061 until 21 April 1073 when he died. 

He was born Anselmo da Baggio in Milan to a noble family. In 1065, he wrote to Béranger, the Viscount of Narbonne, and to Guifred, the bishop of the city. He praised them for having prevented the massacre of the Jews in their district. He also reminded them that God does not approve of the shedding of blood. The same year, Alexander II warned Landulf VI of Benevento "that the conversion of Jews is not to be obtained by force." He also called for a crusade against the Moors in Spain in the same year.

He died on 21 April 1073 in Rome and was buried in St. Peter's Basilica. He was succeeded by Pope Gregory VII.

[[Heidi (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 movies, 1930s musical movies, 1930s drama movies, American musical movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Allan Dwan, 20th Century Fox movies

Heidi is a 1937 musical-drama movie. It is about an orphan named Heidi sent to live with Klara, a spoiled girl. Shirley Temple plays the title character. 

This movie was released on October 15, 1937.

[[Ipbuk-dong]]

CATEGORIES: Subdivisions of South Korea

Ipbuk-dong is a place in Suwon where many people live. Ipbuk-dong has some apartments named Seosuwon Xii, Prugio and Ungbi. Ipbuk elementary school has 314 children. Ipbuk-dong has some small academies that teach piano, art, and taekwondo.

Ipbuk-dong has some small restaurants that serve Chinese food and chicken. Ipbuk-dong has some small shops, dry cleaners, and hardware shops.

[[Relational model]]

CATEGORIES: Database modeling

The relational model for database management is a database model based on first-order predicate logic. Edgar F. Codd proposed it in 1969. In the relational model of a database, all data is represented in terms of tuples, grouped into relations. A database organized in terms of the relational model is called relational database.

The purpose of the relational model is to provide a declarative method for specifying data and queries: users directly state what information the database contains and what information they want from it. The structure in which the data is stored, and the task of responding to users' requests and retrieving the data is left to the database system, and is not visible to the user.

Most relational databases use the SQL data definition and query language; these systems implement what can be regarded as an engineering approximation to the relational model. A table in an SQL database schema corresponds to a predicate variable; the contents of a table to a relation; key constraints, other constraints, and SQL queries correspond to predicates.  Today, many database systems are different from the original model. Codd fiercely argued against deviations that compromise the original principles.

[[John T. Dorrance]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1930 deaths, American chemists, American chief executives, American inventors, Businesspeople from Pennsylvania

John Thompson Dorrance (1873 – 1930) was an American chemist. While working at the Campbell Soup Company he discovered a method to create condensed soup. Dorrance served as president of the Campbell Soup Company from 1914 to 1930.

[[Sonny Barger]]

Sonny Barger is a member of the Oakland Hells Angels. He was born in Modesto, California.

http://www.nndb.com/people/344/000025269/

[[Steatoda]]

CATEGORIES: Spiders

Steatoda is a spider genus. It includes more than 120 recognized species around the world. They are often dark spiders.

The spiders are often mistaken for widow spiders. They are often called false black widows. These spiders are less harmful to humans. They are shaped similar to widow spiders. 

[[Scarus ghobban]]

CATEGORIES: Perciformes

Scarus ghobban is a member of the Scaridae family. Scarus ghobban is also known as the blue-barred parrotfish. Ancient writers described them as 'parrot fish'.

[[Vorontsov]]

CATEGORIES: Noble families, Russian nobility

. 

The House of Vorontsov, also Woronzow, Woroncow (Russian: Воронцо́в) is the name of a celebrated Russian family which were later given the rank of Count of the Holy Roman Empire in 1744 and became "Serene Princes of the Russian Empire" in 1852. During the reign of Empress Elizabeth of Russia the family reached the height of their influence and wealth and Elizaveta Vorontsova was later a mistress of Emperor Peter III. The family also had a large palace in St Petersburg built to reflect their wealth and influence.

[[Climax community]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology, Plants

In ecology, climax community is a term for a stable biological community of plants, animals and fungi. 

After a process of ecological succession the vegetation in an area reaches a steady state. Its stability is not guaranteed: invasive species and climate change can cause changes. However, relatively, the system is stable.

This equilibrium was thought to occur because the climax community is composed of species best adapted to average conditions in that area.  The term is sometimes also applied in soil development. 

The idea of a single climatic climax, which is defined in relation to regional climate, originated with Frederic Clements in the early 1900s. The first analysis of succession as leading to something like a climax was written by Henry Cowles in 1899, but it was Clements who used the term "climax" to describe the idealized endpoint of succession.

[[Uranium mining]]

CATEGORIES: Mining, Nuclear energy

Uranium mining takes uranium ore from the ground for processing. Kazakhstan, Canada, and Australia are the top three producers and together account for 64% of world uranium production. Uranium from mining is mostly used as fuel for nuclear power plants. Health and environmental studies show that radiation exposure poses a risk for uranium miners. In 1990, Congress passed legislation to help those affected by mining. As of July 2014, the price of uranium concentrate remained near a five-year low, the uranium price having fallen more than 50% from the peak price in January 2011, and reflecting loss of demand following the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster. Some plans for new mines and mine expansion have been deferred.

[[Kronk's New Groove]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 animated movies, 2000s musical movies, 2005 comedy movies, American animated movies, American musical comedy movies, Disney animated movies, Disney direct-to-video movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Peru, Movie spin-offs, Sequel movies, The Emperor's New Groove

Kronk's New Groove (also known as The Emperor's New Groove 2: Kronk's New Groove) is a 2005 American direct-to-video animated musical comedy movie. It was directed by Elliot M. Bour and Saul Andrew Blinkoff and was produced by Prudence Fenton and John A. Smith. Kronk's New Groove was released on December 13, 2005. The movie is a spin-off and sequel to the 2000 animated movie, The Emperor's New Groove.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 0% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. The movie was nominated for Best Home Entertainment Production, Best Storyboarding in an Animated Feature Production and Best Writing in an Animated Feature Production at the 33rd Annie Awards.

[[List of books about nuclear issues]]

CATEGORIES: Books, Nuclear weapons, Nuclear energy

This is a list of books about nuclear issues. They are recent non-fiction books which relate to uranium mining, nuclear weapons and/or nuclear power.

[[Williamina Fleming]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 births, 1911 deaths, British astronomers, Scottish scientists

Williamina Paton Stevens Fleming (May 15, 1857 – May 21, 1911) was a Scottish astronomer.  She helped develop a common organization system for stars. She also and kept track of thousands of stars and other astronomical items.  Fleming discovered the Horsehead Nebula in 1888. Fleming died in Boston of pneumonia in 1911.

[[Fleming (crater)]]

CATEGORIES: Surface features of the Moon, Impact craters

Fleming is a large lunar crater on the Moon's far side. It was named after the astronomer Williamina Fleming (18571911). 

Fleming cannot be seen from the Earth. It lies about a crater diameter to the east-northeast of Hertz and is northwest of Lobachevskiy. The low rim of this crater is heavily eroded. The floor of the crater is also marked by a number of small impacts.

[[In Mortal Hands]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 books, Nuclear energy, Nuclear weapons

In Mortal Hands: A Cautionary History of the Nuclear Age is a 2009 book by Stephanie Cooke.  The book says that nuclear energy failed to develop in the way its planners hoped, and explores the military and civilian sides of nuclear energy.  In the book, Cooke says that we are not close to solving the nuclear waste problem, and that "the billions spent by government on nuclear over the past sixty years crowded out other energy options". The book suggests that there are practical reasons why nuclear reactors are unlikely to provide a solution to the global climate change problem.

Stephanie Cooke has written about the nuclear industry since the 1980s, and is a contributor to the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists. There have been many media interviews about In Mortal Hands. 

[[Some Hearts]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums

Some Hearts is the debut studio album by American country music singer Carrie Underwood. The album was released on November 15, 2005 through Arista Nashville. Some Hearts stayed on the Billboard Top 200 for over two years. It sold over 6 million copies. it was the best-selling album of 2005, 2006 and 2007 by a female country artist. 

[[Calling All Stations]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums

Calling All Stations is the fifteenth studio album by English progressive rock band Genesis. The album was released on September 2, 1997 through Atlantic Records. It was the group's first studio album of new material in six years. It reached No. 54 in the US during five weeks in the chart. Calling All Stations reached No. 2 in the UK. 

[[Contesting the Future of Nuclear Power]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 books, Nuclear weapons, Nuclear energy

Contesting the Future of Nuclear Power: A Critical Global Assessment of Atomic Energy is a 2011 book by Benjamin K. Sovacool, published by World Scientific. Sovacool’s book explores the global nuclear power industry, its fuel cycle, nuclear accidents, environmental impacts, social risks, and economics. There is a postscript on the Japanese 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster. Based on detailed analysis, Sovacool concludes "that a global nuclear renaissance would bring immense technical, economic, environmental, political, and social costs". He says that it is renewable energy technologies which will enhance energy security, and which have many other advantages.

Reviewer Mark Diesendorf says that one weakness of the book is the limited coverage of nuclear weapons proliferation. He says that governments of several countries (e.g., France, India, North Korea, Pakistan) have used nuclear power and/or research reactors to assist nuclear weapons development.

[[Carl Öst]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1988 deaths, Swedish musicians, Swedish singers

Carl Öst, born 19 January 1908 in Alfta Parish, Sweden, dead 13 February 1988 in Ovanåker Parish, Sweden was a Swedish singer and musician. He played the violin and the guitar. He originally played folk music. He later switched to Christian music.

[[Penthouse]]

CATEGORIES: Habitats, Architecture

A Penthouse is typically an apartment on the highest floor of an apartment building. It usually takes up less than half of the entire (flat) roof of the building. Originally the word penthouse meant a small building with a sloped roof. The modern use of the word started in the 1920s in America. In the age of skyscrapers the "house" on the roof was called a penthouse. A penthouse can also be commercial space.

[[Alexei Devotchenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2014 deaths, Russian actors, Activists

Aleksey Valerievitch Devotchenko (Алексе́й Вале́рьевич Дево́тченко 14 October 1965 – 5 November 2014) was a Russian actor and activist. He was a member of the United Civil Front in St. Petersburg, the participant Dissenters. March 10, 2010 signed the appeal of the Russian opposition "Putin must go".   Participated in other political actions liberal direction.

On 18 November 2011, in his blog in the "Live Journal"  Devotchenko announced that refuses the title "Honored Artist of Russia" and the two State Prizes of Russia,were strongly against the policies of President Putin. On 5 November 2014, Alexei Devotchenko was found dead in his apartment in Moscow.

[[Rick Rosas]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from lung disease, Musicians from Los Angeles, California

Rick ("Rick the Bass Player") Rosas (September 10, 1949 – November 6, 2014) was an American musician. He has played with Neil Young,  Joe Walsh,  Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young,  Jerry Lee Lewis,  Johnny Rivers, Ron Wood,  Etta James,  and the short-lived reunion of the Buffalo Springfield, among others. Rosas was born in Los Angeles, California.

Rosas died on November 6, 2014 in Los Angeles, California from lung disease. He was 65.

[[Lady Marmalade]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 songs, Christina Aguilera songs, New Orleans, Louisiana in fiction, Pink songs, R&B songs, Songs about prostitutes

"Lady Marmalade" is a R&B single. It was first performed by Patti LaBelle and her group Labelle. The song is about a prostitute in New Orleans. The Labelle version was released on August 3, 1974. 

The song hit #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 for one week.

The song has been covered by other musicians, including All Saints, Christina Aguilera and many more. A 2001 version from Christina Aguilera, Lil' Kim, Mya, and Pink was part of the movie Moulin Rouge!.

[[Victor Kostetskiy]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2014 deaths, Russian actors, Soviet actors

Victor Alexandrovich Kostetskiy (Ви́ктор Алекса́ндрович Косте́цкий 12 April 1941 – 6 November 2014) was a Russian and Soviet actor. Kosteskiy was born in Zhmerinka. He was known for his roles in Wedding Krechinsky, Truffaldino from Bergamo, and in Treasure Island.

Kostetskiy died on November 6, 2014 at the age of 74 in Saint Petersburg, Russia.

[[Tommy Macpherson]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2014 deaths, British businesspeople, British military people, People from Edinburgh

Colonel Sir (Ronald) Thomas Stewart Macpherson CBE, MC and Two Bars, TD, DL (4 October 1920 – 6 November 2014) was a Scottish businessman. He was a decorated British Army officer during and after the Second World War. Macpherson was born in Edinburgh, Scotland.

Macpherson died on 6 November 2014 in Edinburgh, Scotland, aged 94.

[[Alok Nembang]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2014 deaths, People who committed suicide, Nepalese movie directors

Alok Nembang (1973 - 6 November 2014) was a Nepali movie director. He was also a well-known music video director in Nepal for several decades. He was known for his movie Kohi Mero (2010).

On November 6, 2014, Alok was found dead at his home in Kathmandu in an apparent suicide.

[[Juan Taverna]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2014 deaths, Argentine footballers, People from Buenos Aires

Juan Taverna (13 April 1948 – 7 November 2014) was an Argentine former footballer. From 1968 to 1971, he played for Estudiantes de La Plata. From 1973 to 1974, he played for Real Murcia. And for a few months in 1976, he played for Boca Juniors as a forward scoring only 3 goals.

[[Piece of Me]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs, Britney Spears songs

"Piece of Me" is a 2007 pop single performed by Britney Spears. It is about a response to media scrutiny in Spears' life.

The song was from her fifth studio album Blackout. It peaked at #18 on the Billboard Hot 100 and reached #1 on certain other charts.

The song was released on November 27, 2007.

[[Ernie Vandeweghe]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, American physicians, New York Knicks players, Sportspeople from Montreal

Ernest Maurice "Ernie" Vandeweghe Jr. (September 12, 1928 – November 8, 2014) was an American physician, a United States Air Force veteran and professional basketball player.  He was best known for playing for the New York Knicks of the NBA. He and his wife Colleen Kay Hutchins (Miss America for 1952) are the parents of former NBA All-Star (and former New Jersey Nets coach) Kiki Vandeweghe and grandfather of tennis professional Coco Vandeweghe.

Vandeweghe died at the age of 86 on November 8, 2014 in Newport Beach, California.

[[Hugo Sánchez Portugal]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2014 deaths, Accidental deaths, Mexican footballers, Sportspeople from Madrid, Deaths from carbon monoxide poisoning

Hugo Sánchez Portugal (June 15, 1984 – November 8, 2014) was a Mexican footballer and sports commentator with Televisa Deportes. He was the son of former player and manager of the Mexican national team, Hugo Sánchez.

On November 8, 2014, he was found dead in his Polanco apartment. The cause of death was later confirmed to be carbon monoxide poisoning.

[[Otto Ziege]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2014 deaths, German cyclists, Sportspeople from Berlin

Otto Ziege (14 June 1926 – 8 November 2014) was a German racing cyclist. He won the German National Road Race in 1949. He was born in Berlin, Germany.

Ziege died in Berlin, Germany at the age of 88.

[[Myles Munroe]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2014 deaths, Aviation deaths, Bahamian people, Christian ministers, Pentecostals, Writers

Myles Munroe, (20 April 1954 - 9 November 2014) was a Bahamian Evangelical Christian evangelist and ordained Pentecostal minister. He founded and led the Bahamas Faith Ministries International (BFMI) and Myles Munroe International (MMI). Munroe also wrote many books about his faith. 

Munroe died with his wife, daughter, and 6 others in a private plane crash on 9 November 2014, aged 60.

[[Joe Walsh (Irish politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2014 deaths, Civil servants, Irish politicians, People from County Cork

Joseph "Joe" Walsh (1 May 1943 – 9 November 2014) was an Irish Fianna Fáil politician. He was a Teachta Dála (TD) for Cork South–West. He was first elected as a TD at the 1977 general election. 

He lost his seat in 1981 but regained it again in 1982 and served as a TD until retiring at the 2007 general election. He served as Minister for Agriculture and Food on two occasions (1992–1994 and 1997–2004).

Walsh died on 9 November 2014 in Wilton, Cork, Ireland, aged 71.

[[Circus (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Britney Spears songs, Dance-pop songs

"Circus" is a pop single from Britney Spears. It is about putting on shows and being an entertainer. The song was released from her album of the same name. It was released on December 2, 2008.

The song reached number three on the Billboard Hot 100 and number one on American pop radio and is her second best-selling digital song in the United States, having sold over 3.2 million downloads as of July 2016. On a global scale, "Circus" was one of the top 10 best selling songs of 2009 with 5.5 million digital copies sold that year across the world, according to the IFPI.

[[M. V. Raghavan]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Indian politicians, Communists

Melathu Veettil Raghavan (born 5 May 1933 - 9 November 2014) was a veteran Communist leader and a former Minister in Kerala state of India. He is the General Secretary of Communist Marxist Party, an alliance partner in the United Democratic Front.

Raghavan died of Parkinson's disease, aged 81.

[[Wayne Goss]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2014 deaths, Australian Labor Party politicians, Australian lawyers, Cancer deaths in Queensland, Civil servants, Deaths from brain cancer, Politicians from Queensland

Wayne Keith Goss (26 February 1951 – 10 November 2014) was an Australian politician. He was the Premier of Queensland from 7 December 1989 until 19 February 1996. Prior to entering politics, Goss was a solicitor. After leaving politics, Goss served as Chairman of the Queensland Art Gallery and Chairman of Deloitte Australia.

Goss battled a series of brain tumors for 17 years, undergoing four operations to remove them. He died at his home on 10 November 2014 from a brain tumor, aged 63.

[[Steve Dodd]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Australian movie actors

Steve Dodd (1 June 1928 – 10 November 2014) was an Australian actor and stockman. He was known for his roles in Gallipoli, The Coca-Cola Kid, Quigley Down Under and The Matrix.

Dodd died in Basin View, New South Wales, Australia, aged 86.

[[Al Renfrew]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s births, 2014 deaths, Canadian ice hockey players, Sportspeople from Toronto

Al Renfrew (c. 1924 – 10 November 2014) was a hockey player (left wing) at the University of Michigan in the late 1940s and a college hockey coach with Michigan Technological University (1951–1956), the University of North Dakota (1956–1957), and the University of Michigan (1957–1973).  

Renfrew had a successful career as a player, coach and administrator at the University of Michigan, including NCAA championships as both a player and coach.  He was inducted into the University of Michigan Athletic Hall of Honor in 1986.

Renfrew died on 10 November 2014 at the age of 90.

[[John Doar]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American lawyers, American civil rights activists, Businesspeople from Minneapolis, Minnesota

John Michael Doar (December 3, 1921 – November 11, 2014) was an American lawyer and senior counsel with the law firm Doar Rieck Kaley & Mack in New York. He was known as being the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights from 1960 to 1967, during the civil rights years of the administrations of presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson.

Doar died in New York City, New York from congestive heart failure, aged 92.

[[Stroganov family]]

CATEGORIES: Russian nobility

The House of Stroganov or Stroganoff also known as the Stroganov family were a Russian noble family that were very powerful and often involved in the politics of the time. They even financed some military campaigns which shows how rich they were. During the Great Northern War of 1700–1721, the Stroganovs gave sizable financial support to the government of Peter the Great. Because of this, Alexander Grigoriyevich, Nikolay Grigoriyevich, and Sergei Grigoriyevich were raised to the rank of baron in 1722 and later to that of Count. The head of the family was called Count Stroganov and his wife Countess Stroganova. Extremely wealthy after the Russian Revolution of 1917 the Stroganov family emigrated with the White movement and all family property in Russia was nationalized. Even though they had much political influence they were also merchants in their own right.  They were great rivals of the Counts Vorontsov as well as the Counts Sheremetev. 

[[Sheremetev]]

CATEGORIES: Russian nobility

The House of Sherematev was a Russian noble family (Шереме́тевы). It was one of the richest and most influential noble families of Russia. The family held many high commanding positions in the Russian military, governorships and eventually the rank of Count of the Russian Empire. They had a large estate at Kuskovo built in the mid-18th century, several miles to the east of Moscow. They also had a large residence in St Petersburg. Due to his rank the head of the family was called Count Sheremetev and his wife Countess Sheremeteva. 

[[Universidade do Estado de Minas Gerais]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Brazil, Minas Gerais, 1989 establishments in Brazil

State University of Minas Gerais (Universidade do Estado de Minas Gerais, short UEMG) is a public university of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais. Established in 1989, it is the second largest university in Minas Gerais as well as one the most prestigious universities in this state.

[[Dave Manson]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Chicago Blackhawks players, Dallas Stars players, Edmonton Oilers players, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, Phoenix Coyotes players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Winnipeg Jets (1979–96) players, American Hockey League players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Memorial Cup winners

David Michael Manson (born January 27, 1967) is a Canadian retired ice hockey defenceman. He played a career total of 1103 regular season games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Chicago Blackhawks, Edmonton Oilers, Winnipeg Jets, Phoenix Coyotes, Montreal Canadiens, Dallas Stars, and the Toronto Maple Leafs. He currently works as an assistant coach for the Prince Albert Raiders of the Western Hockey League (WHL).

[[Pete Conacher]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, New York Rangers players, Sportspeople from Toronto, Toronto Maple Leafs players

Charles William "Pete" Conacher, Jr. (born July 29, 1932) is a Canadian retired ice hockey left winger. He played a career total of 229 regular season games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Toronto Maple Leafs, Chicago Black Hawks, and New York Rangers. His father was NHL Hall of Famer, Charlie Conacher.

[[Gus Mortson]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, American Hockey League players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Ontario Hockey League players, Memorial Cup winners

James Angus Gerald "Old Hardrock" Mortson (January 24, 1925 – August 8, 2015) was a Canadian retired ice hockey defenceman. He played a career total of 796 regular season games in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Toronto Maple Leafs, Chicago Black Hawks, and Detroit Red Wings. He was known for his physical play and got into many fights.

[[John McIntire]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1991 deaths, Deaths from emphysema, Deaths from lung cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Washington, People from Spokane, Washington

John Herrick McIntire (June 27, 1907 – January 30, 1991) was an American character actor. McIntire was known for his roles as the second trail master, Christopher Hale in the television series Wagon Train and as Sheriff Al Chanbers in Psycho.

McIntire died on January 30, 1991 from emphysema and lung cancer in Pasadena, California, aged 83.

[[John McLaughlin (host)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, American television personalities, American conservatives, American political writers, American television producers, American political commentators, American Roman Catholics, Politicians from Rhode Island, Writers from Rhode Island, People from Providence, Rhode Island

John McLaughlin (March 29, 1927 – August 16, 2016) was an American television personality and producer, politician, writer, and political commentator. He created and hosts the long-running political commentary series The McLaughlin Group as well as John McLaughlin's One On One. He also ran for senator of Rhode Island in 1970, but lost the election to incumbent John O. Pastore.

[[Mutual Broadcasting System]]

CATEGORIES: Media in the United States, American entertainment companies, Peabody Award winners, 1934 establishments in the United States, 1994 disestablishments in the United States

The Mutual Broadcasting System was an American radio network.  It broadcast radio shows from 1934 to 1999.  It was also called Mutual Broadcasting Company;  Mutual; or the Mutual Broadcasting System, Inc. 

Mutual broadcast radio shows, such as The Lone Ranger,  The Adventures of Superman, and The Shadow. It broadcast baseball games, including the All-Star Game and World Series, and football games for the University of Notre Dame. From 1978 to 1994, it broadcast the Larry King Show.

[[James Meredith]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, American activists, Writers from Mississippi

James Howard Meredith (born June 25, 1933) is an American Civil Rights Movement figure, writer, and political adviser. In 1962, he was an Air Force veteran and the first African-American student admitted to the segregated University of Mississippi.

[[Craig Robinson]]

Craig Robinson may refer to:

[[Craig Robinson (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Television personalities from Chicago, Comedians from Chicago, Actors from Chicago

Craig Phillip Robinson (born October 25, 1971) is an American actor, stand-up comedian, and singer. He is best known for his role as Darryl Philbin on The Office, and his roles in the movie Pineapple Express, Miss March, Zack and Miri Make a Porno, Shrek Forever After, Hot Tub Time Machine, and This Is the End.

Robinson was born in Chicago, Illinois.

[[The Lone Ranger]]

The Lone Ranger could mean: 

[[Miguel de la Madrid]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from COPD, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from renal failure, Presidents of Mexico, Colima

Miguel de la Madrid Hurtado (miˈɣel delamaˈðɾið uɾˈtaðo; August 12, 1934 – April 1, 2012)  was a Mexican politician. He was a member of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI). He served as the 52nd President of Mexico from 1982 to 1988.

[[Richard E. Grant]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Swazi people, British movie actors, British television actors, British voice actors, Actors from London

Richard E. Grant (born Richard Grant Esterhuysen,  5 May 1957) is a British actor, screenwriter, and director. He is known for playing Withnail in Withnail and I and as John Seward in the 1992 blockbuster Bram Stoker's Dracula. He also starred in Penelope, Corpse Bride, Logan and in the sixth season of Game of Thrones.

In 2018, Grant received critical acclaim for his role as Jack Hock in the drama-biographical movie Can You Ever Forgive Me?. He starred as General Pryde in Star Wars: Episode IX (2019).

[[Sobhuza II]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1982 deaths, African people, Kings and queens, Swazi people

Sobhuza II, KBE (also known as Nkhotfotjeni, Mona ) (22 July 1899 – 21 August 1982) was the Paramount Chief and later King of Swaziland for 82 years. He is the longest-reigning monarch in recorded history. 

Sobhuza was born on 22 July 1899 at Zombodze Royal Residence, the son of Inkhosikati Lomawa Ndwandwe and King Ngwane V. When he was only four months old, his father died suddenly while dancing incwala (a traditional celebration of kingship). Sobhuza was chosen King soon after that, and his grandmother Labotsibeni and uncle Prince Malunge led the Swazi nation until his maturity in 1921. 

According to the Swaziland National Trust Commission, King Sobhuza II married 70 wives, who gave him 210 children between 1920 and 1970. About 180 children survived infancy, and 97 sons and daughters are reported living. At his death he had more than 1000 grandchildren.

Sobhuza was supported by Apartheid South Africa and led Swaziland through independence until his death in 1982. He was succeeded by Mswati III, his young son with Inkhosikati Ntfombi Tfwala, who was crowned in 1986. 

[[Manzini, Eswatini]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Eswatini, Capital cities in Africa

Manzini (formerly known as Bremersdorp) is a city in Eswatini; it is the capital of Eswatini’s Manzini District. The city is the country's second largest urban centre behind Mbabane, with a population of 78,000 (2008). It is known as "The Hub" of Eswatini and lies on the MR3 road. 

[[Kajetan Kovič]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Slovenian poets, Slovenian journalists

Kajetan Kovič (21 October 1931 – 7 November 2014) was a Slovene poet, writer, translator, and journalist. Kovič was born in Maribor, Yugoslavia. Kovič started writing poetry in high school, and he published his first poetry in 1948.

Kovič also wrote political poetry, such as a poem in honor of Josip Broz Tito. He established himself as a translator of German, French, Czech, Hungarian, Croatian, Serbian, and Russian poetry into Slovene. He also translated the poems that France Prešeren wrote in German into Slovene.

Kovič died on 7 November 2014 in Ljubljana, Slovenia, aged 83.

[[Super battleship (warship)]]

CATEGORIES: World War II, Japanese weapons

Super battleship is an unofficial class of battleships. It includes the largest types constructed or planned with a  displacing of roughly 60,000 tons or more. Only two such battleships were ever made. Many more were planned by several navies of the world before and during the Second World War. Their design included thick armor and large guns and They were thought to be the ideal warships for naval battle,  but the success of the aircraft carriers compromised their use. Only two were ever built (both by the Japanese Empire). Both were sunk during World War II.

[[Pretty Fly (for a White Guy)]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 songs, The Offspring songs

"Pretty Fly (for a White Guy)" is the first single off American punk rock band The Offspring's fifth studio album Americana. The song was released on November 9, 1998. The song also appears on their 2005 Greatest Hits album.

Pretty Fly (for a White Guy) was one of the most commercially successful singles that was released by the band. It was able to make the charts of over 15 countries and was also able to top the charts in nine of them, including in Australia, where it was four times platinum, and in the United Kingdom.

The song was featured as downloadable content in the 2007 video game, Rock Band. It was also featured in the 2009 video game, Guitar Hero: Van Halen.

[[Circuit diagram]]

CATEGORIES: Diagrams

A circuit diagram is a diagram that shows an electrical circuit. It is made up of a circuit put in the form of a diagram. The circuit diagram makes it easier to understand a circuit. The diagram shows how the circuit should look in the form of a diagram.

[[Rick Wakeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, British keyboardists, English rock musicians, Musicians from Middlesex

Richard Christopher "Rick" Wakeman (born 18 May 1949) is a British rock musician.

Wakeman was born in Perivale, Middlesex. He has been a keyboardist with Yes and Anderson Bruford Wakeman Howe.

He is the father of musicians Oliver Wakeman and Adam Wakeman.

[[Hughie Thomasson]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2007 deaths, American rock guitarists, Musicians from Tampa, Florida

Hughie Thomasson (August 13, 1952 - September 9, 2007) was an American guitarist and singer. He was a member of the bands Outlaws and Lynyrd Skynyrd. 

[[Cozy Powell]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 1998 deaths, English drummers

Cozy Powell (29 December 1947 – 5 April 1998) was an English drummer. He played with Emerson, Lake and Powell.

[[Luxor Hotel Vegas]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in the United States, Pyramids

Luxor Hotel Vegas is a hotel and casino on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada. The hotel has 30 storys. It is owned and operated by MGM Resorts International. It has a 120,000 casino. It has over 2,000 slot machines and 87 table games.

During the renovation in 2009, the hotel was modernized. It was give a newer design. The hotel has 4,400 rooms. There are also 442 suites. All the rooms line the inside walls of a pyramid style tower. Twin 22-story ziggurat towers were built as later additions.

The hotel is named after the city of Luxor (ancient Thebes) in Egypt. Luxor is the second largest hotel in Las Vegas. The largest is the MGM Grand). It is also the eighth largest in the world. As of 2010, the Luxor has a 4 Key rating from the Green Key Eco-Rating Program, which test hotel operations.

[[Ewa Kopacz]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Poland, European Union politicians, 1956 births, Living people, Marshals of the Sejm

Ewa Bożena Kopacz, born Ewa Bożena Lis (born 3 December 1956) is the Prime Minister of Poland since 22 September 2014. Previously, she was the Speaker of the lower house of parliament. From 8 November 2014 she was the leader of the Platforma Obywatelska (Civil Platform) party. Her nomination for Prime Minister position is connected with Donald Tusk's election for the President of the European Council position. She graduated from the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Lublin.

On 12 November 2015 she submitted the resignation of her own government.

In July 2019, she became the Vice-President of the European Parliament.

[[Hunting Formation]]

CATEGORIES: Mesoproterozoic

The Hunting Formation is a stratigraphic unit on Somerset Island (Nunavut) in the far north of Canada. It includes fossils of simple eukaryotic algae that reproduced sexually. They date to the end of the Ectasian and start of the Stenian period, about 1,200 million years ago.

[[Katie Stevens]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Connecticut, American Idol contestants, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Katie Stevens is an American television actress. She stars in a television show called "Faking It". The show airs on the MTV network.

Katie Stevens started acting and singing at age three. She went to Broadway camp during her childhood. Later she acted in local theatere shows. Stevens appeared in the 2009 season of American Idol. She lives now in Los Angeles, California.

[[Essenes]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Israel and Judah

The Essenes were a Jewish group of holy people. They were a smaller group than the Sadducees or the Pharisees.  The Essenes lived in various cities. They lived in communal life dedicated to asceticism. Many researchers believe the Essenes wrote the Dead Sea scrolls.

[[Papa Don't Preach]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 songs, Madonna songs, Pop songs

"Papa Don't Preach" is a pop single from Madonna. The song deals with abortion and pregnancy. The song was on her third studio album True Blue. It was also on her album The Immaculate Collection. 

"Papa Don't Preach" was released in June 1986. It was #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 for two weeks.

[[La Isla Bonita]]

CATEGORIES: Madonna songs, 1986 songs, Pop songs

"La Isla Bonita" is a 1986 Latin and pop song performed by Madonna. The song is about a beautiful island. 

"La Isla Bonita" achieved popularity all across the world. It reached #1 in the United Kingdom. It also hit #4 on the Billboard Hot 100.

This song was released in February of 1987 off her album True Blue.

[[Into the Groove]]

CATEGORIES: Madonna songs, Pop songs, 1985 songs

"Into the Groove" is a 1985 pop single by Madonna. The song talks about dancing on the dance floor. It has sexual innuendos in it.

The song became very popular in the mid-1980s.

This song was released on July 23, 1985.

[[Freak on a Leash]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 songs

"Freak on a Leash" is the fifth single off American nu metal band Korn's third studio album Follow the Leader. The song was released on May 25, 1999. 

Freak on a Leash originally had an instrumental part of the song that was described as a "noisy guitar break". The part was taken after fans requested it not be put in.

The music video for the song features a mix of animation and live performances. It was directed by Todd McFarlane. The music video debuted on Total Request Live and was released on February 5, 1999.

The music video won MTV Video Music Awards for Best Editing and Best Rock Video in 1999 and also won a Grammy Award for Best Short Form Music Video at the 42nd Annual Grammy Awards.

[[Blue (Da Ba Dee)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 songs

"Blue (Da Ba Dee)" is the first single off Italian group Eiffel 65's debut studio album Europop. The song was released in October 1998. 

Blue (Da Ba Dee) is the group's most popular song. It was able to peak at #6 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States. It was also able to peak at #1 in many other countries such as Canada, Ireland, Norway, Switzerland, Germany, France, New Zealand, Australia, Sweden, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.

In 2001, the song was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Dance Recording at the 43rd Annual Grammy Awards but it lost to Who Let the Dogs Out? by the Baha Men.

[[De Havilland Comet]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft

The de Havilland DH 106 Comet was the first production commercial jetliner. The Avro Tudor and Vickers VC.1 Viking was fitted with Rolls-Royce Nene turbojets. It had flown earlier but were experimental models. The jet was made by de Havilland at its Hatfield Aerodrome, Hertfordshire, United Kingdom headquarters. The prototype first flew on 27 July 1949. It featured an aerodynamically clean design with four de Havilland Ghost turbojet engines buried in the wings. It had a pressurised fuselage. The jet had large square windows. It showed signs of being a commercial success at its 1952 debut.

The original Comet was about the length of the later Boeing 737-100. It carried fewer people in a more comfortable environment. For the era, it offered a relatively quiet passenger cabin. The Comet had passengers like Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother and Princess Margaret. Flights on the Comet were faster than on other advanced aircraft. In August 1953 BOAC scheduled nine-stop London to Tokyo flights by Comet for 36 hours. Other aircrafts took more than 86 hours. A special order Comet for the exclusive use of King Saud bin Abdul Aziz of Saudi Arabia was described as "the world's first executive jet". 

In 1954, the Comets began suffering problems, with three of them breaking up during mid-flight in accidents. During its service, the Comet was involved in 13 fatal crashes which resulted in 426 fatalities. On 10 January 1954, the first Comet produced broke up in mid-air and crashed into the Mediterranean. All 35 persons on board died. On 8 April 1954, a Comet on charter to South African Airways crashed in the Mediterranean near Naples. All on board died. 

The Comet was removed from service and tested to discover the cause. Design flaws, including dangerous stresses at the corners of the square windows were noted. As a result, the Comet was redesigned into models 2, 3, and in 1958 the Comet 4. But meanwhile other aircraft designers had their own jets, the Boeing 707 in 1957 and in 1960 the Douglas DC-8. The American jets were larger, faster, longer-ranged, and more cost-effective than the Comet. In 1960, as part of a consolidation of the British aerospace industry, de Havilland was bought by Hawker Siddeley. Aviation author Bill Withun concluded that the Comet had pushed "'state-of-the-art' beyond its limits." The only complete remaining Comet 1 is displayed at the RAF Museum Cosford.

[[Marge Roukema]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, American Calvinists, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, United States representatives from New Jersey, Politicians from Newark, New Jersey, US Republican Party politicians, People from Wyckoff, New Jersey

Margaret Scafati "Marge" Roukema (September 19, 1929 – November 12, 2014) was an American politician. She represented New Jersey in the U.S. House of Representatives for twenty-two years as a Republican from 1981 to 2003.

On November 12, 2014, Roukema died at Christian Health Care Center in Wyckoff, New Jersey from Alzheimer's disease, aged 85.

[[Wyckoff, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey

Wyckoff is a township in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. As of the 2010 United States Census, the township's population was 16,696. The mayor of Wyckoff is Douglas J. Christie.

[[Frank Gore]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, San Francisco 49ers players

Franklin Delano "Frank" Gore (born May 14, 1983) is an American football player.  He plays the position running back.  He plays for the San Francisco 49ers.  He played football for the University of Miami.  He was drafted by the 49ers in the third round of the 2005 NFL Draft.

[[Warren Clarke]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in England, Actors from Lancashire, English movie actors, English television actors, People from Oldham, Greater Manchester

Warren Alan James Clarke (26 April 1947 – 12 November 2014) was an English actor in 1964-2014. He was known as Detective Superintendent Andy Dalziel in the TV series Dalziel and Pascoe and as Dim in the movie A Clockwork Orange.

Clarke's first marriage ended in divorce. His second marriage ended in his death. He had a son by his first wife and a daughter by his second.

On 12 November 2014, Clarke died in his sleep, after a short battle with pancreatic cancer in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire, England, aged 67.

[[Carol Ann Susi]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles

Carol Ann Susi (February 2, 1952 – November 11, 2014) was an American actress. She was best known for being the voice of recurring unseen character Mrs. Wolowitz on the television series The Big Bang Theory.

On November 11, 2014, Susi died of cancer of unknown primary origin in Los Angeles, California, aged 62.

[[Michelle MacPherson]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Canadian Olympic bronze medalists, Canadian swimmers, Living people, Sportspeople from Toronto

Michelle MacPherson (born May 11, 1966) is a Canadian retired swimmer. She was a backstroke and butterfly stroke swimmer. 

MacPherson competed for Canada at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, California. She was able to win a bronze medal for Canada in the 4×100 m medley relay with Anne Ottenbrite, Reema Abdo, and Pamela Rai. She set a Canadian record in the 200 m individual medley that year. She also won three silver medals for Canada at the 1983 Pan American Games in the 100 m butterfly, 200 m medley, and the 4x100 m medley relays, as well as a bronze medal in the 400 m medley.

MacPherson currently resides in Chandler, Arizona. She also coaches at the Arizona Aquatic Club. She is married to John Hojnacki and they have four sons Zachary, Dylan, Hunter and Skyler. Her husband is also a coach at the Arizona Aquatic Club.

She was inducted into the Ontario Aquatic Hall of Fame in 1995 and was inducted into the James P. Kelly Athletic Hall of Fame in 2000.

[[Genesis (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 albums

Genesis is the twelfth studio album by English progressive rock band Genesis. The album was released on October 4, 1983 through Atlantic Records.

[[Saints of Los Angeles]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums

Saints of Los Angeles is the eighth studio album by American heavy metal band Motley Crue. The album was released on June 24, 2008. It was the group's first studio album of new material 11 years.

[[Walter Pyramid]]

CATEGORIES: Pyramids

The Walter Pyramid is a 5,000 seat indoor multi-purpose arena on the campus of Long Beach State University in Long Beach, California.

[[Carl Palmer]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, English songwriters, English rock drummers, Musicians from Birmingham, Writers from Birmingham

Carl Frederick Kendall Palmer (born 20 March 1950) is an English drummer and percussionist. He became well known in the 1960s. He was a member of a number of famous English bands: the Crazy World of Arthur Brown, Atomic Rooster, Emerson, Lake & Palmer, and Asia.

Palmer was added into the Modern Drummer Hall of Fame in 1989.

[[Latent heat]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics

Latent heat is the amount of heat needed to change a substance's state (Solid-Liquid-Gas), i.e, water boiling into steam or, the opposite, water freezing into ice. It is latent as it does not show up on a thermometer

[[London Array]]

CATEGORIES: Wind farms

The London Array is an 175 turbine 630 MW offshore wind farm located 20 km off the Kent coast in the outer Thames Estuary in the United Kingdom. At the time of its construction it was the largest offshore wind farm in the world.

Construction of phase 1 of the wind farm began in March 2011 and was completed by mid 2013, being formally opened by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, David Cameron, on 4 July 2013.

The second phase of the project was refused planning consent in 2014 due to possible impacts on sea birds.

[[True Blue (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 albums, Madonna albums

True Blue is a 1986 studio album by Madonna. The album had several songs released from it. The songs included "La Isla Bonita", the title song and several others.

"Papa Don't Preach" was also on the album.

True Blue reached #1 in many countries worldwide, including Australia, United States and United Kingdom.

[[Like a Prayer]]

CATEGORIES: Madonna albums, 1989 albums, Pop albums, Gospel albums, Rock albums

Like a Prayer was the fourth studio album by singer Madonna. Songs from the album include the title track, "Cherish" and "Express Yourself". The album was #1 on the Billboard 200 for just over a month.

The album was released on March 21, 1989 by Sire Records.

[[Colin Kaepernick]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, San Francisco 49ers players, American political activists, Sportspeople from Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Colin Rand Kaepernick (' KAP; born November 3, 1987) is an American football quarterback.  He plays the position quarterback.  Kaepernick played for the San Francisco 49ers from 2011-2016. He is currently a free agent. He played college football for the University of Nevada Wolf Pack.  In the 2011 NFL Draft the 49ers drafted Kaepernick in the second round with the 36th overall pick. They were reluctant but needed a quarterback. Saints pulled the trigger and called upon Kyle. With a $20,000,000 three year contract Kyle takes the offer.

In 2016, Kaepernick became a national figure because he knelt on one knee during the United States national anthem, which is being played before every NFL game. He did this to protest police brutality and racism against African Americans in the United States.  At first, Kaepernick sat down while the anthem was played, but a former United States Army Green Beret named Nate Boyer told him to kneel on one knee instead because this is what soldiers do at the graves where dead soldiers are buried and because Boyer thought it was more respectful than sitting down.

Kaepernick became a national activist with support of many other professional athletes, but many teams did not want him with them because the fans did not like the protest.

In June 2020, during the George Floyd protests, National Football League Comissioner Roger Goodell said on Twitter: "we were wrong for not listening to NFL players earlier and encourage all to speak out and peacefully protest. We, the NFL, believe Black Lives Matter."

[[Like a Prayer (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Madonna songs, Pop songs, 1989 songs

"Like a Prayer" is a 1989 gospel-themed pop rock ballad from the singer Madonna. The song comes from her album of the same name. The single reached #1 on the Billboard Hot 100, and on charts in many other countries.

The song was released in March 1989.

[[Less Than Jake]]

CATEGORIES: American punk bands, Musical groups established in 1992, Musical groups from Florida, Musical quintets, 1992 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Florida

Less Than Jake is an American ska punk band from Gainesville, Florida. 

[[Longwave]]

CATEGORIES: Radio

In radio, longwave (or long wave) refers to parts of the radio spectrum that has longer wavelengths. These are typically kilometer-sized or greater. The term is a historic one dating from the early 20th century. This was when the radio spectrum was considered to consist of long, medium and short wavelengths. Most modern radio systems and devices use wavelengths which would then have been called 'ultra-short'. For radio broadcasting is it the radio band between 30 kHz-299 kHz.

Longwaves have the advantage that diffraction helps them travel far.

[[Halton Moor]]

CATEGORIES: Neighborhoods

Halton Moor is a neighbourhood in Leeds, in England. The neighbourhood is made up of about 1000 homes. Some of the homes are used as council housing. 

There are two primary schools in Halton Moor: Meadowfield and Corpus Christi.

[[Breakbeat]]

CATEGORIES: Music genres, British music, Electronic dance music

Breakbeat (also called breaks or breakbeats) refers to two things. It is both an electronic music genre and the distinct percussive rhythm from which this genre takes its name.

[[Council housing]]

CATEGORIES: Houses

Council housing is a form of public or social housing. The term is used mostly in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Council houses were built and operated by local councils. Their aim is to supply uncrowded, well-built homes with lower rents to working-class people. Council house building began in the late 19th century. It peaked in the mid-20th century.

[[Wayland, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Massachusetts, 1638 establishments in Massachusetts

Wayland, Massachusetts is a town in Massachusetts, United States. As of 2010, there were 12,994 residents. 

[[Rebbeca Oswald]]

CATEGORIES: Composers, Musicians, Pianists, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Rebbeca Oswald is a noted pianist. She is also an award winning composer.

[[Harry Lonsdale]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Businesspeople from Oregon, Politicians from Oregon, Businesspeople from New Jersey, Scientists from New Jersey, Politicians from New Jersey, US Democratic Party politicians

Harold K. Lonsdale (January 19, 1932 – November 11, 2014) was an American scientist, businessman, and former politician. A Democrat, he ran for United States Senate in the U.S. state of Oregon three times, losing twice in the primaries and once as the Democratic candidate, losing in the 1990 general election to incumbent Mark Hatfield.

Lonsdale died in Indio, California from heart failure, aged 82.

[[Manoel de Barros]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2014 deaths, Brazilian poets

Manoel Wenceslau Leite de Barros (December 19, 1916 – November 13, 2014) was a Brazilian poet. He has won many awards for his work, including twice the Prêmio Jabuti (the "Tortoise Prize"), the most important literary award in Brazil. 

Barros was born in Cuiaba. He is thought by his critics as one of the greatest Brazilian poets to had ever lived. The poet Carlos Drummond de Andrade said that Manoel de Barros as the biggest poet of Brazil.

In the year 1998 the poet was rewarded with the "National prize of Literature of the Ministry of the Culture from Brazil", for the set of the work.

de Barros died in Campo Grande, Brazil, aged 96.

[[No Fear]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 establishments in California, American clothing companies, Companies based in California

No Fear is an American lifestyle clothing brand. No Fear was created in 1989 by Mark Simo, Brian Simo, and Marty Moates. Their products are sold at many different store as well as many company owned store. The shirts that the company sells usually have a existential slogan or a quote that advertises the qualities of extreme sports. Their brand was popular in the mid-1990s.

Aside from clothing, the company also sells energy drinks. They sponsor mixed martial artist Urijah Faber and were the official drink of World Extreme Cagefighting (WEC) before they merged with Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC).

On February 25, 2011, No Fear filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.

[[Rebekah Gibbs]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Devon, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from breast cancer, English stage actors, English television actors

Rebekah Gibbs (17 March 1973 – 12 November 2014) was an English television and musical theatre actress. She was known for her role as Nina Farr in the television series Casualty. Gibbs was born in Torquay, Devon, England.

Gibbs died in Pembury, Kent, England from breast cancer, aged 41. 

[[Alvin Dark]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Atlanta Braves players, New York Giants players, St. Louis Cardinals players, Chicago Cubs players, Philadelphia Phillies players, Milwaukee Braves players, Sportspeople from Oklahoma, Sportspeople from Louisiana, People from Lafayette, Louisiana

Alvin Ralph "Al" Dark (January 7, 1922 – November 13, 2014), nicknamed "Blackie" and "The Swamp Fox", was an American baseball player. He was a shortstop and manager in Major League Baseball and played for five National League teams from 1946 to 1960. 

Dark was born in Comanche, Oklahoma. He was raised in Louisiana. Dark studied at Louisiana State University and at the University of Louisiana-Lafayette.

Dark played for the Boston Braves, New York Giants, St. Louis Cardinals, Chicago Cubs, Philadelphia Phillies, and for the Milwaukee Braves. Dark managed the San Francisco Giants, Kansas City Athletics, Cleveland Indians, Oakland Athletics, and the San Diego Padres. 

Dark died in Easley, South Carolina from Alzheimer's disease, aged 92.

[[Helen Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 2000 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from St. Louis, Missouri

Helen Dorothy Martin (July 23, 1909 – March 25, 2000) was an American actress of stage and television. She was best known for her role as Weeping Wanda on the sitcom Good Times and as Pearl Shay on the sitcom 227. Martin was born in St. Louis, Missouri.

Martin died of a heart attack on March 25, 2000 in Monterey, California, aged 90.

[[Endicott Peabody]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 1997 deaths, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from leukemia, Disease-related deaths in New Hampshire, Governors of Massachusetts, People from Lawrence, Massachusetts, Politicians from New Hampshire, US Democratic Party politicians

Endicott Peabody (February 15, 1920 – December 1, 1997) was an American politician. He was the 62nd Governor of Massachusetts from January 3, 1963 to January 7, 1965. Peabody was born in Lawrence, Massachusetts.

Peabody ran for the United States Senate of Massachusetts, but lost to Edward Brooke. He then ran for Vice President of the United States in 1972, but lost to Edmund Muskie. He then moved to New Hampshire where he ran for other political offices there, but always lost.

Peabody died in Hollis, New Hampshire from leukemia, aged 77.

[[Stoa of Eumenes]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Athens, Ancient Athens

Stoa of Eumenes was a stoa on the Acropolis of Athens. The building was a gift to the city in about 160 BC, by Eumenes II of Pergamon. Today there are ruins of the stoa at the south part of the Acropolis, between the Odeon of Herodes Atticus and the Theatre of Dionysus. The stoa was found by the Archaeological Society of Athens in the years 18771878.

[[Miguel Skrobot]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1912 deaths

Miguel Skrobot (1873 - 20 February 1912) was a businessman of Brazilian of Polish origin.

Miguel Skrobot was born in 1873 in Warsaw, Poland. His parents were José Skrobot and Rosa Skrobot. When he was 18 he migrated to Brazil. He settled in Curitiba as a merchant.

He married Maria Pansardi. She was born in Tibagi (city of the Paraná). Her parents were Italian immigrants. His wife bore him three children.

Skrobot kept a steam-powered factory. He worked on grinding and toasting coffee beans under the "Rio Branco" brand there. It was located on the spot in the square where Praça Zacarias (square located in the center of Curitiba) is today. He also owned a grocery store near Praça Tiradentes (also a square in the center of Curitiba. It is the square where the city was born). Skrobot died an early death on February 20, 1912. He was 39 when he died.

[[Bruno Bušić]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 1978 deaths, Assassinated people

Bruno Bušić (Born in Vinjani Donji near Imotski, 6 October 1939 - Paris, 16 October 1978), an advocate of democratic, sovereign, and free Croatian. He was a patriot, dissident, writer, historical researcher, and a political leader of Croatian emigration.

[[Stoa]]

CATEGORIES: Architecture, Ancient Greece

Stoas  are unique to Ancient Greek architecture. They were covered walkways or porticos, mainly for public use. Early stoas were open at the entrance with columns, usually of the Doric order, lining the side of the building. They were well suited for the mild climate of Greece.

Later buildings of this style had two floors. A roof supported the inner colonnades. On the second floor were shops or offices. They followed Ionic architecture. Merchants could sell their goods. Artists could display their artwork. Religious gatherings could take place. Stoas usually surrounded the marketplaces of large cities.

[[Hilda Bernard]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, Living people, Argentine actors

Hilda Sarah Bernard (born October 29, 1920) is a veteran Argentine actress. She was born in Puerto Deseado, Argentina. Bernard is known for her roles in Animalada, Chronicle of the Raven, and in Live-in Maid. Her career began in 1941.

Bernard was married to Horacio Jorge Goncalves and to Horacio Zelada, but both marriages ended in divorce. Bernard has a daughter, Patricia.

[[Pepe Soriano]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Argentine movie actors, Argentine television actors, Actors from Buenos Aires, Argentine playwrights

Pepe Soriano (born José Carlos Soriano, on September 25, 1929) is a well-known Argentine actor and playwright. Soriano is known for his roles in Rebellion in Patagonia, Abuela, Asesinato en el Senado de la Nación, Funes, a Great Love, and in The Last Train.

Soriano was born and raised in Buenos Aires, Argentina.

[[Thích Nhất Hạnh]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, Vietnamese people, Buddhist clergy

Thích Nhất Hạnh (ˈ; born October 11, 1926) is a Vietnamese Zen Buddhist monk, teacher, author, poet and peace activist. He lives in the Plum Village Monastery in the Dordogne region in the South of France. He was born in Thừa Thiên Huế province, Vietnam.

He created the term Engaged Buddhism in his book Vietnam: Lotus in a Sea of Fire. A long-term exile, he was given permission to make his first return trip to Vietnam in 2005. Nhất Hạnh has published more than 100 books, including more than 40 in English. 

On 11 November 2014, Nhất Hạnh was hospitalized with a severe brain hemorrhage. There are signs that a full recovery may be possible.

He is suggesting that peace and joy is always accessible for all people. One way to discover that joy, is by what they call "mindful" meditation. Which is a type of meditation that concentrates on your breathing and embracing everything that comes up on your consciousness, without interpreting it with thought and critisism. But accompanying it with the great power of forgiveness, understanding and realisation of the present moment, which is also a very important point of reference in his teachings. 

[[Doc Paskowitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2014 deaths, American physicians, Deaths from surgical complications, Jewish American sportspeople, People from Galveston, Texas, Sportspeople from Texas

Dorian "Doc" Paskowitz (March 3, 1921 – November 10, 2014) was an American surfer and physician. He gave up practicing medicine for a living and decided to become a professional surfer. In 1972, he founded a surf camp run by his family, where campers could live alongside and surf with members of the Paskowitz family. He and his family have been referred to as the "First Family of Surfing".

Paskowitz died on November 10, 2014 in Newport Beach, California at the age of 93 from surgical complications.

[[Sonia Darrin]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2020 deaths, American movie actors, Actors from Texas, People from Galveston, Texas

Sonia Darrin (née  Paskowitz; June 16, 1924 – July 19, 2020) was an American movie actress. She was best known for her role in The Big Sleep and in Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man. Her brother was surfer Doc Paskowitz.

Darrin died on July 19, 2020 at a hospital in New York City, aged 96.

[[Newport Beach, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Orange County, California, 1906 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in California

Newport Beach is a city in Orange County, California, California. It is 10 south of downtown Santa Ana.  It became a city in 1906. The population was 85,287 at the 2010 census. 

[[Westside Connection]]

CATEGORIES: American rap music groups, Musical groups established in 1994, 1994 establishments in the United States

Westside Connection was an American gangsta rap music group. The members were Mack 10, WC and Ice Cube. The group was formed in 1994. Their first album, Bow Down, reached #2 on the Billboard 200 chart in 1996.

The group released a second rap studio album, Terrorist Threats.

[[Mack 10]]

CATEGORIES: Musicians from Los Angeles, California, American rap musicians from California, 1971 births, Living people

Mack 10 (born August 9, 1971) is an American rap singer. He has sold almost 11 million records worldwide. He was a member of Westside Connection.

He was born in Los Angeles. He is of African American and Mexican descent.

[[Bryan Murray]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Canadian ice hockey coaches, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Jack Adams Award winners

Bryan Clarence Murray (December 5, 1942 – August 12, 2017) was a Canadian ice hockey general manager and former coach. He worked as the general manager of the Ottawa Senators of the National Hockey League (NHL). 

Murray was also the general manager of the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, Florida Panthers and Detroit Red Wings. Murray also coached the Washington Capitals, Detroit Red Wings, Florida Panthers, and Mighty Ducks of Anaheim. Over his career, Murray has recorded over 600 victories in NHL regular season games and has taken his teams to the playoffs 12 times. 

His younger brother, Terry, was the general manager of the Los Angeles Kings. During his time with the Capitals, Murray was awarded the Jack Adams Award in 1983–84.

On July 21, 2012, Bryan along with his brother Terry and his nephew Tim, were inducted into the Shawville's Hockey Wall of Fame.

On November 13, 2014, Murray announced that he had Stage 4 colon cancer and that the cancer had spread to his liver and lungs. He said that "there is no cure for me at this point" and that he could have had the cancer for up to 10 years before it was detected. He died on August 12, 2017 at the age of 74.

[[Formosan mountain dog]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

The Formosan Mountain Dog (or Formosan) is a breed of small or medium dog. They live in Taiwan. These dogs are also known as Taiwanese Dog/Canis (台灣犬), Taiwanese Native Dog (台灣土狗) or Takasago Dog (高砂犬). They are well-adapted to the uneven and thickly forested terrain of Taiwan. They had become a semi-wild breed earlier. 

Formosans can be trained as hunting dogs, guard dogs, rescue dogs, or simply as companions. Formosan dogs can make good family pets but still have a strong hunting instinct.

However, now the pureblood Formosan Mountain Dog is still close to extinction. This is due to limited conservation efforts of the Taiwanese and their government. 

Native Dog (土狗) is the common name in Taiwan nowadays to indicate that the dog is an offspring of Formosan with foreign dogs. It is commonly confused with the Taiwan Native Dog (台灣土狗).

[[Lena Conradson]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Lena Conradson, originally Konradsson, later Berglund, born 23 March 1948 in Lycksele, Sweden, is a Swedish singer. She released several EP records and singles between 1959 and 1966. She also sang in the Pearlettes trio in 1966. In 1963, 15 years old, she recorded the original version of the Christmas song Hej, mitt vinterland.

[[Bram Stoker's Dracula]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 horror movies, Academy Award winning movies, American horror movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in London

Bram Stoker's Dracula is a 1992 American horror fantasy erotic drama movie. It was directed by Francis Ford Coppola and was produced by Francis Ford Coppola, Fred Fuchs and Charles Mulvehill. Bram Stoker's Dracula was released on November 13, 1992. The movie is based on the Bram Stoker novel, Dracula.

The movie gained positive reviews from critics and holds a 79% "Fresh" rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Bram Stoker's Dracula was the winner of three Academy Awards. The awards were won for Best Costume Design, Best Sound Editing and Best Makeup. It was also nominated for Best Art Direction/Set Decoration.

[[Évariste Galois]]

CATEGORIES: 1811 births, 1832 deaths, French mathematicians

Évariste Galois (25 October 1811 – 31 May 1832) was a French mathematician. He died from a gunshot wound he received in a duel. Today, he is known for his theory about algebraic equations which is known as Galois theory. 

[[Torgny Melins]]

CATEGORIES: Dansbands, Musical groups established in 1983

Torgny Melins is a dansband in Säffle, Sweden. The band scored chart successes in Sweden by the mid-late 2000's. In 2006, the band played at the Hultsfred Festival. It meant they became the first dansband since Sven-Ingvars in 1991 to do so. The band has also played at the at the Arvika Festival. The band has also recorded Teddybears Stockholm songs on the 2006 album Dansbander. Tehy also recorded soundtrack music for the 2007 film "Snart är det lördag igen".

In May 2007, TV4 aired a documentary series about the band, Torgny Melins - från Säffle till Stureplan. In 2007, the band also recorded a duet with Kikki Danielsson, "Ska du gå din väg" , on the albm Allting som vi har.

The band also participated at Dansbandskampen 2009. There, they were one of the finalists.

In March 2011, the band annoucned they would take a break.

[[Withdrawal (military)]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

A military withdrawal or retreat is a type of military operation. It generally means pulling back forces while maintaining contact with the enemy. There are several reasons why a military force would retreat. A force might pull back to occupy ground that is easier to defend. A retreat may be used to lead an enemy into an ambush. It may be moving back as quickly as possible in order to save your army from defeat. A withdrawal or retreat can be risky. It requires discipline to keep forces organized and not turn a retreat into a rout. Care must also be taken so a retreat does not damage a force's morale.

[[Heaven Forbid]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 albums

[[Mike Burney]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2014 deaths, British jazz musicians, British saxophonists, Deaths from cancer, English musicians, Musicians from Birmingham

Mike Burney (1 November 1944 – 13 November 2014) was an English jazz saxophonist. He was known for his performance in Roy Wood's band Wizzard playing the saxophone.

Burney died from cancer, aged 70.

[[Marius Barnard (surgeon)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2014 deaths, Afrikaner people, South African politicians, Surgeons

Marius Barnard (3 November 1927 – 14 November 2014) was a South African cardiac surgeon. He was the inventor of critical illness insurance. Barnard was a member of the South African parliament between 1980 and 1989. Barnard was born in Beaufort West, Western Cape. His brother was Christiaan Barnard.

Barnard died in Johannesburg, aged 87.

[[Miami Vice]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 American television series debuts, 1990 disestablishments in the United States, 1980s crime television series, 1980s American drama television series, 1980s American workplace television series, 1990s crime television series, 1990s American drama television series, 1990s American workplace television series, American crime drama television series, American mystery television series, American police television series, American workplace drama television series, Detective television series, Miami, Florida in fiction, Television series set in Florida, English-language television programs

Miami Vice is an American television crime drama series. The show is about undercover cops detectives. Don Johnson played James Crockett.

The show began on September 16, 1984 and ended in January 25, 1990.

A movie version was released in 2006.

[[USA Network]]

CATEGORIES: American television channels, 1971 establishments in the United States

USA Network is an American television network. It is owned by NBCUniversal (which in turn is owned by Comcast).

USA Network began on September 8, 1971 as the Madison Square Garden Network. It was relaunched as USA Network on January 3, 1979.

USA airs original programming and reruns of network television programs. 

[[Lifetime]]

CATEGORIES: American television networks, 1984 establishments in the United States

Lifetime is an American cable television network. This network airs television shows for women or with women in the lead roles. It is part of A&E Networks.

Lifetime was launched on February 1, 1984. Sister networks include Lifetime Real Women and Lifetime Movie Network.

[[Nancy Walker]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1922 births, 1992 deaths

Nancy Walker (May 10, 1922 – March 25, 1992) was an American actress and comedienne. She acted on stage, in movies and on television. She played Nancy in the movie Best Foot Forward. She also made many guest appearances on The Mary Tyler Moore Show.

Walker was born in Philadelphia. She died from lung cancer at 69.

[[The Mary Tyler Moore Show]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s television series, American sitcoms, Peabody Award winners, Emmy Award winning programs, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

The Mary Tyler Moore Show was an American sitcom. It was broadcast between September 1970 and March 1977. Mary Tyler Moore was the main star. She played Mary Richards, a single woman who moved to Minneapolis after being jilted.

Valerie Harper played Rhoda. Betty White played Sue Ann.

This show won Peabody, Golden Globe and Emmy Awards for the show and for its cast members.

[[COPS (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series, English-language television programs

COPS was an animated television program that aired Saturday mornings. The show was about cyber police. It was from Hasbro.

The show ran during 1988-1989. The name was changed to CyberCOPS because of the show of the same name on Fox networks.

[[AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 albums, Debut albums, Hip hop albums

AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted is the first studio album by American rapper, Ice Cube. AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted was released on May 16, 1990 through Priority Records.

The album peaked at #19 on the Billboard 200. It is considered to be one of the defining hip hop albums of the 1990s. The album was listed in the books 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die and 1,000 Recordings to Hear Before You Die.

The album featured the singles "Who's the Mack?", "AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted", and "Endangered Species (Tales from the Darkside)".

[[Check Yo Self]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 songs

"Check Yo Self" is a 1993 gangsta and political hip hop single from Ice Cube. Two versions exist. The original samples "Mustang Sally" by Wilson Pickett. The remix version samples "The Message" by Grandmaster Flash.

The remix version was released in July 1993.

[[The Super Mario Challenge]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s television series

The Super Mario Challenge was a show that aired on The Children's Channel. It last from September to December 20, 1991, and aired every day 4:30 PM, except for weekends.

[[Waldron shale]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, History of Indiana

The Waldron shale is a fossiliferous rock formation in Indiana. It has fossils such as gastropods, trilobites and trace fossils. It dates back to the end of the Silurian, around 423 million years ago.

[[Diem Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2014 deaths, Cancer deaths in New York City, Deaths from ovarian cancer, Journalists from Georgia (U.S. state), Television personalities from Georgia (U.S. state), Writers from Georgia (U.S. state)

Diem Brown (June 12, 1982 – November 14, 2014) was an American television personality and journalist. She was a recurring cast member on MTV's reality television series The Challenge.

Brown died in New York City, from ovarian cancer, aged 32.

[[Robert Littell (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2014 deaths, People from Orange, New Jersey, Politicians from New Jersey, US Republican Party politicians

Robert Eugene Littell (January 9, 1936 – November 14, 2014) was an American politician. He was a member of the Republican Party. Littell was born in Orange, New Jersey.

He served as a member of the New Jersey State Senate from 1992 to 2008.  He represented the 15th Legislative District until 1982 and the 24th Legislative District. Before entering the Senate, he served in the New Jersey General Assembly from 1968 to 1992 and the Franklin Borough Council from 1963 to 1965. He was a Delegate to the 1976 Republican National Convention.

Littell died in Franklin, New Jersey, aged 78.

[[Morteza Pashaei]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, Iranian musicians, Iranian singers, Composers, People from Tehran

Morteza Pashaei (مرتضی پاشایی 13 August 1984 – 14 November 2014) was an Iranian musician, composer and pop singer. He was born in Tehran, Iran. Pashaei was known for his albums Yeki hast, Gole Bita, and Esmesh Eshgheh.

On November 14, 2014, Pashaei died from stomach cancer in Tehran, Iran, aged 30.

[[Glen A. Larson]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2014 deaths, American television producers, American television writers, Cancer deaths in California, Deaths from esophageal cancer, Writers from California

Glen Albert Larson (January 3, 1937 - November 14, 2014) was an American television producer and writer. He was best known as the creator of the television series Battlestar Galactica, Quincy, M.E., The Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew Mysteries, B. J. and the Bear, The Fall Guy, Magnum, P.I. and Knight Rider.

Larson died in Santa Monica, California from esophageal cancer, aged 77.

[[Grandee of Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish royalty

The Grandes de España are the highest ranking members of the Spanish nobility. Their ranks are made up of those nobles holding the most important historical landed titles in Spain. In the modern day, many of these titles overlap or are held by the same person. Strategic marriages have collected titles under certain noble houses over time.  

In the modern day, all Grandees have the status 'of the first class'. It implies neither privilege nor power.

An individual is a grandee if he or she holds a Grandeza de España, regardless of possession of a title of nobility. Normally, each grandeza is granted with a title, but this was not always the case. Also, a Grandeza de España is normally awarded along with every ducal title. Several members of both Spanish and French nobility were made Grandees also. 

[[It's a Very Merry Muppet Christmas Movie]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 movies, 2000s family movies, 2002 comedy movies, American family movies, American comedy movies, American television movies, Christmas movies, English-language movies, Sequel movies

It's A Very Merry Muppet Christmas Movie is a 2002 NBC Christmas television movie. It was directed by Kirk R. Thatcher and was produced by Warren Carr and Martin G. Baker. It's A Very Merry Muppet Christmas Movie was released on November 29, 2002. The movie stars The Muppets, Whoopi Goldberg, David Arquette, Matthew Lillard, Joan Cusack, and the cast of Scrubs. It is a homage to Frank Capra's 1946 movie, It's a Wonderful Life.

The movie gained positive reviews from critics and holds a 90% "Fresh" rating on Rotten Tomatoes. The movie was nominated at the Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Music and Lyrics for the song "Everyone Matters".

[[Cheese fries]]

CATEGORIES: Fast food, Cheese dishes

Cheese fries are a popular fast food dish with french fries covered in cheese.  Cheese fries are similar to the Canadian dish poutine.  They are called cheesy chips or chips and cheese in places like the United Kingdom.

[[Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 movies, American animated movies, Disney animated movies, Disney direct-to-video movies, English-language movies, Sequel movies

Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure is a 2009 American computer-animated comedy adventure movie. It was directed by Klay Hall and was produced by Sean Lurie. Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure was released on October 27, 2009. The movie is a sequel to the 2008 movie, Tinker Bell.

[[Kim Ja-ok]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, South Korean movie actors, South Korean television actors

Kim Ja-ok (October 11, 1951 – November 16, 2014) was a South Korean actress. Kim was born in Busan, South Korea. She was known for her roles in Like Land and Sky, My Tutor Friend, Jeni, Juno, The Righteous Thief, and in Nobody's Daughter Haewon.

Ja-ok died in Seoul, South Korea from lung cancer, aged 63.

[[Lincoln D. Faurer]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, American military people, People from Massachusetts

Lieutenant General Lincoln D. Faurer (February 7, 1928 – November 7, 2014) was an American lieutenant general. He served as the director of the National Security Agency and chief of the Central Security Service from 1981 to 1985.

Faurer died on November 7, 2014 in McLean, Virginia, aged 86.

[[Lucien Clergue]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2014 deaths, Disease-related deaths in France, French photographers, People from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur

Lucien Clergue (klɛʁg; August 14, 1934 – November 15, 2014) was a French photographer. He was Chairman of the Academy of Fine Arts, Paris for 2013. Clergue was born in Arles, France.

Clergue died in Nîmes, France from a long illness, aged 80.

[[Janis Carter]]

CATEGORIES: People from Durham, North Carolina, American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, Deaths from myocardial infarction, 1913 births, 1994 deaths, American television personalities, Disease-related deaths in North Carolina

Janis Carter (October 10, 1913 – July 30, 1994) was an American actress. She acted on the stage, in movies, and on television. She appeared in over 30 movies during her career. She played Dorothy Anderson in the movie One Mysterious Night. She also played Peggy in Miss Grant Takes Richmond.

Carter was born in Cleveland, Ohio. She died in Durham, North Carolina after having a heart attack at age 80.

[[Adib Jatene]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Brazilian politicians, Brazilian writers, Civil servants, Brazilian physicians, Brazilian educators

Adib Domingos Jatene (June 4, 1929 – November 14, 2014) was a Brazilian physician, university professor, cardiologist and thoracic surgeon. He was one of the founders of the University of São Paulo Heart Institute. He was known for creating the Jatene operation. Jantene was born in Xapuri, Brazil.

Jantene became Secretary of Health of the city of São Paulo and later Minister of Health of Brazil for both the Fernando Collor de Mello and Fernando Henrique Cardoso administrations. He was a member of the Brazilian Academy of Medicine. He published over 270 scientific academic studies.

Jatene died on November 14, 2014 of a heart attack in São Paulo, Brazil, aged 85.

[[Evelyn Keyes]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Texas, 1916 births, 2008 deaths

Evelyn Keyes (November 20, 1916 – July 4, 2008) was an American actress. She played Suellen O'Hara in Gone with the Wind (1939). She also played Martha Garth in Before I Hang (1940).

Keyes was born in Port Arthur, Texas. She died at 91 in Montecito, California.

[[Bays of Canada]]

CATEGORIES: Bays of Canada, Canada-related lists

A bay is a large body of water. It is in the land next to a sea or lake between two headlands. Canada is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean, Pacific Ocean, and Arctic Ocean. There are also hundreds of lakes larger than 100 km2 (38.6 sq mi). Canada is also the second largest country by area. All of these factors mean that Canada has hundreds of bays.

Some of the large bays in Canada are:

[[Kamchatka Peninsula]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Russia, Peninsulas

The Kamchatka Peninsula (полуо́стров Камча́тка, poluostrov Kamchatka) is a peninsula in eastern Russia. It is 1250 long. It covers about 270000 between the Pacific Ocean and the Sea of Okhotsk.

Kamchatka has the Volcanoes of Kamchatka, a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

[[Madhouse (book)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 books, Ethics, Psychiatry

Madhouse: A Tragic Tale of Megalomania and Modern Medicine is a 2005 book by Andrew Scull which discusses the work of controversial psychiatrist Henry Cotton at Trenton State Hospital in New Jersey in the 1920s.  Cotton thought that insanity was fundamentally a toxic disorder and he surgically removed body parts to try to improve mental health. This often began with the removal of teeth and tonsils. Much death and harm resulted from his experiments. Cotton's approach attracted some detractors, but most doctors of the day did not effectively object.

[[Laugh Now, Cry Later]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Hip hop albums

Laugh Now, Cry Later is the seventh studio album by American rapper, Ice Cube. Laugh Now, Cry Later was released on June 9, 2006 through Lench Mob Records. It was the first album that was released through his independently owned record label. It is also Ice Cube's first studio album in six years.

The album debuted at #4 on the Billboard 200. Laugh Now, Cry Later was certified Gold by the RIAA which is uncommon for an album that was released through an independent label.

[[Corey Beaulieu]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Heavy metal guitarists, Musicians from Maine

Corey Beaulieu (born November 22, 1983) is an American heavy metal guitarist. He is currently Trivium's lead guitarist. He joined Trivium in 2005, along with the current bassist Paolo Gregoletto. He says Slayer, Malmsteen, Megadeth and Metallica are among his main inspirations. He also says Guns N' Roses got him into music.

[[Girl Meets World]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American television series, 2014 American television series debuts, American sitcoms, Disney Channel shows, Television series about families, Television series by Disney, Television series set in New York City, English-language television programs

Girl Meets World is an American coming of age sitcom. The show first aired on Disney Channel on June 27, 2014, and ended on January 20, 2017. It followed the premiere of the Disney Channel Original Movie, Zapped. Girl Meets World is a sequel to the sitcom Boy Meets World. The original show aired on ABC in its TGIF block from 1993 to 2000. On August 6, 2014, Girl Meets World was renewed for a second season by Disney Channel.

[[Hennessey, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Hennessey is a town in Kingfisher County, Oklahoma. The population is 2,224.

[[Cheyenne, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma, County seats in Oklahoma

Cheyenne is a town of Roger Mills, Oklahoma, United States. The population is 801 at the 2012 census. Its county seat is Cheyenne.

[[Queensland Rail]]

CATEGORIES: 1860s establishments in Australia, 1865 establishments, Train operating companies, Companies of Australia, Rail transport in Australia, Brisbane

Queensland Rail (often shortened to QR) is a railway company that operates a number of trains in Queensland, Australia. It is also responsible for a maintaining certain railway tracks. It is owned by the government.

[[Tievebaun Mountain]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Europe, County Leitrim

Tievebaun Mountain (Taobh Bán, meaning "grassy slope") is a mountain in County Leitrim, Republic of Ireland. The height of the mountain is 611. The mountain is known for its cliffs. The main summit of the mountain is named "Eagles Rock".

Tievebaun Mountain is the third highest mountain in the Dartry Mountains range.

It is the second highest mountain in County Leitrim. 

[[Marie Thérèse de Bourbon]]

CATEGORIES: 1666 births, 1733 deaths, People from Paris, House of Bourbon, Princes and princesses

Marie Thérèse de Bourbon (1666 – 1732) was briefly the titular (in title only) Queen consort of Poland in 1697. She was the daughter of Henri Jules, Prince of Condé and of Anne Henriette of Bavaria. As a member of France's reigning House of Bourbon, she was a Princess of the blood. She was entitled to be addressed as Her/Your Serene Highness. 

[[Geordie Shore]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 British television series debuts, 2010s British television series, British reality television series, MTV programmes, Newcastle upon Tyne, English-language television programs

Geordie Shore is a British reality television series. It is broadcast on MTV. Geordie Shore is based in Newcastle upon Tyne. It was first broadcast on 24 May 2011. Geordie Shore is the British version of the American show Jersey Shore. "Geordie" is the regional nickname and dialect given to the people of the Tyneside area of North East England. It is closely associated with the city of Newcastle upon Tyne where the show is set. However the show includes cast members from various parts of North East England.

[[Caroline Wennergren]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Caroline Wennergren, born 21 September 1985 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil is a Swedish singer. She has scored chart successes in Sweden. She participated at Melodifestivalen 2005 with the song A Different Kind of Love. The song ended up fifth in the final.

[[Retching]]

CATEGORIES: Symptoms

Retching (also called dry heaving or gagging) is when the motion of the stomach and esophagus goes backward, but there is no vomiting. It can be caused by bad smells, choking or stopping certain medications. It can also be because of stress.

Retching is different from vomiting. During a retch, pressure in the thorax goes down and pressure in the abdomen goes up. In vomiting, both pressures go up. 

[[Edie Adams]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, American comedians, Actors from Pennsylvania, 1927 births, 2008 deaths, Emmy Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors

Edith Elizabeth Enke, also known as Edie Adams (April 16, 1927 – October 15, 2008), was an American business woman, singer, actress and comedienne. She won several Tony and Emmy Awards for her acting. She played Eileen Sherwood in the Broadway play Wonderful Town. She also played Miss Olsen in the movie The Apartment.

Adams was born in Kingston, Pennsylvania. She was married to Ernie Kovacs from 1954 until his death in 1962. She died from pneumonia and cancer at age 81 in Los Angeles.

[[Vampire in Brooklyn]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 comedy movies, 1995 horror movies, American comedy movies, American horror movies, Comedy horror movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Wes Craven, Movies set in Brooklyn, Paramount movies, Vampires in movies

Vampire in Brooklyn (also known as Wes Craven's Vampire in Brooklyn) is a 1995 American horror comedy movie. It was directed by Wes Craven and was produced by Eddie Murphy and Mark Lipsky. Vampire in Brooklyn was released on October 27, 1995. It was the final movie that was produced under Paramount Pictures since Eddie Murphy's contract ran out.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 10% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. During an interview with Rolling Stone, Murphy said why Vampire in Brooklyn was a failure. He was quoted as saying "The only way I was able to do Nutty Professor and to get out of my Paramount deal, I had to do Vampire in Brooklyn. But you know what ruined that movie? The wig. I walked out in that longhaired wig and people said, 'Oh, get the fuck out of here! What the hell is this?'"

[[Sir Gawain and the Green Knight]]

CATEGORIES: British poems, Works based on the Arthurian legend

Sir Gawain and the Green Knight (Middle English: Sir Gawayn and þe Grene Knyȝt) is a late 14th-century Middle English chivalric romance. It is one of the most notable Arthurian stories. It is known as the "beheading game". 

The story is  written in stanzas of alliterative verse. Each stanza ends in a rhyming bob and wheel.

[[Peter Kassig]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, 2014 deaths, American people murdered abroad, Humanitarians, Kidnapped American people, Murders by blade weapons, People from Indianapolis, Indiana

Peter Kassig (c. 1988 – c. November 16, 2014) was an American aid worker. He was the fifth Western hostage killed by Islamic State (IS). Kassig was captured near Deir Ezzour, Syria. He was on his way to deliver medical supplies and food to poor Syrians. 

On November 16, 2014, IS posted a video showing Jihadi John standing over a severed head but no beheading act. The White House confirmed the person killed was Kassig. Kassig was 26 years old.

[[Sik Kok Kwong]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2014 deaths, Buddhist clergy, Chinese people, Monks

Sik Kok Kwong, GBM GBS (16 May 1919 – 16 November 2014) was a Tiantai Buddhist monk from Hong Kong. He was the first president of the Hong Kong Buddhist Association. He was also the Honorary Vice-President of the World Buddhist Sangha Council, a member of the Hong Kong Basic Law Drafting Committee, and a Hong Kong Affairs Advisor.

Kwong died in Happy Valley, Hong Kong, aged 95.

[[Jadwiga Piłsudska]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2014 deaths, Architects, Aviators, People from Warsaw, World War II people

Jadwiga Piłsudska-Jaraczewska (28 February 1920 – 16 November 2014) was a Polish pilot and architect. She served in the Air Transport Auxiliary during the Second World War. She is the one of two daughters of Marshal and Naczelnik Józef Piłsudski. She was born in Warsaw, Poland.

Piłsudska died on 16 November 2014 in Warsaw at the age of 94.

[[Eugene Dynkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2014 deaths, American educators, American mathematicians, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Saint Petersburg, Russian scientists, Scientists from New York, People from Ithaca, New York

Eugene Borisovich Dynkin (Евге́ний Бори́сович Ды́нкин; May 11, 1924 – 14 November 2014) was a Soviet-American mathematician. He worked most in probability and algebra. Dynkin especially worked in semisimple Lie groups, Lie algebras, and Markov processes. The Dynkin diagram, the Dynkin system, and Dynkin's lemma are named for him. Before his death, Dynkin was a mathematician at Cornell University.

Dynkin died at his home in Ithaca, New York, aged 90.

[[Coma Berenices]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Coma Berenices is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Reception theory]]

CATEGORIES: Communication

Reception theory is a theory proposed by Stuart Hall. Its main principal is that a text can have different meanings to different audiences. It is also called "reader response theory". The reader (or viewer) contributes to a text by interpreting it to what they think it says. This interpretation, or understanding, is a product of the whole audience reading or viewing it, not just individuals. How an audience receives a text can sometimes be radically different from how it was intended to be received.

[[Uses and gratifications theory]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

The Uses and gratifications theory is a theory by Blumer and Katz. It states that different people watch television and movies for different reasons.

There may be somebody who will watch a romantic comedy so that they can put themselves in the shoes of the characters and feel love. Somebody may watch Breaking Bad so that they can join in with social conversation relating to that topic. It may be said that you would watch a television for escapism so that you forget the stress or normal life.

[[Lupus (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Lupus is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Hypodermic needle model]]

CATEGORIES: Media in the United States

The hypodermic needle model (also known as the magic bullet theory or the direct effects model) is an early theory of mass communications. The theory stated that the mass media had direct influence over audiences by injecting their minds with information. According to this theory media messages are powerful forces and audiences are powerless to resist them. The theory was popular during the 1940s and 1950s. Ideas about the power of the mass media were based on historical events. One was the role played by the Hearst Newspapers in getting public support for the Spanish-American War. Another was the powerful Nazi propaganda campaigns by Joseph Goebbels in World War II. Still another was the idea of a powerful Madison Avenue advertising influence on consumer buying and voting. Later researchers determined the theory was just too simple and too general to be accurate.

Most modern media scholars think the theory is mostly false. However, many Americans still believe the mass media has unlimited power to control people's minds. In effect they believe the myth that if the mass media tells people to jump, the only question will be how high.

[[Indus (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Indus is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Mensa (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Mensa is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Tucana]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Tucana is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Delphinus (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Delphinus is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Dorado (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Dorado is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Sextans]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Sextans is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Triangulum Australe]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Triangulum Australe is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Equuleus]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Equuleus is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Eridanus (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Eridanus is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Piscis Austrinus]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Piscis Austrinus is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Reticulum]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Reticulum is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Fornax]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Fornax is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Vela (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Vela is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Triangulum]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Triangulum is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Telescopium]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Telescopium is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Chamaeleon]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Chamaeleon is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Corona Borealis]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Corona Borealis is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Corona Australis]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Corona Australis is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Cepheus (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Cepheus is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Cetus]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Cetus is a constellation in the northern sky.

The most well known star in this constellation is Mira, a red giant.

[[Draco (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Draco is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Grus (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Grus is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Hydrus]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Hydrus is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Horologium (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Horologium is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Sagitta]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Sagitta is a constellation in the northern sky.

its area is 80sq.deg.

[[Sculptor (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Sculptor is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Scutum]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Scutum is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Serpens]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Serpens is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Musca]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Musca is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Microscopium (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Microscopium is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Pictor]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Pictor is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Pyxis]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Pyxis is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Virgo (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Virgo is a zodiac constellation which lies on the celestial equator. It is between Leo (at west) and Libra (at east).This constellation is large; the constellation is the second biggest constellation you can see on the sky. Legends say Virgo is Astraea.

[[Pavo (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Pavo is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Columba (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Columba is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Circinus]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Circinus is a constellation in the southern sky.

[[Lacerta]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Lacerta is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Pegasus (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Pegasus is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Perseus (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Perseus is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Pisces (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Pisces is a constellation located on the celestial equator.

[[Lynx (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Lynx is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Lyra]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Lyra is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Leo Minor]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

Leo Minor is a constellation in the northern sky.

[[Musca (fly)]]

CATEGORIES: Flies

Musca is an important genus of flies.  It includes Musca domestica (the common housefly), as well as Musca autumnalis (the face fly or autumn housefly).  It is part of the family Muscidae.

[[P. W. Botha]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2006 deaths, Afrikaner people, Anti-Communists, People associated with Apartheid, Calvinists, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in South Africa, Presidents of South Africa, Prime Ministers of South Africa

Pieter Willem Botha (12 January 1916 – 31 October 2006) was a South African politician. He is commonly known as P. W. Botha, and often called Die Groot Krokodil (which translates to The Great Crocodile).

Botha was the last Prime Minister of the country. In 1984 the office was abolished. After that he served as the first State President. During his political career, he was an opponent of Majority rule and Communism.

When he was first elected to parliament in 1948, he was against black majority rule. In 1992, there was a referendum to allow black majority rule. In that referendum, Botha campaigned for the No vote. Botha supported apartheid throughout his life.

In 2006, Botha died of a heart attack, aged 90.

[[King for a Day]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music

King for a Day is a song by American rock band Pierce the Veil. They are from San Diego. This song is from Pierce the Veil's Collide with the Sky. King for a Day was released on June 5, 2012.

This song includes lead singer, Kellin Quinn, from the Sleeping with Sirens, another rock band.

[[Instar]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

An instar is a stage in the growth of an insect larva. As an example, there are three instars in the growth of a housefly. During each instar it eats and grows. Then it sheds (moults) its outer covering (exoskeleton) and grows some more. After the third instar it changes into a pupa, the next stage in its development. The adult (imago) which comes out of the pupa is the familiar housefly. With many insects, most of the eating and growing is done by the larvae. The function of the adults is to reproduce.

[[Pinckney's Treaty]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century in Spain, 1790s in the United States, Treaties, 1796

Pinckney's Treaty is a treaty between Spain and the United States. It is also known as Treaty of San Lorenzo or Treaty of Madrid. It defined the boundaries of the United States with the Spanish colonies and guaranteed the United States navigation rights on the Mississippi River. The treaty's full title is Treaty of Friendship, Limits, and Navigation Between Spain and the United States. Thomas Pinckney negotiated the treaty for the United States and Don Manuel de Godoy represented Spain. Among other things, it ended the first phase of the West Florida Controversy, a dispute between the two nations over the boundaries of the Spanish colony of West Florida.

The treaty was presented to the United States Senate on February 26, 1796 and after several weeks of debate was ratified on March 7, 1796. It was ratified by Spain on April 25, 1796 and ratifications were exchanged on that date. The treaty was proclaimed on August 3, 1796.

[[Idrijca]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Slovenia

The Idrijca is a river in western Slovenia that flows through the Idrija Hills and Cerkno Hills. It is a tributary of the Soča river.

The area of the upper Idrijca, from its source to the town of Idrijca (a distance of about 30 km), is part of the Krajinski Park Zgornja Idrijca ("Upper Idrijca Natural Park"). Here there are many karst features and an important diversity of plant species.

[[Vipava (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Italy, Rivers of Slovenia

The Vipava (in Slovene), Vipacco (in Italian) or Vipau (in Friulian) is a river that flows through western Slovenia and northeastern Italy.

The Battle of the Frigidus was fought in 394 near the river,  which was named Frigidus ('cold') by the Romans.

[[Kisan Vikas Patra]]

CATEGORIES: Government of India

Kisan Vikas Patra (KVP) is a savings plan that was reintroduced on 18-Nov-2014 by the Government of India. It is to encourage people to save their money and not invest in fraudulent schemes. The plan offers current interest rate of 7.6 per cent. It doubles an investment in 113 months (9 years, 5 months). Finance Minister Arun Jaitley started the plan. The Directorate of Small Savings Government of India, sells these saving bonds through all Post Offices in the country. A KVP can be cashed in after two and a half years from the date of issue at the purchase amount plus interest. However, there is no tax break for investors in KVPs.

[[Hyades (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Nymphs

In Greek mythology the Hyades were nymphs who were responsible for letting it rain. Their number varies from originally three to fifteen. They were the daughters of Atlas, and most stories say that they were the sisters of Hyas. The main story is that Hyas was killed in a hunting accident, so the Hyades wept because of their grief. 

[[Ghosts (board game)]]

CATEGORIES: Board games

Ghosts (Finnish: Kummituspeli, Swedish: Spökspelet) is a board game designed by Alex Randolph for two players, released in 1982 by Milton Bradley.

[[Capitulation of Alexandria]]

CATEGORIES: Treaties, Wars involving England, Wars involving France, Alexandria

The Capitulation of Alexandria was an important event in the struggle between France and England for influence in the Middle East in the years around 1800 AD.

The French Campaign in Egypt and Syria (1798–1801) was part of Napoleon Bonaparte's campaign in the East. His plan was to protect French trade, undermine Britain's access to India, and to establish scientific enterprise in the region. It was the main reason for his Mediterranean campaign of 1798, a series of naval engagements that included the capture of Malta. In July he defeated British and Mameluke forces in the Battle of the Pyramids and took control of Egypt. 

The British responded. In the Battle of the Nile, 1798, the Royal Navy, under Horatio Nelson, defeated the French fleet off the coast of Egypt. The French fleet was almost completely destroyed, and that changed the balance of power between the two nations at war in the Mediterranean. 

On land in Egypt the French were opposed by a joint force of British and Ottoman troops. Defeated, the French retreated to Alexandria, the second city of Egypt, where the British-led force surrounded them. On 30 August 1801 the French general Abdullah Jacques-François Menou offered to surrender and proposed terms. The terms were adjusted, then agreed. The event and the treaty is known as the Capitulation of Alexandria.

Under the articles of the treaty is this item:

So Britain got hold of the Rosetta Stone and other Egyptian antiquities collected by the French Commission des Sciences et des Arts and the scholars of the Institute d'Egypte.

[[Student's t-distribution]]

CATEGORIES: Probability distributions

Student's t-distribution is a probability distribution which was developed by William Sealy Gosset in 1908. Student is the pseudonym he used when he published the paper describing the distribution.

A normal distribution describes a full population, t-distributions describe samples drawn from a full population; accordingly, the t-distribution for each sample size is different, and the larger the sample, the more the distribution resembles a normal distribution.

The t-distribution plays a role in many widely used statistical analyses, including the Student's t-test for assessing the statistical significance of the difference between two sample means, the construction of confidence intervals for the difference between two population means, and in linear regression analysis. The Student's t-distribution also arises in the Bayesian analysis of data from a normal family.

[[Jamstik]]

CATEGORIES: Technology

Jamstik is a portable 6-string MIDI guitar controller with five frets made by Zivix, LLC. The Jamstik is compatible with iPad, iPhone and Macintosh.  It weighs 1.

The Jamstik comes with an included instructional app called JamTutor.  JamTutor helps teach new guitar players the basics of guitar.

[[Saturn Nebula]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae

The Staturn Nebula is a planetary nebula in the constellation of Aquarius. It is about 2,400 light-years away from Earth.

[[Helix nebula]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae

The Helix nebula is a planetary nebula in the constellation of Aquarius. It is about 700 light-years away from Earth.

[[Sara Montiel]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish television actors, Spanish movie actors, Spanish musicians, 1928 births, 2013 deaths

Sara Montiel (10 March 1928 – 8 April 2013) was a Spanish actress and singer. She played Juana Montes in Serenade (1956). She also played in 2004's Bad Education. Montiel was a prominent Spanish singer, having many albums.

Montiel was born Maria Antonia Abad in Campo de Criptana, La Mancha, Spain on 10 March 1928. At age 16 she began acting and appeared in a number of movies. In 1950 Montiel moved to Mexico where she acted and sang in several films. In 1954 she co-starred in the movie Vera Cruz with Gregory Peck and Bert Lancaster. In 1956 she appeared in Serenade with Mario Lanza and Joan Fontaine. Montiel returned to Spain to star in a number of films. She became Spain's most popular star for the next decade. She retired from movies in the early 1970s but still appeared on television and the Stage. In 2011 she returned to appear in the comedy movie Abrazame. She died on 8 April 2013 in Madrid at age eighty-five.

[[Bogan Hunters]]

CATEGORIES: Australian television series, 2014 television series debuts, 2010s television series, New South Wales, Melbourne, 2010s establishments in Australia, English-language television programs

Bogan Hunters is an Australian television show. It is a comedy and also a reality television show. It is all about three people called 'Bogan Hunters' who are looking for Australia's greatest Bogan so they can give them a prize.

[[Bogan]]

CATEGORIES: Culture, Society, Australia, Slang

The term bogan (ˈ) is an Australian and New Zealander slang word. It can be used to describe a person with a working class background. Or it can be someone whose speech, clothing, attitude and behaviour display a proud working class attitude. Sometimes the word can have a negative meaning. Over the last several decades, the bogan has become a very widespread and well respected group. There are many local names that describe the same or similar groups of people.

[[Kriegsmarine]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Germany

The Kriegsmarine (ˈkʁiːksmaˌʁiːnə, War Navy) was the name of the Navy of Nazi Germany from 1935 to 1945. It replaced the Imperial German Navy of World War I and the inter-war Reichsmarine. The Kriegsmarine was one of three official branches of the Wehrmacht, the armed forces of Nazi Germany.

[[Luděk Bukač]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Ice hockey coaches, Czechoslovak ice hockey players, Ice hockey centres

Luděk Bukač (4 August 1935 – 20 April 2019) was a Czech ice hockey player and manager. As a player, he played for ČLTK Praha, HC Sparta Praha and HC Dukla Jihlava, while as a manager, he coached HC Sparta Praha, HC Košice and HC České Budějovice. As a manager, he coached the Czechoslovak, Austrian, German and Czech national teams. With the Czech Republic, he won the 1996 IIHF World Championship.

Bukač died on 20 April 2019, aged 83.

[[Bengt Nyholm]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, Swedish footballers

Bengt Nyholm, born 30 January 1930 in Härnösand, Sweden, dead 10 September 2015 in Mantorp, Sweden, was a Swedish association football goalkeeper. In 1961, was awarded the Guldbollen Award.

[[Carl Sanders]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2014 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, Governors of Georgia (U.S. state), US Democratic Party politicians, People from Augusta, Georgia

Carl Edward Sanders, Sr. (May 15, 1925 – November 16, 2014) was an American politician. He served as the 74th Governor of the state of Georgia serving from 1963 to 1967.

Sanders died on November 16, 2014 at the age of 89, after a fall at his home in Augusta, Georgia, aged 89.

[[Jovan Ćirilov]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Serbian people, Poets, Historians, Philosophers

Jovan Ćirilov (jǒ̝v̞an tɕirǐlo̝v̞; 30 August 1931 – 16 November 2014) was a Serbian theater expert, philosopher, writer, theatre selector, and poet. He mostly wrote about the Serbian culture. He was born in Kikinda, Yugoslavia.

As a member of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia, he was the first person who publicly called for decriminalization of male same-sex relations ("sodomy laws") in the 1980s.

Ćirilov died in Belgrade, Serbia, aged 83.

[[Bill Frenzel]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from cancer, United States representatives from Minnesota, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Saint Paul, Minnesota

William Eldridge "Bill" Frenzel (July 31, 1928 – November 17, 2014) was an American politician. He was a member of the Republican Party. Frenzel was a member of the United States House of Representatives from Minnesota. He represented Minnesota's 3rd district. Frenzel was born in St. Paul, Minnesota.

Frenzel died of cancer on November 17, 2014 in McLean, Virginia, aged 86.

[[Pepe Eliaschev]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2014 deaths, Argentine Jews, Cancer deaths in Argentina, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Jewish writers, Argentine journalists, Writers from Buenos Aires

José Ricardo Eliaschev (May 31, 1945 – November 18, 2014), better known as Pepe Eliaschev, was an Argentine journalist and writer. He was the author of ten books. He worked as a journalist and his interviews are well known to world figures such as Cassius Clay, Ted Kennedy, Jorge Rafael Videla, Raúl Alfonsín, José Mujica, Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle, Carlos Fuentes, Mario Vargas Llosa, Ernesto Sabato and Augusto Roa Bastos. In addition, he was director of Municipal Radio of Buenos Aires from 1989 to 1991.

Eliaschev died on November 18, 2014 in Buenos Aires, Argentina at the age of 69 from pancreatic cancer. He was of Jewish descent.

[[Mihailo Đurić]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2011 deaths, 20th century philosophers, 21st century philosophers, Political scientists, Serbian scientists, Social scientists

Mihailo Đurić (Serbian Cyrillic: Михаило Ђурић; 22 August 1925 – 25 November 2011) was one of Serbia's most prominent philosophers, a professor at the University of Belgrade's Law School, and a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts.

[[Marianne Stone]]

CATEGORIES: English television actors, English movie actors, Actors from London, 1922 births, 2009 deaths

Marianne Stone (August 23, 1922 – December 21, 2009) was an English character actress. She appeared in many movies from the early 1940s through the late 1980s. She usually played landladies, barmaids and other working-class women. She played Mavis in The Angry Silence (1960). In Lolita (1962), she played Vivian Darkbloom.

Stone was born in London, England. She died there at age 87.

[[Lolita (1962 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 drama movies, American drama movies, British drama movies, English-language movies, Incest in movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Stanley Kubrick, Movies set in the 1950s, Movies about child sexual abuse

Lolita is a 1962 British-American drama movie. It set in the 1950s in the United States. It is based on the novel Lolita by Vladimir Nabokov. It was directed by Stanley Kubrick. It is about a middle-aged man Humbert Humbert (James Mason) who becomes obsessed with Lolita, a girl in her early teens. He marries her mother as a means of having a sexual relationship with Lolita. Sue Lyon plays Dolores "Lolita" Haze. Shelley Winters plays Lolita's mother Charlotte Haze.

This movie was released on June 13, 1962.

[[Sue Lyon]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, Actors from Davenport, Iowa, 1946 births, 2019 deaths

Sue Lyon (July 10, 1946 – December 26, 2019) was an American actress. She played Dolores "Lolita" Haze in the 1962 movie Lolita. She also played Charlotte in The Night of the Iguana. In 1963, she won a Golden Globe Award.

Lyon was born in Davenport, Iowa. She was married to screenwriter Hampton Fancher from 1963 until they divorced in 1965. Lyon died of a long-illness in Los Angeles at the age of 73.

[[IPhone 5S]]

CATEGORIES: IPhone, Mobile phones released in 2010s

The iPhone 5S is a smartphone that is designed and made by Apple Inc. It was released on September 20, 2013. Apple held an event to introduce the iPhone 5S, along with the iPhone 5C, on September 10, 2013. It has the same design as the iPhone 5, but has new features such as the Touch ID fingerprint scanner and an improved camera.

[[King Abdullah Financial District]]

CATEGORIES: Saudi Arabia

The King Abdullah Financial District (KAFD) is being built in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. It will have the Saudi Stock Exchange and Capital Market Authority. The KAFD will be an important financial center in the Middle East. However, KAFD will not only be a financial center. It will have areas where people live, offices, and educational and recreational facilities. The King Abdullah Financial District is estimated to be worth about $7.8 billion (US). 

[[Statistical significance]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

Statistics uses variables to describe a measurement. Such a variable is called statistically significant if under a certain status quo assumption, the probability of obtaining its outcome (or a more extreme outcome) is less than a given value. Statistical significance is hence a way of determining the unlikeliness of an experimental result—when a certain status quo assumption is assumed to be true.  Statistical hypothesis tests are used to check significance. 

The concept of statistical significance was originated by Ronald Fisher in his 1925 publication, Statistical Methods for Research Workers, when he developed statistical hypothesis testing (which he described as "tests of significance"). Fisher suggested a probability of one in twenty (0.05 or 5%)—as a convenient cutoff level to reject the null hypothesis. In their 1933 paper, Jerzy Neyman and Egon Pearson recommended that the significance level (for example 0.05), which they called α, be set before any data collection.

Despite his initial suggestion of 0.05 as a significance level, Fisher did not intend this cutoff value to be fixed. In his 1956 publication Statistical methods and scientific inference, he recommended that significant levels be set according to specific circumstances.

[[NGC 6193]]

CATEGORIES: Open star clusters

NGC 6193 is an open cluster of 27 stars in the constellation of Ara. It is about 3,765 light-years away, and it can be seen by eye from Earth. 

NGC 6193 lies at the centre of the Ara OB1 association. The cluster radiates energy to the  nearby regions of the nebulosity NGC 6188.

At its centre are two O class multiple star systems within 10" of each other, and a probable binary B0 giant. These are very hot large stars. They are part of the multiple star system HD 150136. There are four stars which are each 36 to 63 times more massive than the Sun, 6 to ten times hotter, and each is more than 10,000 times as bright (luminosity) as the Sun.

[[M43]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae

M43 is a planetary nebula in the constellation of Orion. It is about 1,600 light-years away from Earth. It is part of the Orion nebula.

[[M78]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae

M78 is a reflection nebula in the constellation of Orion. It is about 1,600 light-years away from Earth. It is part of the Orion complex.

[[Barnard's Loop]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae

Barnard's Loop is an emission nebula in the constellation of Orion. It is about 1,600 light-years away from Earth. It is part of the Orion complex. It is a semicircular arc that is about 300 light-years across. In the center of Bernard's Loop are two nebula. These are the Orion nebula and the Horsehead nebula. Barnard’s Loop is made up of Plasma. The mainly red color comes from hydrogen gas.

[[NGC 1999]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae

NGC 1999 (nicknamed the "keyhole nebula") is a reflection nebula in the constellation of Orion. It is about 1,500 light-years away from Earth.

[[NGC 2174]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae

NGC 2174 (also named the Monkey Head Nebula) is an emission nebula in the constellation of Orion. It is about 6,400 light-years away from Earth.

[[Trifid nebula]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae

The Trifid Nebula is an emission nebula in the constellation of Sagittarius. It is a large H II region that is bright enough to be viewed with binoculars. The Trifid nebula is about 5,200 light-years away from Earth. It gets its name trifid from its three visible dust lanes. 

[[NGC 6559]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae

NGC 6559 is an star forming region in the constellation of Sagittarius. It is about 5,000 light years from earth. About 7 light years across, it is a dense cloud of dust that hides other stars.

[[Omega Nebula]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae

The Omega Nebula (nicknamed the Swan Nebula) is an H II region in the constellation of Sagittarius. It is about 5,500 light-years away from Earth. It was discovered by Philippe Loys de Chéseaux in 1745. Charles Messier added it to his catalog as M17 on the night of 3 June 1764. M17 has more names than any other deep-sky object. In addition to the Omega Nebula and Swan Nebula, it is also called the Horseshoe Nebula, the Checkmark Nebula and the Lobster Nebula. Omega can be seen through binoculars or a small telescope.

[[Bengt Hennings]]

CATEGORIES: Dansbands, Musical groups established in 1967, Swedish musical groups, 1960s establishments in Sweden, 1967 establishments in Europe

Bengt Hennings is a dansband from Länghem in Sweden. The band was established in 1967.  By the late 2000s and the early 2010s, the band scored album chart successes in Sweden.

The band participated at Dansbandskampen 2008. The band made it further from the first programme together with Scotts, before getting knocked out by Larz-Kristerz in the second programme. The band was then revoted into the finals. The band's wind section won a Guldklaven Award in 2008 in the year wind musicians of the year. The band has also participated in the documentary film Får jag lov - till den sista dansen?.

[[Lövgrens]]

CATEGORIES: Dansbands, Musical groups established in 1994, Swedish musical groups

Lövgrens is a dansband from Billesholm in Sweden. The band was established in 1994. In the early 2010s, the band has scored album chart successes in Sweden. The band was called Claes Lövgrens until July 2017. It was named after singer Claes Lövgren. The band's drummer Johan Fredriksson was awarded the "drummer of the year" in 2007.

Lövgrens has played together since 1994. Since new-year 2002-2003, the band is a full-time band, touring all over Sweden

[[Sugarloaf Cable Car]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 establishments in Brazil, Rio de Janeiro

The Sugarloaf Cable Car; Bondinho do Pão de Açúcar) is a cableway in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It moves between Praia Vermelha and the inselberg Sugarloaf Mountain. It stops at Morro da Urca (at 722) on its way up and down. It reaches the summit of the 1299 mountain.

The cableway was envisioned by the engineer Augusto Ferreira Ramos in 1908. He sought support from well-known figures of Rio de Janeiro's high society to promote its construction. It was opened in 1912

[[Juan Carlos Ferrero]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, French Open champions, Living people, Male tennis players, Spanish sportspeople, World No. 1 tennis players

Juan Carlos Ferrero Donat (born February 12, 1980) is a Spanish retired professional tennis player. He won the French Open in 2003.  Ferrero was ranked world number 1 from September 8 to November 2 in the same year.

[[Yevgeny Kafelnikov]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Australian Open champions, French Open champions, Living people, Male tennis players, Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics, Russian sportspeople, World No. 1 tennis players

Yevgeny Aleksandrovich Kafelnikov (born February 18, 1974) is a retired Russian professional tennis player. He won the French Open in 1996 and the Australian Open in 1999. Kafelnikov was world ranked number one from May 3 to June 13 1999. He also won four Grand Slam doubles titles. Kafelnikov won the Men's Singles Gold medal at the Sydney Olympic Games in 2000. He also helped Russia win the Davis Cup in 2002. He is the last man to have won both the Men's Singles and Doubles titles at the same Grand Slam tournament, which he did at the 1996 French Open.

[[María José Alvarado]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, 2014 deaths, Murder victims, Honduran people, Beauty pageant winners

María José Alvarado Muñoz (19 July 1995 –13 November 2014) was an Honduran beauty queen and Miss Honduras World 2014. She was scheduled to compete at the Miss World 2014 contest in London in December 2014, but was murdered before to the event. 

Alvarado was found dead on November 19, 2014 in Cablotales, Honduras. She was 19 years old.

[[Ramón Hoyos]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2014 deaths, 1956 Summer Olympics, 1960 Summer Olympics, Colombian cyclists, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Ramón Hoyos Vallejo (26 May 1932- 19 November 2014) was a Colombian road bicycle racer. He won the men's individual road race at the 1959 Pan American Games. He represented his native country twice at the Summer Olympics; in 1956 and 1960.

Hoyos died of a heart attack in Bogota, Colombia, aged 82. 

[[Otieno Kajwang]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Kenyan people, Civil servants, African politicians

Gerald Otieno Kajwang (15 July 1959 – 18 November 2014) was a Kenyan politician. He was a member of the Orange Democratic Movement. He was elected to represent the Mbita Constituency in the National Assembly of Kenya since the Kenyan parliamentary election, 2007. In the 2013 elections, Kajwang was elected to represent Homa Bay county as a senator.

Kajwang died on 19 November 2014 at Mater hospital from cardiac arrest, aged 55.

[[Gholam Hossein Mazloumi]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, Disease-related deaths in Iran, Iranian footballers, Iranian football managers

Gholam Hossein Mazloumi (13 January 1950 – 19 November 2014) was an Iranian football player, coach and football administrator. He was born in Abadan, Iran.

He played for a three clubs including Taj Abadan, Taj Tehran (Esteghlal), and Shahbaz FC, as well as the Iranian national team. He also managed Esteghlal from 1988 to 1989.

During his time as a football player, he scored 37 goals for Iran national football team and was Iran's all-time top scorer for twelve years before his record being broken by Ali Daei. He was top scorer of 1974 Asian Games and 1976 AFC Asian Cup.

He was chairman of Shahin Bushehr from 2011 until 2013 and also honorary deputy chairman of Esteghlal. He died on 19 November 2014 in Tehran, Iran, aged 64, two years after being diagnosed with stomach cancer.

[[Greg Lake]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, English rock guitarists, English rock singers, Musicians from Dorset, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, People from Poole, 2016 deaths

Gregory Stuart "Greg" Lake (10 November 1947 – 7 December 2016) was an English musician. He was born in Poole, Dorset. He began his career in 1966.

Lake was the founder of the rock band King Crimson. He was later the lead singer in the group Emerson, Lake and Palmer.

Lake died in London on 7 December 2016 from pancreatic cancer, aged 69.

[[Leon Askin]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Austrian movie actors, Austrian television actors, Actors from Vienna

Leon Askin (Leon Aschkenasy; September 18, 1907 – June 3, 2005) was an Austrian movie and television actor. He was best known for playing the character "General Burkhalter" on the TV situation comedy Hogan's Heroes. Askin was born in Vienna, Austria.

Askin died in Vienna, Austria from natural causes, aged 97.

[[Werner Herzog]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, German movie actors, German screenwriters, German television actors, German voice actors, German stage actors, German movie directors, German movie producers, German theatre directors, People from Munich

Werner Herzog Stipetić (ˈʋɛɐ̯nɐ ˈhɛɐ̯tsoːk ˈstɪpɛtɪt͡ʃ; born 5 September 1942 in Munich, Germany), known as Werner Herzog, is a German movie director, producer, screenwriter, author, actor and opera director. He is known for directing science fiction or just fiction movies and documentary films. Herzog is thought to be one of the greatest German movie directors.

[[Life Itself (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 movies, American biographical movies

Life Itself is a 2014 American biographical-documentary movie directed by Steve James. It is a biopic on the life and career of movie critic Roger Ebert. Movie directors such as Martin Scorsese and Werner Herzog appear in the documentary. It was released on July 4, 2014 to very positive reviews. It has a 98% on Rotten Tomatoes.

[[Foxcatcher]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies

Foxcatcher is a 2014 American biographical-drama movie directed by Bennett Miller. It is about how American philanthropist John Eleuthère du Pont killed an Olympian's brother in 1996. It stars Steve Carell, Channing Tatum, Mark Ruffalo, Vanessa Redgrave, and Anthony Michael Hall. It was released on a limited time on November 14, 2014 and will have an extended released in 2015.

[[Lolita (1997 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 drama movies, 1990s road movies, American drama movies, American road movies, English-language movies, Film noir, French drama movies, Incest in movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Adrian Lyne, Movies set in the 1940s, Movies set in the 1950s, Movies composed by Ennio Morricone, American independent movies, Movies about child sexual abuse

Lolita is a 1997 French-American drama movie. It is set in the late 1940s and early 1950s in the United States. It is about a relationship between a man in his forties and a 14 year old girl named Lolita after he marries her mother. Dominique Swain plays Dolores "Lolita" Haze. Jeremy Irons plays Humbert Humbert. Melanie Griffith plays Charlotte Haze. Frank Langella plays Clare Quilty, who lures Lolita away to perform in pornography.

The film had difficulty finding an American distributor and premiered in Europe before being released in America. The film was eventually picked up in the United States by Showtime, a cable network, before finally being released theatrically by The Samuel Goldwyn Company.

The movie got good reviews from the critics. It did poorly at the box office.

It was the second movie made from the book Lolita.

[[Rapunzel]]

CATEGORIES: Grimms' Fairy Tales

"Rapunzel" is a German fairy tale. It was first published in 1812 as part of Grimms' Fairy Tales. The best known line in the story is "Rapunzel, Rapunzel, let down your hair".

The story starts with a lonely couple that wants a child. They live next to a walled garden that belongs to an evil witch named Dame Gothel. The wife is pregnant with a girl. When she gives birth, Dame Gothel takes her newborn and names her Rapunzel.

When Rapunzel turns twelve, she is taken into a tower to be shut out from the world. One day a prince chances upon Rapunzel and asks her to marry him. She agrees. 

Dame Gothel finds out about the prince who is planning to free Rapunzel, so she cuts Rapunzel's hair off and sends her to a faraway desert. The following night the prince climbs up the tower only to find Dame Gothel instead of Rapunzel. Dame Gothel throws the prince out of the tower, leading him to fall on thorny bushes and become blind. Months later, the prince, who is still blind, finds Rapunzel through her singing. Rapunzel cries into his arms, and her tears bring back the prince's sight. The prince takes Rapunzel to his kingdom, where they lived happily ever after.

[[Teratorn]]

CATEGORIES: Birds, Fossils

Teratorns  were a group of very large birds of prey that lived in the Americas from the Miocene to Pleistocene epochs. They are all extinct now. They include some of the largest known flying birds. So far, at least five species in four genera have been identified:

Teratornithidae are related to New World vultures (Cathartidae, syn. Vulturidae).

[[Telegram (software)]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Telegram Messenger is a messaging service which lets its users send each other messages, photos, videos and documents (all file types are supported). The client applications are open source and the server is proprietary software (closed source)

[[Konstantin Khabensky]]

CATEGORIES: Russian actors, 1972 births, Living people

Konstantín Yúrievich Khabénsky (Константи́н Ю́рьевич Хабе́нский; born in 11 January, 1972) is a Russian actor. He played Anton Gorodetsky in the movie Night Watch. He also starred in the sequel, Day Watch. 

[[Yakety Yak]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s songs

"Yakety Yak" is a 1958 Motown song by The Coasters. The song was remixed to be used as the theme song to an early 2000s cartoon.

[[Tänndalen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Tänndalen, Southern Sami: Teanndaelie, is a minor locality in Härjedalen Municipality in Sweden. In 2010, 66 people lived there.

[[Davis Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Tennis tournaments

The Davis Cup is an annual tennis tournament. Countries from around the world compete against each other in teams.

Only the 16 best ranked teams take part. Teams play against each other in rounds or 'ties'. In each tie, 5 matches or 'rubbers' are played: four singles and one doubles match. The team to win the most matches (3 or more) is the winner and goes to the next round.

[[Argo Navis]]

CATEGORIES: Former constellations

Argo Navis is a constellation in the southern sky. In the past, it represented the ship of Jason and his argonauts who were in search of the Golden Fleece. Today, it is no longer seen as one constellation but is divided instead into three smaller ones. These are Puppis (the stern), Carina (the keel) and Vela (the sails). It is visible mainly in the southern hemisphere. If it were still recognized today it would be the biggest constellation in the sky.

[[Liria Palace]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Madrid, Palaces in Spain

The Liria Palace (Palacio de Liria) is a building in Madrid. It is the personal property of the House of Alba.

The palace was commissioned by Duke of Berwick. He was also Duke of Liria.

In the early 19th century, it passed to the House of Alba. Eugénie de Montijo, last empress consort of the French, died here in exile in 1920.

All but the facades were destroyed during the Spanish Civil War. It was rebuilt by Jacobo Fitz-James Stuart, 17th Duke of Alba and his daughter Cayetana. The British architect Edwin Lutyens provided some designs for the interior. The reconstruction used his plans, even though he died before then.

As of 2012, the owner of the palace was the 18th Duchess of Alba. She lived in Seville. The main resident of the palace was her son and heir Carlos Fitz-James Stuart, 14th Duke of Huéscar. 

[[Mike Nichols]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, American comedians, American movie directors, American playwrights, American theatre directors, Academy Award winning directors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Emmy Award winners, Golden Globe Award winners, Grammy Award winners, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Writers from Berlin, Tony Award winners

Mike Nichols (born Mikhail Igor Peschkowsky; November 6, 1931 – November 19, 2014) was an American television, stage and movie director, writer, producer and comedian. He was half of the comedy duo Nichols and May, along with Elaine May. In 1968 he won the Academy Award for Best Director for the movie The Graduate. His other movies include Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, Catch-22, Carnal Knowledge, Silkwood, Working Girl, Wolf, The Birdcage, Closer, Charlie Wilson's War (his final movie), and the TV mini-series Angels in America. He also staged the original theatrical productions of Barefoot in the Park, Luv, The Odd Couple and Spamalot.

Nichols won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony Award. His other honors included the Lincoln Center Gala Tribute in 1999, the National Medal of Arts in 2001, the Kennedy Center Honors in 2003 and the AFI Life Achievement Award in 2010.

Nichols died suddenly from a heart attack on November 19, 2014, at his home in Manhattan.

[[Alberto Moreno]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, People from Seville, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Andalusia

Alberto Moreno Pérez (born 5 July 1992) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Liverpool and Spain national team as a defender in the left back position.

[[Imaginos]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 albums

[[Curse of the Hidden Mirror]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 albums

[[Club Ninja]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 albums

Club Ninja is the tenth studio album by American heavy metal band Blue Oyster Cult. The album was released on December 10, 1985. It was the group's tenth studio album with label Columbia Records. It was their first studio album with new material in 2 years. It was their only album without keyboardist Allen Lanier.

[[Trophy Wife]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, 2013 American television series debuts, 2014 American television series endings, 2010s American television series, English-language television programs

Trophy Wife is an American television sitcom. It aired during the 2013–14 television season on ABC. The series was co-created and executive produced by Emily Halpern and Sarah Haskins for ABC Studios. The series was green-lit by ABC for a series order pick up on May 10, 2013. Trophy Wife premiered on September 24, 2013.

On May 8, 2014, ABC canceled Trophy Wife after one season. The final episode aired the following week.

The series starred Malin Åkerman, Bradley Whitford and Marcia Gay Harden.

[[Volker Schlöndorff]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning directors, 1939 births, Living people, German movie directors, German movie producers, German screenwriters, People from Berlin

Volker Schlöndorff (born 31 March 1939) is a German movie director, screenwriter, and movie producer. He is a very important director of the New German Cinema of the late 1960s and early 1970s.

He won an Oscar as well as the Palme d'or at the 1979 Cannes Film Festival for The Tin Drum (1979), the movie version of the novel by Nobel Prize-winning author Günter Grass.

[[Rainer Werner Fassbinder]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 1982 deaths, Actors from Bavaria, Bisexual people, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Drug-related accidental deaths, Extras, German LGBT people, German movie actors, German movie directors, German movie producers, German screenwriters, German stage actors, LGBT actors, LGBT directors, LGBT producers, LGBT screenwriters, Writers from Bavaria

Rainer Werner Fassbinder (ˈʀaɪ̯nɐ ˈvɛʁnɐ ˈfasˌbɪndɐ; 31 May 1945 – 10 June 1982) was a German stage and movie director, movie producer, screenwriter, and stage and movie actor. He is one of the most important figures in the New German Cinema. He was born in Bad Wörishofen, Bavaria, Germany.

Fassbinder was bisexual. He died at the age of 37 from a heart attack caused by a lethal cocktail of cocaine and barbiturates in Munich, Germany.

[[Cayetana Fitz-James Stuart, 18th Duchess of Alba]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2014 deaths, People from Madrid

María del Rosario Fitz-James Stuart y de Silva, (18th) Duchess of Alba de Tormes, Grandee of Spain (28 March 1926 – 20 November 2014) was a Spanish aristocrat. She was the head of the House of Alba. Stuart was the third woman to carry the title in her own right. She was born in Liria Palace, Madrid, Spain.

Stuart died in Palace of the Dukes of Alba, Seville, Spain, aged 88.

[[Ken Takakura]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from lymphoma, Disease-related deaths in Japan, Japanese movie actors, Japanese television actors, Japanese stage actors, Japanese voice actors, Actors from Fukuoka Prefecture

Ken Takakura, born Goichi Oda was a Japanese actor. He was best known for his roles in Black Rain and in The Yakuza. He won the Japan Academy Prize four times, more than any other actor. He was born in Nakama, Fukuoka, Japan.

Takakura died in Tokyo, Japan from lymphoma, aged 83.

[[Jim Webb]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 United States presidential candidates, Emmy Award winners, 1946 births, Living people, American journalists, United States Secretaries of the Navy, United States senators from Virginia, Politicians from Missouri, Politicians from Nebraska, People from St. Joseph, Missouri, US Democratic Party politicians

James Henry "Jim" Webb, Jr. (born February 9, 1946) is an American politician. He was a United States Senator from Virginia from 2007 to 2013. He is also an author and served as Secretary of the Navy from 1987 to 1988 under the Ronald Reagan administration. He is a member of the Democratic Party.

Webb announced on November 19, 2014 that he is forming a committee to run for President of the United States in 2016. On July 2, 2015, Webb announced that we will run for president in 2016. He suspended his campaign and withdrew from the election on October 20, 2015.

[[Paul Nitze]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 2004 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, United States Secretaries of the Navy, Politicians from Massachusetts, Politicians from Chicago, US Democratic Party politicians

Paul Henry Nitze (January 16, 1907 – October 19, 2004) was an American politician. He helped shape Cold War defense policy over the course of many presidential administrations. He helped Ronald Reagan negotiate the INF Treaty. 

[[Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 in the United States, Migration laws, Presidency of Ronald Reagan

The Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA), also known as the Simpson-Mazzoli Act, was signed into law by Ronald Reagan on November 6, 1986, is an Act of Congress which reformed United States immigration law. 

[[King Ralph]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies set in Las Vegas, Movies set in London

King Ralph is a 1991 American comedy movie, directed by David S. Ward. It stars John Goodman, Peter O'Toole, Richard Griffiths, Leslie Phillips, and John Hurt. It was released to negative reviews on February 15, 1991. The film was fairly successful at the box office, making $52 million compared to its $23 million overall budget.

[[Museum of Palaeontology and Archaeology of Estanzuela]]

CATEGORIES: Guatemala, Natural history museums, Museums in North America

The Museum of Palaeontology and Archaeology of Estanzuela is a museum in Estanzuela, Zacapa, Guatemala. The museum is the largest and only one of its kind in Guatemala. It displays mammoths and many other prehistoric animals found in Guatemala.

[[Audra McDonald]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Berlin, Actors from Fresno County, California, African American actors, African-American singers, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, People from Fresno, California, Singers from California, 1970 births, Living people, Emmy Award winning actors, Grammy Award winners, Tony Award winning actors

Audra McDonald (born July 3, 1970) is an American actress and singer. 

She played Professor Carla Bonatelle in the television series The Bedford Diaries, Dr. Naomi Bennett in Private Practice, and Jackie Brock in Mister Sterling. She was nominated for Emmy Awards for playing Susie Monahan in the TV movie Wit and Ruth Younger in the TV movie A Raisin in the Sun. She won an Emmy in 2015 for her part as Lucy in Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street, a musical that was filmed for Live From Lincoln Center. She was also in the Live From Lincoln Center filmed musical Passion as Clara and played Grace Farrell in the TV movie Annie and Mother Abbess in The Sound of Music Live!. Her show Lady Day at Emerson's Bar and Grill.

On Broadway she played Ayah in The Secret Garden, Carrie Pipperidge in Carousel, Sharon Graham in Master Class, Sarah in Ragtime, Marie Christine L'Adrese in Marie Christine, Lady Percy in Henry IV, Ruth Younger in A Raisin in the Sun, Lizzie Curry in 110 in the Shade, Olivia in Twelfth Night, Bess in Porgy and Bess, Billie Holiday in Lady Day at Emerson's Bar and Grill, and Lottie Gee in Shuffle Along: Or the Making of the Musical Sensation of 1921 and All That Followed. She won Tony Awards for Carousel, Master Class, Ragtime, A Raisin in the Sun, Porgy and Bess, and Lady Day at Emerson's Bar and Grill, and was nominated for Marie Christine and 110 in the Shade. She was also nominated for a Grammy Award for Porgy and Bess.

She also performed in the Broadway concert Something Wonderful and played Deena Jones in the Actor's Fund concert of Dreamgirls. She played Jenny in Rise and Fall of the City of Mahoganny at the Los Angeles Opera, and won two Grammy Awards for the cast album.

McDonald has also been in movies. She played Maureen in Ricki and the Flash, Sally in Hello Again, and Garderobe in Beauty and the Beast. 

She has her own concert DVD, Audra McDonald- Live at the Donmar London, and has done lots of shows at Carnegie Hall. She tours frequently. She also has five CDs- Way Back to Paradise, How Glory Goes, Happy Songs, Build a Bridge, and Go Back Home.

McDonald was born in Berlin, Germany to American parents. She was raised in Fresno, California.

[[Into the Woods (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical movies, 2010s fantasy movies, 2014 movies, Movies about giants

Into the Woods is a 2014 musical fantasy movie. The movie takes characters from different fairy tales, mixing stories. Meryl Streep plays The Witch. Anna Kendrick plays Cinderella. Johnny Depp plays The Wolf. Christine Baranski plays the Stepmother of Cinderella.

The movie was released on December 25, 2014.

[[Frémontiers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Frémontiers is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 150 people lived there.

[[Gamaches]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Gamaches is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 2,730 people lived there.

[[Gapennes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Gapennes is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 253 people lived there. 

[[Gentelles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Gentelles is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 562 people lived there.

[[Ginchy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ginchy is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Gratibus]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Gratibus is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Grivillers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Grivillers is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Gruny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Gruny is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Grivesnes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Grivesnes is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Guerbigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Guerbigny is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Grattepanche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Grattepanche is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Grécourt]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Somme

Grécourt is a former commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the commune of Hombleux.

[[Gueschart]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Gueschart is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Gueudecourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Gueudecourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Guignemicourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Guignemicourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France. It is located 9 southwest of Amiens.

[[Guillaucourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Guillaucourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Guillemont]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Guillemont is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

It was an heavy area of combat during World War I. 

[[Guizancourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Guizancourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Frettecuisse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Frettecuisse is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Friaucourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Friaucourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Fréchencourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Fréchencourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Incineration]]

CATEGORIES: Waste management

Incineration is a form of waste disposal in which waste is burnt. Incineration converts the waste into ash, flue gas, and heat. The heat can be used to generate electricity with a steam turbine.

[[Frucourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Frucourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Fricourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Fricourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Froyelles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Froyelles is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Frettemeule]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Frettemeule is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Fricamps]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Fricamps is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Hervilly]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Hervilly is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Bermesnil]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Bermesnil is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Léalvillers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Léalvillers is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Hull City Hall]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in England, Grade II* listed buildings, Kingston upon Hull

Hull City Hall is a civic building in Kingston upon Hull, East Riding of Yorkshire, England. The City Hall does not perform an administrative function for Hull's council. This is based in the Guildhall.

It is a Grade II* listed building, built in the Neo-Baroque style by Hull's City architect Joseph Hirst 1903–09. It was restored c.1950 following war damage. It was altered in 1986 and 1989.

It is located in Queen Victoria Square in the city centre. Hull City Hall is home to a grand central hall which plays host to a varied programme of concerts including pop, rock and classical music as well as civic functions such as graduation ceremonies for the University of Hull. The city's main tourist information office and shop is based on the building's ground floor.

[[Louvrechy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Louvrechy is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 206 people lived there.

[[Badger]]

CATEGORIES: Mustelids

Badgers are short-legged mammals found across Europe, Africa, North America and Asia. 

[[Lamaronde]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Lamaronde is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 64 people lived there.

[[Laucourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Laucourt is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 174 people lived there.

[[Lanchères]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Lanchères is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 1,002 people lived there.

[[Hérissart]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Hérissart is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 559 people lived there.

[[Hénencourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Hénencourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Le Translay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Le Translay is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Lihons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Lihons is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Blood substitute]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology, Blood

Blood substitute (also called blood surrogate) is the name for a number of substances that can perform some functions of blood. Blood substitutes are often used in blood transfusions where real blood is not available. Losing a lot of blood can mean there is not enough blood left to keep up the oxygen transfer to certain organs, or the brain. This state is a medical emergency, as it can lead to organ failure and death. Blood substitutes can help in these situations.

[[Esperanto symbols]]

CATEGORIES: Esperanto, Symbols

Esperanto, the most used constructed language, has got some traditional symbols during its history.

[[Liomer]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Liomer is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Machiel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Machiel is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 177 people lived there.

[[Lucheux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Lucheux is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 577 people lived there.

[[Liéramont]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Liéramont is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Argoules]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Argoules is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France. Just over 300 people live in Argoules.

[[Aveluy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Aveluy is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Authuille]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Authuille is a commune. It is in the Hauts-de-France region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 169 people lived there.

[[Temperament]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Temperament is a term from psychology to describe the way in which an individual behaves. Examples for temperament are introversion and extroversion. Many psychologists believe that the traits called temperament are innate, and that they are not learned. Temperament also seems to be independent of the mood of the person or animal.

Galen of Pergamon was among the first people to describe different temperaments, or humors, as they were called at the time. Galen identified four types: 

These correspond to the four classical elements fire, water, earth and air.stub

[[Authieule]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Authieule is a commune. It is in the Hauts-de-France region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 365 people lived there.

[[The Pillow Book]]

CATEGORIES: Non-fiction books, 10th century books, Japanese culture

The Pillow Book is a book written by Sei Shōnagon 994. Sei Shōnagon was a member of the Kiyohara family. She wrote the notes that made up her diary (or "pillow book") while she was a member of the court of Empress Sadako. The book is a classic of Japanese literature. It is one of two of the greatest examples of prose literature of this time period. It is a collection of pieces of writing that vary from one or two sentences to several pages. It is the author's observations of people, life at court, and nature. 

[[Maisnières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Maisnières is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Loeuilly]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Somme

Loeuilly is a former commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Ô-de-Selle.

[[Liercourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Liercourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Ligescourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ligescourt is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 231 people lived there.

[[Licourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Licourt is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 391 people lived there.

[[Huppy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Huppy is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2012, 818 people lived there.

[[Ignaucourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ignaucourt is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Cizancourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Cizancourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Chuignes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Chuignes is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Chirmont]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Chirmont is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Carrépuis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Carrépuis is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[Brucamps]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Brucamps is a commune. It is in the region Hauts-de-France in the Somme department in the north of France.

There are still many sculpted and decorated farmhouses from the 19th century, built of stone and brick (which are no longer in use today).

Several of these farms had arched gateways. That helped avoid damage from incoming carriages. 

[[Hancourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Hancourt is a commune. It is in the region Picardie in the Somme department in the north of France.

[[René]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

René is a given name. It is used for both males and females. It is common in French- and Spanish-speaking areas. The name comes from the Latin name Renatus. The name René was originally given only to males. In some countries that are not French-speaking, the name is also given to females (sometimes without the accent). One person with this name is Rene Russo.

[[Sebastián Rulli]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Argentine models, Actors from Buenos Aires

Sebastián Rulli (born July 6, 1975 in Buenos Aires, Argentina), is a Argentine actor and model.

[[August Vandekerkhove]]

CATEGORIES: 1838 births, 1923 deaths, Belgian painters, Belgian poets, Belgian playwrights, Feminists, Occultists, People from West Flanders

August Vandekerkhove (15 October 1838 Kanegem - 24 March 1923 Mâcon) was a Belgian writer, playwright, poet, painter and inventor. He wrote under the pseudonym S.U. Zanne. Vandekerkhove started a movement he called Cosmosofie (Cosmosophy). He said that Cosmosophy was the opposite of Theosophy. When he was young he wrote a novel and three plays. His literary work was inspired by ethics and psychology. Later he moved to Scotland, the USA and France.

In France he wrote works on kabala, esotericism and the occult. He was one of the first writers talking about subjects like feminism and the Age of Aquarius. Each year on Palm Sunday at 5 PM, at the cemetery of Flacé in Mâcon in France, people come together to remember him.

[[Willem Elsschot]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1960 deaths, Belgian novelists, Belgian poets, Writers from Antwerp

Willem Elsschot  (7 May 1882 - 31 May 1960), was a Belgian writer and poet.

His real name was Alphonsus Josephus de Ridder.

He was born in Antwerp. His parents ran a bakery.

He studied at the Atheneum of Antwerp, were he was inspired for literature by his teacher Pol de Mont. Later he went to the business high school of Antwerp and ran an advertising agency.

[[Yusufkhel District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Afghanistan, 2004 establishments in Asia

Yusuf Khel (یوسف خیل) is a district in Paktika Province, Afghanistan. It was established in 2004 after a subdivision of Zarghun Shar.

[[Vaughan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ontario

Vaughan (v VAWN) is a city in York Region north of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Vaughan was the fastest-growing municipality in Canada between 1996–2006, achieving a population growth rate of 80.2% according to Statistics Canada, having nearly doubled in population since 1991. It is the fifth-largest city in the Greater Toronto Area, and the 17th largest city in Canada.

[[Koenraad Elst]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Belgian journalists, Belgian scientists, Belgian writers, Columnists, People from Flemish Brabant

Koenraad Elst (7 August 1959) is a Belgian author, orientalist and Indologist. Elst is known for his writings in support for the Out of India theory. It's true that the Indo-European language family originated in India.

Elst was born in Leuven, Belgium on 7 August 1959. He studied Indology, Sinology and philosophy. His family was Flemish Catholic. He earned a Ph.D. from the Catholic University of Leuven (Belgium). Elst is known for his views on the Indo-European culture and languages.

[[Betsy Blair]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from New Jersey, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, Cancer deaths in London, 1923 births, 2009 deaths

Elizabeth Winifred Boger (known as Betsy Blair; December 11, 1923 – March 13, 2009) was an American movie and stage actress. Her movies include A Double Life and Marty. 

Blair was born in Cliffside Park, New Jersey. She died in London from cancer of unknown primary origin at 85.

[[Kathleen Byron]]

CATEGORIES: English television actors, English stage actors, English movie actors, Actors from London, 1923 births, 2009 deaths

Kathleen Byron (11 January 1921 – 18 January 2009) was a British actress. She acted in movies, theatre, and on television. She played Sister Ruth in Black Narcissus She played Annette in The Reluctant Widow (1950).

Byron was born in London. She died there at age 88.

[[Slava Voynov]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, Russian ice hockey players, Stanley Cup champions, American Hockey League players, Ice hockey defencemen

Vyacheslav Leonidovich Voynov (Вячесла́в Леони́дович Во́йнов; born January 15, 1990) is a Russian ice hockey defenceman. He currently plays for the Los Angeles Kings of the National Hockey League (NHL). He is currently suspended indefinitely from the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[St. Nicolas Church, Nuneaton]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in England, Listed buildings

St. Nicolas Church is a church in Nuneaton, operated by the Church of England.  The building dates back to the  first half of the 14th century.  It was badly damaged during the Second World War. After the war, it was rebuilt by prisoners of war. Today, it is a Grade I listed building.

[[Domart-sur-la-Luce]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Domart-sur-la-Luce is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 427 people lived there. The village was destroyed during World War I.

[[Dargnies]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Dargnies is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 1,324 people lived there. Dargnies is 4 from Amiens.

[[Cottenchy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Cottenchy is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 509 people lived there.

[[Champien]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Champien is a commune. It is in the Hauts-de-France region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 290 people lived there.

[[Cachy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Cachy is a commune. It is in the Hauts-de-France region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 260 people lived there.

[[Béalcourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Béalcourt is a commune. It is in the Hauts-de-France region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 102 people lived there.

[[Béthencourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Béthencourt is a commune. It is in the Hauts-de-France region in the Nord department in the north of France. In 2011, 760 people lived there.

[[Fourcigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Fourcigny is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 183 people lived there. It is found 26 miles southwest of Amiens.

[[Driencourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Driencourt is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 94 people lived there.

The village was destroyed during World War I.

[[Dromesnil]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Dromesnil is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. It is 39 from Amiens and 119 from Paris. In 2011, 102 people lived there.

[[Englebelmer]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Englebelmer is a commune. It is in the Picardie region in the Somme department in the north of France. In 2011, 278 people lived there.

[[Toronto Pearson International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Canada, Transport in Ontario

Lester B. Pearson International Airport YYZ, called the Toronto Pearson International Airport (or simply Pearson Airport or Toronto Pearson) is an international airport in the Greater Toronto Area. The airport is 22.5 northwest of downtown Toronto, in Mississauga. The airport is named after Lester B. Pearson, Nobel Peace Prize winner and 14th Prime Minister of Canada.

[[Marian and Vivian Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Twin people from the United States, People from Kalamazoo, Michigan, People from San Francisco

Marian (January 25, 1927 – November 20, 2014) and Vivian Brown (January 25, 1927 – January 9, 2013) were American identical twins and celebrity icons of San Francisco. They were known as the San Francisco Twins. They were voted second as San Francisco's "Best Local Character" in 2000. They lived or mostly appeared at Nob Hill. They were born in Kalamazoo, Michigan.

Vivian died on January 9, 2013 in San Francisco, California from Alzheimer's disease, aged 85. Marian Brown died on November 20, 2014 from natural causes in San Mateo, California, aged 87.

[[Fiorenzo Angelini]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2014 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Deaths from natural causes, Italian Roman Catholics, People from Rome

Fiorenzo Angelini (1 August 1916 – 22 November 2014) was an Italian Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. He was the former President of the Pontifical Council for the Pastoral Care of Health Care Workers in the Roman Curia. He was born in Rome, Italy.

He was elevated to the cardinalate in 1991. When Cardinal Ersilio Tonini died on 28 July 2013, Cardinal Angelini became the oldest living cardinal until Pope Francis appointed 98-year old Archbishop Loris Francesco Capovilla as a cardinal.

Angelini died in Rome, Italy from natural causes, aged 98.

[[John Bucyk]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Detroit Red Wings players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, Sportspeople from Edmonton, Stanley Cup champions

John Paul "Chief" Bucyk (born May 12, 1935) is a Canadian retired ice hockey left winger. He played most of his career with the Boston Bruins.

Bucyk was born on May 12, 1935 in Edmonton to Ukrainian immigrants.

Bucyk was a skilled left winger who was one of the biggest players of his day.  He had a long and great career, and had scored the fourth most points and played the third most games ever when he retired in 1978. He was also the highest scoring left winger ever.  He was a very clean player and won the Lady Byng Memorial Trophy for sportsmanship in 1971 and 1974.

Bucyk played junior hockey for four seasons for his hometown team. Then he signed up with the Detroit Red Wings in 1955.  Two years later he was traded to the Bruins.  Bucyk became the top left wing in Boston and was a star for the team for 22 years.  He often served as the team's captain.

When he retired, the Bruins also retired his number #9 jersey.  He was also elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1981.  He scored 545 goals as a Bruin, the most in team history.  Only Ray Bourque had more points and assists for the Bruins.

Bucyk still works the Bruins and is the team's director of road services. 

[[Loris Francesco Capovilla]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2016 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Italian Roman Catholics, People from Veneto, Roman Catholic bishops

Loris Francesco Capovilla (14 October 1915 – 26 May 2016) was an Italian Roman Catholic prelate. At the age of 100, he was one of the oldest Roman Catholic bishops. Since his elevation in February 2014 until his death in May 2016, he was the oldest member of the College of Cardinals.

Capovilla was born in Pontelongo, Veneto, Kingdom of Italy. He died on 26 May 2016 in Milan at the age of 100.

[[John H. Land]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2014 deaths, American mayors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Florida, Deaths from stroke, Politicians from Florida, US Republican Party politicians

John H. Land (November 5, 1920 – November 21, 2014) was an American politician. He was the longest serving mayor in the history of Florida and one of the longest serving mayors in the United States. After having serving as mayor since 1970, Land lost his mayoral seat to Joe Kilsheimer on April 8, 2014. Land was born in Plant City, Florida.

Land died in a hospital in Orlando, Florida from a massive stroke, aged 94.

[[Ahmad Lozi]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2014 deaths, Prime Ministers of Jordan

Ahmad Lozi (also spelled Ahmad al-Lawzi) (1925–18 November 2014) was a Jordanian politician. He served as Prime Minister of Jordan from 29 November 1971 to 26 May 1973.

[[Reg Withers]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2014 deaths, Mayors, Politicians from Western Australia

Reginald Greive "Reg" Withers (26 October 1924 – 15 November 2014) was an Australian politician. He was the long-serving member of the Australian Senate. Withers served as Lord Mayor of Perth from 1991 through 1994. He was also known for being a harsh critic of Australian prime minister Gough Whitlam.

Withers died in Perth, Western Australia, aged 90.

[[Lonely Hearts (1991)]]

CATEGORIES: American television movies, American romantic drama movies, American mystery movies, American thriller movies, Film noir, 1991 movies

Lonely Hearts is a 1991 American drama, romance, mystery & suspense television movie. It was directed by Andrew Lane. It is considered a modern film noir. Lonely Hearts is about a lonely woman who becomes obsessed with a con man. She even poses as his sister to help him trick other women.

[[Marion Barry]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2014 deaths, African American politicians, American criminals, American people convicted of drug offenses, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Mayors of Washington, D.C., Organ transplant recipients, Politicians from Memphis, Tennessee, People with cancer, Politicians from Mississippi, US Democratic Party politicians

Marion Shepilov Barry, Jr. (March 6, 1936 – November 23, 2014) was an American politician.

Barry was born in Itta Bena, Mississippi. He moved to Memphis, Tennessee at age five.

He served as the second elected Mayor of the District of Columbia from 1979 to 1991, and again as the fourth Mayor from 1995 to 1999 for the Democratic Party.

He has been a member of the Council of the District of Columbia, representing District of Columbia's Ward 8 from 2005 until his death in 2014.

Barry served a prison sentence for possession of crack cocaine and probation for not paying tax.

Barry had diabetes and prostate cancer. He had a kidney transplant in 2009. He died at a hospital in Washington, D.C., on November 23, 2014 from cardiac arrest, aged 78.

[[Vira Silenti]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Campania, Italian movie actors, People from Naples, Road accident deaths

Vira Silenti (Elvira Giovene; 16 April 1931 - 1 November 2014) was an Italian actress. She was known for her roles in I Vitelloni, The Story of Joseph and his Brethren, and in Atlas Against the Cyclops. Silenti was born in Naples, Italy.

Silenti was hit by a car on 31 October 2014 in Rome, Italy. She died the next day from her injuries at the age of 83.

[[Daron Malakian]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Armenian people, American singers, American guitarists

Daron Malakian (born July 18, 1975) is an Armenian-American musician. He is best known for being the lead guitarist of System of a Down. He was also the lead singer and guitarist for Scars on Broadway. He is the only member of System of a Down who was born in the United States. He placed 30th in Guitar World's "100 Greatest Heavy Metal Guitarists Of All Time".

[[Volda]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Norway

Volda is a municipality in Møre og Romsdal county, Norway.

It has a population of approximately 9000 people in 2016. Almost half of them are students.

[[Ernest Claes]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1968 deaths, Belgian journalists, Belgian novelists, Civil servants, People from Flemish Brabant

Ernest Claes (24 October 1885 in Zichem - 2 September 1968 in Elsene) was a Flemish author.

His real name was Andreas Ernestus Josephus Claes. He was born to Petrus Josephus Claes and Maria Theresia Lemmens. His parents were farmers and they had nine children. He was a good student and studied at the Catholic University of Leuven.

For some of his works he used the pseudonym, G. van Hasselt.

Claes was for years a favorite author in Belgium.  His novel De Witte was reprinted more than 100 times.

[[Sergey Nechayev]]

CATEGORIES: 1847 births, 1882 deaths, Murderers, People who died in prison custody, Russian writers, Terrorists, Anarchists

Sergey Nechayev  (2 October 1847 – 21 November or 3 December 1882) was a Russian revolutionary terrorist.

He was a leader in the Nihilist movement and known for his single-minded pursuit of revolution by any means necessary, including murder.

[[Gijón]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Spain, Municipalities in Asturias

Gijón (Asturian: Xixón) is a city in the autonomous community of Asturias in Spain. It is located on the Bay of Biscay, about 20 north of Oviedo. Gijón has a population of 275,274 inhabitants, more than any other city in Asturias.

[[Johan Daisne]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1978 deaths, Belgian novelists, Belgian poets, People from Ghent

Johan Daisne  (2 September 1912, Ghent – 9 August 1978, Ghent), was a of Flemish author. His real name was Herman Thiery. His father, Leo Thiery, was the founder of the School Museum in Ghent.

He studied Economics and Slavic languages at the Ghent University. Later he became chief librarian of Ghent.

Daisne was one of the first magical realist writers in the Dutch language.

[[Isidoor Teirlinck]]

CATEGORIES: 1851 births, 1934 deaths, Belgian poets, Belgian writers

Isidoor Teirlinck (2 January 1851, He was the father of the writer Herman Teirlinck.

He was famous for his books on legends and folklore, especially folklore of plants. His books Flora Diabolica and Flora Magica are still classic books in their field. He worked for years as a school teacher. He taught mathematics and physics at normal schools in Brussels.

[[Rolling Stones Records]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1992 disestablishments in Europe, 1990s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, British record labels

Rolling Stones Records was a British record label. It formed by formed by the Rolling Stones members: Mick Jagger, Keith Richards, Mick Taylor, Charlie Watts and Bill Wyman in 1970. Atlantic Records was the distributor for Rolling Stones Records. It closed in 1992 when the band signed with Virgin Records.

[[Herman Teirlinck]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1967 deaths, Belgian journalists, Belgian novelists, Belgian playwrights, Belgian poets, People from Brussels-Capital Region

Herman Louis Cesar Teirlinck (24 February 1879, Sint-Jans-Molenbeek – 4 February 1967, Beersel) was a Belgian writer of novels, plays, and poetry.

[[Alice Nahon]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1833 deaths, Belgian poets, Disease-related deaths in Belgium, Writers from Antwerp

Alice Nahon (16 August 1896, Antwerp – 21 May 1933, Antwerp) was a Belgian poet.

Her father was born in the Netherlands in a French family. Her mother came from Putte nearby Mechelen.

As a young woman she suffered from chronic bronchitis, but this was wrongly diagnosed as tuberculosis. This is the reason she spent many years in hospitals.

She studied and graduated in agriculture. Alice also began studying to be a nurse. At the same time she studied literature. She was also librarian in Mechelen. At the end of her life she lived in the medieval castle Cantecroy in Mortsel, a suburb of Antwerp.

She is especially remembered for her poem Avondliedeke  (English: Little Evening Song). This poem is a classic on ethical and mystic evening meditation.

[[Pol de Mont]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 births, 1931 deaths, Belgian journalists, Belgian poets, Belgian writers, People from Flemish Brabant

Karel Maria Polydoor (Pol) de Mont (15 April 1857, Wambeek – 29 June 1931, Berlin) was a Belgian writer, journalist and poet.

He studied law at the Catholic University of Leuven. There he met Albrecht Rodenbach and the two became involved in the  Flemish Movement. He then became a teacher at the Atheneum of Antwerp, where he inspired many students. Later he became director of the Museum of Fine Arts of Antwerp. 

As chief editor of the newspaper De Schelde he had in his team the writers Paul Van Ostaijen and Alice Nahon.

[[Lunar meteorite]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorites

A lunar meteorite is a meteorite that is known to have come from the Moon. A meteorite hitting the Moon is normally classified as a transient lunar phenomenon.

[[Arthur (1981 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 romance movies, 1981 comedy movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, Academy Award winning movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City, Works about alcoholism, Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award

Arthur  is a 1981 comedy movie written and directed by Steve Gordon. The movie stars Dudley Moore as Arthur Bach, a drunken New York City millionaire. Arthur is about to be married to a wealthy heiress. Instead he falls for a working class girl from Queens. It was the only movie directed by Gordon, who died in November 1982 of a heart attack. Arthur earned nearly $96 million in the US, making it the fourth highest grossing movie of 1981. The film was nominated for a total of four Academy Awards. Sir John Gielgud won an Best Supporting Actor. The theme song won Best Original Song.

It was followed by a sequel, Arthur 2: On the Rocks and a remake, Arthur.

[[Emotional Rescue]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 albums, The Rolling Stones

Emotional Rescue is the tenth Worldwide studio album and seventeenth American studio album by The Rolling Stones. The album was released on June 24, 1980. It was the group's seventh studio album with label Rolling Stones Records.

[[Cool C]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American rap musicians from Pennsylvania, American murderers, Musicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Christopher Douglass Roney (born December 15, 1969), known by the stage name Cool C, is an American rapper. He is known today for killing a Philadelphia police officer in a bank robbery in January 1996. 

He is currently at the Pennsylvania state prison awaiting execution. He was to have been put to death by lethal injection on March 9, 2006, but his execution was postponed. It was scheduled for January 8, 2015 before being postponed in December 2014 by a court order.

[[Sisavath Keobounphanh]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Asian politicians, Communist politicians, Prime Ministers of Laos, Vice Presidents of Laos

Sisavath Keobounphanh (ສີສະຫວາດ ແກ້ວບຸນພັນ; 1 May 1928 – 12 May 2020) was a Laotian politician. He served as Vice President of Laos from 1996 to 1998. He was also the third Prime Minister from 1998 to 2001. He is President of the Lao Front for National Construction from 2001 until 2011, when he was succeeded by Phandoungchit Vongsa. He is a member of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party.

Keobounphanh died on 12 May 2020 in Vientiane, Laos at the age of 92.

[[Li Zicheng]]

Li Zicheng (22 September 1606 – 1645), born Li Hongji, nicknamed "Dashing King"or "Chuang King", Li was a Chinese Uprising leader. He was born in Mizhi County, Yulin, Shaanxi in the late Ming Dynasty.

In 1644, he entered and conquered Beijing.He enthroned in Beijing and became the Emperor of the Shun Dynasty.His dynasty didn't last a long time. In May 27 the same year, Manchu regent Dorgon defeated Uprising leader Li Zicheng of the Shun Dynasty at the Battle of Shanhai Pass, allowing the Manchus to enter and conquer Beijing. Li died in 1645, aged 39.

[[Peter McDougall]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, British playwrights, Scottish writers

Peter McDougall (born 1947, Greenock, Scotland) is a BAFTA and Prix Italia award-winning television playwright. His major success was in the 1970s.

McDougall claims to have had very little schooling. He also claims he rarely read books. He began his working life at the age of fourteen in the shipyards of Greater Glasgow and Greenock. McDougall worked there with future comedian and actor Billy Connolly. The pair were depressed by the harsh conditions. They felt low because of the menial work. McDougall left Scotland. He moved to London. He worked as a house painter there.

In October 2007, a DVD boxed set featuring most of McDougall's work, "The Peter McDougall Collection" was released by John Williams Productions. This collection featured three Play for Today titles: Just Another Saturday, The Elephant's Graveyard, Just A Boy's Game, and a Screen One drama: Down Among the Big Boys. It also featured on the DVD an exclusive documentary Razor Sharp. ""Razor Sharp" was written and presented by Scottish writer Simon Farquhar. It explored the work and life of Peter McDougall. The DVD featured a rare interview with Peter McDougall.

McDougall was finally awarded with a BAFTA in 2008. He received a lifetime achievement award - for "Outstanding contribution to Scottish broadcasting". A retrospective multiple screening of John Mackenzie and McDougall's collaborations was also shown at the Edinburgh International Festival in 2009.

McDougall was also one of a number of prominent Scots who attended the 2010 funeral of Trade Union Leader Jimmy Reid. Scottish filmmaker Eleanor Yule has also made a documentary for the BBC "Late Show" on the work of McDougall.

McDougall lives in the West End of Glasgow. He resides with his parter, acclaimed director and writer Morag Fullarton. McDougall can often be seen hanging around the famous Oran Mor theatre pub in the West of Glasgow.

[[Hubert Lampo]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2006 deaths, Belgian novelists, Writers from Antwerp

Hubert Leon Lampo (1 September  1920, Antwerp – 12 July 2006, Essen) was a Flemish writer. His father worked at the post office and his mother was a teacher. In 1938 he became himself a teacher. Later he became national inspector of the Flemish libraries. He is the father of Jan Lampo.

After Johan Daisne, he is one of the founders of the magic realist literary movement in Flanders.

[[Jonás Gutiérrez]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

Jonás Manuel Gutiérrez (born 5 July 1983) is an Argentine retired football player. He played for Newcastle United and Argentina national team as midfielder.

[[Sticky Fingers]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 albums, The Rolling Stones, Blues rock albums

Sticky Fingers is the fourth worldwide and eleventh American studio album by The Rolling Stones. The album was released on April 27, 1971. It was the group's first studio album with label Rolling Stones Records.

[[Ahmed Fagih]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, African diplomats, Essayists, Journalists, Libyan people, Novelists, Playwrights

Ahmed Ibrahim al-Fagih (أحمد إبراهيم الفقيه ’áħmad 'Ibrāhīm al-faqīh) (born December 28, 1942) is a Libyan novelist, playwright, essayist, journalist and diplomat. He began writing short stories at an early age. He published them in Libyan newspapers and magazines. Hl-Fagih gained recognition in 1965 when his first collection of short stories There Is No Water in the Sea (البحر لا ماء فيه) won him the highest award sponsored by the Royal Commission of Fine Arts in Libya. Fagih wrote more many books in of different genres. They included short stories, novels, plays, and essays. Some of them are the Gazelles (play) Evening Visitor (play), Gardens of the Night Trilogy (novels), The Valley of Ashes (novel), and his twelve volume epic novel Maps of the Soul.

Ahmed Fagih held several diplomatic posts representing Libya, in London, Athens, Bucharest and Cairo. Fagih lives and works between Cairo and Tripoli.

[[Crate]]

CATEGORIES: Wood, Containers

A crate is a type of container often used in shipping. It can be made of wood, but crates made to carry bottles are often plastic. Steel and aluminium crates are also used.

[[Jason Ritter]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors

Jason Morgan Ritter (born February 17, 1980) is an American actor. He received an Emmy Award nomination for his role in Parenthood.

Ritter's mother is Nancy Morgan. His father was John Ritter. Ritter first appeared in the opening credits of his father's show, Three's Company.

[[Survivor Series (2014)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in professional wrestling, Sports in St. Louis, Missouri, Survivor Series, 2010s in St. Louis, Missouri, 2014 in American television, 2014 in Missouri

Survivor Series (2014) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on November 23, 2014 at Scottrade Center in St. Louis, Missouri. It was the twenty-eighth Survivor Series event held by the WWE. The PPV was offered for free to new subscribers of the WWE Network.

The main event saw Team Cena (John Cena, Dolph Ziggler, Big Show, Erick Rowan and Ryback) defeat Team Authority (Seth Rollins, Kane, Mark Henry, Rusev and Luke Harper) in a traditional 5-on-5 Survivor Series elimination tag team match. A stipulation was added to the match that if Team Authority lost, they would be removed from power. If Team Cena lost, every member of Team Cena except for Cena would have been fired.

The PPV was also notable for the first appearance of former WCW and TNA wrestler Sting on WWE, who was a long hold out on signing with the company.

[[Flatbread]]

CATEGORIES: Flatbreads

A flatbread is a bread made with flour, water, and salt.  The flatbread is then rolled into a flattened dough. Many flatbreads are made without yeast: they are unleavened bread.  Some have a very little yeast, such as pita and naan. It is also a type that pizza crusts use.

There are many other ingredients that flatbreads may have.  Curry powder, diced jalapeños, chili powder, black pepper, olive oil, sesame oil, etc. may be added.  Flatbreads can range from one millimeter to a few centimeters thick.

[[Santa Claus lore]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas

Santa Claus has many homes in the world. His main family house is near the beautiful and magnificent Northern Lights region (Aurea Borealis countries) in the polar north of the world. "As time went by, more and more was added to the Santa Claus legend. Thomas Nast, a 19th century cartoonist, did a series of drawings for "Harper's Weekly". Nash's vision of Santa had him living at the North Pole."

More people in many far away countries have to receive new gifts and rewards for their goodness.  They get gifts for their compassionate polite manners, gentleness, and good deeds towards their family, their parents, and their brothers and sisters.

"Any kid can tell you where Santa Claus is from—the North Pole. But his historical journey is even longer and more fantastic than his annual, one-night circumnavigation of the globe."

Santa's new additional homes in many more countries make it easier and faster for the postal services to bring all the letters from every good person who writes to Santa Claus.

[[Marcel Breuer]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1981 deaths, American architects, American Jews, Designers, Hungarian Jews, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Marcel Lajos Breuer (pronounced broy-ər ; 22 May 1902 – 1 July 1981) was a Hungarian-American modernist, architect and furniture designer of Jewish descent. 

He was born in Pécs on May 21, 1902. 

One of the masters of modernism, Breuer used the ideas he had developed in the carpentry shop at the Bauhaus. His personal architecture made him one of the world’s most popular architects. He died in New York City.

His philosophy follows the concepts of form over function. 

[[Good Riddance (Time of Your Life)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 songs, Green Day songs, Rock ballads, 1990s ballads

"Good Riddance (Time of Your Life)" is the second single off American punk rock band Green Day's fifth studio album Nimrod. The song was released on October 17, 1997. The song was first written by lead singer Billie Joe Armstrong before the release of the band's third album Dookie in 1994 but the song was not released until Green Day's fifth album, Nimrod in 1997.

In 1998, the band were able to win their first MTV Video Music Award for Best Alternative Video. The song was also nominated in the category of Viewer's Choice.

The song has become popular at prom dances, to the band's surprise.

[[Miguel Gila]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish actors, Comedians, 1919 births, 2001 deaths

Gila

Miguel Gila Cuesta (12 March 1919 in Madrid - 13 July 2001 in Barcelona, Catalonia) was a Spanish comedian.

[[Ivar Aasen]]

CATEGORIES: 1813 births, 1896 deaths, Norwegian people

Ivar Andreas Aasen (5 August 1813 – 23 September 1896) was a Norwegian philologist and lexicographer. He is best known for creating a new variant of the Norwegian language based on the way people in Norway spoke. His aim was to replace Danish as the official written language in Norway. He wanted a new written language that sounded more like the spoken Norwegian of ordinary people. Danish had become the official written language during Norway's union with Denmark (1400s-1814). It was only mastered by a few middle and upper class Norwegians.

[[New World oriole]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes

New World orioles are a group of birds in the genus Icterus. They are in the blackbird family, and not related to Old World orioles of the family Oriolidae. Icterid species are strikingly similar in size, diet, behaviour, and strongly contrasting plumage to Old World orioles. This is a good example of convergent evolution. 

Males are typically black and vibrant yellow or orange with white markings, females and immature birds duller. They moult annually. New World orioles are generally slender with long tails and a pointed bill. They mainly eat insects, but also enjoy nectar and fruit. The nest is a woven, elongated pouch. Species nesting in areas with cold winters are strongly migratory, while subtropical and tropical species are more sedentary (do not migrate.

The name "oriole" was first recorded (in the Latin form oriolus) by Albertus Magnus in about 1250, which he stated to be onomatopoeic, from the song of the European golden oriole. 

The genus name Icterus as used by classical authors, referred to a bird with yellow or green plumage. In modern times this has been identified as the golden oriole. Brisson mistakenly re-applied the name to the New World birds because of their similarity in appearance.

[[Volcanoes in Iceland]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Iceland

Many volcanoes in Iceland are active volcanoes. This is due to its location on the mid-Atlantic Ridge which is a tectonic plate boundary. Iceland has 30 active volcanic systems. Of these, 13 have erupted since the settlement of Iceland in 874 AD. The eruption under Eyjafjallajökull ("glacier of Eyjafjöll") in 2010 was notable because the volcanic ash plume disrupted air travel in northern Europe for several weeks.

[[Eurasian golden oriole]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Europe, Passeriformes

The Eurasian golden oriole (Oriolus oriolus) or simply golden oriole, is the only oriole breeding in northern hemisphere temperate regions.

It is one of the oriole family of passerine birds.  It is a summer migrant in Europe and western Asia and spends the winter season in central and southern Africa.

Golden orioles have an extremely large range with large populations that are apparently stable.

[[Iceland hotspot]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Iceland

The Iceland hotspot is a geologic hotspot. It is partly responsible for the high volcanic activity which has formed the island of Iceland.

Iceland is one of the most active volcanic regions in the world. On Iceland, there are volcanic eruptions about every three years. In the 20th century there were 39 volcanic eruptions on and around Iceland. About a third of the basaltic lavas erupted in recorded history were produced by Icelandic eruptions.  

Notable eruptions have included that of Eldgjá, a fissure of Katla, in 934 (the world's largest basaltic eruption ever witnessed), and Laki in 1783 (the world's second largest). In many places, Iceland is covered by glaciers. Several eruptions under ice caps have burst through the ice. The most recent one was in 2010 after the eruption of Eyjafjallajökull.

Iceland's position over the Mid-Atlantic Ridge is partly responsible for this intense volcanic activity. It is not understood why Iceland is an island, but the rest of the ridge consists of seamounts, with peaks below sea level.

[[Lowdham]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nottinghamshire

Lowdham is a village in Nottinghamshire. It has a play park, 4 pubs, and a cricket field.

[[This Is a Long Drive for Someone with Nothing to Think About]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 albums

This Is a Long Drive for Someone with Nothing to Think About is the first full-length album by indie rock band Modest Mouse. The album was released on Up Records on April 16, 1996. It was released in both compact disc and vinyl formats. The vinyl release contains two extra tracks, "Edit the Sad Parts" and "A Manic Depressive Named Laughing Boy". "Edit the Sad Parts" was later included on Interstate 8 and the Up Records compilation, US. "A Manic Depressive Named Laughing Boy" is available only on the vinyl editions released by Up in 1996 and Glacial Pace in 2014. Many of the tracks are about traveling by automobile, and the loneliness and isolation associated with rural life. Sad Sappy Sucker was supposed to be released before This Is A Long Drive for Someone with Nothing to Think About; however, it was delayed and shelved.

[[Pat Quinn (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2014 deaths, Atlanta Flames players, Canadian ice hockey coaches, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Central Professional Hockey League players, Disease-related deaths in British Columbia, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Jack Adams Award winners, Memorial Cup winners, Sportspeople from Ontario, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vancouver Canucks players

John Brian Patrick Quinn (January 29, 1943 – November 23, 2014) was a Canadian ice hockey player, head coach, and executive. He was known by the nickname "The Big Irishman". He coached for the National Hockey League's Philadelphia Flyers, Los Angeles Kings, Vancouver Canucks, Toronto Maple Leafs, and Edmonton Oilers.

Quinn reached in the Stanley Cup Finals twice, with the Flyers in 1980 and the Canucks in 1994.  Internationally, Quinn coached Team Canada to gold medals at the 2002 Winter Olympics, 2008 IIHF World U18 Championships and 2009 World Junior Championship, as well as World Cup championship in 2004.

His cousin was wrestler John Quinn.

Quinn died at the Vancouver General Hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada on November 23, 2014 after a long illness, aged 71.

[[Denham Harman]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2014 deaths, Scientists from Omaha, Nebraska, American educators

Denham Harman (February 14, 1916 – November 25, 2014) was an American biogerontologist. He was the professor emeritus at the University of Nebraska Medical Center. Harman was widely known as the "father of the free radical theory of aging".

Harman died in Omaha, Nebraska on November 25, 2014 from a short-illness, aged 98.

[[Viktor Tikhonov]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2014 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Russia, Soviet sportspeople, Sportspeople from Moscow

Viktor Vasilyevich Tikhonov (Russian: Виктор Васильевич Тихонов; June 4, 1930 – November 24, 2014) was a  Soviet ice hockey player and coach. Tikhonov was a defenceman with VVS Moscow and HC Dynamo Moscow from 1949 to 1963, winning four national championships. 

He was born in Moscow. He was the coach of the Soviet team, winning eight World Championship gold medals, as well as Olympic gold in 1984, 1988, and 1992. 

Tikhonov also led CSKA Moscow to twelve consecutive league championships. He also coached the Soviet team that lost to the United States, 4-3, in the 1980 Olympic medal round game known as the Miracle on Ice. He was named to the IIHF Hall of Fame as a builder in 1998.

Tikhonov was hospitalized in late October 2014 and died after a long illness in Moscow on November 24, 2014, at the age of 84.

[[Jorge Herrera Delgado]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2014 deaths, Cancer deaths in Mexico, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Durango, Mayors, Mexican politicians

Jorge Herrera Delgado (16 August 1961 – 24 November 2014) was a Mexican politician. He was Mayor of Durango from 2004-2007, and twice times deputy in the Durango State Congress. He served as head of the Durango Department of Education from 15 September 2010 to 7 February 2012.

Delgado died on 24 November 2014 from pancreatic cancer in Durango at the age of 53.

[[Darryl Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, The Rolling Stones, African American musicians, American bass guitarists, Musicians from Chicago

Darryl Jones (born December 11, 1961), also known as "The Munch", is an American bass player.

Jones currently plays for The Rolling Stones. He has also played in bands with Miles Davis and Sting.

[[Ancient Egyptian agriculture]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Egypt, Agriculture

[[Lom, Norway]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Norway

Lom is a municipality in Oppland county, Norway.  It is part of the traditional region of Gudbrandsdal. The administrative center of the municipality is the village of Fossbergom. The municipality of Lom was established on 1 January 1838. The area of Skjåk was separated from Lom to become a municipality of its own in 1866.

[[Canadian Club]]

CATEGORIES: Whisky

Canadian Club (also commonly known as just C.C.) is a Canadian brand of whisky. Canadian Club was created by Gooderham and Worts. It is currently being produced by Beam Suntory.

[[N.R. Narayan Murthy]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Indian leaders, Living people

Nagavara Ramarao Narayana Murthy (Kannada: ನಾಗವಾರ ರಾಮರಾವ್ ನಾರಾಯಣ ಮೂರ್ತಿ; born 20 August 1946), is an Indian IT industrialist and the co-founder of Infosys a multinational corporation. S. Gopalakrishnan was also a co-founder.  Infosys provides business consulting, technology, engineering, and outsourcing services. Murthy studied electrical engineering at the National Institute of Engineering, University of Mysore, and M. Tech at the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur.  

Murthy has been listed among the 12 greatest entrepreneurs of our time by Fortune magazine. He has been described as the father of Indian IT sector by Time magazine due to his contribution to outsourcing in India. Murthy has also been honored with the Padma Vibhushan and Padma Shri awards.

[[Parry Gripp]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Singer-songwriters, Living people

Parry Gripp (born September 22, 1967 in Santa Barbara, California) is a singer-songwriter as well as a guitarist for the pop punk band Nerf Herder. As a songwriter, Gripp is best known for fake jingles, as in his 2005 solo album For Those About to Shop, We Salute You. It was a 51-track concept album mimicking various musical styles as product commercials. He also maintains a song-of-the-week website and a YouTube channel on which he creates soundtracks to internet memes. He also does music videos for his own novelty songs. The titles include "Do You Like Waffles?", "Nom Nom Nom Nom Nom Nom Nom", "Last Train to Awesometown" and "Spaghetti Cat (I Weep For You)". "Hamster on a Piano (Eating Popcorn)", "I Am A Banana" and "Baby Monkey (Going Backwards On A Pig)" are others. Gripp also performs the Being Ian, Super Hero Squad Show, Ben 10: Omniverse, and The 7D theme songs.

[[Terra (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Roman gods and goddesses

Terra is the Roman form of Gaia (greek). She is the goddess of the Earth. Her husband is Caelus, an ancient god of the sky (heavens). They are the parents of the Titans & giants.  One day, thousands of years ago, Terra convinced her son, Saturn, to take his father's scythe and chop his father up with it. Saturn did as his mother told him. He scattered Caelus's pieces across the cosmos. When one piece hit the water, it gave birth to Venus, the goddess of love. This, effectively, makes Venus the oldest of all the gods & goddess'.

[[The Crying Child]]

CATEGORIES: Television movies, American horror movies

The Crying Child is an American television horror movie. It was directed by Robert Michael Lewis. It is based on a Barbara Mertz novel.

The movie stars Mariel Hemingway and George DelHoyo.

[[Gilles Tremblay (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2014 deaths, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Foster Hewitt Memorial Award winners, Montreal Canadiens players, National Hockey League broadcasters, Stanley Cup champions

Joseph Jean Gilles Tremblay (December 17, 1938 – November 26, 2014) was a Canadian ice hockey left winger. He played his entire National Hockey League (NHL) career with the Montreal Canadiens from 1960 to 1969.  

He played 509 games, scored 168 goals and added 162 assists before injuries led to his retirement at the age of 31. Tremblay was a member of four Stanley Cup championship teams with Montreal, in 1965, 1966, 1968, and 1969.

After his hockey player career, from 1971 to 1997, he worked as a French-language broadcaster for ice hockey; he won the 2002 Foster Hewitt Memorial Award for his work. 

Tremblay died in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, aged 75.

[[Petr Hapka]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2014 deaths, Composers, Czech musicians, Musicians from Prague

Petr Hapka (13 May 1944 – 25 November 2014) was a Czech composer. He was one of the most important composers of Czech movie music industry. He was known for working with the lyricist Michal Horáček. He composed over 60 movies and 40 songs during his career.

Hapka died in Okoř, Czech Republic, aged 70.

[[Sabah (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2014 deaths, Lebanese singers

Sabah (صباح; born Jeanette Gergis Al-Feghali, 10 November 1927 – 26 November 2014) was a Lebanese singer and actress. She was known as the "Diva of Music" in the Arab World. 

She has released over 50 albums and has acted in 98 movies as well as over 20 stage plays. She has a reported 3,500 songs in her repertoire. She was the first Arabic singer to perform at Olympia in Paris, Carnegie Hall in New York, and Piccadilly Theatre in London and Sydney Opera House in Sydney.

Sabah died in Beirut, Lebanon, aged 87.

[[Frankie Fraser]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2014 deaths, British burglars, British crime victims, British people convicted of assault, Criminals from London, Deaths from surgical complications

Francis Davidson Fraser, better known as "Mad" Frankie Fraser (13 December 1923 – 26 November 2014), was an English criminal and gang member. He spent 42 years in prison for numerous offences including burglary and assault. Fraser was born in Lambeth, South London, England.

Fraser was shot in the head in 1991. He died from complications of leg surgery in Lambeth, South London, England, aged 90.

[[Far Rockaway, Queens]]

CATEGORIES: Neighborhoods of New York City, Queens (New York City)

Far Rockaway is a neighborhood on the Rockaway Peninsula in the New York City borough of Queens. It is the easternmost section of the Rockaways. The neighborhood starts at the Nassau County line and extends west to Beach 32nd Street. The neighborhood is part of Queens Community Board 14. The name "Rockaway" may have meant "place of sands" in the Munsee language of the Native American Lenape. Other spellings include Requarkie, Rechouwakie, Rechaweygh, Rechquaakie and Reckowacky (see: Toponymy of New Netherland).

[[Duke of Rutland]]

CATEGORIES: English Dukes, Rutland

The Duke of Rutland is a title in the Peerage of England named for Rutland, a county in the East Midlands. Earldoms named after Rutland have been created twice in history. The ninth earl of the second creation was made a duke in 1703. The surname of the present duke's family is "Manners".  The heir to the title is known as the Marquess of Granby. Other titles: Marquess of Granby (1703), Earl of Rutland (1525), Baron Manners of Haddon (1679) and Baron Roos of Belvoir (1896). The Duke of Rutland is allowed to be addressed as His Grace. The traditional family seats are Haddon Hall in Derbyshire and Belvoir Castle in Leicestershire.

[[Duke of Westminster]]

CATEGORIES: British Dukes and Duchesses

The title of Duke of Westminster was created by Queen Victoria in 1874. It was given to Hugh Grosvenor, 3rd Marquess of Westminster. The current holder of the title is Gerald Grosvenor, 6th Duke of Westminster. Earl Grosvenor, the only son of the Duke, is godfather to Prince George of Cambridge. The Present Duke is entitled to the style of address of His Grace and the family surname is Grosvenor. The Duke of Westminster's seat is at Eaton Hall, Cheshire. The traditional burial place of the Dukes is St Mary's Church, Eccleston. The title was raised from the rank of Marquess. The family also owned a large townhouse in London called simply "Grosvenor House".

[[Canadian Urban Institute]]

CATEGORIES: Urban planning organizations, 1990 establishments in North America, Toronto, Non-profit organizations, Research organizations, 1990s establishments in Canada

The Canadian Urbanism Institute is a scientific research institute in Toronto, Ontario, in Canada. The institute was established in 1990.

[[Being and Nothingness]]

CATEGORIES: Works of philosophy, 1943 books

Being and Nothingness: An Essay on Phenomenological Ontology is a book written by French philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre. Published in 1943, Being and Nothingness aimed to make certain the facts of human existence. Sartre wanted to show that free will exists. It can be considered part of a type of philosophy called existentialism.

[[Centre for Cities]]

CATEGORIES: Urban planning organizations, Organisations based in London, 2005 establishments in the United Kingdom

The Centre for Cities is a non-partisan urban policy research unit in London, United Kingdom. The organization was established in 2005 as a part of the Institute for Public Policy Research. It became independent in 2007. The Centre for Cities was established to understand and solve urban problems in the United Kingdom cities. Centre for Cities publishes an annual report on 64 major cities.

[[Zabardust Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1797 deaths, Muslims, History of India

Zabardust Khan or Zabardust Khan Tanoli also known by his nick-name Suba Khan Tanoli (died 1797) was a chieftain of the Hindkowan Tanoli tribe, of Hazara region, in 18th century India. This area is now part of North-West Pakistan. 

Zabardust Khan was appointed a nazim (area administrator) in upper Hazara, Kashmir by the Afghan King Taimur Shah Durrani (or Abdali) in 1775 or 1776.This name "Suba" was given by Afghan King Ahmed shah abdali know as (Khan of Suba) i.e Subahdar. He was a good administrator at a very violent and bad time in history. He tried his best to help people, ensure peace in his area and control prices of food and other goods. For this reason, he is still remembered by people in that area today. 

Zabardust/Suba Khan Tanoli died in 1797. He is not to be confused with a Pathan soldier called Zabardast Khan, who fought at the Third Battle of Panipat.

[[Charlie Sifford]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American golfers, Sportspeople from Charlotte, North Carolina

Charles L. Sifford (June 2, 1922 – February 3, 2015) was an American professional golfer. He helped black golfers to be part of the PGA of America. Sifford was born in Charlotte, North Carolina. In 2004, Sifford became the first African American inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame. In November 2014, President Barack Obama awarded him the 2014 Presidential Medal of Freedom.

Sifford died in Cleveland, Ohio from complications from a stroke at the age of 92.

[[Peter Shaffer]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Academy Award winners, English playwrights, English screenwriters, Golden Globe Award winners, Writers from Liverpool

Sir Peter Levin Shaffer (15 May 1926 – 6 June 2016) was an English playwright and screenwriter. He was known for his works in Equus, Amadeus, Black Comedy, and in The Royal Hunt of the Sun. He won an Academy Award and a Golden Globe Award for Best Screenwriter.

Shaffer died on 6 June 2016 at the age of 90 while on a trip to the southwest of Ireland.

[[Marcel Paquet]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2014 deaths, 20th century philosophers, 21st century philosophers, Belgian philosophers, People from Charleroi

Marcel Paquet (21 February 1947 – 22 November 2014) was a Belgian philosopher. He was known for his philosophy on ontology, Belgian political philosophy, and on esthetics. Paquet was born in Charleroi, Belgium.

Paquet died in Poznań, Poland, aged 67.

[[Lewis Baltz]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2014 deaths, American photographers, American artists, People from Newport Beach, California

Lewis Baltz (September 12, 1945 – November 22, 2014) was an American visual artist and photographer. He became an important figure in the New Topographics movement of the late 1970s. His work has been published in a number of books, presented in many exhibitions. He wrote for many journals, and contributed regularly to L'Architecture d'Aujourd'hui.

Baltz died in Paris, France from a long-illness, aged 69.

[[Anthony Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American voice actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Compton, California, Screenwriters from California, Comedians from California

Anthony Anderson (born August 15, 1970) is an American actor, writer, Game show host, Panelist and Comedian. He has starred in his own sitcom All About the Andersons, as well as The Bernie Mac Show during the fifth and final season. 

He is known for his leading roles in television dramas, such as K-Ville, The Shield, and Law & Order. Anderson has also had supporting roles in films, such as Transformers, The Departed, Agent Cody Banks 2: Destination London, Scream 4, and Kangaroo Jack.

On July 20, 2018, it was revealed that he is being investigated by the Los Angeles Police Department for a sexual assault allegation.

[[Mick Fleetwood]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, English rock drummers, English movie actors, People from Cornwall

Michael John Kells Fleetwood (born 24 June 1947) is a British musician and actor, best known for his role as the drummer and co-founder of the rock band Fleetwood Mac. 

[[Phillip Hughes]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths in sport, Accidental deaths in Australia, Australian cricketers, Sportspeople from New South Wales

Phillip Joel Hughes (30 November 1988 – 27 November 2014) was an Australian Test and One-Day International (ODI) cricketer. He played for South Australia and Worcestershire. He was a left-handed opening batsman who played for two seasons with New South Wales before making his Test debut in 2009 at the age of 20. Hughes was born in Macksville, New South Wales.

During a Sheffield Shield match between South Australia and New South Wales at the Sydney Cricket Ground on 25 November 2014, Hughes was hit in the neck by a bouncer from New South Wales bowler Sean Abbott after mistiming his shot. He was taken to hospital. Hughes died two days later from his injuries at a hospital in Sydney, aged 25.

[[Ángel Tulio Zof]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Argentine footballers

Ángel Tulio Zof (July 8, 1928 – November 26, 2014) was a former Argentine footballer and coach. He played for Rosario Central, Huracán, Atlanta and Quilmes as a left winger.

Internationally, he played for Canada's Toronto F.C., Philadelphia's Ucranian National and New York's Hakoah. Later, he became the coach of Ledesma de Jujuy, Club Atlético Platense, Atlanta, San Martín (T), Newell's Old Boys, Rosario Central, Los Andes.

Zof died in Buenos Aires, Argentina, aged 86.

[[Dorothy Malone]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, 1924 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Disease-related deaths in Texas, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Chicago

Dorothy Malone (January 30, 1924 – January 19, 2018) was an American actress. She won an Academy Award for her role in Written on the Wind. She also starred in the famous soap opera Peyton Place in the 1960s.

[[Hardy Krüger]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, German movie actors, German television actors, German stage actors, Actors from Berlin

Hardy Krüger (born Franz Eberhard August Krüger; 12 April 1928) is a German actor. He is thought of as one of the greatest German actors of the 1960s. He is thought to be the first German actor to have been thought as a hero in movies after World War II.

[[John Hillerman]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Texas, Actors from Texas, American movie actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, People from Denison, Texas

John Benedict Hillerman (December 20, 1932 – November 9, 2017) was an American actor. He was born in Denison, Texas. He was known for his starring role as Jonathan Quayle Higgins III on the television show Magnum, P.I.. He starred in Chinatown and Blazing Saddles. He also starred in The Betty White Show. He won a Emmy Award and a Golden Globe Award during his career. He retired in 1999.

Hillerman died on November 9, 2017 at his home in Houston, Texas of heart disease at the age of 84.

[[Don Gordon]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Don Gordon (November 13, 1926 – April 24, 2017) was an American movie and television actor. He is sometimes known as Donald Gordon. Gordon was known for his roles in Bullitt, Papillon, Omen III: The Final Conflict, Revolt at Fort Laramie, The Exorcist III, and in Lethal Weapon.

[[Hell in a Cell (2014)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in professional wrestling, Sports in Dallas, Texas, World Wrestling Entertainment pay-per-view events, 2014 in the United States, 2010s in Texas, 21st century in Dallas, Texas, October 2014 events

Hell in a Cell (2014) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on October 26, 2014 at American Airlines Center in Dallas, Texas. It was the sixth Hell in a Cell event held by the WWE. 

There were two main events on the card. The first main event saw John Cena defeat Randy Orton to earn a future WWE World Heavyweight Championship match. The second main event saw Seth Rollins defeated Dean Ambrose to end their feud.

[[Night of Champions (2014)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in professional wrestling, 2010s in Nashville, Tennessee, WWE Night of Champions, 2014 in the United States, September 2014 events

Night of Champions (2014) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on September 21, 2014 at Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, Tennessee. It was the eighth Night of Champions event held by the WWE. 

The main event saw John Cena defeat Brock Lesnar by disqualification after Seth Rollins interfered. This caused Lesnar to retain his WWE World Heavyweight Championship.

[[Industrial and Mining Water Research Unit]]

CATEGORIES: Research organizations, 2011 establishments, 2010s establishments in South Africa

The Industrial and Mining Water Research Unit (abbreviated IMWaRU) is a research group. They are part of the School of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering at the University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg.

[[Blood doping]]

CATEGORIES: Doping in sport, Blood

Blood doping is a way of increasing the number of red blood cells in the bloodstream. This is done to improve athletic performance. Because blood cells carry oxygen from the lungs to the muscles, a having more red cells in the blood can improve an athlete’s aerobic capacity (VO2 max) and endurance. Many methods of blood doping are illegal, particularly in professional sport.

There are a number of different methods. Frozen blood taken from the individual previously can be used for a later transplant; packed red cells from a compatible donor may be used, and blood substitutes may be used. The growth area in illegal blood doping of athletes is blood substitutes.

[[SummerSlam (2014)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in professional wrestling, Sports in Los Angeles, SummerSlam, 2014 in the United States, 2010s in Los Angeles, California, August 2014 events

SummerSlam (2014) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on August 17, 2014 at Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. It was the twenty-seventh SummerSlam event held by the WWE. 

The main event saw Brock Lesnar defeat John Cena to win his fourth WWE World Heavyweight Championship.

[[Bacteriology]]

CATEGORIES: Bacteria

Bacteriology is the study of bacteria. Bacteriologists study, identify, classify, and describe bacterial species.

[[Ferdinand Cohn]]

CATEGORIES: 1828 births, 1898 deaths, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, German botanists, Jewish German academics, Jewish German scientists, People from former German territories, People from Wrocław

Ferdinand Julius Cohn (24 January 1828 – 25 June 1898) was a German biologist. He is a founder of modern bacteriology and microbiology.

Cohn was born in the Jewish quarter of Breslau in the Prussian Province of Silesia. This is now Wroclaw, Poland. Starting at age 16 he studied botany under Heinrich Goppert at the University of Breslau. He then moved to the University of Berlin. At age 19 in 1847 he received a degree in botany at Berlin. 

In 1849 he returned to the University of Breslau and he remained at that university for the rest of his career as a teacher and researcher. His father had bought for him a large and expensive microscope, which the University of Breslau and most universities did not have at that time. They had microscopes, but not so good as his. It was Ferdinand Cohn's main research tool in the 1850s. 

In the 1850s he studied the growth and division of plant cells. In 1855 he produced papers on the sexuality of Sphaeroplea and later Volvox. In the 1860s he studied plant physiology. Cohn was the first to classify algae as plants, and to define what distinguishes them from green plants. 

From 1870 onward he mostly studied bacteria. He published over 150 research reports during his lifetime. The University of Breslau became an innovative center for plant physiology and microbiology while he was there. His classification of bacteria into four groups based on shape (sphericals, short rods, threads, and spirals) is still in use today. 

Among other things Cohn showed that Bacillus can change from a vegetative state to an endospore when conditions are hard. Heat resistant spores of B. subtilis caused a controversy over spontaneous generation. Cohn explained why boiled infusions of hay and cheese could still get microbial growth.  It was because they contained heat resistant spores.

== References == 

[[Plant physiology]]

CATEGORIES: Plant physiology

Plant physiology is the part of botany which studies how plants work. That is the physiology of plants. Using a variety of methods, botanists study how plants reproduce, grow, get nutrients, photosynthesise, get water, and so on.

The main topics of plant physiology are photosynthesis, respiration, plant nutrition, plant hormones, tropisms, nastic movements, photoperiodism, photomorphogenesis, circadian rhythms, environmental stress physiology, seed germination, dormancy, stomata function and transpiration.

[[Elimination Chamber (2014)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in American television, 2014 in professional wrestling, Elimination Chamber, Sports in Minneapolis, Minnesota, 2014 in the United States, History of Minneapolis, Minnesota

Elimination Chamber (2014) (No Escape (2014) in Germany) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on February 23, 2014 at Target Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota. It was the fifth Elimination Chamber event held by the WWE. 

There were two main events. The first saw The Wyatt Family defeat The Shield and the second saw Randy Orton successfully retain his WWE World Heavyweight Championship in an Elimination Chamber match against Daniel Bryan, John Cena, Cesaro, Christian and Sheamus.

[[Stanisław Mikulski]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, Polish movie actors, Polish television actors, Polish stage actors, People from Łódź

Stanisław Mikulski (1 May 1929 – 27 November 2014) was a Polish theatre, television, movie actor. He was a host of the Polish game show Wheel of Fortune (Koło Fortuny). Mikulski was known for starring in the leading role in the 1967-1968 television series Stawka większa niż życie.

Mikulski died in Warsaw, Poland, aged 85.

[[Mollicutes]]

CATEGORIES: Bacteria

The Mollicutes are a class of bacteria with no bacterial cell wall. Mycoplasma is the best-known genus.

They are very small, only about 0.2–0.3 μm in size, and have a very small genome. Most move about by gliding across host cells, but Spiroplasma are helical and move by twisting. 

Mollicutes are parasites of various animals and plants, living on or in the host's cells. Many cause diseases in humans. Mycoplasma and Ureaplasma stick to cells in the lungs or sex tubes like the urethra.  Phytoplasma and Spiroplasma are plant pathogens with insect vectors. Bugs such as leaf-hoppers (Homoptera) are the vectors. They deliver the parasites which they stick their mouth-parts into a plant to suck its sap.

[[Dave (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 movies, American comedy movies, Movies set in Washington, D.C., Movies composed by James Newton Howard, Movies directed by Ivan Reitman, Warner Bros. movies

Dave is a 1993 American comedy movie directed by Ivan Reitman. It stars Kevin Kline, Sigourney Weaver, Frank Langella, Kevin Dunn, Ving Rhames, and Ben Kingsley.

[[Ivan Reitman]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Canadian Jews, Canadian movie directors, Canadian movie producers, Czechoslovak people, Jewish businesspeople, Naturalized citizens of Canada, Slovakian Jews

Ivan Reitman, OC (born October 27, 1946) is a Czechoslovakian-born Canadian movie producer and director of Jewish descent. He is known for directing Ghostbusters, Ghostbusters II, Stripes, Junior, Kindergarten Cop, and No Strings Attached.

[[Closing the Ring]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, British romantic drama movies, Movies set in the 1990s, Movies set in the 1940s, Movies directed by Richard Attenborough

Closing the Ring is a 2007 British romantic-drama movie directed by Richard Attenborough. It stars Shirley MacLaine, Christopher Plummer, Mischa Barton, Gregory Smith, and Pete Postlethwaite. It was released to mixed reviews on December 28, 2007.

[[Dorothy Cheney]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2014 deaths, American female tennis players, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California

Dorothy “Dodo” Bundy Cheney (September 1, 1916 – November 23, 2014) was an American tennis player. She played most of her tennis at the Los Angeles Tennis Club. In 1938, Cheney became the first American to win the women's singles title at the Australian Championships, defeating Dorothy Stevenson in the final. Cheney was born in Los Angeles, California.

Cheney died on November 23, 2014 in Escondido, California at the age of 98.

[[Richard A. Jensen]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2014 deaths, American theologians, American educators, Writers from Nebraska

Richard Alvin Jensen (July 4, 1934 – November 19, 2014) was an American theologian, author, and the Carlson Professor of Homiletics Emeritus at the Lutheran School of Theology at Chicago. Jensen was born in Fremont, Nebraska.

Jensen died in Lakeville, Minnesota, aged 80.

[[Long-handled bulb planter]]

CATEGORIES: Gardening, Tools

A long-handled bulb planter is a gardening tool. It is used to dig holes to plant bulbs and other plants. It is also used to put soil back in the holes in order to cover the bulbs. A long-handled bulb planter allows people not to bend when using them.

In addition to bulbs, this tool can be used to help plant other plants which need a similar hole size and depth. For example, it can be used for planting potatoes.

[[Pat Quinn]]

Pat Quinn could mean:

[[Chernokids]]

CATEGORIES: French movies, Animated movies, 2010 movies, 2010s drama movies, 2010s science fiction movies

Chernokids is a short French CGI-animated science fiction movie.

[[Ronald Wayne]]

CATEGORIES: Apple Inc., 1934 births, Living people

Ronald Gerald Wayne (born May 17, 1934) is a retired American electronics industry worker. He co-founded Apple Computer (now Apple Inc.) with Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs. Wayne drew the first Apple logo. He created the partnership agreement. He also wrote the Apple I manual. After two weeks he gave up his share of the new company for a total of $800 USD. His 10% share would be worth 60 billion today.

[[Said Akl]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2014 deaths, Lebanese poets, Centenarians, Playwrights

Said Akl (سعيد عقل) or Saïd Akl, Said Aql and Saeed Akl) (4 July 1912 – 28 November 2014) was a Lebanese poet, writer, playwright and language reformer. He was thought to be as one of the most important Lebanese poets of the modern age. He also helped create the Lebanese alphabet.

Akl died in Beirut, Lebanon at the age of 102.

[[Tapan Raychaudhuri]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Indian writers, Indian historians, Indian academics

Tapan Raychaudhuri (8 May 1924 - 26 November 2014) was an Indian historian. He was an expert in British Indian history, Indian economic history and the History of Bengal. 

He was a Reader in Modern South Asian History at University of Oxford from 1973 to 1992. He was also Fellow of St. Anthony College, Oxford from 1973-93 where he remained as an Emeritus Fellow until his death in 2014.

Raychaudhuri died after suffering a series of strokes at his home in Oxford, England on 26 November 2014, aged 90.

[[Renée Simonot]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2021 deaths, French centenarians, French movie actors, French stage actors, French television actors, People from Le Havre

Renée Simonot (born Jeanne Renée Deneuve; 10 September 1911 – 11 July 2021) was a French actress. She was known for being one of the first French actresses to dub an English movie. She mostly dubbed Olivia de Havilland and Sylvia Sidney. A stage actress, she appeared in many productions of Les Misérables.

Simonot died on 11 July 2021 in Paris, just two months before her 110th birthday.

[[Wolfgang Suschitzky]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2016 deaths, Centenarians, Cinematographers, People from Vienna, Photographers

Wolfgang Suschitzky, BSC (29 August 1912 – 7 October 2016), was an Austrian photographer and cinematographer. He was best known for his works with Paul Rotha in the 1940s and his work on Mike Hodges' 1971 movie Get Carter. He was born in Vienna, Austria-Hungary.

[[Connie Sawyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Actors from Oakland, California, Actors from Colorado, American centenarians, American movie actors, American television actors, Jewish American actors, Jewish centenarians, People from Pueblo, Colorado

Connie Sawyer, born Rosie Cohen, (November 27, 1912 – January 21, 2018), was an American actress of Jewish descent. She was born in Pueblo, Colorado and grew up in Oakland, California.

Sawyer was known for her roles in The Mary Tyler Moore Show, The Rockford Files, Hawaii Five-O, Dynasty, When Harry Met Sally..., Murder, She Wrote, Home Improvement, Seinfeld, Boy Meets World, Will & Grace, That '70s Show, 8 Simple Rules, ER, How I Met Your Mother and The Office.

Sawyer died of a heart attack at her home in Woodland Hills, California on January 21, 2018 at the age of 105.

[[Olaf Pooley]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2015 deaths, English centenarians, English movie actors, English screenwriters, English television actors, People from Poole, Writers from Dorset

Olaf Pooley (13 March 1914 – 14 July 2015) was an English actor and screenwriter. He was known for his roles in Highly Dangerous, Hell Is Sold Out, The Lost People, The Huggetts Aboard, and in Lifeforce.

[[Don Lusk]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2018 deaths, American animators, American centenarians, American movie directors, American television directors

Donald Lusk (October 28, 1913 – December 30, 2018) was an American retired animator and director. He worked for The Walt Disney Company.

Lusk was known for his works in Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, Pinocchio, Fantasia, Bambi, Song of the South, Cinderella, Alice in Wonderland, Peter Pan, Lady and the Tramp and Sleeping Beauty.

Lusk died on December 30, 2018 in San Clemente, California at the age 105.

[[Pueblo, Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colorado, County seats in Colorado

Pueblo is the county seat of Pueblo County, Colorado, United States. The population was 106,595 in 2010 census. It's nickname is "Steel City". 

[[Division of Adelaide]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, South Australia, 1903 establishments in Australia

The Division of Adelaide is an Australian electoral division in South Australia. It includes the Adelaide city centre and the suburbs of Ashford, Clarence Park, Enfield, Goodwood, Kent Town, Keswick, Kilburn, Maylands, North Adelaide, Northgate, Norwood, Parkside, Prospect, Rose Park, St Peters, Toorak Gardens, Unley and Walkerville.

It was set up in 1903 and is named for the city of Adelaide, South Australia's capital, which was named for Queen Adelaide, wife of William IV.

[[Norwegian Forest cat]]

CATEGORIES: Cat breeds

The Norwegian Forest cat (Norsk skogkatt or Norsk skaukatt) is a breed of domestic cat found in Northern Europe. This breed is adapted to a very cold climate. It has a double coat. The top coat is glossy, long, water-shedding hairs. It also has a woolly undercoat for insulation. The breed's ancestors may have been brought to Norway by the Vikings. 

[[Diss railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Norfolk

Diss railway station is a station in Diss, Norfolk. The station is operated by Greater Anglia services. Trains go to and from Norwich and London. Diss railway station is part of the National Rail network.

[[Elimination Chamber (2013)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in American television, 2013 in professional wrestling, Elimination Chamber, Sports in New Orleans, Louisiana, 2010s in New Orleans, Louisiana

Elimination Chamber (2013) (No Escape (2013) in Germany) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on February 17, 2013 at New Orleans Arena in New Orleans, Louisiana. It was the fourth Elimination Chamber event held by the WWE. 

The main even saw The Rock defeat CM Punk to retain his WWE Championship. Jack Swagger defeated Daniel Bryan, Chris Jericho, Kane, Mark Henry and Randy Orton in the Elimination Chamber match for a World Heavyweight Championship match against Alberto Del Rio at WrestleMania 29.

[[Hurricane Edna]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in New England, 1954 in the United States, 20th century in New Hampshire, 20th century in Maine

Hurricane Edna was a powerful hurricane that hit the East Coast of the United States in September 1954. This storm made landfall over Cape Cod. New Hampshire and Maine were hit very hard. The storm caused 20 deaths. Edna hit a few days after Hurricane Carol had hit the same area.

[[Michael Rosen]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, English children's writers, English poets, Writers from London

Michael Wayne Rosen (born 7 May 1946) is an English children's novelist and poet of Jewish descent.

Rosen wrote over 140 books. He was the fifth British Children's Laureate from June 2007 to June 2009. He has been a republican advocate, socialist columnist and television presenter.

[[Charlie Hall (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2014 deaths, American academics, Firefighters, Politicians from Miami, Florida, Trade unionists, US Democratic Party politicians

Charles Albert "Charlie" Hall, Jr. (May 7, 1930 – November 20, 2014) was an American firefighter, labor activist, academic, and politician. He served in the Florida House of Representatives from the 118th district. He served as a representative from 1980 through 1982. He was a professor at Florida International University.

Hall was born in Miami, Florida, and died in Tallahassee, Florida, aged 84.

[[Bojihwayangdong buralsongseonsaeng]]

CATEGORIES: History of Korea, Figures of speech

Bojihwayangdong buralsongseonsaeng (보지화양동 불알송선생) is a bilingual pun in Classical Chinese and Korean. It is part of the literature of the Joseon period of Korea. It has historically been used as a source of humour in Korean.

When Heo Mok was ordered to attend the academy of the more senior scholar Song Siyeol at Hwayang-dong, he made the journey. Once he got there, he was forced to wait for a long time. Then he found out the appointment had been cancelled. Heo Mok angrily stated "bojihwayangdong buralsongseonsaeng". In Classical Chinese, the statement means "Walked to Hwayang-dong; did not see teacher Song", but in native Korean, boji (보지) refers to "female genitals", while bural (불알) means "testicles", making the expression additionally mean "cunt Hwayang-dong; testicles teacher Song".

[[The world's 100 most threatened species]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of animals, Lists of plants, Conservation

The world's 100 most threatened species was chosen by over 8,000 scientists from the IUCN Species Survival Commission (IUCN SSC), and the Zoological Society of London. The report was published by the Zoological Society of London in 2012 as the book, Priceless or Worthless? 

The species are threatened with extinction, and they have no obvious benefit for humans. This was deliberate, to avoid "vested interests". Iconic and charismatic species, such as tigers and pandas, and economically important species, have many defenders. These apparently "worthless" species had none. The title of the report, "Priceless or Worthless?", is based on that shared quality of the species. The report's co-author, Ellen Butcher, stated one of the guiding principles of the list, "If we take immediate action we can give them a fighting chance for survival. But this requires society to support the moral and ethical position that all species have an inherent right to exist".

Scientists are finding they have to justify funding for protection by showing what the human benefits would be. Jonathan Baillie, of the Zoological Society of London, said "The donor community and conservation movement are increasingly leaning towards a 'what can nature do for us?' approach, where species and wild habitats are valued and prioritised according to these services they provided for people. This has made it increasingly difficult for conservationists to protect the most threatened species on the planet".

Some of the threatened species are down to only a handful of surviving members. Santa Catarina’s guinea pig, native to a single island in Brazil, is down to its last 40–60 individuals, reduced by hunting and habitat disturbance. The Great Indian bustard is threatened by habitat loss resulting from agriculture and human development, and is down to the last 50–250 individuals. Elaeocarpus bojeri, a flowering plant found only on the island of Mauritius, has fewer than 10 surviving individuals, because of loss of habitat. The Baishan fir (Abies beshanzuensis), native to China, is down to five surviving mature individuals. Priceless or Worthless? describes the threats that each species is facing, and measures that would help their survival.

[[Whist]]

CATEGORIES: Card games

Whist is a classic English trick-taking card game which was widely played in the 18th and 19th centuries. 

Whist is played by four players. They play in two partnerships with the partners sitting opposite each other. Players cut or draw cards to determine partners, with the two highest playing against the two lowest. The players then cut for deal. Unlike contract bridge, there is no bidding process. Trumps are decided by cutting a deck of cards. Therefore the game can be played by people who know nothing about modern bridge bidding.

Although the rules are simple, there is scope for scientific play. Originally it was a gambling game played in clubs and coffee houses.

[[Pierre Bérégovoy]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1993 deaths, Prime Ministers of France, People from Normandy, Socialist Party (France) politicians, Suicides by firearm, Suicides in France, French Ministers of Finance

Pierre Eugene Bérégovoy (23 December 1925 - 1 May 1993) was a French socialist politician.

Bérégovoy was born to a French mother and Ukrainian father in Déville-les-Rouen. Bérégovoy was Prime Minister of France from 1992-1993. He shot himself dead in Nevers.

[[Silky sifaka]]

CATEGORIES: Lemuriformes, Mammals of Africa

The silky sifaka (Propithecus candidus), is a large lemur with long, silky white fur. It has a small range in northeastern Madagascar, where it is known locally as the simpona. It is one of the rarest mammals on Earth, and is listed by the IUCN as one of the world's 25 most endangered primates. The silky sifaka is one of nine species in the genus Propithecus. The species is only found within a few protected areas in the rainforests of northeastern Madagascar, with most of the remaining population in Marojejy National Park and Anjanaharibe-Sud Special Reserve.

The silky sifaka has a social structure, and lives in groups of two to nine individuals.  It spends most of its day feeding and resting, and spends time to social behaviors like playing, grooming and travelling.  Females occasionally take priority over males during feeding.  Like other eastern sifakas, it eats mainly leaves and seeds, but also fruit, flowers, and even soil on occasion.

It is a seasonal breeder and only mates one day a year during the start of the rainy season.  As with other sifaka species, non-maternal infant care is common.  Group members of all ages and both sexes will often groom, play, occasionally carry, and even nurse infants that are not their own.  The silky sifaka vocalizes frequently, and relies strongly on scent for communication.

[[Gang of Four]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese communists

The Gang of Four (四人帮) was the name given to a political group of four Chinese Communist Party officials. The leader of the group was Jiang Qing, Mao Zedong's last wife. The other three were Zhang Chunqiao, Yao Wenyuan and Wang Hongwen. They became powerful during China's Cultural Revolution. After the death of Mao Zedong, Jiang Quing was plotting a coup d'état to take over power. She and her close associates in the Gang of four were arrested, put on trial.

Jiang Qing and Zhang Chunqiao received death sentences that were later changed to life imprisonment.  Wang Hongwen and Yao Wenyuan were given life and twenty years in prison, respectively. All members of the Gang of Four have since died. Jiang Qing committed suicide in 1991, Wang Hongwen died in 1992. Yao Wenyuan and Zhang Chunqiao died in 2005: they had been released from prison in 1996 and 1998 respectively.

[[Puja (Hinduism)]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism

Pūjā (Devanagari: पूजा) is a prayer service ritual done by Hindus. The word puja comes from Sanskrit, and means reverence, honor and worship. A puja honors one or more deities. It also spiritually celebrates an event. It is sometimes spelled phonetically as pooja or poojah. A Puja is the most common form of worship in the Hindu religion. It may honor or celebrate the presence of special guests or their memories after they die. Puja rituals are also held by Buddhists, Jains and Sikhs.

[[World Bridge Federation]]

CATEGORIES: Bridge federations, 1958 establishments

The World Bridge Federation (WBF) is the international body for contract bridge. The WBF is responsible for world championship competition, most of which is on a four-year cycle. The top championships are those for national teams in Open, Women, and Seniors categories. There is a World Team Olympiad every four years.

The World Bridge Federation was founded August 1958 by delegates from Europe, North America, and South America (now Zones 1 to 3). Each national organisation is in one of the eight geographic zones.

It is incorporated under the laws of Switzerland as a 'non-profit' organization. Harold Stirling Vanderbilt was made the first honorary member of the WBF for his work developing the game. 

[[Edward Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1747 births, 1826 deaths, Welsh poets, Unitarians, Welsh Christians

Edward Williams, known as his bardic name Iolo Morganwg (10 March 1747 – 18 December 1826), was an influential Welsh poet, antiquarian, and literary forger.

[[Antiquarian]]

CATEGORIES: Books

An antiquarian or antiquary (from the antiquarius, meaning related to ancient times) is a student of antiquities or things of the past. More specifically, the term is used for those who study history with particular attention to ancient artifacts. This includes archaeological and historic sites, or historic archives and manuscripts. The essence of antiquarianism is a focus on the empirical evidence of the past. It may be better explained by the motto adopted by the 18th-century antiquary, Sir Richard Colt Hoare, "We speak from facts not theory". 

[[Shah Jalal]]

CATEGORIES: Yemen, History of Bangladesh, Islam

Hazrat Shah Jalal (شيخ المشايخ, শাহ জালাল, full name: Shāh Jalāl ad-Dīn al-Mujarrad al-Turk al Naqshbandi) is a celebrated Sufi Muslim figure in Bengal. Jalal's name is associated with the Muslim movement into northeastern Bengal. Also he is associated with the spread of Islam in Bangladesh through Sufism. Jalal was originally a Turkestani. He arrived at Sylhet in 1303. This is according to a tablet inscription found in Amber Khana, Sylhet. Dhaka renamed Zia International Airport to Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport. Dhaka and Sylhet had named a University known as Hazrat Shahjalal University of Science and Technology.  The Mazarin is located at Chittagong.

[[Typhoon Matmo (2014)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 disasters, 2014 in weather, Tropical cyclones in Asia, July 2014 events, 2010s in Taiwan, 2014 in China

Typhoon Matmo (also Typhoon Henry) was a tropical cyclone. The storm struck Taiwan in July 2014. The storm also hit eastern China.

Damage totaled $567 million. Sixty-two people died from the typhoon.

[[Lucidio Sentimenti]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2014 deaths, 1950 FIFA World Cup players, Italian footballers, Sportspeople from Emilia-Romagna

Lucidio Sentimenti (also known as Sentimenti IV; 1 July 1920 – 28 November 2014) was an Italian football player from Bomporto in the Province of Modena. He played club football for several clubs including Juventus and Lazio. He also played for the Italian national football team nine different times.

Sentimenti died in Turin, Italy, aged 94.

[[Mark Strand]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2014 deaths, American educators, American poets, Canadian poets, Cancer deaths in New York City, Deaths from liposarcoma, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Writers from New York City

Mark Strand (April 11, 1934 – November 29, 2014) was a Canadian-American poet, essayist, and translator. He was appointed Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress in 1990. He was a professor of English and Comparative Literature at Columbia University. Strand was born in Summerside, Prince Edward Island.

Strand died on November 29, 2014, in Brooklyn, New York City from liposarcoma, aged 80.

[[Diane Middlebrook]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2007 deaths, American educators, American poets, Cancer deaths in San Francisco, Deaths from liposarcoma, Writers from Idaho

Diane Helen Wood Middlebrook (April 16, 1939 – December 15, 2007) was an American biographer, poet, and teacher. She taught feminist studies for many years at Stanford University. She was best known for writing biographies of poets Anne Sexton and Sylvia Plath (along with Plath's husband Ted Hughes), and jazz musician Billy Tipton. She was born in Pocatello, Idaho.

Middlebrook died in San Francisco, California from liposarcoma, aged 68.

[[Liposarcoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Liposarcoma is a malignant tumor. It is found on fat cells in deep soft tissue, such as that inside the thigh or in the retroperitoneum. They are typically large bulky tumors. Liposarcomas, like all sarcomas, are rare.

[[Chris Meffert]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, American mayors, Politicians from Florida, People from Ocala, Florida, US Democratic Party politicians

John Christian "Chris" Meffert (August 11, 1943 – November 13, 2014) was an American lawyer and politician. He served as Mayor of Ocala, Florida from 1977 through 1980. He then served in the Florida House of Representatives from 1980 through 1988. Meffert was born in Ocala, Florida.

Meffert died in Salt Springs, Florida from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), aged 71.

[[Whoopee cushion]]

CATEGORIES: Pranks

A whoopee cushion, also known as a  razzberry Cushion, is a practical joke device, used in a form of flatulence humour. It produces a noise resembling a "raspberry" or human flatulence. It is made from two sheets of rubber that are glued together at the edges. There is a small opening with a flap at one end for air to enter and leave the cushion. It is used by first inflating with air, then place it under a chair cushion for an unsuspecting victim to sit on. It is intended to embarrass the person. The Roman Emperor Elagabalus was known to use an early version of a whoopee cushions at dinner parties. It is very similar to a pig-bladder used by court Jesters in the middle ages. It would produce the same results. The modern version was re-invented in the 1920s by the JEM Rubber Co. of Toronto, Canada. Employees were experimenting with scrap sheets of rubber to produce the gag item. 

[[Eurasian teal]]

CATEGORIES: Ducks

The Eurasian teal, common teal, or Eurasian green-winged teal (Anas crecca)  is a duck that lives in Europe and Asia. It is the only kind of teal in most places. Teal is also the name of a color between blue and green. The bird has this color round its eyes.

The teal mates where the weather is temperate, but in winter it flies south to avoid the cold. When it is not starting a family, the teal likes to be with other teals. It often lives in places where the ground is very wet and the wind is usually not strong. It does not go under the water to find its food. Instead, it stays on top of the water and eats seeds and bugs that live in the water.

Some scientists think that another kind of teal, the North American green-winged teal (A. carolinensis), is a kind of common teal

[[John T. Chisholm]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, People from Wisconsin

John T. Chisholm (born in Milwaukee in 1963) is the district attorney of Milwaukee County, Wisconsin.  He has held this office since 2007.  Chisholm is known for his successful prosecution of corrupt politicians and police officers, serial killer Walter Ellis, crime boss and preacher Michael Lock, and many associates of Governor Scott Walker.

[[My Everything]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 albums, Ariana Grande albums, Pop albums, Dance pop albums, R&B albums

My Everything is the second studio album by American singer and actress Ariana Grande. It was released on August 25, 2014. It first appeared at the top of the Billboard 200. It sold 169,000 copies in its first week.

[[Chinese Rail GKD1]]

CATEGORIES: Bo-Bo locomotives, Rail transport in China, Locomotives of China

The GKD1 (工矿D1) is a kind of diesel locomotive used in China. It was built by Dalian Locomotive & Rolling Stock Works.

[[Chinese Rail SS3B]]

CATEGORIES: Co-Co locomotives, Locomotives of China

The SS3B (韶山3B) is a kind of AC-powered electric locomotive used in China. It was built by Ziyang Locomotive Works in 2002 and is still produced as of 2009.

[[Dayananda Saraswati]]

CATEGORIES: 1824 births, 1883 deaths, Hindu gurus

Dayananda Saraswati  Dayananda Saraswati.ogg (स्वामी दयानन्द सरस्वती, મહષિૅ દયાનંદ સરસ્વતી Maharshi Dayānand Sarasvatī) born (12 February 1824 – 30 October 1883), at Tankara was an important Hindu religious leader of his time. He was the founder of the Arya Samaj, a Hindu reform movement of the Vedic tradition. He was a scholar of Vedic lore and Sanskrit language. He was the first to give the call for Swarajya as "India for Indians" in 1876.

Maharshi Dayananda taught the doctrine of Karma (Karmasiddhanta in Hinduism) and Reincarnation (Punarjanma in Hinduism). He emphasized the Vedic ideals of brahmacharya (celibacy) and Bhakti (devotion to God). He promoted equal rights for women. This included the right to education and reading of Indian scriptures. He was against child marriage. He was also against idol worshipping and animal sacrifice. He spoke out against other religions, especially Islam and Christianity. He felt they were out to destroy the Hindu faith.

[[Snake case]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages, Typography

Snake case (or snake_case) is the process of writing compound words so that the words are separated with an underscore symbol (_) instead of a space. The first letter is usually changed to lowercase. Some examples of Snake case would be "foo_bar" or "hello_world". It is commonly used in computer code. At least one study found that readers can recognize snake case faster than CamelCase.

[[Grumpy Cat's Worst Christmas Ever]]

CATEGORIES: Television movies, Movies about cats, Christmas movies

Grumpy Cat's Worst Christmas Ever is a television Christmas movie that stars the famous internet celebrity animal, Grumpy Cat. The movie was first shown on the Lifetime network on November 29, 2014. 

It stars Megan Charpentier as a young girl who adopts Grumpy Cat. Then she finds out that she and the cat can really talk with one another. 

The voice of Grumpy Cat is spoken by the actress Aubrey Plaza. She did not know about Grumpy Cat before working in the movie. To prepare, she learned all about Grumpy's behavior. The movie had already been made when Aubrey did the cat's voice part. Instead of using her script, she made up most of Grumpy's lines that ended up in the movie.

[[Deaths in December 2014]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 deaths

The following is a list of notable deaths in December 2014. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".

[[Freaks and Geeks]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 American television series debuts, 2000 American television series endings, 1990s American comedy television series, 1990s American drama television series, 1990s comedy-drama television series, 1990s teen television series, 2000s American comedy television series, 2000s American drama television series, 2000s comedy-drama television series, 2000s teen television series, American comedy-drama television series, American teen comedy television series, American teen drama television series, Detroit, Michigan, Michigan in fiction, NBC network shows, Period television series, Works set in the 1980s, English-language television programs

Freaks and Geeks is a 1999-2000 American comedy-drama television show on NBC. It is set at a high school in Detroit, Michigan in 1980. Freaks and Geeks has a cult following. The series appeared on Time magazine's 2007 "100 Greatest Shows of All Time" list. It also placed number 13 on the "Best 20 Shows of the Decade".

[[You're So Vain]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s songs, Narcissism in fiction, Pop songs, Pop ballads

"You're So Vain" is a 1972 pop ballad, written and performed by Carly Simon.

This song is about an arrogant (or unkind) man. Some people wondered who was so vain? She told later in the newspaper that the person’s name contains the letter E. This song is also well-known that Mick Jagger joined and sang backup on the record. Simon also played the piano in the record. It was released in November, 1972.

The song has been covered by many artists.

[[More, More, More]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 songs, Pop songs

"More, More, More" is a pop single by Andrea True Connection. The song was sampled for Len's 1999 "Steal My Sunshine".

The song was covered by other artists, including Samantha Fox, Bananarama and Rachel Stevens.

This song hit #4 on the Billboard Hot 100. It was released in February 1976.

[[Sisters (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 American television series debuts, 1996 American television series endings, 1990s American television series, American drama television series, Illinois in fiction, NBC network shows, Television series about families, English-language television programs

Sisters was an American television drama series. The show was about four sisters in Winnetka, Illinois.

The show was first broadcast in May of 1991. It lasted until May 4, 1996.

[[World Almanac]]

CATEGORIES: Reference works

The World Almanac and Book of Facts is a reference book. It has information on tragedies, sports, weather and celebrities. The book was #1 on the Washington Post bestseller list in November 2011.

The book has been published every year since 1868, except between 1876 and 1885.

Rosie Perez reads the book in White Men Can't Jump.

[[Gunnar Hultgren]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1991 deaths, Archbishops of Uppsala

Gunnar Hultgren (19 February 1902, Eskilstuna, Sweden – 13 February 1991, Uppsala, Sweden) was a Swedish bishop. He was active within the Church of Sweden. He was the Archbishop of Uppsala between 1958 and 1967.

[[Ruben Josefson]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1972 deaths, Swedish clergy, Archbishops of Uppsala

Ruben Josefson (25 August 1907, Svenljunga, Sweden – 19 March 1972, Uppsala, Sweden) was a Swedish bishop. He was active within the Church of Sweden.. He was the Archbishop of Uppsala between 1967-1972.

[[Olof Sundby]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1996 deaths, Swedish clergy, Archbishops of Uppsala

Olof Sundby (6 December 1917, Karlskoga, Sweden – 6 December 1996 in Lund, Sweden) was a Swedish bishop. He was active within the Church of Sweden.. He was the Archbishop of Uppsala between 1972 and 1983.

[[Hans Olof Holmström]]

CATEGORIES: 1784 births, 1855 deaths, Swedish clergy, Archbishops of Uppsala

Hans Olof Holmström (15 October 1784, Ösmno Parish, Sweden – 27 August 1855 in Uppsala, Sweden) was a Swedish bishop. He was active within the Church of Sweden.. He was the Archbishop of Uppsala between 1852-1855.

[[Anja Pärson]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Swedish skiers, 1981 births, LGBT rights activists, LGBT sportspeople, Lesbians, Medalists at the 2006 Winter Olympics, Medalists at the 2010 Winter Olympics, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Swedish Olympians, Swedish sportspeople

Anja Sofia Tess Pärson (ˌanjaˈpæːʂɔn; born 25 April 1981) in Tärnaby, Sweden is a Swedish former alpine skier. She won several Olympic titles and World Championship titles. In 2003 and 2004, she also won the total Alpine Skiing World Cup. Totally, she won 42 World Cup events.

[[Magdalena Forsberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Magdalena "Magda" Forsberg (born 25 July 1967 in Ullånger, Sweden as Magdalena Wallin) is a Swedish former cross country skier and biathlete. She won the overall Biathlon World Cup for six years straight between the seasons of 1996-1997 and 2001/2002. She also won several Biathlon World Championships titles. She also participated in the Cross-Country Skiing World Cup between the seasons of 1987/1988 and 1995/1996. Her best results at the Winter Olympics were in Albertville in 1992 where she finished seventh in the 4 × 5 km relay and 26th in the 15 km event.

[[Charlotte Kalla]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Marina Charlotte Kalla (born 22 July 1987 in Tärendö, Sweden) is a Swedish cross-country skier. She has competed at the international level since the 2003-2004 season. She won a bronze medal at the women's 4 x 5 kilometre relay event during the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships 2009 in Liberec in the Czech Republic.

On 6 January 2008, she won the second edition of the Tour de Ski event.

On 6 May 2012, she signed for Piteå Elit for the 2012/2013 season.

[[Antje Jackelén]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Archbishops of Uppsala, German Lutherans, People from North Rhine-Westphalia, Swedish clergy

Antje Jackelén, born 4 June 1955 in Herdecke, North Rhine-Westphalia, West Germany, is the Protestant (Lutheran) archbishop of Uppsala in Sweden. She is primate (prima inter pares) of the Church of Sweden. On 15 October 2013, she was elected the 70th Archbishop of Uppsala. She was formally received through a service inside the Uppsala Cathedral on 15 June 2014. This made her the Church of Sweden's first archbishop to be born outside Sweden since the 12th century. She also became the denomination's first female archbishop.

[[Ingemar Stenmark]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, 1988 Winter Olympics, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Swedish Olympians, Swedish skiers

Jan Ingemar Stenmark (ˈɪŋɛmar ˈsteːnmark), born 18 March 1956 in Joesjö, Sweden  is a Swedish former Alpine World Cup skier. He competed at international level between the early 1970s and the late 1980s. He won several titles during the World Championship titles, the Olympic Games and the World Cup.

[[Duke of Bedford]]

CATEGORIES: English Dukes

The title of Duke of Bedford is a British title has been created several times and is today held by the Russell family since 1694. The heir to the title is usually given the title of "Marquess of Tavistock". The family seat is Woburn Abbey, Bedfordshire. The private mausoleum and chapel of the Russell Family and the Dukes of Bedford is at St. Michael’s Church in Chenies, Buckinghamshire. The family owns the Bedford Estate in central London. The duke is entitled to the style of address of His/Your Grace. 

[[Gunde Svan]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Swedish skiers

Gunde Svan, born 12 January 1962 in Dala-Järna, Sweden is a Swedish former cross-country skier and auto racing driver. As a cross-country skier he won several titles during the World Championship titles and the Olympic Games as well the World Cup.

[[Christine McVie]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, British singer-songwriters, Keyboardists, People from Cumbria

Christine McVie (born Christine Anne Perfect on 12 July 1943) is an English singer-songwriter and keyboardist. She is best known for being a member of rock band Fleetwood Mac. Eight songs written and sung by McVie are on the band's Greatest Hits album. They include "Don't Stop", "Little Lies", "Everywhere" and "You Make Loving Fun". She has also released three solo albums.

In 1998, as a member of Fleetwood Mac, McVie was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. She also received the Brit Award for Outstanding Contribution to Music. After retiring from the band, she worked on solo material. McVie appeared on stage with Fleetwood Mac at London's O2 Arena in September 2013. She rejoined the band in January 2014. Her first full shows since her return were during Fleetwood Mac's On with the Show tour in October 2014. In 2014, McVie received the British Academy's Ivor Novello Award for Lifetime Achievement.

[[We Were Gentlemen]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 establishments in the United States, 2010 disestablishments in the United States, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Metalcore bands, Musical groups disestablished in 2010, Musical groups established in 2005, Musical groups from Virginia, Virginia Beach, Virginia

We Were Gentlemen is an American metalcore band. It formed in 2005 in Virginia Beach, Virginia. They split in 2010.

[[Lorimar-Telepictures]]

CATEGORIES: Time Warner, Companies based in Los Angeles

Lorimar-Telepictures was an entertainment company established on April 21, 1986 with the merger of Lorimar and Telepictures. Its assets included television production and syndication (which operated under the Lorimar-Telepictures name), feature films, home video, and broadcasting.

[[Qayyum Chowdhury]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2014 deaths, Bangladeshi painters

Qayyum Chowdhury (কাইয়ুম চৌধুরী, March 9, 1932 – November 30, 2014) was a Bangladeshi painter. He was known for painting cover photos. He painted covers for over 26 years. His works can be seen all over Bangladesh.

On November 30, 2014, Chowdhury fell sick while delivering his speech on the fourth-day of Bengal Foundation organized classical music festival in Bangladesh Army Stadium. He was rushed to CMH, where on-duty doctor declared him dead. He was 82 years old.

[[Dwayne Alons]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from kidney cancer, Politicians from Iowa, State legislators of the United States, US Republican Party politicians

Dwayne Arlan Alons (October 30, 1946 – November 29, 2014) was an American politician. He was the Iowa State Representative from the 4th District. He was a member of the Republican party. Alons served in the Iowa House of Representatives since 1999. He was a Brigadier General in the Iowa Air National Guard and served as Chief of Staff at its headquarters.

Alons died of kidney cancer on November 29, 2014 in Sioux Center, Iowa, aged 68.

[[Joan Feynman]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American astronomers, Scientists from Queens

Joan Feynman (March 31, 1927 – July 22, 2020)  was an American astrophysicist. Her work focused on solar wind particles and fields; sun-Earth relations; and magnetospheric physics. Feynman was the younger sister of physicist Richard Feynman who, since they were children, encouraged her interest in nature.

Feynman died on July 22, 2020 in Oxnard, California from heart failure at the age of 93.

[[El Chavo del Ocho]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican television series, Sitcoms, 1970s television series debuts, 1971 establishments, 1970s establishments in Mexico, 1980 disestablishments, 20th century disestablishments in Mexico, 1980s disestablishments in North America

El Chavo del Ocho is a very popular Mexican sitcom. It was created and written by Roberto Gómez Bolaños. It stars Roberto Gómez Bolaños, María Antonieta de las Nieves, Carlos Villagrán, Florinda Meza, Ramón Valdés, Rubén Aguirre, Édgar Vivar, Raúl Padilla, Horacio Gómez Bolaños, and Angelines Fernández. It ran from 1971 through 1980 for 8 seasons.

[[El Chapulín Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican television series, Sitcoms, 1973 television series debuts, 1973 establishments in Mexico, 1979 disestablishments, 1979 disestablishments in North America, 20th century disestablishments in Mexico, 1979 television series endings

El Chapulín Colorado (English: The Red Grasshopper) is a Mexican television comedy series. It was created and written by Roberto Gómez Bolaños. It ran from 1973 to 1979.

[[Chespirito (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican television series, Sitcoms, 1968 television series debuts, 1960s establishments in Mexico, 1973 television series endings, 1970s disestablishments in North America, 20th century disestablishments in Mexico, 1980 television series debuts, 1980 establishments, 1980s establishments in Mexico, 1995 television series endings, 1990s disestablishments in North America

Chespirito, also known as Los Supergenios de la Mesa Cuadrada from 1968–1970 and Chespirito y la Mesa Cuadrada from 1970-1971, is a Mexican sketch comedy show. It aired in Mexico for two periods, 1968–1973 and 1980-1995. The program aired various sketches of characters created by Roberto Gómez Bolaños.

[[Florinda Meza]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican screenwriters, Television producers, People from Zacatecas

Florinda Meza García (born 8 February 1949) is a Mexican actress, television producer, and screenwriter. She is best known as Doña Florinda in El Chavo del Ocho, La Chimoltrufia in Chespirito, and other various roles in El Chapulín Colorado.

Meza was married to Roberto Gómez Bolaños from 2004 until his death in 2014.

[[María Antonieta de las Nieves]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican comedians, Mexican singers, Actors from Mexico City

María Antonieta Gómez Rodríguez (born 22 December 1949), more commonly known by her stage name María Antonieta de las Nieves, is a Mexican actress, comedienne, and singer. She is known for her role as La Chilindrina in the Mexican sitcom El Chavo del Ocho.

[[Carlos Villagrán]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican comedians, Mexican journalists, Actors from Mexico City

Carlos Villagrán Eslava (born 12 January 1944) is a Mexican actor, comedian, and former journalist. He is best known for playing Quico in the Televisa sitcom El Chavo del Ocho and the Telerey sitcom ¡Ah qué Kiko!.

[[Ramón Valdés]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1988 deaths, Actors from Mexico City, Cancer deaths in Mexico, Deaths from stomach cancer, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors

Ramón Gómez Valdés de Castillo (September 2, 1923 – August 9, 1988), often credited as Ramón Valdéz, was a Mexican actor. He was best known for his role of Don Ramón in the popular sitcom El Chavo del Ocho. He was born in Mexico City, Mexico.

Valdés died in Mexico City from stomach cancer, aged 64.

[[Rubén Aguirre]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Coahuila, People from Monterrey

Rubén Aguirre Fuentes (ruˈβen aˈɣire; June 15, 1934 – June 17, 2016) was a Mexican actor. He was best remembered for his role as Professor Jirafales in the Televisa's television show El Chavo del Ocho.

Aguirre died on June 17, 2016 at his home in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. He died from complications of pneumonia, justt two days after his 82nd birthday. He suffered from diabetes which has been said to also been a factor to his death.

[[Édgar Vivar]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Actors from Mexico City

Dr. Édgar Ángel Vivar Villanueva (born December 28, 1944) is a Mexican actor. He is best remembered as "Señor Barriga" and his son "Ñoño" from El Chavo del Ocho, and as "El Botija" from El Chapulín Colorado and in Chespirito.

[[Raúl Padilla]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1994 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Mexico, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, People from Monterrey

Raúl "Chato" Padilla Mendoza (June 17, 1917 – February 3, 1994) was a Mexican actor. He was known for his role as Jaimito el Cartero ("Jaimito, the Mailman") in El Chavo del Ocho. His nickname "Chato" means "Pug" because he had a flat nose and it looked like a pug.

Padilla died in Mexico City, Mexico from a heart attack, aged 76.

[[Pecan pie]]

CATEGORIES: Pies, Desserts

Pecan pies are sweet pies. They are made mostly with corn syrup and pecans. Some are made with brown sugar, molasses or honey. 

Pecan pie is often served in the Southern United States with Thanksgiving and Christmas meals.

[[Horacio Gómez Bolaños]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 1999 deaths, Actors from Mexico City, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Mexico, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Mexican comedians, Mexican movie actors, Mexican movie directors, Mexican screenwriters, Mexican television actors

Horacio Gómez Bolaños (June 28, 1930 - November 21, 1999) was a Mexican actor. He was the brother of Roberto Gómez Bolaños. On the TV show El Chavo del 8, he played the character Godinez. 

Bolaños died on November 21, 1999 of a heart attack during the production of a tribute to Chespirito for Televisa, aged 69.

[[Angelines Fernández]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1994 deaths, Actors from Madrid, Cancer deaths in Mexico, Deaths from throat cancer, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Spanish movie actors, Spanish television actors

María de los Ángeles "Angelines" Fernández Abad (9 July 1922 – 25 March 1994) was a Spanish-born Mexican actress. She was best remembered for playing Doña Clotilde "La Bruja del 71" in the Televisa sitcom El Chavo del Ocho. She was born in Madrid, Spain.

Fernández died from throat cancer in Mexico City, Mexico, aged 71.

[[Gustavo Díaz Ordaz]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1979 deaths, Cancer deaths in Mexico, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Presidents of Mexico

Gustavo Díaz Ordaz Bolaños (gusˈtaβo ˈðias orˈðas; 12 March 1911 – 15 July 1979) was a Mexican politician. He was a member of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI). He served as the President of Mexico from 1964 to 1970. His distant cousin was comedian Roberto Gomez Bolaños.

Ordaz died in Mexico City, Mexico on 15 July 1979 from colorectal cancer, aged 68.

[[Jean-Jacques Perrey]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, French composers, Musicians from Paris

Jean-Jacques Perrey (pɛʁɛ; January 20, 1929 – November 4, 2016) was a French electronic music producer. He was best known for writing electronic music. He worked with the duo Perrey and Kingsley. He was also known for producing the them "The Elephant Never Forgets".

Perrey died from complications of lung cancer in Switzerland,  aged 87.

[[Go Seigen]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Chinese sportspeople, Japanese Go players, Japanese centenarians

Wu Qingyuan (吳清源; June 12, 1914 – November 30, 2014), also known as Go Seigen, was a Japanese Go player. 

He was thought by many other Go players as one of the greatest Go players in its history. Seigen turned 100 in June 2014. Seigen was born in Fuzhou, Fujian, China.

Seigen died in Odawara, Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan from natural causes, aged 100.

[[Óscar Humberto Mejía Victores]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Presidents of Guatemala, People from Guatemala City

Brigadier General Óscar Humberto Mejía Victores (December 9, 1930 – February 1, 2016) was a Guatemalan politician. He was the 27th President of Guatemala from 8 August 1983 to 14 January 1986. 

Victores died in Guatemala City from Parkinson's disease on February 1, 2016 at the age of 85.

[[Álvaro Arzú]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Presidents of Guatemala, Mayors, People from Guatemala City

Álvaro Enrique Arzú Yrigoyen (14 March 1946 – 27 April 2018) was a Guatemalan politician. He was the 32nd President of Guatemala from January 14, 1996 until January 14, 2000. He was elected Mayor of Guatemala City five times and served his fifth term from 2004 until his death in 2018.

On April 27, 2018, Arzú suffered a heart attack while playing golf with his son in Guatemala City. He died in the hospital later that day.

[[Óscar Berger]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Presidents of Guatemala, People from Guatemala City

Óscar José Rafael Berger Perdomo (born 11 August 1946 in Guatemala City) is a Guatemalan politician. He served as President of Guatemala serving from 2004 through 2008.

[[Monosodium glutamate]]

CATEGORIES: Sodium compounds

Monosodium glutamate (MSG), also known as sodium glutamate, is the sodium salt of glutamic acid. It is a chemical used to make foods taste better. This works because savory flavors are enhanced. That means the savory flavors are stronger. MSG is found in most foods. It is in higher concentrations in high protein foods such as meat, fish and dairy products. It has the E number of 621. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has classed MSG as a food additive that is "generally recognized as safe". However, the FDA requires that it be listed on the label.

[[Sergio Corona]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors, Mexican comedians, Hidalgo (state)

Sergio Corona Ortega (born October 7, 1928) is a Mexican television and movie actor and comedian. He has appeared in over 50 telenovelas. Corona is known for his roles as Don Tomas Leon in the Mexican telenovela Come dice el dicho and as Don Boni in Plaza Sésamo (Spanish version of Sesame Street). He also appeared as a bellboy in the 1989 James Bond movie License to Kill.

Corona was born in Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico.

[[Aqueous solution]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

An aqueous solution is a solution where the solvent is water. In a chemical equation it is written by adding (aq) to the formula. A solution of ordinary table salt in water would be written as NaCl(aq). NaCl is the part that means table salt. The word aqueous means being dissolved in water. Water is a solvent. It is found all over the place. Water is a solvent in chemistry.

[[Luc De Vos]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2014 deaths, Belgian musicians, Belgian singers, Belgian voice actors, Belgian writers, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Disease-related deaths in Belgium, People from East Flanders, Rock guitarists, Rock singers

Luc De Vos (12 July 1962 – 29 November 2014) was a Belgian musician and writer. He was best known as the lead singer of the Alternative Dutch language rock group Gorki. He also voiced Fillmore in the Flemish version of the Disney movie Cars. He was born in Evergem, Belgium.

Vos died from acute multiple organ failure in Ghent, Belgium, aged 52.

[[2014 India-Pakistan floods]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 disasters, 2014 in India, 2010s disasters in Asia, 2010s floods, 2010s in Pakistan, Floods in India, Floods in Pakistan, Jammu and Kashmir, September 2014 events

From 2-26 September 2014, the Kashmir region of South Asia witnessed heavy floods across a large part of its districts. This was caused by heavy rainfall. In Jammu & Kashmir in India, as well as Azad Kashmir, Gilgit-Baltistan and Punjab in Pakistan, were affected by these floods. 566 people died due to the floods in this area.

[[Mother (Gorky Novel)]]

CATEGORIES: Russian novels

Mother (Mat') is a novel written by Maxim Gorky in 1906. It is about an uneducated woman who began to take on extreme political beliefs. It was translated into many languages, many movies are also inspired by it.

The play The Mother by German playwright Bertolt Brecht is based on this novel.

[[Demaratus]]

CATEGORIES: 5th century BC deaths, Ancient Greeks, Kings of Sparta

Demaratus (Δημάρατος) was a co-king of Sparta from 515 until 491 BC. He succeeded his father Ariston as king. In 491 Demaratus and his co-king Cleomenes I became bitter rivals. Cleomenes plotted to have his kinsman Leotychides replace Demaratus as king. Cleomenes bribed the Oracle of Delphi to say that Demaratus was not actually the son of Ariston. Demaratus lost his kingship. But he still held a position as a magistrate in Sparta. After being ridiculed by the king over no longer being a king himself, Demaratus went into exile. He went to Darius I of Persia who gave him cities to rule over. Demaratus later went with king Xerxes I on his invasion of Greece in 480 BC. He warned Xerxes not to underestimate the Spartans before the Battle of Thermopylae.

[[These Boots Are Made for Walkin']]

CATEGORIES: 1966 songs

"These Boots Are Made For Walkin'“ is a song sung by Nancy Sinatra. It was released in early 1966.

The Mini Pop Kids sang it on their 2005 album, Mini Pop Kids 2.

Gemmy made 2 items that sang this song: go-go boots and a female turtle.December 2014

[[Analog television]]

CATEGORIES: Television

Analog television is broadcasting television programming using analog signals. Before digital television, all broadcasters used analog signals.

Analog television can be wireless or can be over a cable television network.

Many countries have changed from analog to digital television. Others are in the process of changing, and some have not started changing. 

The current deadline for "low power" TV stations in the United States to switch to digital television is July 13th 2021, over 60 years after analog was first made. The full power stations already switched in the months between February 12th and July 12th 2009. 

[[Simon Says]]

CATEGORIES: Games

The game of Simon Says is a childrens game. It is played in many parts of the world. 

[[Digital television]]

CATEGORIES: Television

Digital television is television broadcasting using digital signals. With digital television, more than one program can be sent at a time in the same channel bandwidth. It also provides a cleaner looking picture than analog.

Digital television has replaced analog television in many countries. These countries include Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States.

[[Fred Catherwood]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2014 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British writers, Former MEPs, MEPs for the United Kingdom, Northern Ireland politicians

Sir Henry Frederick Ross Catherwood (31 January 1925 – 30 November 2014) was a British politician and writer.

Catherwood was born at Castledawson, County Londonderry, Northern Ireland. He was educated at Shrewsbury School and Clare College, Cambridge.

He was former Director General of the National Economic Development Council, and president of the Evangelical Alliance.

He was elected as a Conservative member of the European Parliament for Cambridgeshire and related areas from 1979 until his retirement in 1994.  He was Vice President of the European Parliament 1989-1992.

He married Elizabeth, the daughter of Christian pastor and author Martyn Lloyd-Jones. Their son Christopher Catherwood is an author. Fred Catherwood died in Cambridge, England on 30 November 2014 at the age of 89.

[[Martin Litton]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2014 deaths, American environmentalists, Sportspeople from California

Martin Litton (February 13, 1917 – November 30, 2014) was an American environmental activist and editor. He was a Grand Canyon river runner. Litton was best known as a staunch opponent of the construction of Glen Canyon Dam and other dams on the Colorado River.

On November 30, 2014, Litton died at his home in Palo Alto, California, aged 97.

[[Jarbom Gamlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from thrombosis, Indian politicians, Civil servants

Jarbom Gamlin (16 April 1961 – 30 November 2014) was an Indian politician. He was the leader of the Indian National Congress political party in Arunachal Pradesh. He was the Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh serving from May 2011 through October 2011.

Gamlin died from liver thrombosis in Gurgaon, Assam, aged 53.

[[Sita Murt]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Spanish fashion designers, People from Barcelona

Sita Murt (ˈsitə ˈmurt; 1946 – 1 December 2014) was a Catalan fashion designer and businesswoman. She was born in Barcelona, Spain. She was known for designing soft clothing and for producing the clothes in the movie Vicky Christina Barcelona.

Murt died from cancer in Barcelona, Spain, aged 68.

[[Mary Beth Hughes]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from Illinois, 1919 births, 1995 deaths

Mary Beth Hughes (November 13, 1919 – August 27, 1995) was an American stage, movie and television actress. She played Henry Fonda's former girlfriend in The Ox-Bow Incident (1943). She also played Sylvia in The Great Profile.

[[Stellinha Egg]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1991 deaths, Brazilian singers, Composers, People from Curitiba

Stella Maria Egg, baptismal name of Stellinha Egg (July 18, 1914 - June 17, 1991), was a Brazilian singer and composer.

She was married to maestro Lindolfo Gaya and musical partner of Luiz Gonzaga, Dorival Caymmi, Silvio Caldas, among others.

[[Adriana Caselotti]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American voice actors, American movie actors, Actors from Bridgeport, Connecticut, 1916 births, 1997 deaths

Adriana Caselotti (May 6, 1916 – January 18, 1997) was an American voice actress and a singer. She voiced Snow White in Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs in 1937.

Caselotti was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut. She died in Los Angeles, California of respiratory failure from lung cancer.

[[Dorothy Morris]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Hollywood, 1922 births, 2011 deaths

Dorothy Morris (February 23, 1922 – November 20, 2011) was an American actress. She played roles of "the girl next door". She played Sue in Cry Havoc. She played Edith Bryant in This Time for Keeps.

Morris was born in Los Angeles, California. She died at age eighty-nine in Palm Springs, California

[[Denise Darcel]]

CATEGORIES: French television actors, French stage actors, French movie actors, 1924 births, 2011 deaths, Actors from Paris

Denise Darcel (born Denise Billecard; 8 September 1924 – 23 December 2011) was a French actress. She made movies in Hollywood. She played Gigi Mignon in Dangerous When Wet. She played Countess Marie in the movie Vera Cruz.

Darcel was born in Paris, France. She died at age 87 in Los Angeles, California from emergency surgery to repair a torn aneurysm.

[[Romford railway station]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Havering, Railway stations in London

Romford Railway Station is a major interchange station in Romford, Havering in Greater London. The station is located on the Great Eastern Main Line. Services that call at the station are operated by Abellio Greater Anglia, London Overground and TfL Rail. Services that stop at Romford are the Liverpool Street-Shenfield 'metro' services (TfL Rail) and Romford-Upminster services (London Overground). There are also long distance Abellio Greater Anglia services that stop at Romford. Crossrail is due to call at Romford in 2018. It will replace the current Liverpool Street-Shenfield service.

[[Tay Bridge disaster]]

CATEGORIES: 1879, 1870s in the United Kingdom, Bridges in the United Kingdom, 19th century in Scotland, Transport disasters in Europe

The Tay Bridge disaster was one of the great engineering disasters of the 19th century. It happened during a violent storm on 28 December 1879. The first Tay Rail Bridge collapsed while a train was passing over it from Wormit to Dundee, killing all aboard.

[[Clacton-on-sea railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Tendring, 1860 establishments in England

Clacton-on-Sea railway station is a railway station in England. It serves the town of Clacton-on-Sea in Essex. The station is near the town centre. It is in walking distance from the pier and sea. The station is on the Sunshine Coast Line. Services run to/from Colchester and Liverpool Street.

[[Yonne (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté, Île-de-France

The Yonne is a river in the northern half of France. It flows mainly through the western part of the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region, giving its name to the Yonne department and to several communes. It is the main left tributary of the Seine river.

The river was named during the Roman Empire as Icauna, a Latin word that likely came from the Celtic name for the river.

[[Barbara Kent]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Alberta, American centenarians, American movie actors, 1907 births, 2011 deaths

Barbara Cloutman (later Barbara Kent; December 16, 1907 – October 13, 2011) was a Canadian-born and American-based actress of the 1920s and 1930s. She played Lotus in Chinatown after Dark. She played Amelia in the movie Vanity Fair (1932).

Kent was born in Alberta, Canada. She died at 103 in Palm Desert, California.

[[Chiltern Hills]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of England

The Chiltern Hills are chalk hills in southern England. They go 70 mi (115 km) southwest to northeast through parts of Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Hertfordshire, and Bedfordshire. This makes a well-marked escarpment to the northwest and a gentle southeast slope to the River Thames. 

Considerable areas are now under the National Trust and are popular tourist attractions. The greatest elevation is Coombe Hill (852 ft m) near Wendover. The dense beechwoods still cover the western portions. They were once the basis of the traditional furniture industry of High Wycombe. Several passes through the Chiltern Hills are used by roads and railways to London.

[[Horacio Cartes]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, People from Asunción, Presidents of Paraguay

Horacio Manuel Cartes Jara (born 5 July 1956) is an Paraguayan politician. He served as President of Paraguay from 2013 through 2018.

Cartes won the 2013 presidential election in Paraguay on 21 April 2013 and took office as President on 15 August 2013.

Horacio Cartes is the owner of "Grupo Cartes", a conglomerate of approximately two dozen of companies. He has also been president of the football club Club Libertad since 2001 

[[Hammond organ]]

CATEGORIES: Keyboard instruments

The Hammond organ is a keyboard instrument that looks like a piano. The most common Hammond organs create sound using metal wheels and electricity. It is an electric version of a pipe organ that was invented by Laurens Hammond and John M. Hanert. It was first built in 1935. Sliding "drawbars" adjust the type of sound that the organ makes. The Hammond organ is one of the most successful organs made because almost two million Hammond organs were sold.

[[Mario Abramovich]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2014 deaths, Argentine Jews, Argentine musicians, Composers, Jewish musicians, Violinists

Mario Abramovich (31 October 1926 – 1 December 2014) was an Argentine violinist and composer of Jewish descent. He was a member of the group Sexteto Mayor since its founding in 1973, until his death in 2014. He was known for performing in the Argentine album Bête Noire.

Abramovich died in Buenos Aires, Argentina, aged 88.

[[Bobby Keys]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2014 deaths, American saxophonists, Cancer deaths in Tennessee, Deaths from liver failure, Musicians from Texas

Robert Henry "Bobby" Keys (December 18, 1943 – December 2, 2014) was an American saxophone player. He performed with other musicians as a member of several horn sections of the 1970s. He appears on albums by The Rolling Stones, Lynyrd Skynyrd, The Who, Harry Nilsson, Delaney Bramlett, George Harrison, Eric Clapton and Joe Cocker, amongst other notable musicians. Keys was a touring musician from 1956 until his death in 2014. Keys was born in Slaton, Texas.

Keys had cancer and liver failure. He died at his home in Franklin, Tennessee on December 2, 2014, aged 70.

[[Twist Bread]]

CATEGORIES: Breads

Twist bread is a type of bread rolled into a long sausage shape and twisted over a stick.  It is then baked over an open fire.

The dough is made like ordinary bread dough with yeast as a leavening agent.

[[CamelCase]]

CATEGORIES: Typography

CamelCase (camel case, camel caps or medial capitals) is the practice of writing compound words or phrases so that each next word or abbreviation begins with a capital letter. CamelCase can either start with a lowercase or uppercase letter, although the lowerCase version is much more common in programming. Common examples are PowerPoint or iPhone.

[[Ibrahim Lodi]]

CATEGORIES: Sultans, Indian people

Ibrahim Lodi (d. 21 April 1526) was the last sultan of Delhi. He was an ethnic Pashtun. He became sultan in 1517 after Sikandar Lodi died. Sikandar was his father and Ibrahim was soon challenged by his younger brother, Jalal Kahn. Ibrahim had military skills. But unlike his father he lacked tact. 

He faced a number of rebellions. The Mewar ruler Rana Sangram Singh extended his empire right up to western Uttar Pradesh and threatened to attack Agra. There was rebellion in the East also. Ibrahim Lodi also displeased the nobility when he replaced old and senior commanders by younger ones who were loyal to him. He further alienated them by throwing some of the older noblemen in prison. His Afghan nobility eventually invited Babur to invade India. In 1526, the Mughal forces of Babur, the king of Kabulistan, defeated Ibrahim's much larger army in the 1st Battle of Panipat. Ibrahim was killed during the battle. It is estimated that Babur's forces numbered around 12,000 men. His army had between 20 to 24 pieces of field artillery. Ibrahim Lodi had around 30,000-40,000 men along with at least 100 war elephants. After Ibrahim Lodi was overthrown, the mughals invaded India.

[[St Nicholas Day]]

CATEGORIES: Christian holidays

Saint Nicholas Day is the feast day of Saint Nicholas. It is on December 6 (December 19 in most Orthodox countries).  It is a festival for children in many countries around Europe related to surviving legends of Saint Nicholas.  The American Santa Claus, as well as the British Father Christmas, are based on these legends. "Santa Claus" is based in part from the Dutch Sinterklaas.

Saint Nicholas in different countries travels with different people. He may travel with Angels, Krampus, and others.

[[Julio Velasco]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Argentine sportspeople, Volleyball coaches

Julio Velasco (born February 9, 1952 in La Plata, Argentina) is a professional volleyball coach from Argentina. He guided the Italian national men's team to several successes in the 1990s. After the 1996 Summer Olympics, where the Italians won silver, he switched to the Italian women's team (1996–1997). In 2011, Velasco was signed as the head coach of the Iran men's national team. He became coach of the Argentina men's national team before his contract expired with the Iranian national team on 1 March 2014. The President of Argentina asked him to take this job. The change was approved by the Iranian volleyball confederation.

[[Marina Oswald Porter]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people

Marina Nikolayevna Oswald Porter (July 17, 1941) is the widow of Lee Harvey Oswald. According to the Warren Commission he was the sole assassin of U.S. President John F. Kennedy.

[[Alisohbat Sumbatzade]]

CATEGORIES: Azerbaijani historians, Azerbaijani writers, People from Baku, 1907 births, 1992 deaths

Alisohbat Sumbat oglu Sumbatzade (8 January 1907, Amirjan, Baku – 1992, Baku) was an Azerbaijani historian and orientalist (and a member of the Academy of Sciences of the Azerbaijani SSR from 1958).

Sumbatzade graduated from the Department of Oriental Studies of Azerbaijan State University in 1929. In 1963 he became director of the Institute of the Peoples of the Near and Middle East of the Academy of Sciences of the Azerbaijan SSR. Sumbatzade's main works are on the socioeconomic history of Azerbaijan in the 19th and 20th centuries.

[[Aydin Balayev]]

CATEGORIES: Azerbaijani historians, Azerbaijani writers, 1956 births, Living people, People from Baku

Aydin Balayev Huseynaga oglu (Aydın Balayev Hüseynağa oğlu; born November 19, 1956) is an Azerbaijani historian, ethnologist and professor.

[[Don Laws]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American figure skaters, Sportspeople from Washington, D.C.

Don Laws (May 30, 1929 – December 2, 2014) was an American figure skater and coach. Laws competed in single skating and ice dancing. With his ice dancing partner, Mary Firth, he won the U.S. junior title in 1948. Laws was born in Washington, D. C..

In men's singles, he won the 1950 U.S. junior title and placed seventh at the 1951 World Championships in Milan, Italy. He was coached by Osborne Colson.

Laws died of heart failure in Sandy Springs, Maryland, aged 85.

[[Jean Béliveau]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Canadian ice hockey centres, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Montreal Canadiens players, Sportspeople from Quebec, Stanley Cup champions

Joseph Jean Arthur Béliveau, (August 31, 1931 – December 2, 2014) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player. He played parts of 20 seasons with the National Hockey League's (NHL) Montreal Canadiens from 1950 to 1971. He was nicknamed "Le Gros Bill". 

Béliveau ranks among the ten greatest NHL players. Béliveau first played professionally in the Quebec Major Hockey League (QMHL). He made his NHL debut with the Canadiens in 1950, but chose to remain in the QMHL full-time until 1953.

Béliveau was born in Trois-Rivières, Quebec, Canada. 

By his second season in the NHL, Béliveau was among the top three scorers. He was the fourth player to score 500 goals and the second to score 1,000 points. Béliveau won two Hart Memorial Trophies (1956, 1964) and one Art Ross Memorial Trophy (1956), as well as the inaugural Conn Smythe Trophy (1965). 

As a player, he won the Stanley Cup 10 times, and as an executive he was part of another seven championship teams, the most Stanley Cup victories by an individual to date. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1972.

Béliveau died on December 2, 2014 at the age of 83, in Longueuil, Quebec, Canada, a suburb of Montreal from unknown causes.

[[Luc Oursel]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2014 deaths, French businesspeople

Luc Oursel, (7 September 1959 – 3 December 2014), was a French businessman. He was the former chairman of the board of the nuclear company Areva and member of its Executive Committee.

He resigned on October 20, 2014 for health reasons. Until June 2013, he was the President of the French Nuclear Energy Corporation.

[[Lynne Kosky]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from breast cancer, Civil servants, Politicians from Melbourne

Lynne Janice Kosky (2 September 1958 – 4 December 2014) was a former Australian politician and senior minister in the Parliament of Victoria.  She represented the electoral district of Altona in the Victorian Legislative Assembly for the Australian Labor Party from 1996 to 2010

Kosky died from breast cancer in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, aged 56.

[[Jacques Barrot]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2014 deaths, European Commissioners, French mayors, Government ministers of France, People from Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Jacques Barrot (February 3, 1937 – December 3, 2014) was a French politician. He served as European Commissioner for Justice between 2008 and 2010, after having spent four years serving as Commissioner for Transport (2004–2008) and Commissioner for Regional Policy for eight months (2004).

He was also a minister, and mayor of Yssingeaux.

[[Ian McLagan]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2014 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Texas, Deaths from stroke, English songwriters, Musicians from Middlesex

Ian Patrick 'Mac' McLagan ˈ; (12 May 1945 – 3 December 2014) was an English keyboard instrumentalist. He was best known as a member of the English Rock bands Small Faces and Faces. He also worked with The Rolling Stones and led his own band from the late 1970s.

McLagan died on 3 December 2014, reportedly due to a massive stroke, in Austin, Texas aged 69.

[[Herman Badillo]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Puerto Rican people, United States representatives from New York, Bronx borough presidents, US Democratic Party politicians

Herman Badillo (August 21, 1929 – December 3, 2014) was an American politician. He was a borough president, United States Representative and candidate for Mayor of New York City. He was the first Puerto Rican to have been elected to these posts and been a mayoral candidate in the continental United States.

Badillo died on December 3, 2014 of congestive heart failure in Manhattan, New York, aged 85.

[[Walter Reyno]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Uruguayan people, Actors, People from Montevideo

Walter Reyno (13 February 1935 – 3 December 2014) was a Uruguayan actor and theater director. He was known for his roles in 25 Watts, El ojo en la nuca, and in El aura. Reyno was born in Montevideo, Uruguay.

Reyno died from respiratory failure in Montevideo, Uruguay, aged 79.

[[Ed Wynn]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1966 deaths, Deaths from throat cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Comedians from Pennsylvania

Ed Wynn (November 9, 1886 – June 19, 1966) was a popular American comedian and actor. He was known for his role as the Mad Hatter in the 1951 animated movie Alice in Wonderland. His son, Keenan Wynn, was also an actor.

Wynn died of throat cancer in Beverly Hills, California, aged 79.

[[Red Skelton]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1997 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American television personalities, American radio personalities, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Actors from Indiana, Comedians from Indiana

Richard Bernard Eheart professionally known as Red Skelton (July 18, 1913 – September 17, 1997) was an American entertainer. He was best known for his national radio and television acts between 1937 and 1971 and as host of the television program The Red Skelton Show.

Skelton died in Rancho Mirage, California from pneumonia, aged 84.

[[The Mechanic (1972 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 thriller movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by Michael Winner

The Mechanic is a 1972 American thriller movie directed by Michael Winner. It stars Charles Bronson, Jan-Michael Vincent, Keenan Wynn, Frank de Kova, Celeste Yarnall and Jill Ireland. It was released to mostly positive reviews on November 17, 1972.

[[Keenan Wynn]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1986 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City

Keenan Wynn (July 27, 1916 – October 14, 1986) was an American character actor. He was born in New York City, New York. He was known for his role in the 1972 thriller movie The Mechanic.

Wynn died of pancreatic cancer in Los Angeles, California, aged 70.

[[Frank de Kova]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1981 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City

Frank de Kova (March 17, 1910 – October 15, 1981) was an Italian-American character actor. de Kova was born in New York City. He was known for his role as "The Man" in the 1972 thriller movie The Mechanic.

de Kova died of heart failure at his home in Sepulveda, California, aged 71.

[[Realpolitik]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Realpolitik is a system of politics or principles based on practical, rather than moral or ideological considerations. Realpolitik is the idea that the world is ruthless and you have to act realistically, even if it causes other things to happen that are bad, or decisions have to be made that upset your people.

Ludwig von Rochau was a 19th century writer and politician. He describes it as follows: The study of the powers that shape, maintain and alter the state is the basis of all political insight and leads to the understanding that the law of power governs the world of states just as the law of gravity governs the physical world.

A good example of a realpolitik politician is Henry Kissinger, who helped U.S. Presidents in the 1960s and 1970s to expand the power of the United States and its allies.

[[Linda Christian]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2011 deaths, Actresses who played Bond girls, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors

Linda Christian (November 13, 1923 – July 22, 2011) was a Mexican actress. She appeared in Mexican and Hollywood movies. She worked mostly in the 1940s and 1950s. She was the first Bond girl, appearing in the 1954 movie Casino Royale.

Christian was born Blanca Rose Welter in Tampico, Mexico. She died in Palm Desert, California at age eighty-seven.

[[Regression toward the mean]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

Regression toward the mean simply means that, following an extreme random event, the next random event is likely to be less extreme. Regression toward the mean was first described by Francis Galton. He found that offspring of tall parents tended to be shorter. Also, offspring of shorter parents tended to be taller. Galton stated that processes that did not follow regression towards the mean would quickly go out of control.

[[Promised Land (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Gus Van Sant

Promised Land is a 2012 drama movie. It was directed by Gus Van Sant. It stars Matt Damon, John Krasinski, Frances McDormand, Hal Holbrook and Rosemarie DeWitt. The screenplay is written by Damon and Krasinski based on a story by Dave Eggers. The movie is about two corporate salespeople. They visit a rural town trying to buy drilling rights from local residents. This movie had a limited release in the United States on December 28, 2012. It was released nationwide on January 4, 2013.

[[Comrade]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Comrade is the name given to someone who belongs to the same social group, party or company. It literally means friend, colleague, but it also means ally. The term can refer to someone who has the same beliefs or values. That way, in Communism, people who belong to the Communist Party address each other as comrade. 

Terms like this avoid using titles, rank or any other sign that one person is better than, or different from, another. 

[[Giulio Questi]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2014 deaths, Italian movie directors, Italian screenwriters, People from Lombardy

Giulio Questi (18 March 1924 – 3 December 2014) was an Italian movie director and screenwriter. He was known for his roles in La morte ha fatto l'uovo and Django Kill! (If You Live Shoot!). Questi was born in Bergamo, Lombardy, Italy.

Questi died in Rome, Italy, aged 90.

[[Sjefke Janssen]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2014 deaths, Dutch cyclists, Sportspeople from Limburg (Netherlands)

Sjefke Janssen (October 28, 1919 – December 3, 2014) was a Dutch professional road bicycle racer. He was known for his bronze medal in the Elite race of the 1947 UCI Road World Championships.

Janssen was a professional cyclist from 1946 through 1954. After retiring, he became a cycling team-manager and owned a bicycle shop in Elsloo.

He was born and died in Elsloo. At the time of his death, Janssen was the oldest living Dutch Tour de France racer.

He was the father of Dutch Olympic team dressage coach Sjef Janssen.

[[V. R. Krishna Iyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2014 deaths, Autobiographers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Centenarians, Civil servants, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from renal failure, Indian politicians, Indian writers, Indian judges

Vaidyanathapura Rama Krishna Iyer (15 November 1914 – 4 December 2014), popularly known as V. R. Krishna Iyer, was an Indian judge in the Supreme Court of India. He was born at Vaidyanathapuram near Palakkad, in Malabar region of Kerala. He served in the Supreme Court from 1973 until his death in 2014.

Iyer died in Kochi, Kerala, India from renal and heart failure, aged 100.

[[Claudia Emerson]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, American poets, Writers from Virginia

Claudia Emerson (January 13, 1957 – December 4, 2014) was an American poet. She won the 2006 Pulitzer Prize for her poetry collection Late Wife. She was named the Poet Laureate of Virginia by Governor Tim Kaine in 2008. Emerson was born in Chatham, Virginia.

Emerson died in Richmond, Virginia from colon cancer, aged 57.

[[Gershon Kingsley]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2019 deaths, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, American composers, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Bochum

Gershon Kingsley (born Götz Gustav Ksinski; October 28, 1922 – December 10, 2019) was a German-American composer. His music genre included electronic music and the Moog synthesizer. He was the founder of the First Moog Quartet, as a partner in the electronic music duo Perrey and Kingsley, and writer of rock-inspired compositions for Jewish religious ceremonies.

Because of his Jewish background (his father was Jewish),  he moved to Mandatory Palestine in 1938. After the war he moved to the United States.

Kingsley died on December 10, 2019 at the age of 97.

[[Death Wish (1974 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s action movies, 1974 crime movies, 1974 thriller movies, American crime movies, American action movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by Michael Winner

Death Wish is a 1974 American crime-action movie directed by Michael Winner. It is based on the book Death Wish. It stars Charles Bronson. It was released on July 24, 1974 to positive reviews. It is the first movie in the Death Wish movie series. A remake was released in March 2018.

[[Death Wish II]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s crime thriller movies, 1982 action movies, American crime thriller movies, American action movies, Movies directed by Michael Winner

Death Wish II is a 1982 American crime-action movie directed by Michael Winner. It stars Charles Bronson and Jill Ireland. It received mixed reviews. It was released on February 20, 1982.

[[Death Wish 3]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 movies, American crime movies, American thriller movies, American action movies, Movies set in New York City, Movies directed by Michael Winner

Death Wish 3 is a 1985 American crime-action movie directed by Michael Winner. It stars Charles Bronson, Deborah Raffin, Ed Lauter, and Martin Balsam. It was released to mixed reviews on November 1, 1985.

[[The Barry Sisters]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from New York, American jazz singers, People from the Bronx

Minnie (1923 – October 31, 1976) and Clara Bagelman (October 17, 1920 – November 22, 2014), also known as by the stage names Merna and Claire Barry, or The Barry Sisters, were popular American jazz entertainers. They worked from the 1940s to the 1970s. 

Minnie and Clara were born in Bronx, New York. Merna Barry died from a brain tumor, age 54. Clara died at age 94.

[[Pleurisy]]

CATEGORIES: Infectious diseases, Pulmonology

Pleurisy (also known as pleuritis) is an inflammation of the pleura, the lining surrounding the lungs. There are many possible causes of pleurisy but viral infections spreading from the lungs to pleural cavity are the most common. Pleurisy can cause sharp pain when breathing, also called pleuritic chest pain. 

[[Rita Reys]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2013 deaths, Dutch musicians, Jazz musicians, Jazz singers, People from Rotterdam

Rita Reys (21 December 1924 – 28 July 2013) was a jazz singer from the Netherlands. In 1960, she was given the title "Europe's first lady of jazz". She sang jazz and bossa nova.

Reys was born in Rotterdam. She died in Breukelen at age eighty-eight.

[[Infinity (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 albums

Infinity is the fourth studio album by Journey. The album was released in 1978. 

[[Evolution (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 albums

Evolution is the fifth studio album by Journey. The album was released on April 5, 1979. 

[[The Revölution by Night]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 albums

[[Regina Resnik]]

CATEGORIES: American opera singers, Musicians from New York, 1922 births, 2013 deaths

Regina Resnik (August 30, 1922 – August 8, 2013) was an American mezzo-soprano opera singer. She sang on many stages in the United States. She was known for performing in Il trovatore, La Gioconda, and in Aida.

She was born in The Bronx, New York. She died at age ninety.

[[Stiff Upper Lip (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 albums

Stiff Upper Lip is the fourteenth studio album by Australian hard rock band AC/DC. The album was released on February 28, 2000. It was the group's first studio album of new material in 5 years.

[[Their Satanic Majesties Request]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 albums, The Rolling Stones

Their Satanic Majesties Request is the eighth American studio album and first Worldwide studio album by The Rolling Stones. The album was released on December 8, 1967.

[[David Steel]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Former Liberal Democrats MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for Scottish constituencies, Leaders of the Liberal Democrats (UK), Leaders of the Liberal Party (UK), Liberal Party MPs (UK), Members of the House of Lords, Privy Councillors (UK), Scottish Parliament Members, UK MPs 1964–1966, UK MPs 1966–1970, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997

David Martin Scott Steel, Baron Steel of Aikwood (born 31 March 1938) is a British retired Liberal politician. 

Steel served as the Leader of the Liberal Party from 1976 until its merger with the Social Democratic Party in 1988 to form the Liberal Democrats. He served as a Member of Parliament (MP) from 1965 to 1997 and as a Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) from 1999 to 2003.

[[Mathieu Kérékou]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, Presidents of Benin

Mathieu Kérékou, (2 September 1933 – 14 October 2015) was a Beninese politician. He was President of Benin from 1972 to 1991 and again from 1996 to 2006.

After seizing power in a military coup, he ruled the country for 17 years. He was defeated in the 1991 presidential election, but was returned to the presidency in the 1996 election and controversially re-elected in 2001.

[[Hull Fair]]

CATEGORIES: Events in the United Kingdom

Hull Fair is one of Europe's largest traveling fairs. In 1993 the fair celebrated its 700th anniversary.

It comes to Hull, England for one week. The fair opens on the Friday closest to 11 October each year. During this time the fair is open every day except Sunday. Unlike small local fairs, Hull Fair attracts rides, attractions and travellers from a wide variety of different regions from around the country. the fair is opened by the Lord Mayor of Hull on the opening evening, normally at 5 pm. It first opened from 9 to 23 March 1278.

In 1752 when the calendar changed in Great Britain, 11 days were lost. Wednesday, 2 September 1752 was followed by Thursday, 14 September 1752. The people of Hull believed this took away their fair. Angry mobs shouted “Give us back our eleven days”. The outraged citizens were given their wish. Even since then, October 11th, or the Friday closest to it, became the fair's starting date.

[[Escape (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 albums

Escape is the seventh studio album by the American rock band Journey. The album was released on July 31, 1981. It was the group's fourth studio album with vocalist Steve Perry. 

[[Khalifa bin Hamad Al Thani]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Prime Ministers of Qatar

Emir Sheikh Khalifa bin Hamad bin Abdullah bin Jassim bin Muhammed Al Thani GCB GCMG (17 September 1932 – 23 October 2016; Arabic خليفة بن حمد آل ثاني) was the Emir of Qatar from 27 February 1972 until he was deposed by his son Hamad bin Khalifa on 27 June 1995.

Khalifa died at the age of 84 on 23 October 2016 in Doha, Qatar after being hospitalized for a week.

[[Jackie Healy-Rae]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Irish politicians, People from the Republic of Ireland

Jackie Healy-Rae (9 March 1931 – 5 December 2014) was an Irish politician. He served as an Independent Teachta Dála (TD) for the Kerry South constituency from 1997 to 2011.

Healy-Rae was born in County Kerry, Irish Free State. He died on 5 December 2014 at Kerry General Hospital in Tralee, County Kerry after a long illness, aged 83.

[[Manuel De Sica]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2014 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Italy, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Italian composers, Musicians from Rome

Manuel De Sica (24 February 1949 – 5 December 2014) was an Italian composer. He was born in Rome, Italy. In 1993, De Sica won the Nastro d'Argento for Best Score for Carlo Verdone's Al lupo, al lupo. In 1996 he won the David di Donatello for Best Score for Carlo Lizzani's Celluloide. In 2005 he was honored with the title of Commendatore of the Italian Republic.

Sica died of a heart attack in Rome on 5 December 2014, aged 65.

[[Queen Fabiola of Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Kings and Queens of Belgium, Kings and Queens consort, People from Madrid

Queen Fabiola of Belgium (born Doña Fabiola de Mora y Aragón; 11 June 1928 – 5 December 2014) was the widow of King Baudouin. She was queen consort for 33 years, between her wedding in 1960 and her husband's death in 1993. The couple did not have children. When he died, the crown passed to her his younger brother, King Albert II.

On 5 December 2014, the Belgian Royal Palace announced Queen Fabiola had died that evening at Stuyvenbergh Castle in Laeken, Belgium, aged 86.

[[Republic of Molossia]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in the United States, Geography of California, Geography of Nevada

Molossia, also known as the self-proclaimed Republic of Molossia, is a micronation, founded by Kevin Baugh and headquartered in his home near Dayton, Nevada. Baugh has also been the president since 3 September 1999. 

Before holding this office Baugh was prime minister of Vuldstein, Edelstein, and Zaria from 1977 to 1999. He changed Molossia from a monarchy to a republic.

Molossia is made up of Baugh's house (known as the Government House), about 0.001 in size, as well as 1.3 of surrounding property, enclaved by Nevada. It formerly claimed a property in Pennsylvania as well. According to author John Ryan, Molossia is "a hobby that has been pushed to the nth degree."  Originally established as a childhood project in 1977, Molossia subsequently evolved into a territorial entity in the late 1990s.

The name Molossia is derived from the Spanish word morro which means "small rocky hill".  Baugh has stated that the ancient Greek tribe of Molossians is unrelated.

[[Kevin Baugh]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Order of Saint Christopher, Molossia, 1962 births, Living people

Kevin Baugh, (born 1962) is a Molossian politician and popular micronationalist. Baugh has been serving as President of the Republic of Molossia since 3 September 1999. His Presidential term started on the 3 September 1999, which is the official date of foundation of Molossia. However, his involvement in micronationalism goes way back to the end of the 1970s, when he formed, with James Spielman, the Grand Republic of Vuldstein.

[[Gay and Lesbian Kingdom of the Coral Sea Islands]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 establishments in Australia, Geography of Queensland, LGBT

The Gay and Lesbian Kingdom of the Coral Sea Islands was a micronation created as a symbolic political protest by a group of gay rights activists based in southeast Queensland, Australia.  Declared in 2004 in response to the Australian government's refusal to recognise same-sex marriages. It is near the islets on the Great Barrier Reef.  It is an expression of queer nationalism.

As of 17 November 2017, the Kingdom was dissolved, per the decision made by the Australian people to legalize gay marriage.

[[Dick Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2007 deaths, Actors from Lancashire, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, English movie actors, English television actors

Dick Wilson, born Riccardo Di Guglielmo (30 July 1916 – 19 November 2007), was a British-Canadian character actor. He was known for playing grocery store manager Mr. (George) Whipple in over 500 Charmin toilet paper television commercials (1965–1989, 1999-2000).

Wilson was raised in Hamilton, Ontario. He died in Woodland Hills, Los Angeles, California, aged 91.

[[Pedro Lascuráin]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1952 deaths, Presidents of Mexico, Mayors, Politicians from Mexico City

Pedro José Domingo de la Calzada Manuel María Lascuráin Paredes (8 May  1856 – 21 July 1952) was a Mexican politician.

He served as the 38th President of Mexico. He served as president for less than one hour on February 19, 1913. It is the shortest presidency in the history of the world. He had earlier served as Mexico's foreign minister for two terms and was the director of a small law school in Mexico City for sixteen years.

[[Alma Cogan]]

CATEGORIES: English pop musicians, People from London, 1932 births, 1966 deaths

Alma Cogan (19 May 1932 – 26 October 1966) was an English singer of traditional pop in the 1950s and early 1960s. She was called "the girl with the giggle in her voice". One of her hit songs was "Sugartime". It was released in 1958 alongside The McGuire Sisters' version.

[[Typhoon Hagupit (2014)]]

CATEGORIES: Tropical cyclones in Asia, 2014 in weather, 2014 in Asia

Typhoon Hagupit (called Typhoon Ruby in the Philippines) was a strong tropical cyclone in the western Pacific Ocean. The storm headed towards the Philippines.

Storm warnings and notices were up for the Philippines because of this typhoon.

Hagupit became a tropical storm on December 1, 2014. It became a typhoon the next day.

[[.NET Framework]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft software

.NET Framework (pronounced dot net) is a product of Microsoft. It is a programming framework used by Software applications in order to run. It has two major parts: the Common Language Runtime (CLR) and the .Net Framework Class Library. The CLR is an execution engine used to handle running programs. The class library provides a library of reusable code that applications can use. These are designed to greatly simplify the development of larger applications. .Net Framework supports Object-oriented programming (OOP). Everything in .Net is contained in an object. It also greatly simplifies Windows programming.

Often, a program will ask for a particular version of .Net Framework to be installed (see below). It is usually recommended to install the latest version your operating system (OS) will support. This is because of backward compatibility; the newer version will also support older versions. 

Visual Studio is the major development tool for .net Framework. Visual Studio 2013 Community Edition is the first full-featured edition for personal development. It also has compilers for computer programming languages such as C++ and others. 

[[Physical Address Extension]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computing, Physical Address Extension (PAE) is a processor feature to enable 32-bit IA-32 central processing units (CPUs) to access physical address space larger than 4 gigabytes by extending the paging schema . It allows up to 64 gigabytes of system memory to be addressed by a 32-bit processor. 

PAE was first introduced with the Intel 32-bit processor Pentium Pro. Since then it has been a feature on all Intel processors except some Pentium M mobile processors. Athlon or K7 is the first processor from AMD supported PAE. Now all AMD processors support PAE. In addition to processor support, PAE requires the operating system (OS) to support it. Windows 2000 was the first OS to support PAE.

[[Nested Paging]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In Computer Platform Virtulisatin, Nested Paging is used to unburden the Hypervisor from heavy work with Guest OS memory translation. Before, Hypervisor needs to employ a second page table keeping track of guest page table, and force the guest OS use it to access system physical memory. For doing this, Hypervisor needs to monitor the paging activities of guest OS and intercept it with necessarily inserting, deleting or modifying entries in this second page table. This consumes processor's time and system physical memory space. Nested Paging provides a Second Level Address Translation. With help of it, Hypervisor does not need to maintain that second page table with intercepting activities on guest paging. It simply maintains the nested page table for translating the guest physical address into the system physical address. After nested page table created, the paging hardware does the translation job automatically. Each guest physical access would incur nested paging, for a 48-bit address paging in 4KiB, a guest physical address translation would need 25 accesses of system physical memory. So larger TLB and page size would decrease the system physical memory accesses.  

[[Jasper County (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums

Jasper County is the ninth studio album by Trisha Yearwood. The album was released on September 13, 2005. It was her first studio album in 4 years. The album was also the return of producer Garth Fundis who produced her Greatest hits album. It was ninth and final studio album of label MCA Nashville Records.

[[Land transport]]

CATEGORIES: Land transport

Land transport or Land transportation is the movement of people, animals, and goods from one location to another on land.  Today this is usually by rail or road transport. 

[[Lisa Ajax]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, Living people, Swedish singers

''Lisa'' Kristina Ajax, born 13 August 1998 in Järfälla, Sweden, is a Swedish female singer. She participated at Idol 2014 contest. She won the entire contest. On 28 November 2014, she made it to the Idol finals inside the Stockholm Globe Arena. Her recording of the song "Love Run Free" has reached the 48th position at Itunes during its first week at chart. 

On 5 December 2014, she won the Idol finals inside the Stockholm Globe Arena before runner up Mollie Lindén.

She also participated at Lilla Melodifestivalen 2012 with the song "Allt som jag har".

[[Intercalation (timekeeping)]]

CATEGORIES: Calendars

Calendars are commonly based on the rotation of celestial bodies, such as the sun or the moon. These calendars periodically add a certain time unit, to make the calendar follow the rotation more closely, which is known as intercalation. As an example, the solar year is about 365,25 days long. The Gregorian calendar says that the year has 365 days, but that roughly every four years, an extra day is added. 

Another example is the Jewish calendar, which is a lunisolar calendar. In addition to the 365,25 days of the solar year, there are the 29.5 days in a lunar month. This gives the problem that the year does not have twelve months, but about 12.4 months. The calendar solves this problem by adding an extra month in certain cases.

[[List of Tekken characters]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of fictional characters, Tekken characters

List of Tekken Characters

[[Numbers station]]

CATEGORIES: Radio stations

A Numbers station is a kind of shortwave radio station with unusual broadcasts: very often, these broadcasts consist of numbers that are read by computer-generated voices. Several of these stations exist, numbers are read in different languages. Some stations have operated for a period of more than ten years, using the same frequency. 

The purpose of the stations is unknown, along with who operates them. One supposition is that governments use them to communicate with secret agents or spies. As receiving the messages is relatively simple, the agent only needs a world radio receiver. 

[[Dale Crover]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American heavy metal musicians, American punk musicians, American rock drummers, American rock guitarists, Musicians from Washington, Nirvana members, People from Aberdeen, Washington

Dale Crover (born October 23, 1967) is an American musician. He is best known as the drummer for the band, Melvins. Crover has also played the bands Men of Porn, Shrinebuilder, and Nirvana. He is the current vocalist and guitarist for the band Altamont.

[[Gina Carano]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Texas, 1982 births, Living people

Gina Carano (born April 16, 1982) is an American actress, television personality and mixed martial artist. She played Riley Hicks in Fast & Furious 6. She also played Mallory in the movie Haywire. She also played Cara Dune in The Mandalorian, before being fired for posts that were supposedly Anti-semitic. She was then hired at The Daily Wire.

Carano was born in Dallas County, Texas.

[[Communications receiver]]

CATEGORIES: Radio receivers

A communications receiver is a radio receiver which is specially suited for receiving shortwave radio stations. Unlike other radio stations, shortwave stations are usually broadcast from one sender only. They can then be received all over the world. The upper class communications receivers are also able to receive differently modulated radio signals, such as single-sideband modulation. 

[[Loop antenna]]

CATEGORIES: Radio antennas

A loop antenna is a radio antenna consisting of at least one loop of wire, tubing, or other electrical conductor with its ends connected to a balanced transmission line. Within this physical description two different antenna designs are common: the small loop (or magnetic loop) with a size much smaller than a wavelength, and the resonant loop antenna with a circumference approximately equal to the wavelength.

Small loops have a poor efficiency and are mainly used as receiving antennas at low frequencies. Except for car radios, almost every AM broadcast receiver sold  has such an antenna built in or directly attached to it. These antennas are also used for radio direction finding.  In amateur radio, loop antennas can be used where larger antennas would be inconvenient, unsightly, or banned because of size. Loop antennas are relatively easy to build.

A small loop antenna, also known as a magnetic loop, generally has a circumference of less than one tenth of a wavelength, in which case there will be a relatively constant current distribution along the conductor.  As the frequency or the size is increased, a standing wave starts to develop in the current, and the antenna starts to acquire some of the characteristics of a resonant loop (but is not resonant); for this reason, these intermediate cases cannot be analyzed using the concepts developed for the small and resonant loop antennas described below. 

Resonant loop antennas are relatively large, governed by the intended wavelength of operation. Thus they are typically used at higher frequencies, especially VHF and UHF, where their size is manageable. They can be viewed as a folded dipole deformed into a different shape, and have rather similar characteristics such as a high radiation efficiency.

[[Wellfleet, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Massachusetts

Wellfleet is a town in Barnstable County, Massachusetts, United States. It is located halfway between the "tip" and "elbow" of Cape Cod. The town had a population of 2,750 at the 2010 census. The population grows to over six times the normal during the summer. Much of the town's land area is in wetlands protection. Nearly half of it is part of the Cape Cod National Seashore. Wellfleet is famous for its oysters, which are celebrated in the annual October Wellfleet OysterFest.

[[Nils Börge Gårdh]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people

Nils Börge Gårdh, born 20 February 1946 in Falun, Sweden is a Swedish Christian singer and businessman. His major solo hit was Jag längtar bort. It charted at the top 10-chart Svensktoppen for 10 weeks in 1982. He also works for the Hoppets stjärna charity organization.

[[Night of Champions (2012)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in professional wrestling, Sports in Boston, Massachusetts, WWE Night of Champions, 2012 in the United States, 2010s in Boston, Massachusetts

Night of Champions was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on September 16, 2012 at TD Garden in Boston, Massachusetts. It was the fifth WWE Night of Champions event held by the WWE. 

The main event was a match between WWE Champion CM Punk and John Cena. The end of match saw Cena place Punk on the top rope and hit a bridging German suplex for the pin. The referee declared that both men had their shoulders on the mat for three seconds and ended the match in a draw.

[[Armageddon (1999)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 in American television, 1999 in professional wrestling, Sports in Florida, WWE Armageddon, 1990s in Florida

Armageddon (1999) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation. It was held on December 12, 1999 at National Car Rental Center in Sunrise, Florida. It was the first Armageddon event held by the WWF.

The main event saw Triple H defeat Vince McMahon in a No Holds Barred match. Triple H won the match by pinning Vince after he hit McMahon with a sledgehammer, when Vince's daughter and Triple H's (kayfabe, at that time) wife Stephanie McMahon had turned on Vince by giving the sledgehammer to Triple H.

[[Armageddon (2000)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in American television, 2000 in professional wrestling, Birmingham, Alabama, WWE Armageddon, 20th century in Alabama

Armageddon (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on December 10, 2000 at Birmingham-Jefferson Civic Center in Birmingham, Alabama. It was the second Armageddon event held by the WWF. It was the only WWF pay-per-view event to be held in the state of Alabama.

The main event was a six-man Hell in a Cell for Kurt Angle's WWF Championship. Kurt Angle defeated Stone Cold Steve Austin, Triple H, The Undertaker, Rikishi, and The Rock to retain his championship.

[[Armageddon (2002)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 in American television, 2002 in professional wrestling, Sports in Florida, WWE Armageddon, 2000s in Florida

Armageddon (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on December 15, 2002 at Office Depot Center in Sunrise, Florida. It was the third Armageddon event held by the WWE.

The main match for the Raw brand saw Triple H defeat Shawn Michaels in a Three Stages of Hell match for the World Heavyweight Championship. The first match was a Street Fight, which Triple H won after performing a Pedigree on Michaels and pinning him. The second match was a Steel cage match, which Michaels was able to win by pinfall after he jumped off the top of the steel cage onto Triple H and through a table. The third and final match was a Ladder match, which Triple H won after he climbed up a ladder and grabbed the belt which was suspended above the ring.

The main event for SmackDown! saw Kurt Angle defeat The Big Show to retain his WWE Championship. Angle pinned Big Show after Brock Lesnar interfered. Another match that was on the undercard saw Chris Benoit defeat Eddie Guerrero in a submission match. Benoit made Guerrero tap out to the Crippler Crossface.

[[Phaedra (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: People in Greek mythology

Phaedra is the daughter of Minos and Pasiphaë in Greek mythology. She is also the wife of Theseus, the sister of Ariadne and the mother of Demophon of Athens and of Acamas. Phaedra's name comes from a Greek word, which means "bright". 

There are many versions of the story of Phaedra. One is about murder and revenge.

[[Summer Wine]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 songs, 1960s ballads, Pop ballads, Songs about sexuality

"Summer Wine" is a seductive ballad. It was originally sung by Suzi Jane Hokom and Lee Hazlewood in 1966. It was made famous when released by Nancy Sinatra and Lee Hazlewood in 1967.

The song is about a man who meets a woman who notices his silver spurs. She invites him to have wine with her.

The song was recorded by other musicians since it was first played. 

[[Somethin' Stupid]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 songs, 1960s ballads, Pop songs, Pop ballads, Frank Sinatra songs

"Somethin' Stupid" is a ballad written by C. Carson Parks.

It was recorded in 1966 by Parks and his wife Gaile Foote. The song is best known for being recorded by Frank Sinatra and his daughter Nancy. The Sinatras' version became popular as it spent four weeks at the #1 spot on the Billboard Hot 100. 

The song was also recorded by Tammy Wynette, The Lennon Sisters, Marvin Gaye, Robbie Williams and Nicole Kidman and many others.

[[Oden]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

Oden (おでん, or 関東煮) is one of the Japanese stewing food. Oden contains a lot of ingredients in seasoned soup. Ingredients and soup are different by area, and shop. Recently, Oden is also sold at convenience stores.

[[Tonjiru]]

CATEGORIES: Soups, Japanese food

Tonjiru is a Japanese soup. This soup is cooked to boil miso, potatoes, carrots, burdocks, pork(see blow).It is a rare for Japanese soup to use pork. It stays hot, so it is popular in winter. 

==Recipe==              

1. Cut vegetables (potatoes, carrots and burdocks, etc...)and Pork to eat easy.

2. Boil them in soup stock at high heat.

3. Add miso to taste.

4. Add cut long green onions.

==History==            

Tonjiru probably began to cook from the Meiji era onward 1. In the Asuka era, the Imperial court banned to eat meat. So, people could not eat meat, but boar meats were not banned, and they eat it as a Botannnabe. Therefore, it is said that Tonjiru is based on Botannnabe.

==Local ingredients2==     

==References==    

1. Soup Dictionary

2. Hanamaru Market https://web.archive.org/web/20141211162018/http://www.nelliemcgee.com/archives/cat2/nabe/post_77/

[[Rice cracker]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

A Rice cracker is a Japanese snack made from rice. The traditional rice crackers are called Senbei and 'arare'''. Depending on type, they are made from glutenous or non-glutenous rice.

[[Three Great Gardens of Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Japan

Three Great Gardens of Japan are the gardens which have picturesque scenery in Japan. The gardens are Kenroku-en, Koairaku-en and Kouraku-en.

[[Hatsumoude]]

CATEGORIES: Shinto

Hatsumoude is the first visit of the new year to a shrine or temple. Many Japanese people visit a shrine or temple. They pray to gods or Buddha for the health and happiness of their family in the coming year. A Hatsumoude is usually performed between January 1st and 7th, which is based on ancient beliefs.

[[Kei Nishikori]]

CATEGORIES: Male tennis players, Japanese tennis players, 1989 births, Living people, People from Shimane Prefecture, Medalists at the 2016 Summer Olympics, Olympic bronze medalists

Kei Nishikori (born on December 29, 1989) is a Japanese professional tennis player. He is from Matsue in Shimane. He graduated from Nogi elementary school, Kaisei junior high school, and Aomori-yamada high school. He is right-handed.

[[Omamori]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture

Omamori are Japanese amulets (charms, talismans). They are commonly sold at shrines. Omamori are dedicated to particular Shinto deities as well as Buddhist figures. They are believed to protects a wearer from bad luck and brings good luck. They were riginally made from paper or wood. Modern amulets are small items usually kept inside a brocade bag and may contain a prayer or religious inscription.

[[Sutoku]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Sutoku was the 75th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. He is also called Sanuki-Inn,because he lived in Sanuki (Kagawa) in the later part of his life. Although, officially, he was a child of Toba-Tennno, actually it is said that is not true.

[[Funassyi]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture

Funassyi (pronounced Funasshi) is an unofficial mascot of Funabashi City, Japan. He is a rock-star in a pear costume. Funassyi's main purpose is to promote Funabashi City. He is a singer, dancer, and a talking pear. He was a mascot which a Funabashi resident started. Now Funassyi is a famous yuru-chara (a category of mascot characters) of Japan.  However, Funabashi City has not yet approved him as an official mascot.

[[Kumamoto-Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in Japan

Kumamoto Castle is one of the most famous Japanese castles. There are a lot of ginkgo trees, so some people call it Ginkgo Castle.

[[Cookpad]]

CATEGORIES: Websites, 1997 establishments in Japan, Cooking

Cookpad is the largest Internet recipe site in Japan. It was started in 1997 by the Cookpad company. They have a database of over 1.5 million recipes. Members can add their recipe in Cookpad. Other Cookpad users can make comments about recipes they have tried. Recipes are categorized. Users can look for the recipe they want to know. They are also able to look for popular recipes and search by seasonal keywords.

[[Corn Laws]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in the United Kingdom, Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom

The Corn Laws were a series of British laws regarding taxes on corn. These laws were passed in the 1800s. The laws were passed to favor and protect British land owners. Lord Liverpool passed them in 1815: If the price for corn was below 80 shillings per quarter, importing corn was forbidden; if the price was above, there were no import taxes. In 1822 and 1828, there were small changes. The laws caused many protests, and they were phased out under the government of Robert Peel, in 1846. Despite this, over one million people starved in Ireland, between 1846 and 1849. This famine is known as Irish Potato Famine today. 

Economists, such as David Ricardo were against the Corn Laws. Ricardo believed that overall, protectionism made corn too expensive for the economy as a whole. He also believed that with the laws, the protection of agriculture was too big. He wrote about these ideas in his work called  On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation from 1817. Thomas Malthus was in favor of the laws; in his opinion, they helped the agriculture of the country, and would not lead to the country depending on others.  

[[Fugitive Among Us]]

CATEGORIES: American television movies, American crime drama movies, English-language movies, 1992 movies, Movies set in Texas

Fugitive Among Us is a 1992 American crime drama television movie. It was directed by Michael Toshiyuki Uno. It was shown on CBS.

The movie was filmed in Dallas, Texas. It is based on the true story from the nonfiction book And Deliver Us From Evil.

[[Arbaeen]]

CATEGORIES: Iraq, Islam, Ceremonies

Arbaeen (الأربعين, "forty"), Chehelom (چهلم, چہلم, "the fortieth day") or Qirkhi,  Imamin Qirkhi (İmamın qırxı, امامین قیرخی, "the fortieth of Imam") is a Shia Muslim religious observance that occurs forty days after the Day of Ashura. It honors the martyrdom of Husayn ibn Ali, the grandson of Muhammad. Imam Husayn ibn Ali and 72 companions were killed by Yazid I's army in the Battle of Karbala in 61 AH (680 CE). Arbaeen or forty days is also the usual length of mourning in many Muslim traditions. Arbaeen is one of the largest pilgrimage gatherings on Earth. Millions of people go to the city of Karbala in Iraq. The pilgrims include Shia, Sunnis, Christians, Yazidi and other faiths.

[[Artur Erikson]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2000 deaths, Swedish singers

Artur Eriksson, born 5 March 1918 in Skutskär, Sweden, dead 5 August 2000 in Gagnef, Sweden, was a Swedish singer and preacher. He was active within the Mission Covenant Church of Sweden. Except for Christian songs, he also sang songs were Dan Andersson's poems had been set to music. A major succes was Till min syster, which charted at the top 10-chart Svensktoppen for 12 weeks in 1970.

[[Northwich]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cheshire

Northwich is a town and civil parish in the county of Cheshire, England. The town is about 18 east of Chester and 15 south of Warrington. Northwich has been named as one of the best places to live in the UK according to the Sunday Times in 2014. The town also made the list in 2013. 

The area around Northwich has been famous for its salt since Roman times. Then the town was known as Condate. Mines dug under Northwich began collapsing in the late 19th century. Buildings began to disappear as they sank into the mines below. Several of the deep mines have since been filled in under a £28 million project finished in 2007.

[[X64]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

x86-64 is the general name of a series of 64-bit processors and their associated instruction set architecture. These processors are compatible with legacy x86 software. 

AMD and Intel are the major manufacturers, and VIA also supported it with VIA Nano processors. They call their own 64-bit processors AMD64, Intel64 and VIA x86-64 processors, respectively. Game consoles such as Microsoft Xbox One and Sony PlayStation 4 use their own semi-customized AMD64-based APU as main processors.

x64 is another name used to refer to 64-bit extended systems based on this kind of processors. People often use x64 to refer to its associated instruction set architecture and processor. 

[[Wilfred Grenfell]]

CATEGORIES: 1865 births, 1940 deaths, English physicians, Knights Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George, Canadian physicians

Sir Wilfred Thomason Grenfell, KCMG (28 February 1865 – 9 October 1940) was a doctor and medical missionary to Newfoundland and Labrador. In 1892 Grenfell was sent to Newfoundland. He brought the first medical services to Newfoundland and Northern Labrador. In addition to practicing medicine, Dr. Grenfell built hospitals, schools and orphanages. These served the Eskimos, natives and fishermen of Newfoundland. For his years of service to the people of these communities he was later knighted (Order of St Michael and St George). 

The Sir Wilfred Thomason Grenfell Historical Society was formed in 1978. The society purchased Grenfell's home in St. Anthony, Newfoundland and Labrador. The home has been restored as a museum and archives.

[[Sven Plex Petersson]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2011 deaths, Swedish journalists

Sven Plex Petersson, born 7 August 1926 in Lit, Sweden, dead 25 June 2011 in Lidingö, Sweden was a Swedish sports journalist. He was active for Sveriges Radio and Sveriges Television. He was employed by Sveriges Radio in 1957.

[[Lars-Gunnar Björklund]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2012 deaths, Swedish journalists

Lars-Gunnar Björklund (24 February 1937, Stockholm, Sweden – 30 November 2012 in Sankt Matteus Parish, Stockholm, Sweden) was a Swedish radio and TV journalist. He was famous as a sports reporter. He was especially famous for reporting from Vasaloppet and the Ice Hockey World Championships.

[[Ann-Britt Ryd Pettersson]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Swedish journalists

Ann-Britt Ryd Pettersson, born 19 March 1954, is a Swedish news reporter at Sveriges Television. She begun working for SR Blekinge by the late 1970s. She then became host for regional news programme  Östnytt. In 1980, she became first female employed by the SVT sports section.

She was awarded the special prize during the 2018 Kristallen Awards.

[[Something's Gotta Give]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 comedy-drama movies, 2003 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies

Something's Gotta Give is a 2003 American romantic comedy-drama movie. This movie is about a man and woman finding love later in life. Jack Nicholson plays Harry Sanborn. Diane Keaton plays Erica. Amanda Peet plays Marin. Frances McDormand plays Zoe. Something's Gotta Give was released on December 12, 2003. Critics generally gave it good reviews. It made over $124 million at the box office.

[[Albrecht Rodenbach]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1880 deaths, Belgian poets, People from West Flanders

Albertus Petrus Josephus Mansuetus Ferdinandus (Berten or Albrecht) Rodenbach (27 October 1856, Roeselare - 23 June 1880, Roeselare) was a Belgian poet. He is remembered as a symbol of the Flemish Movement.

Hugo Verriest called him the poet, the soul, the heart, the mind, the word of Reborn Flanders.  Rodenbach was inspired by the writers Guido Gezelle and Hendrik Conscience.

Rodenbach was born to a family of 10 children. His parents were wine merchants. He was a cousin to the writer Georges Rodenbach.

He graduated from the Catholic minor Seminary in Roeselare. He met the writer Pol de Mont at the Catholic University of Leuven.

Together they were involved in the Flemish movement. Rodenbach was the leader of the Flemish student’s association. 

He was 23 when he died. 

[[Mona Lisa Smile]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Massachusetts, Movies set in the 1950s

Mona Lisa Smile is a 2003 American romantic drama movie. It is set in 1953 in Massachusetts. Julia Roberts plays Katherine. Julia Stiles plays Joan. Kirsten Dunst plays Elizabeth. Marcia Gay Harden plays Nancy. Maggie Gyllenhaal plays Giselle.

This movie got mixed to negative reviews from critics. It made a lot of money at the box office.

[[Arrondissements of the Yonne department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Yonne department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

The arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of the Yonne department are:

[[Anna Larsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2003 deaths, Swedish sportspeople, Swedish skiers

Anna Larsson, nickname: Nora-Anna, born 2 January 1922, dead 14 June 2003, was a Swedish track and field athlete and cross-country skier. As a track and field athlete, she competed for IFK Nora. She broke several women's running world records between 1944-1945. After winning an 800 meters running event, she also became first female to run a victory lap at the Stockholm Olympic Stadium.

[[Arrondissement of Avallon]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Avallon is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Yonne département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital is the city of Avallon.

[[Arrondissement of Sens]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Sens is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Yonne département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital is the city of Sens.

[[Something to Talk About (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 comedy-drama movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, 1995 romance movies, Adultery in movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies

Something to Talk About is a 1995 American romantic comedy-drama movie. Julia Roberts plays Grace. Dennis Quaid plays her husband Eddie, who is having an affair with another woman. Robert Duvall plays her father Wyly. Kyra Sedgwick plays Emma. Gena Rowlands plays Georgia.

The movie got mixed reviews from the critics. The title comes from a Bonnie Raitt song of the same name.

[[Ann Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2004 deaths, Actors from Texas, American dancers, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Singers from Texas

Johnnie Lucille Collier (April 12, 1923 – January 22, 2004), also known as Ann Miller was an American dancer, singer and actress. She played Julie Shelton in the movie Melody Ranch. She played Lois in Kiss Me Kate.

Miller was born in Chireno, Texas. She died at age 80 of lung cancer in Los Angeles, California.

[[Michael Dibdin]]

CATEGORIES: British writers, People from Wolverhampton

Michael Dibdin (21 March 1947 – 30 March 2007) was a British crime writer. Dibdin was born in Wolverhampton. His father was a physicist. From the age of seven, Dibdin lived in Lisburn, Northern Ireland, where he attended the Friends' School. He graduated with a degree in English from Sussex University, and then went to study for a Master's degree at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, Canada. His first novel was based on the character Sherlock Holmes. He lived for four years in Italy, teaching at the university in Perugia. Dibdin is best known for his Aurelio Zen mysteries, set in Italy. The first of these, Ratking, won the 'Gold Dagger' award of 1988. This series of detective novels provide a penetrating insight into the less visible aspects of Italian society over the last 20 years. The earlier books have a lightness of touch that gradually becomes much darker. The character of Zen himself is anti-heroic, which adds much to the books' irony and black humour. A final Zen book, End Games, was published after Dibdin died, in July 2007. He also wrote other detective works set in America and in England.

[[Handbollsligan]]

CATEGORIES: Handball in Sweden

Handbollsligan is the top division of men's handball in Sweden. It consists of 14 teams. Swedish national indoor championships for men have been played since 1932. The event is organized by the Swedish Handball Federation.

It was called Elitserien (Elitserien i handboll för herrar) until the 2016-2017 season.

[[Svensk handbollselit]]

CATEGORIES: Handball in Sweden

Svensk handbollselit is the top division of women's handball in Sweden. It consists of 12 teams. Swedish national indoor championships for wommen have been played since 1951. The event is organized by the Swedish Handball Federation.

The series changed name to "Svensk handbollselit" for the 2016-2017 season. Before that it was called Elitserien (Elitserien i handboll för damer).

[[Sweden women's national handball team]]

CATEGORIES: Handball in Sweden

The Sweden women's national handball team (Sveriges damlandslag i handboll) represents Sweden on the women's side in handball. Sweden took a silver medal during the 2010 European championship in Denmark and Norway.

[[Sweden men's national handball team]]

CATEGORIES: Handball in Sweden

The Sweden men's national handball team (Sveriges herrlandslag i handboll) represents Sweden on the men's side in handball. Sweden has won several medals during the World Championship, Olympic Summer Games and the European Championship.

[[Khalil Ullah Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Bangladeshi people, Bangladeshi movie actors, Recipients of Bangladesh National Film Awards

Khalil Ullah Khan (খলিল উল্লাহ খান, February 2, 1934 – December 7, 2014) was a Bangladeshi movie actor. Khalil Ullah began his acting career as a theater activist while he made his debut on the silver screen with Sonar Kajol. He then went on to star in about 800 movies. His first national award was for his role in Gunda. In 2012, he won 'Lifetime Achievement Award'.

Khan died from heart disease in Dhaka, Bangladesh, aged 80.

[[Adnan Gulshair el Shukrijumah]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2014 deaths, Al-Qaeda people, Deaths by firearm, Saudi Arabian people

Adnan Gulshair el Shukrijumah (عدنان شكري جمعة, ʿAdnān Shukrī Jumaʿah) (4 August 1975 – 6 December 2014) was a member of al-Qaeda. He was born in Saudi Arabia and grew up in the United States.

In March 2003, a provisional arrest warrant was issued calling him a "material witness". He was listed on theFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) on the Seeking Information - War on Terrorism list, and since then United States Department of State, through the Rewards for Justice Program, has offered a bounty of up to US$5 million for information about his location.

Media reports surfaced in 6 December 2014 indicating that he was killed in a manhunt operation by Pakistan in South Waziristan.

[[Luke Somers]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2014 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American photojournalists, American people murdered abroad, British people murdered abroad, British photojournalists, British murder victims, Kidnapped American people, Kidnapped British people, Writers from London

Luke Daniel Somers (1981 – 6 December 2014) was a British-American photojournalist. He was held hostage by the militant Islamist group al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) in Yemen until they killed him. He was a dual citizen of the United Kingdom and the United States. 

Somers was born in London. He graduated from Beloit College in Wisconsin with a Bachelor's degree in Creative Writing and later traveled to Egypt before settling in Yemen.

[[Nedunuri Krishnamurthy]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Indian musicians, Indian singers

Nedunuri Krishnamurthy (10 October 1927 – 8 December 2014) was an Indian Carnatic vocalist. He was known for performing songs about meditation and peace. He also wrote classical music. He was born in Kothapalli, Hyderabad State, British India.

Krishnamurthy died in Visakhapatnam, India from lung cancer, aged 87.

[[Mango (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2014 deaths, Basilicata, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Italy, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Italian musicians, Italian singers, Singer-songwriters

Mango, stage name of Giuseppe ("Pino") Mango (November 6, 1954 – December 7, 2014), was an Italian singer-songwriter and musician. He was known for his style which fuses pop, folk, world music, the frequent use of odd time signatures and for his high vocal range.

On December 7, 2014 Mango suffered a heart attack while performing the song "Oro" during a concert in Policoro, province of Matera, aged 60.

[[Duchy of Parma]]

CATEGORIES: Former monarchies in Italy, States of the Holy Roman Empire

The Duchy of Parma was created in 1545 from that part of the Duchy of Milan south of the Po River, which had been conquered by the State of the Church in 1512. These territories, centered on the city of Parma, were given as a fief for Pope Paul III's illegitimate son, Pier Luigi Farnese. The state was originally ruled by the Farnese family before eventually falling to the House of Bourbon by inheritance. Following the creation of the state of Italy in 1859 the duchy was abolished.  It was also a state of the Holy Roman Empire till 1806 and had various links with its neighbour the Grand Duchy of Tuscany.

[[Gaston, Duke of Orléans]]

CATEGORIES: 1608 births, 1660 deaths, Dukes and Duchesses of Valois, Dukes and Duchesses of Anjou, Dukes and Duchesses of Orléans, Burials at the Basilica of St Denis

Gaston of France, Son of France, Duke of Orléans (Gaston Jean Baptiste; 25 April 1608 – 2 February 1660) was the third son of King Henry IV of France and his wife Marie de Medici. As a son of the king, he was born a Fils de France.  As a young boy he was given the title of Duke of Anjou. Later he had the title Duke of Orléans. As the eldest surviving brother of King Louis XIII, he was known at court as Monsieur. He was also one of the first princes to use the style of Royal Highness. He is often also referred to as Gaston d'Orléans.  His grandson the last Medici Grand Duke of Tuscany was named in his honour. 

[[Ken Weatherwax]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Kenneth Patrick Weatherwax (September 29, 1955 – December 7, 2014) known as Kenny and billed as  "Ken"  Weatherwax, was an American actor. He was best known for having played Pugsley Addams on the original The Addams Family television series.

Weatherwax died from a heart attack at his home on December 7, 2014 at the age of 59.

[[Don Larsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from esophageal cancer, Baltimore Orioles players, New York Yankees players, Oakland Athletics players, Chicago White Sox players, San Francisco Giants players, Houston Astros players, Chicago Cubs players, Sportspeople from Indiana, Sportspeople from San Diego, California, People from Michigan City, Indiana

Donald James Larsen (August 7, 1929 – January 1, 2020) was an American former Major League Baseball (MLB) pitcher. During a 15-year MLB career, he pitched from 1953–1967 for seven different teams. Larsen was born in Michigan City, Indiana, but was raised in San Diego, California.

Larsen pitched for the St. Louis Browns / Baltimore Orioles (1953–1954; 1965), New York Yankees (1955–1959), Kansas City Athletics (1960–1961), Chicago White Sox (1961), San Francisco Giants (1962–1964), Houston Colt .45's / Houston Astros (1964–1965), and Chicago Cubs (1967).

Larsen died on January 1, 2020 in Hayden, Idaho at the age of 90 from esophageal cancer.

[[Euthanasia Coaster]]

CATEGORIES: Roller coasters by name, Euthanasia, Art

The Euthanasia Coaster is an art concept. The idea was a steel roller coaster designed to kill its passengers. 

In 2010, it was designed and made into a scale model by Julijonas Urbonas. Urbonas used to work in an amusement park. Urbonas said that the goal of his proposed roller coaster is to take lives "with elegance and euphoria". Urbonas said it would be like "euthanasia" or "execution". 

John Allen, who was the president of the Philadelphia Toboggan Company, gave Urbonas the idea. Allen wanted an "ultimate" roller coaster that "sends out 24 people and they all come back dead". Urbonas took Allen's idea and designed the roller coaster. Urbonas said the roller coaster would make its passengers unconscious before killing them. It was criticized by the anti-euthanasia association Care Not Killing.

The roller coaster kills its passengers by drastically decreasing oxygen in their brains.

[[Claude Chabrol]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2010 deaths, French movie directors, French critics

Claude Henri Jean Chabrol (klod ʃabʁɔl; 24 June 1930 – 12 September 2010) was a French movie director. He was a member of the French New Wave (nouvelle vague) group of filmmakers. He became popular at the end of the 1950s. Chabrol was born in Sardent, France.

Like his colleagues Jean-Luc Godard, François Truffaut, Éric Rohmer and Jacques Rivette, Chabrol was a critic for the influential movie magazine Cahiers du cinéma.

Chabrol died on 12 September 2010 in Paris, France, aged 80.

[[John Bertrand]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Sportspeople from Victoria (Australia), Living people

John Bertrand is an Australian yachtsman. He was born on 20 December 1946 in Chelsea, Victoria. He has one brother who has the same hobby. Bertrand sailed yacht with his brother every afternoon on Port Phillip Bay.

Bertrand went to Monash University in Melbourne, Australia. He took a mechanical engineering class. He eventually went across to Massachusetts Institute of Technology. After completing these courses, he won lots of yacht in competitions in his community. He then went to the 1972 Summer Olympics. He came fourth in the finn competition. In 1976 Bertrand won a bronze medal at the Olympic Games also for the finn competition.

In 1983, Bertrand was the captain of the Australia II at the America's Cup. The weather at the start of the race was rough but then calmed down. On the last race Australia was losing by 55 seconds but then they caught back that time and won. Bertrand’s team was the first to beat the United States in the America's Cup in 132 years. 

[[Saint Vitus]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, 303 deaths, Year of birth missing

Vitus was born in Sicily in southern Italy. He was born in 290 AD. He died in Luciana in the northwest of Italy. Vitus was one of the fourteen holy helpers. 

Legend says that Vitus was the son of a man named Hylas. Hylas didn’t like Vitus for being Christian so he arrested him with his tutor and his nurse. Vitus travelled to Lucania which is in Rome, Italy and he got trapped by some people who knew his father. They put Vitus in a pot of boiled oil with a rooster. After a while he died in the pot. 

Saint Vitus was the patron saint of actors, comedians, dancers and epileptics. Vitus’s feast day is June 15, which was his date of death in 303. People in Germany celebrate the feast of St Vitus by dancing next to his statue on June 15. 

[[Saint Roch]]

CATEGORIES: 1295 births, 1327 deaths, Christian saints

Saint Roch or Rocco (1295 – 16 August 1327) was a Christian saint. His death is commemorated on 16 August. He a patron saint against the plague. He is also a patron Saint of dogs and falsely accused people.

[[St. Dominic Savio]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1857 deaths, Christian saints

Dominic Savio (April 2, 1842 – March 9, 1857) is a Roman Catholic saint.

[[Sam Phillips]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2003 deaths, American record producers

Samuel Cornelius Phillips (January 5, 1923 – July 30, 2003), better known as Sam Phillips, was an American businessman, record executive, record producer and DJ.  He played an important role in the rock and roll world in the 1950s. He was a producer, label owner, and talent scout throughout the 1940s and 1950s.

He was the founder of both Sun Studios and Sun Records in Memphis, Tennessee.  He was most successful in the launching of Elvis Presley's career in 1954.

[[Bound for Glory (2014)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in professional wrestling, History of Tokyo, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling pay-per-view events, 2014 in Japan, October 2014 events

Bound for Glory (2014) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). It was held on October 12, 2014 at the Korakuen Hall in Tokyo, Japan. The pay-per-view was a collaboration with the Japanese puroresu promotion Wrestle-1. It was the tenth Bound for Glory event that TNA held and was also the fourth and last event in TNA's 2014 pay-per-view schedule. The event was aired on tape delay because of the time difference. Taz and Mike Tenay were not in Japan at the event and instead did commentary from TNA headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee.

There were eight matches on the card. The main event saw The Great Muta and Tajiri defeat James Storm and The Great Sanada.

[[City farming]]

CATEGORIES: Gardening

City farming, also called urban farming, is growing a kitchen garden (potager) in a city. This has been practiced as long as there have been cities. Other names include "pea-patching", victory gardening and foodscaping.

[[Roehampton]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, London Borough of Wandsworth

Roehampton is a small suburban area in Southwest London. Historically Roehampton was a wealthy town. Some of the great mansions of the 1700s are now used by colleges of the University of Roehampton. The university was founded in 2004. In 2007 the National Tennis Centre was set up in Roehampton. It has 22 courts and is a training facility for some of Britain's top tennis players. It also hosts the qualifying rounds for the Wimbledon championships. The Priory Hospital at Roehampton is a mental health hospital. It is internationally known for the treatment of celebrities with various addictions.

[[Dagger (typography)]]

CATEGORIES: Typography

A dagger is a symbol in typography, which usually looks like a vertical bar, with one or two traits. Sometimes it is also called obelisk. It is present in Unicode, at position 2020.

[[May Nilsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2009 deaths, Swedish skiers

May Nilsson, born 5 May 1921 in Åre, Sweden, dead 7 November 2009 in Albertville, France, was a Swedish alpine skier. She won a bronze medal at the women's slalom event during the 1939 world championships in Zakopane.

[[Provincial city]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Provincial cities (市), sometimes translated provincial municipalities, are cities lesser in rank than special municipalities of the Republic of China (Taiwan). They are directly governed by provinces and are one level above the most basic county-controlled cities. In the early 20th century a provincial municipality was described as one having a population of over 200,000. However, if the city was important in politics, economics or culture it had to be over 100,000.

After relocating the government to Taiwan the Republic of China government raised the limit to 500,000 in 1981. It was later raised again to 600,000. Currently, the Local Government Act of the Ministry of the Interior applies for the creation of a provincial city. In this case a city needs to have a population between 500,000 and 1,250,000. It must also have major political, economical and cultural roles.

[[Malcolm Knowles]]

CATEGORIES: Pages created with the Article Wizard from 2014, 1913 births, 1997 deaths, American academics, Harvard University alumni, People from Montana, University of Chicago alumni

Malcolm Shepard Knowles (August 24, 1913 – November 27, 1997) was an American educator. He was active in developing theories of adult education. His ideas about self-directed learning have gained international recognition.

[[Mort & Phil]]

CATEGORIES: Comics, Spanish culture, Television programs, Spanish movies

Mort & Phil (Mortadelo y Filemón in Spanish) is a Spanish comics series designed in 1958 by Francisco Ibáñez. It's one of the most popular comics in Spain.

Its first title was Mortadelo y Filemón: Agencia de Información. It was just the main characters. Every comics strip had from one to four pages. Throughout the years, the characters have evolved. At first, Mortadelo used to wear a bowler hat. He used to wear some disguises. He was known for his shapeshifter abilities. However Ibáñez went to leave the hat on therefore Mortadelo get disguise inmmediately. The other one, Filemón, called by Mortadelo as "Jefe" (Chief or Boss in English) had a beaked nose and use to smoke pipe as Sherlock Holmes used to do.

Their names are wordplay. For example: Mortadelo comes from Mortadela ("Mortadella di Bologna") and Filemón from Filete ("Steak").

In 1969, Ibáñez designed more characters. He also "founded" the TIA. The Técnicos de Investigación Aeroterráquea: "Aeroterrestrial Investigation Technicians") is an organisation that is a spoof on the CIA. With those changes, the comics books were much longer (44-48 pages by comic book).

These editions were more satirical in regard to Spanish and international themes such as politics and political corruption (El atasco de influencias), ETA's terrorism (Barcelona '92) where the terrorist group were named as "TETA"  ("TITS"), and "PEPA" in España '82, and the islamic one (Terroristas or El balón catastrófico) or economics (¡Llegó el Euro!) among others.

[[Sea glass]]

CATEGORIES: Glass

Sea glass and beach glass are pieces of glass worn smooth by waves. Technically, "Sea glass" is glass found on beaches along bodies of salt water. As the glass reaches the shoreline pounding waves and rocks break it into smaller pieces. The sharp edges are worn smooth. Salt water erodes the glass and gives it a frosted appearance. "Beach glass" comes from fresh water. It is found mainly along coastlines and the shores of large lakes. However many feel sea glass and beach glass are the same thing. 

[[Al-Duhail SC]]

CATEGORIES: Qatari football clubs

Lekhwiya S.C. is a football club which plays in Qatar.

[[Jorge María Mejía]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2014 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, People from Buenos Aires

Jorge María Mejía (31 January 1923 – 9 December 2014) was an Argentine cardinal of the Catholic Church (Roman Rite). He was born in Buenos Aires. On 21 February 2001, Mejía was appointed as Cardinal-Deacon of San Girolamo della Carità by Pope John Paul II in the consistory.

On 13 March 2013, Mejía suffered a heart attack on the same day his fellow Argentine Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio was elected as Pope Francis, the 266th pontiff of the Catholic Church. 

Cardinal Mejía died in Rome on 9 December 2014 at the age of 91.

[[Knut Nystedt]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2014 deaths, Composers, Musicians from Oslo, Organists

Knut Nystedt (3 September 1915 – 8 December 2014) was a Norwegian orchestral and choral composer. He was also a musician and played the Organ. Nystedt was born in Oslo, Norway. Nystedt founded and conducted Det Norske Solistkor from 1950 to 1990. He also founded and conducted Schola Cantorum from 1964 to 1985.

Nystedt died in his sleep at his home in Oslo on 8 December 2014 at the age of 99.

[[Colonel Tom Parker]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1997 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Elvis Presley, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Breda

Colonel Thomas Andrew "Tom" Parker (June 26, 1909spaced ndashJanuary 21, 1997) born Andreas Cornelis ("Dries") van Kuijk, was a Dutch-born entertainment impresario. He was best known as the manager of Elvis Presley.  For many years Parker falsely claimed to have been U.S.-born, but it eventually emerged that he was born in Breda in the Netherlands.

[[Hancock Seamount]]

CATEGORIES: Seamounts

Hancock Seamount is a seamount of the Hawaiian-Emperor seamount chain in the Pacific Ocean. The last eruption from Hancock Seamount is unknown.

[[Roger Nordström]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Swedish ice hockey goaltenders

Roger Nordström, born 27 April 1966 in Malmö, Sweden, is a Swedish former ice hockey goaltender. He played most seasons for Malmö Redhawks. He then played for German club Krefeld Pinguine between 1998-2003.

During the 1992 Olympic tournament he was appointed for the Swedish national team.

[[Hwayang-dong]]

CATEGORIES: Subdivisions of South Korea

Hwayang-dong is a dong in west Gwangjin-gu in Seoul, South Korea. It was joined into Gwangjin-gu on 13 August 1949. It is a mixed home and small business area. Mojin-dong is administered by Hwayang-dong. It has Konkuk University. 

[[Sybil Christopher]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Glamorgan, Welsh movie actors, Welsh stage actors, 1929 births, 2013 deaths

Sybil Christopher (27 March 1929 – 7 March 2013) was a Welsh actress, theatre director and founder of a nightclub. She first became known as Richard Burton's first wife. She performed mostly on stage. She also acted in a few movies.

Christopher was born Sybil Williams in Tylorstown, Wales. She died at age 83 in New York City.

[[Patricia Blair]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Texas, 1933 births, 2013 deaths

Patsy Lou Blake (also known as Patricia Blair; January 15, 1933 – September 9, 2013) was an American television and movie actress. She is best known for playing Rebecca Boone in all six seasons of NBC's Daniel Boone. She also played Lou Mallory in The Rifleman from 1962 to 1963. She was tall at 5 feet 9 inches. She could work with tall stars like Fess Parker (Daniel Boone) and Chuck Connors (The Rifleman).

Patricia Blair was born in Fort Worth, Texas. She died in North Wildwood, New Jersey at age eighty.

[[Armageddon (2003)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 in professional wrestling, Sports in Orlando, Florida, WWE Armageddon, 2003 in American television, 2000s in Orlando, Florida, 2003 in Florida

Armageddon (2003) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on December 14, 2003 at TD Waterhouse Centre in Orlando, Florida. It was the fourth Armageddon event held by the WWE.

The pay-per-view was a Raw brand exclusive. The main event saw Triple H win a Triple threat match against Kane and then-champion Goldberg. Triple H won the match and the World Heavyweight Championship after he pinned Goldberg following a chokeslam from Kane. Another main match that was on the undercard was Rob Van Dam defending his WWE Intercontinental Championship against Randy Orton. Orton would end up winning the match and he became the Intercontinental Champion after he pinned Van Dam following an RKO. Another primary match that was on the undercard was Batista facing Shawn Michaels. Michaels would win the match by pinfall after he performed the Sweet Chin Music on Batista.

The professional wrestling part of Canadian Online Explorer claimed that the event was a "flop" and rated the overall event a six out of ten.

[[Armageddon (2004)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in American television, 2004 in professional wrestling, Sports in Georgia (U.S. state), WWE Armageddon, 2000s in Georgia (U.S. state)

Armageddon (2004) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on December 12, 2004 at Gwinnett Center in Duluth, Georgia. It was the fifth Armageddon event held by the WWE.

The pay-per-view was a SmackDown! brand exclusive. There were 10 matches on the card with all 4 of SmackDown!'s championship were on the line. The main event saw John "Bradshaw" Layfield defeat Booker T, Eddie Guerrero and The Undertaker in a Fatal-Four Way match to retain his WWE Championship. Layfield won by Booker. If anyone interfered on JBL's behalf he would have lost the championship. Another main match on the undercard saw The Big Show defeat Kurt Angle, Mark Jindrak and Luther Reigns in a Handicap match. Big Show was able to win the match after he pinned Jindrak following an F-5. Another primary match on the card saw John Cena defeat Jesús in a Street Fight to retain his WWE United States Championship. Cena won the match by executing an FU to Jesús and pinning him.

[[Comparison of baseball and cricket]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket, Baseball

Baseball and Cricket are two similar sports. They are both considered bat-and-ball games and are played by both men and women. But they also have many differences. They have different rules, terms and organization. Their histories are both similar yet different.

[[James Stewart (mathematician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2014 deaths, Canadian educators, Canadian musicians, Cancer deaths in Ontario, Deaths from multiple myeloma, Violinists

James Drewry Stewart (March 29, 1941spaced ndashDecember 3, 2014) was a Canadian mathematician,  violinist, and the professor emeritus of mathematics at McMaster University.

Stewart died in Toronto, Canada from multiple myeloma, aged 73.

[[Fred Hawkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2014 deaths, American golfers, Sportspeople from Illinois

Fred Hawkins (September 3, 1923 – December 6, 2014) was an American professional golfer. He played on the PGA Tour from the mid-1940s to the mid-1960s. Hawkins was born in Antioch, Illinois.

Hawkins died in Sebring, Florida, aged 91.'

[[Mark Lewis (storyteller)]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, American movie actors, American educators, Actors from Oregon, Writers from Oregon, Emmy Award winners

Mark Lewis (February 16, 1954 – December 7, 2014) was an American storyteller, actor, and teacher. He was known for being the narrator in the Pirates of the Caribbean rides on Disneyland.

Lewis died in Eugene, Oregon from surgical complications, aged 60.

[[Jane Freilicher]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2014 deaths, American painters, People from New York City

Jane Freilicher (November 29, 1924 – December 9, 2014) was an American representational painter. She was known for her paintings of urban and country scenes from her homes in lower Manhattan. She was a member of the informal New York School beginning in the 1950s.

Freilicher died in Manhattan at the age of 90 on December 9, 2014.

[[Ralph Giordano]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2014 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Deaths from fractured hip, German writers, People from Hamburg

Ralph Giordano (March 23, 1923 – December 10, 2014) was a German writer and publicist. He survived the Holocaust and since then he has been writing books about his experiences. For a short-while he was a communist. Giordano was also an activist and critic. Giordano was born in Hamburg, Germany.

Giordano died in Cologne, Germany from complications of a broken hip following a fall, aged 91.

[[Armageddon (2006)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in professional wrestling, Richmond, Virginia, WWE Armageddon, 2006 in American television, 2000s in Virginia

Armageddon (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on December 17, 2006 at Richmond Coliseum in Richmond, Virginia. It was the seventh Armageddon event held by the WWE.

The pay-per-view was a SmackDown! brand exclusive. The main event was a tag team match, which saw the team of Batista and John Cena defeat the team of King Booker and Finlay. Two other matches on the undercard, saw The Undertaker defeat Mr. Kennedy in a Last Ride match, and Kane defeat Montel Vontavious Porter in an Inferno match.

[[Karl Otto Pöhl]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, Bankers, German economists, People from Hanover

Karl Otto Pöhl (1 December 1929 - 9 December 2014) was a German economist. He served as President of the Bundesbank and Chairman of its Central Bank Council from 1980 to 1991. He was born in Hanover, Lower Saxony.

Pöhl died in Zurich, Switzerland, aged 85.

[[Hans Tietmeyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Bankers, German economists, People from North Rhine-Westphalia

Hans Tietmeyer (18 August 1931 - 27 December 2016) was a German economist. He was thought to be one of the best experts on international financial matters. He was president of Deutsche Bundesbank from 1993 until 1999 and remained one of the most important figures in finance of the European Union.

[[Helmut Schlesinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, Living people, Bankers, German economists, People from Bavaria

Helmut Schlesinger (born  September 4, 1924) is a German economist. He is a former President of the Bundesbank.

He was born in Penzberg, Bavaria.

He is a member of the Orders of Merit and of Chivalry of Germany, Italy, Austria, Hungary, Sweden, and Luxembourg.

[[Morley Safer]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Canadian journalists, American war correspondents, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in New York City, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Toronto

Morley Safer (November 8, 1931 – May 19, 2016) was a Canadian-American reporter and correspondent for CBS News. He was best known for his long tenure on the newsmagazine 60 Minutes. He retired in May 2016, shortly before his death.

Safer died at his home in Manhattan, New York City on May 19, 2016 from pneumonia, aged 84.

[[Ed Bradley]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2006 deaths, African American writers, American journalists, Cancer deaths in New York City, Deaths from leukemia, American war correspondents, Emmy Award winners, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Edward Rudolph "Ed" Bradley, Jr. (June 22, 1941 – November 9, 2006) was an American journalist. He was best known for 26 years of award-winning work on the CBS News television program 60 Minutes. Bradley was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 

Bradley died in New York City from leukemia, aged 65.

[[Departure (Journey album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 albums

Departure is the sixth studio album by Journey. The album was released on February 29, 1980. It was the group's last studio album with keyboardist Gregg Rolie.

[[Frederick Law Olmsted]]

CATEGORIES: 1822 births, 1903 deaths, American journalists, American architects

Frederick Law Olmsted (April 26, 1822 – August 28, 1903) was an American landscape architect, journalist, social critic, and public administrator. He is considered to be the father of American landscape architecture. He helped Calvert Vaux design Central Park in New York City. Later he designed many parks.

[[Ann Carter]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American child actors, Actors from New York, 1936 births, 2014 deaths

Ann Carter (June 16, 1936 – January 27, 2014) was a former American child actress. She worked with dozens of movie stars. She played Amy Reed in The Curse of the Cat People. She played Peggy Allen in Child of Divorce.

Carter was born in Syracuse, New York. After acting, she graduated from Occidental College in Los Angeles. Carter taught school in California and in Seattle. She died in North Bend, Washington on January 27, 2014. She had been fighting ovarian cancer for nine years.

[[Vanderlei Farias da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: Coritiba Foot Ball Club players, 1984 births, Living people, Brazilian association football goalkeepers

Vanderlei Farias da Silva is an Brazilian football player. He was born 1 February 1984. He is a goalkeeper. He currently plays with Coritiba.

Vanderlei started his career in Londrina. Later he played for a great team of Brazil, Coritiba.

[[Ottershaw]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Surrey, 1864 establishments in Europe, 1860s establishments in England

Ottershaw is a village in the Runnymede district of Surrey, England. It is about 20 southwest of London. Ottershaw is part of the mixed rural and suburban Foxhills ward. It is part of the parish of Ottershaw. This parish was first established in 1864 in what was part of the original parish of Chertsey. This is when the name 'Ottershaw' came into use. Before that it was a part of Chertsey Common, which was part of Windsor Forest.

[[Ventnor]]

CATEGORIES: Towns on the Isle of Wight

Ventnor (ˈ) is a seaside resort and civil parish on the south coast of the Isle of Wight, England. It was established in the Victorian era. Ventnor lies underneath St Boniface Down. At 241 it is the highest point on the Isle of Wight. Ventnor is built on steep slopes and cliffs leading down to the sea. The higher part is called Upper Ventnor. The lower part is simply known as Ventnor. Ventnor is sometimes understood as including the coastal villages of St. Lawrence to one side and Bonchurch to the other.

The sheltered location on the cliff of the Island's south coast means the area experiences a microclimate. It has more sunny days than much of the British Isles, and fewer frosts. This has allowed many species of subtropical plant to grow here. Ventnor Botanic Garden is particularly notable.

[[Diplomatics]]

CATEGORIES: History, Documents

Diplomatics is a discipline which is concerned with the analysis of historical documents. The word goes back to diploma, which literally means folded (document). Using the term diplomatics for this science is probably due to a work called De re diplomatica, by Jean Mabilon (1632-1707). Note also, that the term is unrelated to diplomacy. 

The discipline originally evolved as a tool for studying and determining the authenticity of the official charters and diplomas issued by royal and papal chanceries. It was later found that many of the same underlying principles could be applied to other types of official document and legal instrument, to non-official documents such as private letters, and, most recently, to the metadata of electronic records.

Diplomatics is one of the auxiliary sciences of history. It should not be confused (as it often is) with its sister-discipline of palaeography. In fact, its techniques have more in common with those of the literary disciplines of textual criticism and historical criticism.

[[Lois Nettleton]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from Illinois, 1927 births, 2008 deaths

Lois Nettleton (August 16, 1927 – January 18, 2008) was an American actress. She acted in television and movies and on stage. She was a semifinalist at the 1948 Miss America pageant. She acted in dozens of television shows, including Gunsmoke and Daniel Boone.

Nettleton was born in Oak Park, Illinois. She died of lung cancer in California at age 80.

[[Joy Page]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, 1924 births, 2008 deaths

Joy Page (November 9, 1924 – April 18, 2008) was an American actress. She played Annina Brandel in the movie Casablanca. She also played Marsinah in the 1944 movie Kismet.

Page was born in Los Angeles, California. She died from pneumonia and a stroke, at age eighty-three.

[[Cornelius Vanderbilt]]

CATEGORIES: 1794 births, 1877 deaths, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from New York City, Deaths from COPD, Disease-related deaths in New York City, People from Staten Island, Slavers

Cornelius Vanderbilt (May 27, 1794 – January 4, 1877) was an American businessman, philanthropist, and slave owner. A lot of his wealth came from railroads and shipping.

He was also the patriarch of the Vanderbilt family. He was one of the richest Americans in history. He provided the initial gift to found Vanderbilt University, which is named in his honor.

Vanderbilt died on January 4, 1877 in New York City, New York from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), aged 82.

Vanderbilt was worth more than $100 million at the time of his death (equivalent to approximately $ in CURRENTYEAR dollars).

[[A Dirty Shame]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 comedy movies, 2000s sex comedy movies, 2000s LGBT movies, English-language movies, 2000s satirical movies, American LGBT movies, American sex comedy movies, American satirical movies, Movies set in Baltimore, Movies set in Maryland

A Dirty Shame is a 2004 satirical sex comedy movie. John Waters directed and wrote it. Tracey Ullman plays Sylvia. Selma Blair plays Caprice/Ursula. Patty Hearst plays Paige.

A Dirty Shame was released with an NC-17 rating by the MPAA. New Line Cinema was the distributor. It received mixed reviews.

[[Selma Blair]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Michigan, People with multiple sclerosis, 1972 births, Living people

Selma Blair (b. June 23, 1972) is an American actress. She acts in a variety of movie genres. She played Cecile Caldwell in the movie Cruel Intentions. She played Vivian in Legally Blonde.

Blair was born in Southfield, Michigan.

In October 2018, Blair revealed that she had been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. 

[[Southfield, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan, 1958 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Michigan

Southfield is a city in eastern Michigan. It is not far from Detroit. At the 2010 census, 71,739 people lived there.

Southfield was incorporated as city in 1958.

[[Lucha Underground]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American television series, 2014 American television series debuts, Professional wrestling promotions, Sports in California

Lucha Underground (originally called Lucha: Uprising) is an American professional wrestling television series. The show is produced by United Artists Media Group. It airs weekly in English on the El Rey network, and in Spanish on UniMás. The promotion features wrestlers from both the American independent circuit and the Mexican wrestling promotion Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA).

It was announced on January 12, 2014, that AAA would start airing a show on the American network El Rey on the second half of the year and that it would be backed by Mark Burnett. It would feature monthly and quarterly specials and live pay-per-views. On October 29, 2014, the series premiered on El Rey Network. It airs Wednesdays at 8:00 p.m. ET. It premiered in Spanish on November 1, 2014 on UniMás. It airs Saturdays at 4:00 p.m. on UniMás.

Prince Puma was crowned as the first Lucha Underground Champion on October 5, 2014.

Angélico, Ivelisse and Son of Havoc became the first Lucha Underground Trios Champions when they won the Trios Tournament on February 8, 2015.

On September 21, 2015, it was announced that there would be a second season of Lucha Underground.

[[Jože Toporišič]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2014 deaths, Slovenian writers, Educators

Jože Toporišič (October 11, 1926 – December 9, 2014) was a Slovene linguist. He was the author of the most influential Slovene scientific grammar of the second half of the 20th century. He was a member of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, and coauthor of the Academy's Slovene Normative Guide (Slovenski pravopis). He was born in Mostec, near Brežice in Slovenia.

Toporišič died in Ljubljana, Slovenia, aged 88.

[[Russ Kemmerer]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2014 deaths, Boston Red Sox players, Minnesota Twins players, Chicago White Sox players, Sportspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Russell Paul Kemmerer (November 1, 1930 – December 8, 2014) was an American professional baseball player. He was a right-handed pitcher. He played for the Boston Red Sox (1954–1957), the Washington Senators (1957–1960), the Chicago White Sox (1960–1962), and the Houston Colt .45s (1962–1963) to finish his career.

Kemmerer died in Indianapolis, Indiana, aged 84.

[[Robert B. Oakley]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Ambassadors of the United States, Politicians from Dallas, Texas

Robert Bigger Oakley (March 12, 1931 – December 10, 2014) is an American diplomat. He was a Foreign Service Officer. He was United States Ambassador to Zaire, Somalia, and Pakistan. In the early 1990s, he was a special envoy during the American involvement in Somalia under the Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, and George Bush presidencies.

Oakley died in McLean, Virginia from complications from Parkinson's disease, aged 83.

[[New Hartford, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Connecticut

New Hartford is a town in Litchfield County, Connecticut, United States. The population was 6,970 at the 2010 census.

[[Albert Günther]]

CATEGORIES: 1830 births, 1914 deaths, Ichthyologists, British scientists, German zoologists

Albert Günther FRS, (Albert Karl Ludwig Gotthilf Günther, also Albert Charles Lewis Gotthilf Günther, 3 October 1830 – 1 February 1914), was a German-born British zoologist, ichthyologist, and herpetologist. Günther is currently ranked the second-most productive reptile taxonomist. He described more than 340 reptile species.

He joined the British Museum in 1857, under Richard Owen and John Edward Gray. His first task was to classify 2000 snake specimens. After the death of Gray in 1875, Günther was appointed Keeper of Zoology at the Natural History Museum, a position he held until 1895. 

The major work of his life was the eight-volume Catalogue of Fishes (1859–1870, Ray Society). He also worked on the reptiles and amphibians in the museum collection. In 1864, he founded The Zoological Record and was editor for six years.

[[Avicii]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, 2018 deaths, Swedish record producers

Tim Bergling (tɪm ²bærjlɪŋ; 8 September 1989 – 20 April 2018), known professionally as Avicii (ə), was a Swedish musician, DJ, remixer, and record producer.

At 16, Bergling began posting his remixes on electronic music forums, which led to his first record deal. He rose to prominence in 2011 with his single "Levels". His debut studio album, True (2013), blended electronic music with elements of multiple genres and received generally positive reviews. It peaked in the top ten in more than fifteen countries and topped international dance charts; the lead single, "Wake Me Up", topped most music markets in Europe and reached number four in the United States.

In 2015, Bergling released his second studio album, Stories, and in 2017 he released an EP, Avīci (01). His catalogue also included the singles "I Could Be the One" with Nicky Romero, "You Make Me", "X You", "Hey Brother", "Addicted to You", "The Days", "The Nights", "Waiting for Love", "Without You" and "Lonely Together". Bergling was nominated for a Grammy Award for his work on "Sunshine" with David Guetta in 2012 and "Levels" in 2013. Several music publications credit Bergling as among the DJs who ushered electronic music into Top 40 radio in the early 2010s.

Bergling retired from touring in 2016 due to health problems, having suffered stress and poor mental health for several years. On 20 April 2018, Avicii was found dead in Muscat, Oman. On 1 May, it was reported that the cause of his death was suicide from self-inflicted injuries from a broken wine bottle. He was buried on 8 June in his hometown of Stockholm, Sweden.

[[Vonetta McGee]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from San Francisco, 1945 births, 2010 deaths

Vonetta McGee (14 January 1945 – 9 July 2010) was an American actress. She was known for her roles in movies during the 1970s. She played the Negress in The Kremlin Letter. She played Melinda in the movie Melinda.

McGee was born in San Francisco, California. She died from cardiac arrest in Berkeley, California.

[[Zalman King]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New Jersey, American movie actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, Cancer deaths in California, 1942 births, 2012 deaths

Zalman King (May 23, 1942 – February 3, 2012) was an American movie writer, producer, movie director and actor. He directed several erotic movies, including Wild Orchid (1990) and Two Moon Junction (1988).

King was born in Trenton, New Jersey. He died from cancer in Santa Monica, California.

[[Two Moon Junction]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s thriller movies, 1980s drama movies, 1988 movies, American independent movies

Two Moon Junction is a 1988 melodrama and erotic romance-thriller movie. The movie is about events happening in the Southern United States. Sherilyn Fenn plays April. Louise Fletcher plays Belle. Milla Jovovich plays Samantha.

This was Milla Jovovich's first movie.

This movie was filmed around Los Angeles.

[[Billy Boys]]

CATEGORIES: Songs

"Billy Boys", also titled "The Billy Boys, is a loyalist song from Glasgow, sung to the tune of "Marching Through Georgia." It was first sung in the 1930s as the main song of one of the Glasgow razor gangs led by Billy Fullerton and later became viewed to reflect the long running sectarian divide in the city. It is also commonly used by fans of Rangers football club.

[[Warlingham]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Surrey

Warlingham is a village in the  Tandridge district of Surrey, England. It is 14.2 south of the centre of London. Warlingham consists of many shops and primary schools. There is also a secondary school, Warlingham School. Warlingham is near to other villages such as Caterham, Whyteleafe and Sanderstead.

[[Wembley]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Brent, Areas of London

Wembley is an area of northwest London. It is a part of the London Borough of Brent. It is famous for Wembley Stadium (first built April 23, 1923) and Wembley Arena (first built 1934). It has recentlywhen been renovated with an outlet centre.

[[Addlestone]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Surrey

Addlestone is a large village in Runnymede, Surrey. It is situated between Weybridge and Chertsey. It has a railway station that has direct links to London within 1.5 hours. Addlestone is famous for a thousand year oak tree named The Crouch Oak. There is a legend that Queen Elizabeth I stopped to picnic under it.

[[Morden]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in London

Morden is a district in the London Borough of Merton. It is the final stop on the Northern line. There is a library, many shops, a church called 'Morden Baptist Church' and a large mosque. 

[[Wareside]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Hertfordshire

Wareside is a small village in Hertfordshire, England. It is about 3 miles away from the town of Ware.

[[Petham]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Kent

Petham is a small village in Kent. It is 5 from the local town, Canterbury. It has Tudor and medieval buildings.

[[Weybridge]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Surrey

Weybridge is a small town in Surrey. It is near Walton-On-Thames and Addlestone. Weybridge is known for being a middle class area with many wealthy people living there.

[[Chertsey]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Surrey

Chertsey is a small town in Surrey that is near Addlestone and Staines. It has a very large park.

[[Wembley Arena]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Brent, Entertainment venues

Wembley Arena is an indoor arena in Wembley, London, England. It is next to Wembley Stadium. The arena was built for the 1934 British Empire Games. Originally, it had a large swimming pool, as reflected by its name at the time, Empire Pool. In 1978, it was renamed Wembley Arena. It became one of the best known indoor music venues in England. It seats 12,000. In April 2006 it was refurbished. It was the main stadium for the 1948 Summer Olympics. Since 1934, Wembley has hosted concerts by the world's most famous artists, spanning many different genres of music.

[[Whyteleafe]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Surrey

Whyteleafe is a small village on the edge of Surrey. It is between Purley and Caterham. It has good transport links with London and the south of England.

Whyteleafe is very close to Riddlesdown. It is also close to the secondary school Riddlesdown Collegiate, that the famous model Kate Moss attended.

[[Debenhams]]

CATEGORIES: 1778 establishments, Companies of the United Kingdom, Department stores, 1770s establishments in Europe, 18th century establishments in Great Britain

Debenhams is the United Kingdom's largest department store chain. It was formed in 1778. It is a company that has opened shops across the world, first opening in London, England. Debenhams operates nearly 100 retail stores in the UK. It is one of the companies on the FTSE 250 Index. The 2014 Christmas advert was filmed in the Sutton, London shop in August 2014.

[[Sandgate]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Kent

Sandgate is a small seaside village in Kent. It is near Folkestone.

[[New Cross]]

CATEGORIES: London

New Cross is a small town in South East London, near Deptford. It is close to Central London, only three minutes away by train.

Deptford is near the old docklands. It has many cobble streets.

[[Banstead]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Surrey

Banstead is a village in the borough of Reigate and Banstead in Surrey, England. 

It has been there since 967 AD. It has a high street with lots of coffee shops, such as Cafe Nero, Costa, and Caffe Italia.

Towns close by include Reigate, Sutton, Epsom and Belmont. 

[[West Bridgford]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Nottinghamshire

West Bridgford is a small town in Nottinghamshire. The River Trent runs through it. The Trent Bridge cricket ground and the Nottingham Forest football ground are there.

West Bridgford has a lot of independent cafes and supermarkets such as ASDA, Marks and Spencers and The Co-operative.

West Bridgford is often called "Bread and Lard Island". It is called that because it is thought that the people who live there spend most of their money on big houses and fur coats, and can only afford to eat bread and lard at home.

[[Regent's Canal]]

CATEGORIES: Canals, Transport in England

Regent's Canal is a canal in England. It runs through Camden. It is part of the London Canal Network.

[[Salients, re-entrants and pockets]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

A salient is a battlefield feature that projects into enemy territory. The salient is surrounded by the enemy on three sides. This makes the troops occupying the salient vulnerable to attack. The enemy's line facing a salient is referred to as a re-entrant (an angle pointing inwards). A deep salient is vulnerable to being "pinched out" across the base. If that happens the defenders are then surrounded. This is what happened at the Battle of the Bulge in World War II. 

In fortifications, a salient is a part of the defense structure that sticks outward.

[[John Tory]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Mayors of Toronto

John Howard Tory (Johnhowardtory.ogg; born May 28, 1954) is a Canadian politician. He is the current mayor of Toronto, where he was born.

Tory was a candidate for the 2003 Toronto mayoral election. He finished in second place and lost to David Miller. After this, from 2004 to 2009, he was the leader of the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario. He was also a member of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 2005 to 2007 for the riding of Dufferin—Peel—Wellington—Grey.

He was elected in the 2014 election against Olivia Chow and Doug Ford, the other leading competitors. He succeeded Rob Ford. In 2018, Tory was re-elected for a second time. In this election he defeated a former Chief City Planner, Jennifer Keesmaat.

[[Halitosis]]

CATEGORIES: Symptoms

Halitosis is a symptom where a person has bad breath. It can be caused by bad dental care, tooth decay or gum disease.

[[Becky Lynch]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Female professional wrestlers, Irish professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Dublin, WWE wrestlers

Rebecca Quin (Riobhca Nic Choinn; born 30 January 1987) is an Irish professional wrestler best known by her current ring name of Becky Lynch. She is currently signed to WWE on its SmackDown brand. She is the current WWE SmackDown Women's Champion. Before joining WWE, she was also known by the ring name Rebecca Knox.

Quin is previously known for her work in France-based professional wrestling promotion Queens of Chaos, where she is a former one-time World Queens of Chaos Champion which she won in 2006. She has also wrestled for England's One Pro Wrestling, Germany's German Stampede Wrestling, and Canada's SuperGirls Wrestling promotion (an offshoot of Extreme Canadian Championship Wrestling). In 2006, she wrestled for the Shimmer Women Athletes promotion, and was involved in a matches with Daizee Haze, which also included an well known two out of three falls match.

[[Babyfever]]

CATEGORIES: American television movies, American comedy-drama movies, 1994 comedy-drama movies, English-language movies

Babyfever is a 1994 American comedy drama television movie. It was directed and written by Henry Jaglom and Victoria Foyt. Foyt also stars in the movie. The movie was released on May 4, 1994.

[[The Accused (1988 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 crime movies, 1988 drama movies, 1980s crime drama movies, 1980s legal movies, Academy Award winning movies, American crime drama movies, American legal movies, English-language movies, Movies based on real life events, Rape in movies

The Accused is a 1988 American crime drama movie. It is about a young woman who is gang raped in a bar. Jodie Foster plays Sarah Tobias. Kelly McGillis plays Kathryn Murphy.

Foster won the Academy Award for Best Actress.

This movie got positive reviews from critics. It made a lot of money.

[[Clean and Sober]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s drama movies, 1988 movies

Clean and Sober is a 1988 drama movie. The movie is about a cocaine addict who cleans up his life. Michael Keaton plays Daryl. Kathy Baker plays Charlie.

This movie got good reviews from the critics. It was released on August 10, 1988.

[[Ekushey Padak]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Bangladesh, Ekushey Padak

Ekushey Padak (একুশে পদক) is one of the highest civilian awards in Bangladesh. In was introduced in memory of the martyrs of the Language Movement of 1952 (বাংলা ভাষা আন্দোলন). 

The award consists of 100,000 Taka, an 18 carat gold medal weighing 3 tolas. It also includes a certificate of honour. The medal was designed by the artist Nitun Kundu.

The amount of the cash reward was originally 25 thousand taka, but it was increased to 100 thousand taka. The Ministry of Cultural Affairs manages the Padak.

[[Class of 1999]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 science fiction movies, American science fiction movies, English-language movies, Movies set in the future, Dystopian movies, American independent movies, Movies directed by Mark L. Lester

Class of 1999 is a 1990 science fiction movie. This movie is set in the future year of 1999. It is about youth gang violence in schools. Pam Grier plays Miss Connors. Malcolm McDowell plays Miles Langford.

The movie was released on May 11, 1990.

[[Dick Tracy (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 action movies, 1990 movies

Dick Tracy is a 1990 action movie. This movie was based on the 1930s character of the same name. The movie is about mobsters and street gangs. Warren Beatty plays the title character. Madonna plays Breathless Mahoney and Glenne Headly plays Tess Trueheart.

Beatty also directed and produced Dick Tracy.

This movie got mixed reviews from the critics. It was, however, a box office success. It received three Academy Awards.

A video game based on the movie was released for the Nintendo Entertainment System in August 1990. 

[[Cashmere wool]]

CATEGORIES: Natural materials

Cashmere wool is a kind of fiber which is produced from the wool of cashmere goats. Most cashmere wool is produced in China, Mongolia, Iran, and the Asiatic highlands known as Pamir. Large farms can also be found in Australia, New Zealand and Scotland. Cashmere wool is among the most valuable kinds of natural fiber. For this reason, textiles are often mixed with merino wool. 

[[Where the Heart Is (1990 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990 movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by John Boorman

Where the Heart Is is a 1990 romantic comedy movie. The movie is about a man whose business is to tear down buildings. He is stuck with a building he can't tear down due to its history. He sends his lazy grown children to live there.

Joanna Cassidy plays Jean. Dabney Coleman plays Stewart. Uma Thurman plays Daphne. The movie was released on 1 January 1990.

[[Corey Graves]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, WWE people

Matt Polinsky (born February 24, 1984) is an American retired professional wrestler. He is better known by his ring name Corey Graves. He is currently signed to the WWE and works as a commentator in their developmental territory NXT.

During his career, Polinsky was a one-time NXT Tag Team Champion with Adrian Neville. He is also known for his work on the independent circuit where he competed under the ring name Sterling James Keenan.

[[Licence to Kill]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 action movies, 1980s spy movies, American action movies, British movies, Mexican movies, James Bond movies, Movies directed by John Glen, Movies about the illegal drug trade

Licence to Kill is a 1989 adventure movie. The movie is about James Bond being suspended from MI6 as he goes after a drug lord. Timothy Dalton plays James Bond. Priscilla Barnes plays Della. The movie got good reviews from critics. Its worldwide box office gross was $156 million USD.

[[Windows xT]]

Windows xT (part of xT) can either refer to an individual or following versions of Microsoft Windows:

[[Ernst Albrecht]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Germany, Ministers-President of Lower Saxony, People from Heidelberg, Politicians from Baden-Württemberg

Ernst Carl Julius Albrecht (19 June 1930 – 13 December 2014) was a German politician. He was a member of the Christian Democratic Union. He was a former civil servant of the European Commission. He served as Prime Minister of the state of Lower Saxony from 1976 to 1990.

His daughter, Ursula von der Leyen, is the President of the European Commission.

Albrecht died on 13 December 2014 from Alzheimer's disease, aged 84.

[[Ralph Foody]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 1999 deaths, Deaths from cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Chicago

Ralph Foody (November 13, 1928 – November 21, 1999) was an American actor. He was known for his role as Mobster Johnny in Home Alone and in Home Alone 2: Lost in New York.

Foody died in Lexington, Kentucky from cancer, aged 71.

[[Ahmed Kathrada]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from blood clot, South African politicians

Ahmed Mohamed Kathrada (21 August 1929 – 28 March 2017), sometimes known by the nickname "Kathy", was a South African politician and former political prisoner and anti-apartheid activist.

Kathrada's involvement in the anti-apartheid activities of the African National Congress (ANC) led him to his long-term imprisonment following the  Rivonia Trial. He was held at Robben Island and Pollsmoor Prison with Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu.

Following his release in 1990, he was elected to serve as a member of parliament, representing the ANC.

Kathrada died at a medical center in Johannesburg from complications of a blood clot in the brain on 28 March 2017, aged 87.

[[Tom Adams (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from London, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, Cancer deaths in Berkshire, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors

Tom Adams (9 March 1938 - 11 December 2014) was an English actor. Adams was known for his roles as Dai Nimmo in The Great Escape and as Commander Vorshak in Doctor Who.

Adams died on 11 December 2014 at the age of 76 at Wexham Park Hospital in Slough, Berkshire from cancer of unknown primary origin.

[[John Baxter (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2014 deaths, Scottish footballers

John Baxter (15 October 1936 – 12 December 2014) was a Scottish footballer. He played as a wing half for Hibernian, Falkirk and Clydebank during the 1950s and 1960s. 

He was capped once by Scotland at under–23 level. He played for Hibs in the 1958 Scottish Cup Final, which Hibs lost 1–0 to Clyde.

Baxter died in December 2014, aged 78.

[[Bob Solinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2014 deaths, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Toronto Maple Leafs players, American Hockey League players

Robert Edward "Solly" Solinger (December 23, 1925 – December 10, 2014) was a professional Canadian ice hockey player. he played 99 games in the National Hockey League. Solinger was born in Star City, Saskatchewan. He played for the Toronto Maple Leafs and Detroit Red Wings.

Solinger died in Edmonton, Alberta, aged 88, on December 10, 2014.

[[Jack Swigert]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 1982 deaths, Apollo astronauts, American Roman Catholics, Deaths from respiratory failure, Cancer deaths in Washington, D.C., Scientists from Denver, Colorado, Politicians from Denver, Colorado, United States representatives from Colorado, US Republican Party politicians

John Leonard "Jack" Swigert, Jr. (August 30, 1931 – December 27, 1982) was an American test pilot, mechanical engineer, aerospace engineer, United States Air Force pilot, and NASA astronaut, one of the 24 persons who have flown to the Moon. After leaving NASA, he was elected to Congress from Colorado's new 6th district, but died before being sworn in.

Swigert died in Washington, D.C. from respiratory failure caused by nose cancer, aged 51.

[[This Is the Army]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s comedy movies, American musical comedy movies, Movies directed by Michael Curtiz

This Is the Army is a 1943 American wartime comedy-musical movie directed by Michael Curtiz. It was produced Hal B. Wallis and Jack L. Warner. It stars George Murphy, Joan Leslie, Ronald Reagan, Alan Hale, Sr., and Rosemary DeCamp. Joe Louis, Irving Berlin, Kate Smith, and Frances Langford appear as themselves. It was released on August 14, 1943.

[[Frances Langford]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American movie actors, American radio actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Florida, Singers from Florida

Julia Frances Langford (April 4, 1913 – July 11, 2005) was an American singer and actress. She was popular during the Golden Age of Radio. She also appeared in movies such as in This Is the Army and in Yankee Doodle Dandy. Langford was born in Lakeland, Florida.

Langford died in Jensen Beach, Florida from congestive heart failure, aged 92.

[[Jensen Beach, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Florida

Jensen Beach is a census-designated place (CDP) in Martin County, Florida, United States. The population was 11,707 at the 2010 census.

[[Bill Bonds]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American television presenters, People from Detroit, Michigan

Bill Bonds (1930s – December 13, 2014) was an American television anchor and reporter. He was best known for his work at WXYZ-TV in Detroit, Michigan. Bonds became an Action News anchorman beginning in the early 1970s.

Bonds died at his home in Southfield, Michigan on December 13, 2014, from a heart attack.

[[Michael A. Epstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, Living people, English biologists, English physicians, Fellows of the Royal Society, Jewish British academics, Jewish British scientists, Scientists from London, Virologists

Sir Michael Anthony Epstein CBE, FRS FMedSci (born 18 May 1921) is a British virologist of Jewish descent. He is one of the discoverers of the Epstein-Barr virus. 

Epstein was Professor of Pathology, 1968-85 (now Professor Emeritus), and Head of Department, 1968-82 at the University of Bristol.  In 1979 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of London and was its Vice-President from 1986 to 1991.

[[Zero-point energy]]

CATEGORIES: Energy, Physics, Subatomic particles

Zero-point energy is the energy of the vacuum space, the space between the subatomic particles within atoms. There are a few theories about how much energy there is in that space. There is the theory that there is an incredibly small, very near-zero amount, the theory that there is zero energy there, the theory that the amount of energy is indeterminable, and the theory that a cubic centimetre of vacuum has a few levels of magnitude more energy than would be required to create the Big Bang.

If you look at the way physics is going, there are atoms, then there are subatomic particles making up atoms (e.g. electrons, protons, neutrons), then further subatomic particles making up those subatomic particles (e.g. quarks, gluons), and now there is string theory. String theory says that those smallest subatomic particles are made of vibrating strings of energy, and that those strings have practically no actual width whatsoever. So all the matter of the universe could be compressed into an extremely small space, hence the Big Bang theory. If this is the case, the large energy interpretation of zero-point energy seems likely.

The term "zero-point" comes from the cooling of helium to 0 kelvin. Even at fractions below 1 Kelvin, the helium stays fluid with no signs of freezing.

[[Black Christmas (1974 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 horror movies, Canadian horror movies, Christmas movies, English-language movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Bob Clark

Black Christmas (also released as Silent Night, Evil Night, and Stranger in the House) is a 1974 Canadian independent horror movie. It was directed and produced by Bob Clark. Black Christmas was released on October 11, 1974 in Canada, December 20, 1974 in the United States, and on October 12, 1975 in the United Kingdom. The movie is inspired by the urban legend "The Babysitter and the Man Upstairs" and is also based on murders that took place in Quebec around Christmas. The movie is considered to be one of the first slasher movies. There was a remake that was made and released on Christmas of 2006.

The movie gained positive reviews from critics and holds a 63% "Fresh" rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

A remake of the same name was released in 2006.

[[Black Christmas (2006 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 horror movies, American horror movies, American movie remakes, American teen movies, Canadian horror movies, Christmas movies, English-language movies, Incest in movies, Movies set in Massachusetts, Movies set in the 1970s, Movies set in the 1980s, Movies set in the 1990s

Black Christmas (also abbreviated as Black X-Mas) is a 2006 Canadian-American slasher movie. It was directed by Glen Morgan and was produced by Marty Adelstein, Steve Hoban, Glen Morgan, Dawn Parouse, Victor Solnicki, and James Wong. Black Christmas was released on December 15, 2006 in the United Kingdom and on December 25, 2006 in the United States. The movie is loose remake of the 1974 movie with the same name.

In December 2006, before the movie's premiere, it gained some criticism from religious groups because of its graphic content in a holiday setting, and the distributor's choice to release the movie on Christmas Day in the United States.

The movie gained negative reviews from critics and holds a 14% "rotten" rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Sam Adams of the Los Angeles Times was quoted as saying "Like an ugly tie or a pair of slipper socks, Black Christmas is destined to be forgotten the instant it's unwrapped, gathering dust until the season rolls around again".

[[I Still Know What You Did Last Summer]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 horror movies, 1990s mystery movies, 1990s teen horror movies, American mystery movies, American sequel movies, American teen horror movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies about revenge, Slasher movies

April 2020

I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is a 1998 American slasher movie and a sequel to the 1997 movie I Know What You Did Last Summer. Directed by Danny Cannon, the movie was written by Trey Callaway, and features characters originally created in Lois Duncan's 1973 novel I Know What You Did Last Summer. Jennifer Love Hewitt, Matthew Lillard, Freddie Prinze, Jr. and Muse Watson reprise their roles, with Brandy Norwood, Linda Cardellini, Mekhi Phifer, Jennifer Esposito, and Matthew Settle joining the cast. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer continues after the events of the first movie.

Callaway's script was published in an edited "young adult" format, leaving in all descriptions of violence but omitting the harsher language. Recording took place in Mexico and California. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer was released to negative reviews, but was a box office success, grossing $84 million worldwide. It is the second installment of I Know What You Did Last Summer series and was followed by I'll Always Know What You Did Last Summer in 2006.

[[Fragmentation (reproduction)]]

CATEGORIES: Biological reproduction

In biology, fragmentation is when a body breaks up into two or more parts and these parts grow into new individuals. Fragmentation can be seen in certain algae such as  spirogyra.

[[Joey Bishop]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2007 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Television personalities from New York City, Comedians from New York City, Actors from New York City

Joey Bishop (February 3, 1918 – October 17, 2007) born Joseph Abraham Gottlieb, was an American entertainer. He appeared on television as early as 1948 and eventually starred in his own weekly comedy series playing a talk show host. He then later hosted a late night talk show. 

He later became a member of the "Rat Pack" with Frank Sinatra, Peter Lawford, Sammy Davis, Jr., and Dean Martin. Bishop was born in The Bronx, New York.

Bishop died from heart failure in Newport Beach, California, aged 89.

[[Peter Lawford]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1984 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from renal failure, Deaths from liver failure, Naturalized citizens of the United States, English movie actors, English television actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from London, Singers from London

Peter Sydney Ernest Lawford (born Peter Sydney Ernest Aylen; September 7, 1923 – December 24, 1984) was an English-born American actor and singer. He was born in London.

He was a member of the "Rat Pack" along with Dean Martin. He was married to Patricia Kennedy. Lawford then became the brother-in-law to President John F. Kennedy. He had four children; including Christopher.

From the 1940s to the 1960s, he had a strong role in popular culture and starred in a number of popular movies.

Lawford died from cardiac arrest caused by renal failure and liver failure in Los Angeles, California, aged 61.

[[Inside Out (2015 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 animated movies, 2015 comedy-drama movies, 2010s fantasy movies, Academy Award winning movies, American adventure movies, American animated movies, American comedy-drama movies, American family movies, American fantasy movies, Computer-animated movies, English-language movies, Fantasy comedy movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies about families, Movies composed by Danny Elfman, Movies composed by Michael Giacchino, Movies set in Minnesota, Movies set in San Francisco, Movies that won the Best Animated Feature Academy Award, Pixar movies

Inside Out is a 2015 American computer animated dramedy adventure movie. It was produced by Pixar Animation Studios for Walt Disney Pictures, being the 15th movie in the Pixar series. The movie is directed by one of Pixar's leading talents Pete Docter. The film was shown at the Cannes Film Festival on May 18, 2015 and was released on June 19, 2015.

[[House of Grimaldi]]

CATEGORIES: House of Grimaldi

The House of Grimaldi is associated with the history of the Republic of Genoa, Italy and of the Principality of Monaco. The head of the present family is Prince Albert II of Monaco. He is the son of Rainier III, Prince of Monaco and Grace Kelly. The state is also well known for having a Princess in her own right. 

[[Anglosphere]]

CATEGORIES: Colonialism, British Empire, Commonwealth of Nations, English language

Anglosphere is a term used to mean a group of English-speaking nations with a similar cultural heritage. 

The Anglosphere includes the United Kingdom, the United States, and the main members of the Commonwealth of Nations such as Canada (except the majority French-speaking province of Quebec and the majority Inuit-speaking territory of Nunavut), Australia and New Zealand. Ireland, a former Commonwealth of Nations member, is in the Anglosphere. 

The term was invented at the end of the 20th century.

[[Wild Card (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 drama movies, 2010s crime drama movies, English-language movies, Movie remakes, Movies set in Las Vegas, Lionsgate movies

Wild Card is a 2015 crime drama movie. Jason Statham plays security guard Nick Wild, who has a gambling problem. Stanley Tucci plays Baby. Anne Heche plays Roxy.

The movie was released by Lionsgate. It is based on the novel Heat. It is a remake of a movie from 1986 called Heat.

[[Let's Go Pocoyo]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s television series, Children's television series

Let's Go Pocoyo is a 2009-2010 Spanish animated television  series created by Zinkia Entertainment. The series is about a 3-year-old boy named Pocoyo and his friends Pato (a duck), Elly (an elephant) and Loula (a dog).

[[Geoff Downes]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, British keyboardists, English rock musicians, Musicians from Cheshire, People from Stockport, Greater Manchester

Geoffrey "Geoff" Downes (born 25 August 1952) is an English rock songwriter, record producer, and musician, mainly a keyboardist. He is mainly known as a member of the New wave duo The Buggles, progressive rock band Yes, and supergroup Asia.

[[2014 Sydney hostage crisis]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s in Australia, December events, History of Sydney, Murder in 2014, Murder in Australia, Terrorist incidents in the 2010s

On 15 and 16 December 2014, there was a hostage crisis in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Seventeen people were taken hostage by a gunman at 9:44 a.m. in a Lindt chocolate café in Martin Place on 15 December. The gunman has been identified as Iranian immigrant Man Haron Monis. He had a criminal record and supported Islamic terrorism. Five people, three workers and two customers, escaped after being held by Monis for several hours. Monis shot one hostage who died.  Seventeen hours after the crisis started, the police raided the café at 2:44 a.m. on the morning of 16 December. The gunman died during when the police shot him in the head. Another hostage was killed by police bullet fragments. Four other people were injured. There has been world-wide condemnation of the attack.

[[Active transport]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

Active transport is when molecules move across a cell membrane from a lower concentration to a higher concentration. This takes energy, often from adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Active transport is done so cells get what they need, such as ions, glucose and amino acids. 

In general, molecules move from an area of higher concentration to an area of lower concentration. To get molecules into the cell against the concentration gradient, work must be done. The work is done in special proteins which act as ports in the cell membrane. The imports must come through the ports: they cannot get through the bilipid layer of the cell membrane.

[[Andreas Schockenhoff]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2014 deaths, Former members of the German Bundestag, Politicians from Baden-Württemberg, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany

Andreas Schockenhoff (February 23, 1957 – 13 December 2014) was a German politician of the CDU. From 1990 until his death in 2014, he served as a member of the German Bundestag. In the general election in 2013, he was elected the seventh consecutive year as a direct mandate for the federal electoral district Ravensburg in the German Bundestag. Schockenhoff was born in Ludwigsburg, Germany.

Schockenhoff died in Ravensburg, Germany, aged 57.

[[Joan Barril]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in Spain, Spanish journalists, People from Barcelona, Spanish writers

Joan Barril i Cuixart (20 January 1952 – 13 December 2014) was a Spanish journalist and writer. He was born in Barcelona, Spain. He was known for his writing columns on El País, La Vanguardia and in El Periódico de Catalunya.

Barril died in Barcelona, Spain from pneumonia, aged 62.

[[David H. Gambrell]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, United States senators from Georgia, Politicians from Atlanta, Georgia, US Democratic Party politicians

David Henry Gambrell (December 20, 1929 – May 6, 2021) was a American politician. Gambrell served in the United States Senate representing Georgia from 1971 through 1972. He was appointed to the Senate by President Jimmy Carter.

Gambrell died on May 6, 2021 in Atlanta, Georgia at the age of 91.

[[George A. Sinner]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Governors of North Dakota, US Democratic Party politicians

George Albert Sinner (May 19, 1928 – March 9, 2018) was an American politician. He served as the 29th Governor of North Dakota from 1985 through 1992. He served two four-year terms as governor.

Sinner died on March 9, 2018 in Fargo of pneumonia at the age of 89.

[[Caravan]]

A caravan may refer to:

[[Caravan (travellers)]]

CATEGORIES: Transport

A caravan (from کاروان) is a group of people traveling together. Often they are on a trade expedition. Caravans were used mainly in desert areas and throughout the Silk Road. Traveling in groups aided in defense against bandits, in the same way that convoys at sea helped protect against piracy. It also helped improve economies of scale in trade. In the 14th century there were reports of caravans of up to 12,000 camels.

In historical times, caravans traveled across East Asia and Europe. They often carried luxurious and lucrative goods, such as silks or jewelry. They would trade these for salt, gold, copper or slaves. At first donkey carts were used. They were replaced with the single hump camel. The camel could go great distances on very little water. 

Caravans could require a large investment in goods and camels. They were a rich target for bandits. The profits from a successful trade journey could be great. Many rulers along important trade routes created caravanserai (way stations). These were places where caravans could refresh their animals and supplies can be replenished. However, the volume a caravan could transport was limited. For example, a caravan of 500 camels could only transport as much as a third or half of the goods carried by a regular Byzantine merchant sailing ship.

Present-day caravans still transport important goods in less-developed areas of the world. Examples are the camel trains traversing the southern edges of the Sahara Desert. Also, modern caravans are often made up of cars, trucks and busses.

[[Flying University]]

CATEGORIES: Education in Poland, History of Poland, Warsaw, 1885 establishments, Establishments in Poland, 1900s disestablishments in Europe, 1880s establishments in Europe

Flying University (or "Floating University") was a counterculture educational activist group in Warsaw, Poland. They gathered in private apartments to teach history and the Polish language to students. The group operated for 20 years from 1885 to 1905. Warsaw was then under the control of the Russian Empire. Marie Curie became a student here after being banned from Warsaw University because of her sex. 

[[Because I Said So]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 romance movies, 2007 comedy movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies

Because I Said So is a 2007 romantic comedy movie. The movie is about an overbearing mother who is concerned about her three daughters. Diane Keaton plays Daphne. Mandy Moore plays Milly. Piper Perabo plays Mae. Lauren Graham plays Maggie.

Because I Said So got negative reviews from critics. But it did very well at the box office. It took in more than $69 million against a $39 million budget.

[[Piper Perabo]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Dallas, Texas, Actors from New Jersey, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, 1976 births, Living people

Piper Perabo (born October 31, 1976) is an American actress. She acts in movies, television and on stage. In the movie Whiteboyz, she played Sara. She played Violet "Jersey" Sanford in Coyote Ugly.

Perabo was born in Dallas, Texas. She grew up in Toms River, New Jersey.

[[Lauren Graham]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, American writers, Actors from Honolulu, 1967 births, Living people

Lauren Graham (born March 16, 1967) is an American actress, producer and novelist. She played Lorelai Gilmore on The Gilmore Girls. She played Sarah Braverman in the TV series Parenthood.

Graham was born in Honolulu, Hawaii.

[[The Blue Meanie]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Brian Daniel Heffron (born May 18, 1973) is an American professional wrestler and actor. He is better known by his ring name The Blue Meanie. He is best known for his time with Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) from 1995 to 2000 and World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). Heffron's ring name is a reference to the Blue Meanies, the creatures from the 1968 movie, Yellow Submarine.

In ECW, Heffron was known for his time in the Blue World Order, which was a parody of World Championship Wrestling (WCW)'s top heel group, the nWo. In the bWo, Meanie played a parody of nWo member Scott Hall and was named Da Blue Guy which was a parody of Scott Hall's nickname "The Bad Guy".

[[Eastcote]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Hillingdon

Eastcote is a suburban area in west London. (It was in Middlesex until the county was abolished in 1965). It is part of the London Borough of Hillingdon. In the Middle Ages, Eastcote was one of the three areas that made up the parish of Ruislip, under the name of Ascot. The name came from its position to the east of the parish. From the mid-17th century there were clusters of small hamlets in this area.

[[Monster Buster Club]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series, French television series, 2008 Canadian television series debuts, 2009 television series endings, 2008 establishments in France, 2000s disestablishments in Canada, 2000s disestablishments in France, English-language television programs

Monster Buster Club is a children's comedy action animated television program series. It was created by Vincent Chalvon-Demersay and David Michel and by Marathon Media and Image Entertainment Corporation Inc. The series was first shown on TV in Europe on Jetix, June 2, 2008. In the United States it began on June 9, 2008. In Asia it started on May 3, 2008. The show was first shown on Canada's Television channel YTV in 2008. The series ended in 2009.

[[Mieszko II Lambert]]

CATEGORIES: 990 births, 1034 deaths, Kings of Poland, Polish dukes, Piast dynasty

Mieszko II Lambert (ca. 990 - May 10, 1034) was a king of Poland from 1025 to 1031, and a duke of Poland from 1032 to 1034 from the Piast dynasty. He was the second son of Boleslaw I the Brave. He is the third known Polish ruler. He was father of Casimir I.

He was probably named after Mieszko I of Poland, who was his grandfather.

In 1028 and in 1030 he attacked Saxony. Later, Poland was attacked by Germany, Bohemia, and Kiev. When Poland was attacked by Yaroslav the Wise in 1031, Mieszko lost control over Poland. 

[[Self storage]]

CATEGORIES: Business

Self storage is a place where rooms or spaces are rented to individuals and companies. These can very large rooms or outside spaces, or as small as a simple locker. These spaces are usually rented on a short term lease, or on a month by month basis.

A business may use self storage as a way to free up expensive office space to store company files, inventory, equipment, furniture and other items.

The person or business leasing the space is responsible for placing items inside. The storage company does not usually have access to the spaces.

The money spent on self storage in the USA was estimated to be $24 billion in 2013.

[[Walking stick]]

CATEGORIES: Tools, Weapons

A walking stick is a device used by many people to help keep their balance while walking. Others use them as an accessory. Walking sticks come in many shapes and sizes, and can be sought by collectors.  Some kinds of walking stick may be used by people with disabilities as a crutch or cane. The walking stick has also historically been known to be used as a defensive or offensive weapon, and may conceal a knife or sword as in a swordstick. The "tippling cane" contained a flask usually to hold a small amount of liquor. The Quarterstaff and the Shillelagh are also walking sticks.

[[Chakri]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian singers, Composers

Chakradhar Gilla (known as Chakri) (15 June 1974 – 15 December 2014) was an Indian music composer and singer. He works for Tollywood movies. He won the Filmfare Award for Best Male Playback Singer – Telugu for the movie Satyam (2003). His song named "O Maguva Nee Sneham Kosam" from his movie "Satyam" was thought to be his best known work. Chakri was born in Mahabubabad, Telangana.

Chakri died from a heart attack in Hyderabad, Telangana, aged 40.

[[John McVie]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, British bass guitarists, English rock guitarists, Musicians from London, People with cancer

John Graham "Mac" McVie (born 26 November 1945) is a British bass guitarist. He is best known as a member of rock groups John Mayall & the Bluesbreakers and Fleetwood Mac. He joined Fleetwood Mac shortly after its formation by guitarist Peter Green in 1967. He replaced bassist Bob Brunning.

In 1968, he married blues pianist and singer Christine Perfect, who became a member of Fleetwood Mac two years later. John and Christine McVie divorced, however, in 1977.

On 27 October 2013, Fleetwood Mac announced on their Facebook Page that McVie had been diagnosed with cancer and would be undergoing treatment. He has continued to play with the band during their 2014 On With The Show tour following an improvement in his condition.

[[Louis Alphonse Koyagialo]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2014 deaths, Prime Ministers of the Democratic Republic of the Congo

Louis Alphonse Daniel Koyagialo Ngbase te Gerengbo (23 March 1947 – 14 December 2014) was a Congolese politician. He was Deputy Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the second cabinet of Prime Minister Adolphe Muzito. He was responsible for the Ministry of Postal Services, Telephones, and Telecommunications . He became Acting Prime Minister on 6 March 2012 after Prime Minister Muzito resigned.

[[Saint Lucy]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints

Saint Lucy (283–304) was born in Syracuse, Italy. Lucy’s mother tried to arrange a marriage for her. Lucy did not want to marry. Her mother agreed, but the rejected bridegroom was not happy. He betrayed Lucy to the governor as a Christian. Lucy was killed. She died at age 21.

[[Saint Emiliana]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints

Saint Emiliana was a Christian saint. She was born in Rome. Her feast day is January 5. She was a mystic person (a spiritual and faithful person).

[[Louis, Prince of Condé (1668–1710)]]

CATEGORIES: House of Bourbon, Deaths from stroke, Dukes and Duchesses of Bourbon, People from Paris, 1668 births, 1710 deaths

Louis de Bourbon, or Louis III, Prince of Condé (10 November 1668 - 4 March 1710) was a Prince of the blood at the French court of Louis XIV. Styled as the Duke of Bourbon from birth, he succeeded his father as Prince of Condé in 1709. He was commonly called Monsieur le Duc. However, he was known by the lesser ducal title. He was prince for less than a year. As a member of the reigning House of Bourbon, he was a prince du sang. He was governor of Burgundy from 1709–1710. He was forced to marry an illegitimate daughter of Louis XIV. 

[[Raquel Castro]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York, People from New York, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, 1994 births, Living people

Raquel Castro (born November 17, 1994) is an American actress and singer-songwriter. She played Gertie in Jersey Girl in 2004. She played Destiny in Little Fugitive.

Castro was born in Long Island, New York.

[[Nick Cravat]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from lung cancer, 1912 births, 1994 deaths

Nicholas Cuccia (January 11, 1912 – January 29, 1994), known as Nick Cravat, was an American actor and stuntman. He co-starred with Burt Lancaster in nine movies. He played a mute character in movies such as Davy Crockett and King of the Wild Frontier. He did not have speaking roles because he could not hide his thick Brooklyn accent.

Cravat was born in New York City. On January 29, 1994 he died of lung cancer in Woodland Hills, Los Angeles, California.

[[Dennis Morgan]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Singers from Wisconsin, Actors from Wisconsin, 1908 births, 1994 deaths

Dennis Morgan (December 30, 1909 – September 7, 1994) was an American actor and singer. He played Jefferson in Christmas in Connecticut. He played Paul Hudson in The Desert Song.

Morgan was born Stanley Morner in Prentice, Wisconsin, on December 30, 1909. He died in Fresno, California of respiratory failure on September 7, 1994.

[[Francisco Ibáñez Talavera]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Comics artists

Francisco Ibáñez Talavera (born 15 March 1936), Spanish comic book artist and writer. He was born in Barcelona, Spain. He is the creator of several comic book series. The most famous series he created is Mortadelo y Filemón.

Ibáñez worked in a bank while publishing his first drawings before dedicating himself fully to his craft in 1957.  A year later, Mortadelo y Filemón appeared for the first time in the publication Pulgarcito.  After that Ibáñez created several other characters.  Since 1988, he has drawn six new Mortadelo y Filemón albums a year. Many of them concern common issues of the day.

In 1994, he received the Grand Prize of the Salón del Cómic de Barcelona. In 2001 he received the Medalla de Oro al Mérito en las Bellas Artes ("Gold Medal for Contributions to the Fine Arts"). He received the "Premios Notario del Humor" 2008 from the University of Alicante.

[[Pulgarcito]]

CATEGORIES: Comics, Magazines of Europe

Pulgarcito (Spanish for "Tom Thumb") was a weekly illustrated magazine in Spain. It was published by Editorial Bruguera. It was first named El Gato Negro. It had a black cat as its logo from June 1921 to 1986.

Pulgarcito had short stories, articles, pastimes, and jokes, with only a few comic strips. Economic difficulties caused by the Spanish Civil War led to only 13 issues being published between 1945 and 1947. It was brought back after 1952. It had with more space given to comic strips when it returned. It also had a new set of new comic characters, including:

Both Ibáñez and Jan worked on Pulgarcito during its last years.  With the demise of the Editorial Bruguera publishing house, Pulgarcito was discontinued.

[[Shapeshifting]]

CATEGORIES: Mythology

Shapeshifting is the act of being able to change into another being or form.  The idea of shapeshifting has been around since the Middle Ages. It has been used in literature and epic poems, including works such as Peleus and Thetis and the Iliad.  The trend of shapeshifting is still being done today. It is a theme in children's literature, and works of popular culture.

[[Don L. Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2014 deaths, Cancer deaths in California, American physicists, American geologists, American educators, Writers from Maryland

Don Lynn Anderson (March 5, 1933 – December 2, 2014) was an American geophysicist. Anderson’s work was about seismology, solid state physics, geochemistry and petrology to explain how the Earth works. Anderson was born in Frederick, Maryland.

Anderson died of cancer in Cambria, California, aged 81.

[[Norman Bridwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American philanthropists, American cartoonists, Writers from Indiana

Norman Bridwell (February 15, 1928 – December 12, 2014) was an American author, cartoonist, and philanthropist. He was best known for creating Clifford the Big Red Dog. Bridwell was born in Kokomo, Indiana.

Bridwell died on December 12, 2014 of heart failure at the age of 86 in Edgartown, Massachusetts.

[[Treaty of Waitangi]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s treaties, History of New Zealand, 1840, 19th century in Oceania

The Treaty of Waitangi, te Tiriti o Waitangi, was a treaty that was signed on 6 February 1840 at Waitangi, New Zealand. It was signed by European settlers and by Māori chiefs. It is widely considered to be a founding document of New Zealand. The Treaty of Waitangi marked the start of the official domination of New Zealand by Great Britain. The legal status and modern relevance of the treaty has been at a disagreement for a long time.  The day on which the Treaty of Waitangi was signed, 6 February, is the National Day of New Zealand.

[[Priscilla Morrill]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Boston, Massachusetts, 1927 births, 1994 deaths

Priscilla Morrill (June 4, 1927 – November 9, 1994) was an American actress. She was well known for playing Edie Grant on The Mary Tyler Moore Show. She also played Elaine Hogan on the TV show Family.

Morrill was born in Boston, Massachusetts. She died from complications of a kidney infection in Los Angeles at age 67.

[[Stuart Little (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies about cats, Movies based on books, Movies set in New York City, Screenplays by M. Night Shyamalan

Stuart Little is a 1999 American Family comedy movie. It was directed by Rob Minkoff and was produced by Douglas Wick. Stuart Little was released on December 17, 1999. The movie is loosely based on the E. B. White novel, Stuart Little.

The movie gained positive reviews from critics and holds a 66% "Fresh" rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Stuart Little was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Visual Effects, but it lost to The Matrix. The movie spawned a sequel in 2002 titled Stuart Little 2, a short-lived TV show Stuart Little: The Animated Series in 2003, and another sequel in 2006, Stuart Little 3: Call of the Wild which went direct-to-video.

The movie was both Estelle Getty's last movie before she retired in 2000 as well as her last movie before her death in 2008.

[[Insulated glazing]]

CATEGORIES: Energy conservation, Windows (architecture)

Insulated glazing, otherwise known as double glazing or triple glazing, refers to the layers of glass in a window. A double glazed window is two panes of glass (also called a lite) with a sealed air (or gas) space in the middle. The edges are sealed together with an air-tight spacer. This is used so that heat cannot escape through the air space by conduction or convection. Heat radiation is not affected as it can travel through a vacuum space. To increase the R-value of insulated windows are sealed with argon gas.

[[Louis Henri, Duke of Bourbon]]

CATEGORIES: Dukes and Duchesses of Bourbon, 1692 births, 1740 deaths, People from Versailles

Louis Henri de Bourbon, Duke of Bourbon, Prince of Condé (Louis Henri Joseph; 18 August 1692 – 27 January 1740) was head of the  Prince of Condé and a cousin of the then reigning House of Bourbon from 1710 to his death, and served as prime minister to his kinsman Louis XV from 1723 to 1726.

Despite succeeding as head of the House of Condé in 1709, he never used that name, preferring the title "Duke of Bourbon", and was known at court as Monsieur le Duc.  As a member of the reigning House of Bourbon, he was a Prince of the blood.

[[Fourth wall]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment

The fourth wall is the imaginary "wall" at the front of the stage in a traditional three-walled theatre. In a theatre, the fourth wall is the one through which the audience sees the action of the play. The idea of the fourth wall was made famous by philosopher and critic Denis Diderot. It was used more in the 19th century. The fourth wall extended the idea of an imaginary boundary between any fictional work and its audience.

If an actor speaks directly to the audience, does something to the audience, or even simply notices the audience, it is known as "breaking the fourth wall". In a movie, or on television, this can be done by the actor speaking directly to the camera. This breaks a boundary normally set up or assumed by works of fiction. It is known as a metafictional technique. In literature and video games, it happens when a character acknowledges the reader or player.

The fourth wall is not the same as a soliloquy. A soliloquy is a dramatic device used by playwrights where the character on stage gives a monologue which gives the audience insight into their thoughts.

The acceptance of the transparency of the fourth wall is part of the suspension of disbelief between a fictional work and an audience. It allows them to enjoy the fiction as if they were observing real events.  Although the critic Vincent Canby described it in 1987 as "that invisible scrim that forever separates the audience from the stage".

[[Boethius]]

CATEGORIES: 480 births, 524 deaths, Ancient Roman writers, Philosophers

Anicius Manlius Severinus Boëthius normally called Boethius (480-524 AD) was a Roman philosopher. He was from the important Roman Anicia family, which included the Roman Emperors Petronius Maximus and Olybrius. In 510 Boethius became consul in the kingdom of the Ostrogoths. He was put in prison and later executed, by King Theodoric the Great, who thought he was secretly working with the Byzantine Empire. In prison, Boethius wrote the Latin philosophy book Consolation of Philosophy. In the Middle Ages, it was a famous and important book.

[[Kristina Orbakaitė]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Musicians from Moscow, Russian singers, Russian movie actors

Kristina Orbakaitе (ru, Kristina Orbakaitė, born 25 May 1971), is a Russian singer and actress. She is the daughter of Russian pop star Alla Pugacheva and Lithuanian circus performer Mykolas Orbakas.

[[Tamara Gverdtsiteli]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, People from Tbilisi, Russian actors, Russian singers, Soviet actors, Soviet singers

Tamara "Tamriko" Gverdtsiteli (თამარ "თამრიკო" გვერდწითელი, Тамара Михайловна Гвердцители, born 18 January 1962 in Tbilisi) is a Georgian-Russian singer, actress and composer. She is a People's Artist of Ingushetia, Georgia (since 1991) and Russia (since 2004).

[[Bellvale, California]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in California, Settlements in San Mateo County, California

Bellvale is a settlement in San Mateo County, California, located at 37.  The small community is on Highway 84 (La Honda Road) between San Gregorio and La Honda.  Bellvale is 240 feet above sea level.  Bellvale once had a post office, the community is now only sparsely settled with homes and farms.  The Bellvale post office, located 2.25 miles west of La Honda, opened in 1897 and was discontinued in 1922.  

[[Bellvale]]

Bellvale may refer to: 

[[Interstellar]]

Interstellar means "in between the stars". It may refer to:

[[Bellvale, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in New York

Bellvale is a wooded hamlet in the town of Warwick in Orange County, New York, United States. It was the site of an iron forge destroyed by British Army soldiers in 1750. Most of its homes and other structures date from before American independence.

[[Otra Cosa]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Julieta Venegas albums

Otra Cosa ("Another Thing") is the fifth studio album by Mexican singer-songwriter Julieta Venegas. It was released worldwide on March 16, 2010.

[[Rooster Teeth]]

CATEGORIES: Companies based in Texas, Movie studios, 2003 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Texas

Rooster Teeth Productions, LLC. or Rooster Teeth is a movie making company in Austin, Texas, United States. It makes live action short videos, animated videos, video game animations, and voiced video game playing called Let's Play. The creator, Burnie Burns, made voice-over videos of Bungie Studios' big first-person shooter video game Halo: Combat Evolved. These videos led to the making of Red vs. Blue, an awarded funny science-fiction set of videos released on April 1, 2003. These are still being made, and its 12th season came out on April 28, 2014. Rooster Teeth also makes live-action short videos, funny game play under the name Achievement Hunter, making video games, and full animated videos such as RWBY. Rooster Teeth hosts its community meeting, RTX, yearly in Austin, Texas.

In 2015, Rooster Teeth released its large movie debut, Lazer Team, a science-fiction funny movie.

[[Samsung Galaxy S5]]

CATEGORIES: Samsung mobile phones, Mobile phones released in 2010s, Mobile phones with 4K video recording

Samsung Galaxy S5, Galaxy S5 or just GS5 is an Android smartphone made by Samsung Electronics. The phone was released on 11 April 2014 in 150 countries as the successor to the Samsung Galaxy S4. Like the S4, the S5 is similar to the prior year's model, placing a large focus on a better build with a textured rear cover and IP67 rating for dust and water proof (up to 1), a better user feel, new security items such as a fingerprint scanner and private mode, expanded health items (such as a built-in heart rate scanner), and an updated camera.

The successor of the S5 is the Samsung Galaxy S6.

[[1980 Republican National Convention]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Detroit, Michigan, United States Republican Party, United States presidential nominating conventions, 1980 in the United States, 1980s in Michigan, July events

The 1980 National Convention of the Republican Party of the United States. It was held at the Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Michigan. It took place from July 14 to July 17, 1980. The 32nd Republican National Convention nominated former Governor Ronald W. Reagan of California for President. It also nominated former congressman George H. W. Bush of Texas for Vice President. 

[[1980 Republican Party presidential primaries]]

CATEGORIES: United States Republican Party, United States presidential primary elections, 1980 in the United States

The 1980 Republican presidential primaries were the selection process by which voters of the Republican Party chose its nominee for President of the United States in the 1980 U.S. presidential election. 

Former California Governor Ronald Reagan was selected as the nominee through a series of primary elections and caucuses which happened in the Republican National Convention held from July 14 to July 17, 1980, in Detroit, Michigan.

[[1968 Republican Party presidential primaries]]

CATEGORIES: United States presidential primary elections, 1968 in the United States, United States Republican Party

The 1968 Republican presidential primaries were the selection process by which voters of the Republican Party chose its nominee for President of the United States in the 1968 U.S. presidential election. 

Former Vice President Richard Nixon was selected as the nominee through a series of primary elections and caucuses which happened in the 1968 Republican National Convention. It was held from August 5 to August 8, 1968, in Miami, Florida.

[[1968 Republican National Convention]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 in the United States, 1960s in Florida, United States presidential nominating conventions, United States Republican Party, August events

The 1968 National Convention of the Republican Party of the United States. It was held in at the Miami Beach Convention Center in Miami Beach, Dade County, Florida, from August 5 to 8, 1968.

[[1976 Republican Party presidential primaries]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 in the United States, United States presidential primary elections, United States Republican Party

The 1976 Republican presidential primaries were the selection process by which voters of the Republican Party chose its nominee for President of the United States in the 1976 U.S. presidential election.

Current President Gerald Ford was selected as the nominee through a series of primary elections and caucuses which was held in the 1976 Republican National Convention. It was held from August 16 to August 19, 1976 in Kansas City, Missouri. The 1976 primary was the first Republican primary to hold primaries in every state, the Democrats held the first nationwide primary in 1972.

[[1976 Republican National Convention]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 in the United States, United States presidential nominating conventions, History of Kansas City, Missouri, United States Republican Party, 20th century in Missouri, August events

The 1976 Republican National Convention was a United States political convention of the Republican Party that met from August 16 to August 19, 1976 to select the party's nominee for President. 

It was held in Kemper Arena in Kansas City, Missouri, the convention nominated President Gerald R. Ford for a full term, but only after narrowly defeating a strong challenge from former California Governor Ronald W. Reagan. 

The convention also nominated Senator Robert J. Dole of Kansas for Vice President, instead of Vice President Nelson Rockefeller.

[[1984 Republican Party presidential primaries]]

CATEGORIES: United States Republican Party, United States presidential primary elections, 1984 in the United States

The 1984 Republican presidential primaries were the selection process by which voters of the Republican Party chose its nominee for President of the United States in the 1984 U.S. presidential election. 

Current President Ronald Reagan was again selected as the nominee through a series of primary elections and caucuses which happened in the 1984 Republican National Convention. It was held from August 20 to August 23, 1984 in Dallas, Texas.

The primaries were uneventful as Reagan was bound to win the nomination because of his popularity within the party.

[[1984 Republican National Convention]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 in the United States, 1980s in Texas, 20th century in Dallas, Texas, United States presidential nominating conventions, United States Republican Party, August events

The 1984 National Convention of the Republican Party of the United States. It was held on August 20 to August 23, 1984, at Dallas Convention Center in downtown Dallas, Texas. The convention nominated President Ronald W. Reagan and  Vice President George H. W. Bush for reelection. 

[[1992 Republican National Convention]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 in the United States, United States Republican Party, United States presidential nominating conventions, 20th century in Houston, Texas, 1990s in Texas, August events

The 1992 National Convention of the Republican Party (GOP) of the United States was held in the Astrodome in Houston, Texas, from August 17 to August 20, 1992. The convention nominated President George H. W. Bush, and Vice President Dan Quayle for reelection. Former president Ronald Reagan made one of his last speeches at the convention.

[[Juke Girl]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, 1940s crime movies, 1940s drama movies, 1940s mystery movies, American crime drama movies, American mystery movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Florida, Ronald Reagan, Movies directed by Curtis Bernhardt

Juke Girl is a 1942 American crime drama mystery movie directed by Curtis Bernhardt. It stars Ann Sheridan and Ronald Reagan. It is set in Florida. It was released on May 30, 1942.

[[The Marrying Man]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 comedy movies, 1991 romance movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Las Vegas

The Marrying Man (also known as Too Hot to Handle) is a 1991 American romantic comedy movie. Kim Basinger plays Vicki. Alec Baldwin plays Charley. Elisabeth Shue plays Adele.

The movie received poor reviews from the critics. Basinger earned a Golden Raspberry Award nomination for Worst Actress.

[[Jungle Fever]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 drama movies, 1991 romance movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, Adultery in movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies about drugs, Movies about dysfunctional families, Movies about interracial romance, Movies about prostitution, Movies directed by Spike Lee, Movies set in Brooklyn, Movies set in Manhattan, Screenplays by Spike Lee, Universal Pictures movies

Jungle Fever is a 1991 American romance-drama movie set in New York City. This movie is about interracial romance and drug addiction. Wesley Snipes plays Flipper, a married African American architect who has an affair with Italian American Angie, played by Annabella Sciorra. Ruby Dee plays Flipper's mother Mrs Purify. Ossie Davis plays Flipper's father The Good Reverend Doctor. Samuel L. Jackson plays crack cocaine addict Gator. Halle Berry plays Gator's girlfriend Vivian.

This movie got mostly positive reviews from critics.

[[Alexander Tenenbaum]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Israeli academics, Israeli Jews, Israeli scientists, Jewish academics, Jewish scientists, Kyrgyzstani people, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Physicians, Soviet Jews

Alexander Tenenbaum (Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University) is an Israeli medical doctor, university professor, and researcher in the fields of cardiology and diabetes.

[[Raymond Martin (cyclist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 1972 Summer Olympics, French cyclists, French Olympians, Living people, People from Normandy, Tour de France cyclists

Raymond Martin (born 22 May 1949) is a French retired professional cyclist. In the 1980 Tour de France he finished third overall and won the Polka dot jersey for being the best climber. He also competed in the individual road race at the 1972 Summer Olympics.

[[Bret Easton Ellis]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American novelists, Writers from Los Angeles, California

Bret Easton Ellis (born March 7, 1964) is an American writer. 

Ellis was born in Los Angeles, California to rich parents. He was raised in Sherman Oaks, Los Angeles. He attended schools for the rich and famous. He also attended Bennington College.

His first novel was Less Than Zero in 1985. His next novel was The Rules of Attraction in 1987. 

Ellis's third novel was American Psycho in 1991. It made him famous. In 1998, it was still selling 25,000 copies a year. The book's hero is an investment banker and sadistic serial killer named Patrick Bateman. His violent acts are described in detail. The Los Angeles chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW) called for a boycott of the book. NOW described it as "a how-to novel on the torture and dismemberment of women". Easton's publisher Simon and Schuster ended their contract with Ellis. Vintage Press bought and published the book. Ellis got several death threats,  but the book sold well. The novel was made into a movie in 2000. Christian Bale played the lead role.

In 1994, Easton's book of 13 related short stories, The Informers, was published. The stories were set in Los Angeles. Glamorama was published in 1998. Lunar Park was published in 2005.

[[Louise Hippolyte, Princess of Monaco]]

CATEGORIES: House of Grimaldi, 1697 births, 1731 deaths, Deaths from smallpox, Dukes and duchesses of France, Princes and princesses of Monaco

Louise Hippolyte (10 November 1697 – 29 December 1731), was the only sovereign Princess of Monaco. She is the ancestor of the current reigning princely family of Monaco. A very popular monarch she officially ruled the state with her husband but died prematurely after a reign of only 11 months. At her death her husband abdicated in favour for their son Honoré . 

[[Santander]]

Santander may refer to:

[[Santander, Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Cantabria, Capital cities in Spain

Santander (lang; santanˈder) is a city on the north coast of Spain. It is the capital of the autonomous community of Cantabria. As of 2013, 178,465 people lived there.

Santander has an oceanic climate (Cfb in the Koeppen climate classification).

[[Penagos]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Cantabria

Penagos is a municipality in Cantabria, Spain. As of 2013, 2,020 people lived there.

[[Clean Bandit]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s British music groups, Electronic dance music, Classical music, Funk music, 2008 establishments in the United Kingdom, Synth-pop, Musical groups established in 2008, Atlantic Records artists

Clean Bandit are a British electronic group. They were formed in Cambridge, England in 2008.

[[New Blood Rising]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in professional wrestling, Sport in Vancouver, World Championship Wrestling, 2000s in Canada

New Blood Rising was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Championship Wrestling (WCW). It was held on August 13, 2000 at Pacific Coliseum in Vancouver, British Columbia. New Blood Rising replaced Road Wild as WCW's August pay-per-view. The pay-per-view's name is a reference to the New Blood stable in WCW.

[[Mini Metro (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: Simulator video games

Mini Metro is a strategy simulation video game. It is about creating an efficient subway system for a rapidly growing city.

[[Nina Badrić]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, People from Zagreb, Pop singers

Nina Badrić (born 4 July 1972) is a Croatian pop singer. She was born in Zagreb, Croatia. At age 9 she started singing with the children's choir Zvjezdice. At age twenty she signed a singing contract. Her version of "I'm so Excited" from her second album was number one on pop charts in Italy,  Spain and France. Badric is one of the most award-winning Croatian musicians. While not commonly heard in the west, she is popular in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Slovenia and Turkey. 

[[Leopold von Ranke]]

CATEGORIES: 1795 births, 1886 deaths, German historians, Conservatives

Leopold von Ranke (21 December 1795 – 23 May 1886) was a German historian. Modern history writing is greatly influenced by him. He made focusing on primary sources and international relations in history writing, popular.

[[Afro-Colombian]]

CATEGORIES: Colombian people

Afro-Colombians are people who are from the country of Colombia and who have ancestors who are African. There is a large population of Colombians of African descent.  

[[Aurelio González Puente]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, People from Cantabria, Spanish cyclists, Tour de France cyclists

Aurelio González Puente (born 26 July 1940 in Valle de Villaverde) is a Spanish retired professional  cyclist. He won the polka dot jersey for best climber in the 1968 Tour de France. He also won the climbing competition in the 1967 Giro d'Italia. He won stages at the Tour de France, Giro d'Italia, Tour de Suisse and Dauphiné Libéré.

[[The God of Abraham Praise]]

CATEGORIES: Christian hymns

The God of Abraham Praise is a Christian version of the Jewish hymn Yigdal. It was first translated and made into a Christian hymn by Thomas Olivers after a visit to the Great Synagogue of London in 1770. It was first published in 1772.

[[Apex predator]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology

Apex predators are predators with no natural predators of their own. They are at the top of their food chain.

Apex predators have big effects on the animals and plants lower down the food chain. If they become extinct in an area, many changes happen. In recent times, it is often humans who have removed top predators.

An example of apex predators affecting an ecosystem is in Yellowstone National Park. After the gray wolf was reintroduced, in 1995, researchers noticed big changes occurring in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem.  Elk, the primary prey of the gray wolf, became less abundant and changed their behavior. This freed the riparian (river) zones from constant grazing.  This allowed willows, aspens, and cottonwoods to grow, so creating a habitat for beaver, moose, and scores of other species.  In addition to the effects on prey species, the gray wolf's presence also affected the park's grizzly bear, a vulnerable species.  The bears, emerging from hibernation, chose to scavenge off wolf kills after fasting for months.  They can also eat wolf kills in autumn to prepare for hibernation.  As grizzly bears give birth during hibernation, a greater food supply may improve the mother’s nutrition and increase the number of cubs.  Dozens of other species, including eagles, ravens, magpies, coyotes, and black bears, have been seen scavenging from wolf kills.

[[Federico Bahamontes]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Spanish cyclists, Tour de France winners, Tour de France cyclists

Federico Martín Bahamontes (born 9 July 1928) is a Spanish retired professional  cyclist. He was the first cyclist to win the "King of the Mountains"  competition for best climber in all three Grand Tours, the Tour de France, the Giro d'Italia and the Vuelta a España. 

[[Sundsvall Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges, Transport in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Sweden, Sundsvall

The Sundsvall Bridge (Sundsvallsbron) is a bridge located in Sundsvall in Sweden. The bridge crosses the Bay of Sundsvall, and creates a bypass past the town. The road on the bridge is a motorway, which is a part of European route E4.

The bridge is 2109 long. It was opened for traffic 18 December 2014.

[[Sandö Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges, Transport in Sweden

The Sandö Bridge (Sandöbron) is a concrete arch bridge crossing the Ångerman River in Kramfors Municipality in the northern parts of Sweden. It has a free span of 264 meters and is 42 meters above the water.

During construction, the bridge collapsed on 31 August 1939. This led to 18 construction workers being killed. Construction was completed in 1943.

[[Enthalpy of vaporization]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Chemical processes

The Enthalpy of vaporization, also called the latent heat of vaporization is the change in the enthalpy needed to change an amount of liquid into a gas. It happens at a given pressure. The enthalpies of vaporization are usually measured at the normal boiling point for that substance. The units are usually J/mol.

An example is when the cooling effects of vaporization controls the body temperature of humans. Warm weather or exercise creates heat in the body. This causes the body to sweat (or perspire). The body feels cooler when the liquid sweat evaporates. As the humidity increases, the rate of evaporation decreases. This determines the body's comfort level.

[[City Thameslink railway station]]

City Thameslink station is a National Rail station in the City of London. The southern entrance is on Ludgate Hill near Ludgate Circus. The northern entrance is on Holborn Viaduct. Both of the stations platforms are underground. The station is on the Thameslink route.

[[SIM card]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications

A SIM card is a smart card that is used in mobile phones, to identify the client. SIM stands for subscriber identity module. A SIM card has a microchip, and its use is protected by a PIN. When the phone is powered on, an international mobile subscriber identity number (IMSI) is broadcast. The microchip is also needed for some encryption and decryption. The SIM card and the device that it is used in (the mobile phone) are often referred to as the Mobile station.

SIM cards come in different sizes. Full-size SIM cards, which are about the same size as a credit card, are not used in phones anymore. Most smartphones use either micro SIM or nano SIM cards, but older ones use mini SIM. 

A SIM card can be switched easily from one phone to another and this portability of data offers a number of benefits. But sometimes device get lock using other telecom’s network. Adding this form of lock ensures that the handset can not be used on another carrier’s network, it can only be used on the original telecom’s network. In order to remove this lock and thus allow phone to be linked to some other carrier, a SIM Network Unlock PIN is required.

[[Sonja Aldén]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Sonja Aldén, born 20 December 1977, in St Albans, England, UK) is a Swedish singer. In 2006, 2007 and 2012 she participated at Melodifestivalen. She has also worked together with Shirley Clamp and Sanna Nielsen. Also, she has written songs for other artists, like  hard rock/heavy metal band The Poodles, who also participated in the Swedish Melodifestivalen 2006 with the song Night of Passion. She has attended the Adolf Fredrik's Music School in Stockholm.

[[Shirley Clamp]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Shirley Natasja Clamp, born 17 February 1973 in Borås, Sweden, is a British Swedish pop singer. She has scored several Top 10 albums and singles in Sweden. She also competed at Melodifestivalen several times, and reached the finals ending up second in 2004 and fourth in 2005.

[[Counting coup]]

CATEGORIES: North American people, Native American

Counting coup refers to the winning of prestige in battle by the Plains Indians of North America. Warriors won prestige by acts of courage in the face of the enemy. Any blow struck against the enemy counted as a coup. 

[[Rotte (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of the Netherlands, Lansingerland, Rotterdam, Zuidplas

The Rotte is a river in the Dutch province Zuid Holland. The city of Rotterdam is named after this river, Rotterdam means dam of the Rotte, Rotterdam is founded when a dam was built in the Rotte. Original, the river was named Rotta, based on the Dutch word 'rot', this word means something like dirty, because the River was really muddy, and A because Aa means water in old European languages.

[[Roberto Sagastume Pinto]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2014 deaths, Road accident deaths, Guatemalan politicians, Educators, Mayors

Roberto Obdulio Sagastume Pinto (24 November 1944 – 1 December 2014) was a Guatemalan politician and educator. He served as Mayor of Esquipulas from 1986 through 1988 and again from 1996 through 2000. Pinto also served as Governor of Chiquimula from 2001 through 2003. Pinto was born in Esquipulas, Guatemala.

Pinto died in a car crash in Esquipulas, Guatemala, aged 70.

[[Giorgio Ardisson]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Italian movie actors, People from Turin

Giorgio Ardisson,  also known as George Ardisson (31 December 1931 – 11 December 2014), was an Italian actor. He was known for his roles in Agent 3S3: Passport to Hell and Agent 3S3, Massacre in the Sun. Ardisson was born in Turin, Italy.

Ardisson died in Rome, Italy, aged 82.

[[Ivor Grattan-Guinness]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2014 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British historians, English mathematicians, People from Derbyshire

Ivor Grattan-Guinness (23 June 1941 – 12 December 2014) was a English historian and mathematician. He was a historian of mathematics and logic. 

Grattan-Guinness was born in Bakewell, Derbyshire. He gained his bachelor degree as a Mathematics Scholar at Wadham College, Oxford, and an MSc (Econ) in Mathematical Logic and the Philosophy of Science at the London School of Economics in 1966. He died on 12 December 2014, aged 73.

[[John Persen]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2014 deaths, Norwegian composers

John Persen (9 November 1941 – 12 December 2014) was a Norwegian composer. He was born in Porsanger, Norway. He was the son-in-law of Finn Strømsted. He was awarded Lindemanprisen in 1999, and Edvardprisen twice, and was awarded honorary membership of the Norwegian Society of Composers. 

Persen died in Oslo, Norway, aged 73.

[[Angalifu]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s births, 2014 deaths, Rhinoceroses

Angalifu (pronounced "ang-uh-LEEF-oo"; 1970–2014) was a captive northern white rhinoceros. It was held at the San Diego Zoo Safari Park. He was one of six living northern white rhinoceroses in the world, one of two living males in the world, and the only male on the American continents. 

Angalifu was born in the wild ca. 1970 before being caught and sent to the Khartoum Zoo in Khartoum, Sudan. In 1990, he was transferred on loan to the San Diego Zoo Safari Park, where he lived until his death in December 2014.

[[Lonesome George]]

CATEGORIES: 1910s births, 2012 deaths, Extinct species

Lonesome George (c. 1910  – June 24, 2012) was a male Pinta Island tortoise (Chelonoidis nigra abingdonii) and the last known individual of the subspecies. In his last years, he was known as the rarest creature in the world. George served as a potent symbol for conservation efforts in the Galápagos Islands and throughout the world.

[[Theo Colborn]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2014 deaths, American academics, American zoologists, Scientists from New Jersey, People from Plainfield, New Jersey

Theodora Emily Colborn (née Decker; March 28, 1927 – December 14, 2014) was an American zoologist. She was the founder and President Emeritus of The Endocrine Disruption Exchange (TEDX). Colborn was also professor Emeritus of Zoology at the University of Florida, Gainesville.  She was best known for her studies on the health effects of endocrine disrupting chemicals. 

[[Plainfield, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Jersey

Plainfield is a city in Union County, New Jersey, United States. As of 2010, the population was 49,808. 

[[Mustapha Maarof]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Malaysian actors, Movie actors

Mustapha Azahari Maarof (1 January 1935 – 15 December 2014) was a Malaysian actor. He was known for his roles in Hang Tuah (1959), 1957: Hati Malaya (2007) and Chermin (2007).

Maarof died in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia from respiratory failure at the age of 79.

[[Tim Cochran]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2014 deaths, American mathematicians, Scientists from California

Thomas (Tim) Daniel Cochran (April 7, 1955 – December 16, 2014) was an American mathematician. He was professor of mathematics at Rice University. He worked in topology, especially low-dimensional topology, the theory of knots and links and associated algebra.

[[Martin Brasier]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2014 deaths, Road accident deaths, Scientists from London

Martin David Brasier FGS, FLS (12 April 1947 – 16 December 2014) was an English palaeobiologist and astrobiologist. He was Professor of Palaeobiology at the University of Oxford and Emeritus Fellow of St Edmund Hall.

Brasier died in a car accident near Burford, Oxfordshire, UK, on 16 December 2014.

[[Phillip Archuleta]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Politicians from New Mexico, US Democratic Party politicians

Phillip M. "Felipe" Archuleta (May 12, 1949 – December 16, 2014) was an American politician. Archuleta was a Democratic member of the New Mexico House of Representatives, serving from 2013 until his death in 2014.

Archuleta died in Las Cruces, New Mexico from pneumonia, aged 65.

[[Dieter Grau]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2014 deaths, American centenarians, German centenarians, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Scientists from Huntsville, Alabama, Scientists from Berlin

Dieter Grau (April 24, 1913 – December 17, 2014) was a German-American rocket scientist and member of the "von Braun rocket group", at Peenemünde (1939–1945) working on the V-2 rockets in World War II.  He was among the scientists who surrendered to the United States and traveled there, providing rocketry expertise via Operation Paperclip, which took them first to Fort Bliss, Texas. 

Grau died in Huntsville, Alabama, at the age of 101 on December 17, 2014.

[[Oscar Holderer]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s births, 2015 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, German scientists, Scientists from Huntsville, Alabama

Oscar Holderer (November 4, 1919 – May 5, 2015) was an engineer who worked with Wernher von Braun in the United States and Germany beforehand.  Holderer came to the United States as part of the second group of people brought from Germany during World War II as part of Operation Paperclip.

[[Georg von Tiesenhausen]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2018 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, German scientists, American centenarians, Scientists from Huntsville, Alabama

Georg F. von Tiesenhausen (May 18, 1914 – June 3, 2018) was a retired German-American rocket scientist. After being brought to the United States in 1953 as part of Operation Paperclip, he was part of Wernher von Braun's team at the U.S. Army, and later, NASA. He is known to first complete design of the Lunar Rover and made a variety of other contributions to the space program.

Von Tiesenhausen died at his home in Huntsville, Alabama on June 3, 2018 at the age of 104.

[[Ivan Vekić]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2014 deaths, Croatian politicians, Lawyers

Ivan Vekić (18 October 1938 – 17 December 2014) was a Croatian politician and lawyer. He was one of the founders of the Croatian Democratic Union and served as the Croatian Minister of Interior during the Croatian War of Independence.

[[Richard C. Hottelet]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2014 deaths, American journalists, American political commentators, People from Wilton, Connecticut, Writers from Connecticut, Writers from New York City

Richard Curt Hottelet (September 22, 1917 – December 17, 2014) was a Brooklyn-born American broadcast journalist for the latter half of the twentieth century. Hottelet was the last surviving journalist from the original World War II-era group of Murrow's Boys lead by Edward R. Murrow.

Hottelet died at his home in Wilton, Connecticut, on December 17, 2014. He was 97 years old.

[[Wilton, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Connecticut

Wilton is a town along the Norwalk River Valley in southwestern Connecticut in the United States. It is located in Fairfield County. As of the 2010 census, the town population was 18,062. 

[[Oleh Lysheha]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2014 deaths, Poets, Playwrights, Ukrainian writers

Oleh Lysheha (Олег Лишега; 30 October 1949 – 17 December 2014) was a Ukrainian poet, playwright, translator and intellectual. During the period 1972-1988, he was banned from official publication, but in 1989 his first book Great Bridge (Velykyi Mist) was published.  

[[Virna Lisi]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2014 deaths, Cancer deaths in Italy, Italian movie actors, Marche

Virna Pieralisi (November 8, 1936 – December 18, 2014), better known as Virna Lisi, was an Italian actress. She was known for her roles in How to Murder Your Wife and in La Reine Margot. Lisi died in Ancona, Italy.

On December 18, 2014, Lisi died of cancer in Rome, Italy at age 78.

[[Donald J. Albosta]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2014 deaths, United States representatives from Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Saginaw, Michigan

Donald Joseph Albosta (December 5, 1925 – December 18, 2014) was an American politician. A Democrat, he was Saginaw County Commissioner from 1970 to 1974 and served in the Michigan State House of Representatives from 1974 to 1976, representing the 86th District. 

Albosta died on December 18, 2014 in St. Charles, Michigan, aged 89.

[[St. Charles, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Michigan

St. Charles is a village in Saginaw County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The population was 2,054 at the 2010 census.

[[Ingvar Kjellson]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish stage actors

Ingvar Kjellson (20 May 1923 – 18 December 2014) was a Swedish stage and movie actor. Kjellson was born in Kärna, Östergötland County. He was known for his roles in Hedda Gabler, The Wild Duck, The Beggars' Opera and Twelfth Night.

Kjellson died at the age of 91 from pneumonia on 18 December 2014 in Stockholm, Sweden.

[[John Profumo]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2006 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British military personnel of World War II, Cardiovascular disease deaths in London, Deaths from stroke, Former Conservative MPs (UK), People educated at Harrow School, Politicians from London, UK MPs 1950–1951, UK MPs 1951–1955, UK MPs 1955–1959, UK MPs 1959–1964

John Dennis Profumo, CBE (30 January 1915 – 9 March 2006), always known as Jack Profumo, was a British soldier and politician. A scandal, known as the Profumo affair, led to his resignation and withdrawal from politics. It may have damaged the Conservative government of Harold Macmillan. Profumo spent his later life working for charities.

Profumo died of a stroke in London, aged 91.

[[John Randolph (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2004 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City

Emanuel Hirsch Cohen, better known by the stage name John Randolph (June 1, 1915 – February 24, 2004) was an American movie, television and stage actor. He was born in New York City, New York.

Randolph died in Hollywood, California from natural causes, aged 88.

[[Owatonna, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota, County seats in Minnesota

Owatonna is a city in Steele County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 25,599 at the 2010 census.  It is the county seat of Steele County.

[[Mandy Rice-Davies]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2014 deaths, English models, Deaths from cancer, People from Warwickshire, People from Wiltshire

Marilyn "Mandy" Rice-Davies (21 October 1944 – 18 December 2014) was a British model and showgirl.

She was born in Mere, Wiltshire and grew up in Shirley, Warwickshire. She was best known for her role in the Profumo affair, which discredited the Conservative government of British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan in 1963.

Rice-Davies died aged 70 from cancer on 18 December 2014.

[[Larry Smith (producer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2014 deaths, Musicians from New York City

Lawrence Michael "Larry" Smith (June 11, 1951 – December 18, 2014) was an American musician and hip hop record producer. He was best known for his co-productions (with Russell Simmons) of Run-DMC's Run-D.M.C. (1984) and King of Rock (1985) and his solo production of Whodini's Escape (1984) and Back in Black (1986). 

Smith died on December 18, 2014 in Flushing, Queens, New York, 63.

[[Talia Shire]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City

Talia Shire (ˈ; born April 25, 1946) is an American actress. She was most known for her roles as Connie Corleone in The Godfather movies and Adrian Balboa in the Rocky series.

Shire is the sister of Francis Ford Coppola, the mother of actor Jason Schwartzman, and the aunt of actor Nicolas Cage.

[[Burt Young]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American painters, Actors from New York City, Writers from New York City

Gerald Tommaso DeLouise (born April 30, 1940) better known by his stage name Burt Young, is an American actor, painter and author. He is best known for his Academy Award-nominated role as Sylvester Stallone's brother-in-law and best friend Paulie in the Rocky movie series.

[[Robert Simpson (meteorologist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2014 deaths, American centenarians, Scientists from Texas, People from Corpus Christi, Texas

Robert Homer Simpson (November 19, 1912 – December 18, 2014) was an American meteorologist, hurricane specialist, first director of the National Hurricane Research Project (NHRP) from 1955–1959, and a former director (1967–1974) of the National Hurricane Center (NHC). He was the co-developer of the Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Scale with Herbert Saffir. His wife was Joanne Simpson.

Simpson died in Washington, D.C. at the age of 102.

[[Philip Bradbourn]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, English politicians, Former MEPs, MEPs for the United Kingdom, People from Warwickshire

Philip Charles Bradbourn, GBR (9 August 1951 – 19 December 2014) was a British politician, and Member of the European Parliament for the West Midlands, for the Conservative Party. He was a member of the European Parliament from 1999 to 2014.

Bradbourn was born in Tipton, Warwickshire. He died of bowel cancer, aged 63.

[[Igor Rodionov]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2014 deaths, Civil servants, Russian politicians, Soviet people

Igor Nikolayevich Rodionov (Игорь Николаевич Родионов; 1 December 1936 – 19 December 2014) was a Russian general and Duma deputy. He was best known for his service heading the Defence Ministry of the Russian Federation.

[[John G. Avildsen]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning directors, 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, American cinematographers, American movie editors, Movie directors from Chicago, Movie producers from Chicago, Screenwriters from Chicago

John Guilbert Avildsen (December 21, 1935 – June 16, 2017) was an American movie director. He won the Academy Award for Best Director in 1977 for Rocky.

Other movie he directed include Joe, Save the Tiger, Fore Play, The Formula, Neighbors, For Keeps, Lean on Me, The Power of One, 8 Seconds, Inferno, Rocky V and the first three Karate Kid movies.

Avildsen died on June 16, 2017 in Los Angeles, California of pancreatic cancer, aged 81.

[[William Hickey]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1997 deaths, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from bronchitis, Deaths from emphysema, Disease-related deaths in New York City

William Edward Hickey (September 19, 1927 – June 29, 1997) was an American actor. He is best known for his Oscar-nominated role as Don Corrado Prizzi in the John Huston 1985 movie Prizzi's Honor, as well as Uncle Lewis in National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation (1989) and the voice of Dr. Finklestein in Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas (1993).

Hickey died of emphysema and bronchitis in New York City, aged 69.

[[Edgartown, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Massachusetts, County seats in Massachusetts

Edgartown is a town in Dukes County, Massachusetts, United States. It is on Martha's Vineyard. It is the county seat of Dukes County.

At the 2010 census, 4,067 people lived in Edgartown.

[[Mrs. Chippy]]

CATEGORIES: Individual cats, Explorers, 1915 deaths

Mrs. Chippy was a ship's cat who sailed with Sir Ernest Shackleton on his team's Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition. The expedition began in 1914, but the ship, Endurance, became hopelessly trapped in packed ice sheets and was destroyed.  The cat, along with some of the sled dogs, were shot to death in 1915, when it was decided they could not survive.

[[Bedford (disambiguation)]]

Bedford is a town in Bedfordshire, England.

Bedford might also refer to:

[[Bob Lanier]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Mayors of Houston, US Democratic Party politicians

Bob Lanier (March 10, 1925 – December 20, 2014) was an American businessman and politician. He served as mayor of the city of Houston, Texas from 1992 to 1998. Lanier was born in Baytown, Texas.

On December 20, 2014, Lanier died at the age of 89 in Houston, Texas from natural causes.

[[Robert Wolfe]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2014 deaths, American historians, American people of World War II, Deaths from natural causes, Writers from Vermont

Robert Wolfe (March 2, 1921 – December 10, 2014) was an American historian and archivist. He was a World War II U.S. Army officer. He was a archivist of the US National Archives. He was wounded in both the Pacific and European Theaters of Operation. Wolfe was born in Burlington, Vermont.

Wolfe died in Washington, D.C. from natural causes, aged 93.

[[Right to housing]]

CATEGORIES: International law

The Right to housing is the idea that everyone should have the possibility to live somewhere, to housing and shelter free from homelessness. Many countries recognise it. It is also in  the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. This means it is part of international law.  

[[Personal identification number]]

CATEGORIES: Everyday life

A Personal identification number (abbreviated as PIN) is a number that is used to authenticate a user of a system. It is used to make sure only certain people can get, use, or change information in the system.

PINs were created to be used with automated teller machines. Once someone inserts a bank card into the machine, they would be asked to enter a PIN using the buttons on a keypad, and would only be allowed to get their money if they entered the corrected PIN. In a similar way, EMV technology makes use of PIN numbers to make sure only the person holding a credit card can make a transaction with it.

Early PIN numbers only consisted of digits. Today, some banks use PINs made of digits and letters. There are also many new technologies being created to be used instead of PINs, such as using fingerprint scanners.

[[David Ricardo]]

CATEGORIES: 1772 births, 1823 deaths, British economists, Infectious disease deaths in England, People from London

David Ricardo (18 April 1772 – 11 September 1823) was a British political economist. He was one of the main thinkers behind Classical economics, together with Thomas Malthus, Adam Smith and John Stuart Mill.  Today, he is mostly known for his theory of comparative advantage. This theory suggests that a nation should concentrate its resources only in industries where it is most internationally competitive and trade with other countries to obtain products not produced nationally.   Ricardo promoted the idea of extreme industry specialization by nations, to the point of dismantling internationally competitive and otherwise profitable industries.  In this thinking Ricardo assumed the existence of a national industry policy aimed at promoting some industries to the detriment of others. For Ricardo some form of Central Economic Planning was a given.

The Ricardian model of comparative advantage has been challenged by, among others, Joan Robinson and Piero Sraffa.  Nevertheless, it remains the cornerstone of the argument in favour of international free trade as a means of increasing economic prosperity.  The theory of comparative advantage was the forerunner of the push towards globalization via increased international trade, the guiding theme in economic policy currently promoted by the OECD and the World Trade Organization.

[[Torus]]

CATEGORIES: Three-dimensional shapes

A torus (plural: tori or toruses) is a tube shape that is similar to the surface of a doughnut or an inner tube. In geometry, a torus is obtained by rotating a circle in three dimensional space. To make a torus, the circle is rotated around a line (called the axis of rotation) that is in the same plane as the circle. Usually the line does not touch the circle, so the torus has a hole through the center, and the torus is called a ring torus. For a ring torus, the axis of rotation passes through the center of the hole. 

In topology, sizes don't matter, and a torus is any shape that has one hole through it. 

A toroid is a suface made by rotating any shape around a line, so a torus is one kind of toroid.

If the torus is filled to make a solid shape, it is called a solid torus. A solid torus is often simply called a torus. A solid torus is made by rotating a disk (a filled-in circle) around a line. Common objects that have the shape of a solid torus are a doughnut, a bagel and an O-ring.

The surface area of a torus is given by 

The volume of a solid torus is given by 

[[Sitor Situmorang]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2014 deaths, Indonesian writers, Poets

Sitor Situmorang (October 2, 1923 – December 21, 2014) was an Indonesian poet, essayist and writer of short stories. Situmorang was born in Harianboho, North Sumatra. He was educated in Jakarta. He worked as a journalist and literary critic. Situmorang was known for his poem Angkatan ’45 (The Generation of ’45).

On December 21, 2014, he died at the age of 91 at his home in Apeldoorn, Netherlands.

[[Udo Jürgens]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2014 deaths, Austrian composers, Austrian singers, Deaths from heart failure, Eurovision Song Contest winners, People from Klagenfurt, Pop singers, Swiss composers, Swiss singers

Udo Jürgens (born Udo Jürgen Bockelmann, 30 September 1934 – 21 December 2014) was an Austrian composer and singer of popular music whose career spans over fifty years. He wrote more than 800 songs and sold over 100 million records. In 2007 he additionally obtained Swiss citizenship. He was known for his song "Reach for the Stars".

Jürgens died on 21 December 2014 in Münsterlingen, Switzerland from acute heart failure at the age of 80.

[[2004 Republican National Convention]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in New York (state), 21st century in Manhattan, United States presidential nominating conventions, United States Republican Party, 2000s in New York City

The 2004 Republican National Convention was the 2004 presidential nominating convention. It was for the Republican Party of the United States. George W. Bush and Dick Cheney won the presidential nomination at the convention.

It took place from August 30 to September 2, 2004 at Madison Square Garden in New York City. A tribute for Ronald Reagan was shown at the convention.

[[John Panozzo]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 1996 deaths, American rock drummers, Deaths from cirrhosis, Musicians from Chicago

John Anthony Panozzo (September 20, 1948 – July 16, 1996) was an American drummer. He was best known for his work with rock band Styx. 

[[1982 State of the Union Address]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 in the United States, Speeches by Ronald Reagan, January events, 1980s in Washington, D.C.

The 1982 State of the Union Address was given by President Ronald Reagan to a joint session of the 97th United States Congress. It was held on January 26, 1982. The speech was the first State of the Union address of President Reagan's first term.

The speech lasted 40 minutes and 14 seconds. It had 5154 words. The address was broadcast live on radio and television.

The Democratic Party response was delivered by Senator Donald Riegle (MI), Senator James Sasser (TN), Rep. Albert Gore Jr. (TN), Senator Robert Byrd (W.Va), Senator Edward Kennedy (MA), House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill III (MA), Senator Gary Hart (CO), Senator Paul Sarbanes (MD), Senator J. Bennett Johnston (LA), and Senator Alan Cranston (CA).

[[Thomas P. O'Neill III]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, American lawyers, Lieutenant Governors of Massachusetts, People from Cambridge, Massachusetts, US Democratic Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians

Thomas Phillip O'Neill III (born September 20, 1944) is an American politician and lawyer. He leads a public relations and government affairs firm called O'Neill and Associates in Boston. He is the son of Thomas Phillip "Tip" O'Neill, Jr., who was Speaker of the United States House of Representatives from 1977 to 1987. From 1975 to 1983, O'Neill was Lieutenant Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

[[1983 State of the Union Address]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 in the United States, Speeches by Ronald Reagan, January events, 1980s in Washington, D.C.

The 1983 State of the Union address was given by President Ronald Reagan to a joint session of the 98th United States Congress on January 25, 1983. The speech was the second State of the Union address of President Reagan's first term.

The speech lasted about 46 minutes. It had 5554 words. The address was broadcast live on radio and television.

The Democratic Party response was delivered by Senator Robert Byrd (WV), Senator Paul Tsongas (MA), Senator Bill Bradley (NJ), Senator Joe Biden (DE), Rep. Tom Daschle (SD), Rep. Barbara Kennelly (CT), House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill III (MA), Rep. George Miller (CA), Rep. Les AuCoin (OR), Rep. Paul Simon (IL), Rep. Timothy Wirth (CO), and Rep. Bill Hefner (NC).

[[1984 State of the Union Address]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 in the United States, Speeches by Ronald Reagan, January events, 1980s in Washington, D.C.

The 1984 State of the Union address was given by President Ronald Reagan to a joint session of the 98th United States Congress on January 25, 1984. The speech was the third State of the Union address of President Reagan's first term.

The speech lasted 43 minutes and 2 seconds and had 4931 words. The address was broadcast live on radio and television.

The Democratic Party response was delivered by Senator Joe Biden (DE), Sen. David Boren (OK), Senator Carl Levin (MI), Senator Max Baucus (MT), Senator Robert Byrd (WV), Senator Claiborne Pell (RI), Senator Walter Huddleston (KY), Rep. Dante B. Fascell (FL), Rep. Tom Harkin (IA), Rep. William Gray (PA), House Speaker Thomas O’Neill (MA), and Rep. Barbara Boxer (CA).

[[Susanne Alfvengren]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Susanne Alfvengren (born Susanne Irene Lund, 12 February 1959 in Visby, Gotland, Sweden) is a Swedish singer. In 1984, she had a hit with När vi rör varann (Sometimes When We Touch). Another of her hit songs was Magneter. She competed in Melodifestivalen 2009 with the song Du är älskad där du går, whih was knocked out of the semifinal. In 1986-1987, she scored a vocal duet hit with Mikael Rickfors, with the song Som stormen river öppet hav.

[[1985 State of the Union Address]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 in the United States, Speeches by Ronald Reagan, February events, 1980s in Washington, D.C.

The 1985 State of the Union address was given by President Ronald Reagan to a joint session of the 99th United States Congress on February 6, 1985 (Reagan's birthday). The speech was the first State of the Union address of President Reagan's second term, and his fifth altogether.  

He stated, "Our progress began not in Washington, DC, but in the hearts of our families, communities, workplaces, and voluntary groups which, together, are unleashing the invincible spirit of one great nation under God."    He believed that volunteerism was a key element to the American community.

The president proclaimed the Reagan Doctrine and talked about taxes, reducing the federal deficit and the Strategic Defense Initiative, among other things.

The speech lasted about 40 minutes and had 4,955 words. The address was broadcast live on radio and television.

The Democratic Party response was delivered by Governor Bill Clinton of Arkansas,  Governor Bob Graham of Florida and House Speaker Tip O'Neill.

[[1986 State of the Union Address]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 in the United States, Speeches by Ronald Reagan, February events, 1980s in Washington, D.C.

The 1986 State of the Union address was given by President Ronald Reagan to a joint session of the 99th United States Congress on February 4, 1986. The speech was the second State of the Union address of President Reagan's second term.

Reagan was the only president to have postponed his State of the Union Address. On January 28, 1986, he planned to give his address, but after learning of the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, he postponed it for a week and addressed the nation on the day's events. This was the only time that the State of the Union address had to be postponed because of an event.

The speech lasted for about 31 minutes and had 3,514 words. The address was broadcast live on radio and television.

The Democratic Party response was delivered by Senator George Mitchell (ME), Lt. Gov. Harriett Woods (MO), Gov. Charles Robb (VA), Rep. Thomas Daschle (SD) and Rep. William Gray (PA)

[[1988 State of the Union Address]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 in the United States, Speeches by Ronald Reagan, January events, 1980s in Washington, D.C.

The 1988 State of the Union address was given by President Ronald Reagan to a joint session of the 100th United States Congress on January 25, 1988. The speech was the last State of the Union address of President Reagan's second term. Donald Hodel, the Secretary of the Interior, served as the designated survivor.

[[1987 State of the Union Address]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 in the United States, Speeches by Ronald Reagan, January events, 1980s in Washington, D.C.

The 1987 State of the Union address was given by President Ronald Reagan to a joint session of the 100th United States Congress on January 27, 1987. The speech was the third State of the Union address of President Reagan's second term. 

Reagan said, "The Soviet Union says it wants a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan, yet it continues a brutal war and props up a regime whose days are clearly numbered. We are ready to support a political solution that guarantees the rapid withdrawal of all Soviet troops and genuine self-determination for the Afghan people."  He ended with, "But now at length I have the happiness to know that it is a rising and not a setting Sun." Well, you can bet it's rising because, my fellow citizens, America isn't finished. Her best days have just begun." 

The speech lasted 34 minutes and 39 seconds and had 3847 words. The address was broadcast live on radio and television.

The Democratic Party response was delivered by Senator Robert Byrd (WV), and House Speaker Jim Wright (TX)

[[Billie Whitelaw]]

CATEGORIES: BAFTA Award winning actors, 1932 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Bradford, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, People from Coventry

Billie Honor Whitelaw, CBE (6 June 1932 – 21 December 2014) was an English actress. 

Whitelaw was born in Coventry and was raised in Bradford. She was known for working with Samuel Beckett. Whitelaw was known for her roles in The Omen and in Hot Fuzz.

Whitelaw died in Hampstead, London, England, aged 82.

[[The Interview (2014 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 movies, American comedy movies, American action movies, Movies set in South Korea

The Interview is a 2014 American political action comedy movie directed by Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg. It stars James Franco, Seth Rogen, Lizzy Caplan, and Randall Park. It was set to be released on December 25, 2014, but the movie was cancelled due to threats from North Korea. The movie was released on demand and on YouTube.

[[This Is the End]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 movies, American comedy movies, Apocalyptic movies, Dystopian movies

This Is the End is a 2013 American disaster comedy movie directed by Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg. It stars James Franco, Seth Rogen, Jonah Hill, Jay Baruchel, Danny McBride, Craig Robinson, and Emma Watson. It was released on June 12, 2013 and re-released on September 6, 2013. 

[[The Polar Express (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 movies, 2004 animated movies, 2004 computer-animated movies, American animated movies, American comedy movies, American musical movies, American fantasy movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Robert Zemeckis, Uncanny valley

The Polar Express is a 2004 American computer animated musical fantasy movie directed by Robert Zemeckis. It was produced by Tom Hanks. It is based on the book, The Polar Express. It stars Tom Hanks, Daryl Sabara, Eddie Deezen, Jimmy Bennett, Steven Tyler, Nona Gaye, and Michael Jeter. It was released on November 10, 2004.

[[Richard Dysart]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Boston, Massachusetts, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Disease-related deaths in California, Emmy Award winning actors

Richard A. Dysart (March 30, 1929 – April 5, 2015) was an American actor. He was best known for his role as Leland McKenzie on the NBC legal drama L.A. Law. Dysart was born in Boston, Massachusetts. He won an Emmy Award in 1992.

Dysart died at home in Santa Monica, California after a long illness, aged 86.

[[Roy L. Dennis]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 1978 deaths, People from California

Roy Lee "Rocky" Dennis (December 4, 1961 – October 4, 1978) was an American boy who had craniodiaphyseal dysplasia, an extremely rare, sclerotic bone disease. The condition usually results in neurological disorders and death during childhood. His body was donated to UCLA Medical Center after he died.

[[Michael Cimino]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, Academy Award winning directors, Deaths from heart failure, Golden Globe Award winning directors, Movie directors from New York City, Movie producers from New York City, Screenwriters from New York City, Yale University alumni

Michael Cimino (tʃ chi; February 3, 1939 – July 2, 2016) was an American movie director, screenwriter, producer and author. He was best known for directing, producing and co-writing the 1978 Academy Award-winning movie The Deer Hunter, and for writing and directing 1980s financial failure Heaven's Gate.

Cimino was found dead of heart failure on July 2, 2016 in his bed Los Angeles, California, aged 77.

[[William Friedkin]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1935 births, Living people, Movie directors from Chicago, Movie producers from Chicago, Screenwriters from Chicago

William Friedkin (born August 29, 1935) is an American movie director, producer and screenwriter. He was best known for directing The French Connection in 1971 and The Exorcist in 1973. He won the Academy Award for Best Director. 

Some of his other movie include Sorcerer, The Brink's Job, Cruising, Deal of the Century, To Live and Die in L.A., Jade, Rules of Engagement, The Hunted, Bug, and Killer Joe.

[[Horacio Ferrer]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Uruguayan writers, Poets, People from Montevideo

Horacio Ferrer (June 2, 1933 - December 21, 2014) is a Uruguayan poet, broadcaster, reciter and tango lyricist.  He is known for the lyrics he wrote for Astor Piazzolla’s tangos such as Balada para un loco and Chiquilín de Bachín.

[[Trevor Peacock]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from dementia, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from London

Trevor Peacock (19 May 1931 – 8 March 2021) was an English stage and television character actor. He also was a screenwriter and songwriter. He was known for his role as Jim Trott in the BBC comedy series The Vicar of Dibley.

Peacock was born in Tottenham, London, the son of Alexandria and Victor Edward Peacock.

Peacock was diagnosed with dementia in 2009. He died from the disease on 8 March 2021 in London, aged 89.

[[SummerSlam (2007)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in professional wrestling, Sports in New Jersey, SummerSlam, 2007 in New Jersey, August events

SummerSlam (2007) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on August 26, 2007 at Continental Airlines Arena in East Rutherford, New Jersey. It was the twentieth SummerSlam event held by the WWE. 

The main event saw John Cena defeat Randy Orton and successfully defended his WWE Championship.

[[Towe Jaarnek]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Swedish singers, Living people

Towe Jaarnek, born 13 June 1965, is a Swedish singer. She participated at Melodifestivalen 1991 with the song Ett liv med dej. The song ended up 2nd. In 1992, reorded the vocal duet More Than a Game together with Peter Jöback. That song was the official song for the 1992 European Football Championship. The tournament was played in Sweden.

[[Crested penguin]]

CATEGORIES: Penguins

The term crested penguin is the common name of species of penguins of the genus Eudyptes. All are black and white penguins with yellow crests, red bills and eyes. They are found on subantarctic islands in the world's southern oceans. All lay two eggs, but raise only one young per breeding season. The first egg laid is much smaller than the second.

Different experts disagree on how many species there are. They include the rockhopper penguins.

A Chatham Islands species may have become extinct in the 19th century. 

[[Peter Jöback]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Peter Arne Jöback, born 4 June 1971 in Stockholm, Sweden, is a Swedish singer as well as actor and musical artist.

[[Pernilla Wahlgren]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Swedish singers

[[Laleh Pourkarim]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Laleh Pourkarim (لاله پورکریم, lɒːle-je puːɾkæɾiːm; born 10 June 1982, is a Swedish singer-songwriter and former actress. After a short-lasting acting career, she entered the music industry in 2005 with her self-titled debut album. It peaked at number one in Sweden, and became the highest selling album of the year.

[[Anders Wejryd]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Archbishops of Uppsala, Living people

Anders Harald Wejryd, born 8 August 1948 in Falköping, Sweden is a Swedish Lutheran clergyman. He was appointed Bishop of Växjö in 1995. In March 2006, he was elected Archbishop of Uppsala and primate of the Church of Sweden. He took office in September of the same year. He left office in 2014, and was replaced with Antje Jackelén.

[[Bertil Werkström]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2010 deaths, Archbishops of Uppsala

Bertil Werkström, born 9 June 1928 in Lund Cathedral Parish, Sweden, dead 10 July 2010 in Farsta Parish, Sweden was the Archbishop of Uppsala between 1983–1993. His wife was named Britta. Serving as Archbishop he supported ecumenism In international affairs he supported sanctions against the Apartheid rule in South Africa. In 1984 he also maintained that homosexuality was "against the orders of creation."

In 1991, he visited Rome to commemorate the 600th anniversary of the canonization of Bridget of Sweden together with the Pope of the Roman Catholic Church.

[[K. G. Hammar]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Archbishops of Uppsala, Living people

Karl Gustav Hilding Hammar, born 18 February  1943 in Hässleholm), Sweden, commonly referred to as K. G. Hammar, is a Swedish Lutheran clergyman. He was the Archbishop of Uppsala, head of the Church of Sweden, from 1997 to 2006. During his tenure as archbishop, the Church of Sweden and the government separated on 21 January 2000.

[[Yngve Brilioth]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1959 deaths, Archbishops of Uppsala

Yngve Brilioth, born 12 July 1891 in Västra Ed, Sweden, dead 27 April 1959 in Uppsala, Sweden was a professor for church history, and later for Practical theology in Uppsala, Turku and Lund. He served as the Lutheran Bishop of Växjö between 1938 and 1950. Between 1950 and 1958, he was the Lutheran Archbishop of Uppsala. He was also the author of a history of the Oxford Movement, which written to coincide with its centenary in 1933. He married the daughter of a predecessor, Nathan Söderblom.

[[Erling Eidem]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 births, 1972 deaths, People from Gothenburg, Archbishops of Uppsala

Erling Eidem, born 23 April 1880 in Gothenburg, Sweden, dead 14 April 1972 in Vänersborg, Sweden was a Swedish theologian. He served as the Lutheran archbishop of Uppsala between 1931 and 1950.

[[Nathan Söderblom]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1931 deaths, Archbishops of Uppsala

Lars Olof Jonathan Söderblom (ˈnɑːtan ˈsøːdɛrblʊm), born 15 January 1866 in Trönö, Sweden, dead 12 July 1931 in Uppsala, Sweden was a Swedish Lutheran clergyman. He was the Church of Sweden Archbishop of Uppsala between 1914-1931 In 1930, he was awarded the 1930 Nobel Peace Prize.

[[Johan August Ekman]]

CATEGORIES: 1845 births, 1913 deaths, Archbishops of Uppsala

Johan August Ekman, born 26 November 1845, in Hjälstad, Sweden, dead 30 November 1913 in Uppsala, Sweden was the Church of Sweden Archbishop of Uppsala between 1900-1913. He also served as bishop of Västerås between 1898 and 1900.

[[Anton Niklas Sundberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 births, 1900 deaths, Archbishops of Uppsala

Anton Niklas Sundberg, born 27 May 1818 in Uddevalla, Sweden, dead  2 February 1900 in Uppsala, Sweden, was a Lutheran clergyman. He served as the Church of Sweden archbishop of Uppsala between 1870-1900.

[[Henrik Reuterdahl]]

CATEGORIES: 1795 births, 1870 deaths, Archbishops of Uppsala

Henrik Reuterdahl, born 11 September 1795 in Malmö, Sweden, dead 28 June 1870  in Uppsala, Sweden was a Swedish Lutheran clergyman. He servred as the Church of Sweden archbishop of Uppsala from 1856 until his 1870 death.

[[Carl Fredrik af Wingård]]

CATEGORIES: 1781 births, 1851 deaths, People from Stockholm, Archbishops of Uppsala

Carl Fredrik af Wingård, born 26 September 1781 in Stockholm, Sweden, dead 19 September 1851 in Sunnersta, Sweden was a Swedish politician and Lutheran clergyman. He verved as the Church of Sweden Archbishop of Uppsala, between 1839 and 1851.

[[Johan Olof Wallin]]

CATEGORIES: 1779 births, 1839 deaths, Archbishops of Uppsala

Johan Olof Wallin, born 15 October 1779 in Yttre Skomsarby, Sweden, dead 30 June 1839 in Uppsala, Sweden was a Swedish Lutheran clergyman. He was the Church of Sweden Archbishop of Uppsala between 1837-1839. He also wrote many Christian songs/hymns.

[[Liquid nitrogen]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical elements

Liquid nitrogen is nitrogen at a very low temperature. It is usually produced by a process known as fractional distillation of air. At atmospheric pressure (normal pressure) nitrogen boils at −196 °C  (77 K; −321 °F).

Nitrogen was first made into a liquid at Jagiellonian University on 15 April 1883. Zygmunt Wróblewski and Karol Olszewski were the first scientists to liquefy nitrogen, oxygen and carbon dioxide. During World War II the production of liquid nitrogen became common. This lowered the cost to produce it. After the war new uses were found for liquid gases. Liquid nitrogen became a major gas in the US.

[[Carl von Rosenstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1766 births, 1836 deaths, People from Uppsala, Archbishops of Uppsala

Carl von Rosenstein, born Carl Aurivillius on 13 May 1766 in Uppsala, Sweden; dead 2 December 1836 at Brunna Mansion, Sweden was a Swedish Lutheran clergyman. He was the Church of Sweden Archbishop of Uppsala from 1819 to 1836. Before that he served as the Bishop of Linköping from 1809 to 1819. His family tree included scientists like Sven Magnus Aurivillius and Per Olof Christopher Aurivillius. The "von Rosenstein" name was his mother's family name and came through an adoption. His grandfather was Nils Rosén von Rosenstein, Uppsala University professor of medicine.

In addition to being archbishop, he was also a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences from 1809. From 1819, he was also a member of the Swedish Academy from 1819. He belonged to the Swedish nobility.

[[Jacob Axelsson Lindblom]]

CATEGORIES: 1746 births, 1819 deaths, Archbishops of Uppsala

Jacob Axelsson Lindblom, born 27 July 1746, in Skeda, Sweden, dead 15 February 1819, in Uppsala, Sweden was a Swedish Lutheran clergyman. He served as the Church of Sweden archbishop of Uppsala between 1805-1819.

[[Uno von Troil]]

CATEGORIES: 1746 births, 1803 deaths, People from Stockholm, Archbishops of Uppsala

Uno von Troil, born 24 February 1746 in Stockholm, Sweden, dead 27 July 1803 at Sätra brunn, Sweden was a Swedish Lutheran clergyman. He was the Church of Sweden Archbishop of Uppsala between 1786-1803. He was the son of Samuel Troilius, who had also been archbishop.

[[Carl Fredrik Mennander]]

CATEGORIES: 1712 births, 1786 deaths, People from Stockholm, Archbishops of Uppsala

Carl Fredrik Mennander (sometimes modernised as Karl Fredrik Mennander, often just C.F. Mennander; 19 July 1712, Stockholm, Sweden,  22 May 1786, Uppsala, Sweden) was a Swedish Lutheran clergyman. He was the Bishop of Turku between 1757-1775. He then served as the Church of Sweden Archbishop of Uppsala from 1775 until his 1786 death.

[[Magnus Beronius]]

CATEGORIES: 1692 births, 1775 deaths, People from Uppsala, Archbishops of Uppsala

Magnus Olai Beronius, born 18 October 1692 in Uppsala, Sweden, dead 18 May 1775 in Uppsala, Sweden was a Swedish Lutheran clergyman. He was the Church of Sweden Archbishop of Uppsala from 1764 until his 1775.

[[Samuel Troilius]]

CATEGORIES: 1706 births, 1764 deaths, Archbishops of Uppsala

Samuel Troilius, born 22 May 1706 in Stora Skedvi, Sweden, dead 18 January 1764 in Uppsala, Sweden was a Swedish Lutheran clergyman. He served as the Church of Sweden Archbishop of Uppsala from 1758 until his death 1764.

[[Henric Benzelius]]

CATEGORIES: 1689 births, 1758 deaths, Archbishops of Uppsala

Henric Benzelius, born 7 August 1689 in Strängnäs, Sweden, dead 20 May 1758 in Uppsala, Sweden was a Swedish Lutheran clergyman. He serrved as the Bishop of Lund from 1744 to 1747. He was then the Church of Sweden Archbishop of Uppsala from 1747 until his 1758 death.

[[Carl Bildt]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Swedish diplomats, Government ministers of Sweden, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Nils Daniel Carl Bildt (born 15 July 1949) in Halmstad, Sweden, is a Swedish politician and diplomat who was Prime Minister of Sweden from 1991 to 1994.  

He was the leader of the Moderate Party from 1986 to 1999. He also served as Sweden's Minister for Foreign Affairs from 2006 to 2014. 

[[Ola Ullsten]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2018 deaths, Ambassadors of Sweden, Government ministers of Sweden, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Stig Kjell Olof (Ola) Ullsten, (23 June 1931 in Umeå, Sweden – 28 May 2018) was a Swedish former politician and diplomat. He served as the Prime Minister of Sweden from 1978 to 1979 He was also the leader of the Liberal People's Party from 1978 to 1983. He also served as Deputy Prime Minister briefly in 1978 and then again from 1980 to 1982. He was also the Swedish foreign minister between 1979 and 1982.

Ullsten died on 28 May 2018 at the age of 86.

[[Axel Pehrsson-Bramstorp]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 births, 1954 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Axel Alarik Pehrsson-Bramstorp, born Axel Alarik Pehrsson, 19 August 1883, dead 19 February 1954, was a Swedish politician. He served as the Prime Minister of Sweden for a few months during mid 1936.

[[Felix Hamrin]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 births, 1937 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Felix Teodor Hamrin, born 14 January 1875, dead 27 November 1937, was a Swedish politician. He was the leader of the liberal Freeminded People's Party. He also served as Prime Minister of Sweden from 6 August to 24 September 1932.

[[Carl Gustaf Ekman]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1945 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Carl Gustaf Ekman, born 6 October 1872, dead 15 June 1945, was a Swedish politician. He was a member of the Swedish parliament 1911-1932, in both the lower and the upper houses. Between 1924-1932, he led the Freeminded People's Party. He served as the  Prime Minister of Sweden between 1926-1928 and again between 1930-1932.

[[Arvid Lindman]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1936 deaths, Admirals, Swedish businesspeople, Government ministers of Sweden, People from Uppsala, Prime Ministers of Sweden, Swedish military people

Salomon ''Arvid'' Achates Lindman, born 19 September 1862, dead 9 December 1936, was a Swedish rear admiral, industrialist and conservative politician. He served as the  Prime Minister of Sweden from 1906 to 1911, and then again from 1928 to 1930.

[[Rickard Sandler]]

CATEGORIES: 1884 births, 1964 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Rickard Johannes Sandler, born 29 January 1884, dead 12 November 1964) was a Swedish Social Democratic politician. He served as the Prime Minister of Sweden between 24 January 1925 and 7 June 1926

[[Nils Edén]]

CATEGORIES: 1871 births, 1945 deaths, Swedish historians, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Nils Edén, born 25 August 1871, dead 16 June 1945, was a Swedish historian and liberal politician. He served as the Prime Minister of Sweden between 1917-1920.

[[Ernst Trygger]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 births, 1943 deaths, Academics, Government ministers of Sweden, Jurists, Politicians from Stockholm, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Ernst Trygger, (born 27 October 1857 - 23 September 1943) was a Swedish jurist professor and conservative politician. He was the Prime Minister of Sweden from 1923 to 1924 He was also the Swedish foreign minister from 1928 to 1930 in the cabinet of Arvid Lindman. He was a member of the first chamber of the Swedish parliament from 1898 to 1937. He was also leader of the conservatives in that chamber from 1913 to 1933.

[[Oscar von Sydow]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1936 deaths, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Oscar Fredrik von Sydow, born 12 1873, dead 19 August 1936, was a Swedish politician. He served as the Prime Minister of Sweden from February 23 to October 13, 1921.

[[Gerhard Louis De Geer]]

CATEGORIES: 1854 births, 1935 deaths, Prime Ministers of Sweden, Swedish nobility

Gerhard Louis De Geer, born 27 November 1854, dead 25 February 1935, was a Swedish baron and politician. He served in the first chamber of the Swedish parliament between 1901-1914. He was also the governor of Kristianstad County between 1905-1923. Also, he served as the Prime Minister of Sweden between 1920-1921.

[[Carl Swartz]]

CATEGORIES: 1858 births, 1926 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Carl Johan Gustaf Swartz, born 5 June 1858, dead 6 November 1926, was a Swedish right-wing politician. He served as the Prime Minister of Sweden from 30 March to 19 October 1917. He was also the Swedish Minister for Finance from 1906 to 1911. He married Dagmar Lundström in 1886, with whom he had three children, Erik, Brita and Olof.

[[Hjalmar Hammarskjöld]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1953 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Knut Hjalmar Leonard Hammarskjöld, born 4 February 1862, dead 12 October 1953, was a Swedish politician, scholar, cabinet minister and Member of Parliament from 1923 to 1938 (first chamber). He served as the Prime Minister of Sweden from 1914 to 1917.

In 1890, he married Agnes Almquist (1866–1940). The couple had four sons: Bo, Åke, Sten and Dag.

[[Karl Staaff]]

CATEGORIES: 1860 births, 1915 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Lawyers, Politicians from Stockholm, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Karl Albert Staaff, born 21 January 1860, dead 4 October 1915, was a Swedish liberal politician and lawyer. He was the chairman of the Liberal Coalition Party between 1907-1915. He served twice as the Prime Minister of Sweden, first between 1905-1906 and then again between 1911-1914.

[[Christian Lundeberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1911 deaths, Legislative speakers, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Christian Lundeberg, born 14 July 1842, dead 10 November 1911, was a Swedish politician. He served as Prime Minister of Sweden from 2 August to 7 November 1905.

[[Johan Ramstedt]]

CATEGORIES: 1852 births, 1935 deaths, Judges, Politicians from Stockholm, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Johan Olof Ramstedt (born 7 November 1852 -15 March 1935) was a Swedish politician. He was the Prime Minister of Sweden from April to August 1905.

[[Erik Gustaf Boström]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1907 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Politicians from Stockholm, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Erik Gustaf Bernhard Boström, born 11 February 1842, dead 21 February 1907, was a Swedish landowner and politician. He was a member of the Swedish Parliament between 1876 and 1907. He was the longest-serving Prime Minister of Sweden of the 19th century. He served in that office twice, first from 1891 to 1900. Then he served again from 1902 to 1905. He was also known as E.G. Boström or E. Gust. Boström.

[[Fredrik von Otter]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 births, 1910 deaths, Admirals, Government ministers of Sweden, Prime Ministers of Sweden, Swedish military people, Swedish nobility

Fredrik Wilhelm von Otter, born 11 April 1833, dead  9 March 1910, was a Swedish friherre, and naval officer, as well as a politician. He served as the Prime Minister of Sweden from 1900 to 1902.

[[Gustaf Åkerhielm]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 births, 1900 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Politicians from Stockholm, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Friherre Johan Gustaf Nils Samuel Akerhielm of Margaretelund (24 July 1833 - 2 April 1900) was a Swedish politician, baron and landowner. He was a member of the Swedish parliament twice, first from 1859 to 1866 and then again from 1870 to 1900. He was also Sweden's Minister of Finance from 1874 to 1875, and Minister for Foreign Affairs in 1889. Also, he served as Swedish Prime Minister from 1889 to 1891.

He was married to Ulrika Gyldenstolpe in 1860. The couple had three children.

[[Gillis Bildt]]

CATEGORIES: 1820 births, 1894 deaths, Ambassadors of Sweden, Generals, Prime Ministers of Sweden, Swedish military people, Swedish nobility

Didrik Anders Gillis Bildt, born 16 October 1820, dead 22 October 1894, was a Swedish parliamentarian, general, ambassador and baron. He served as the prime minister of Sweden between 1888–1889.

[[Robert Themptander]]

CATEGORIES: 1844 births, 1897 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Politicians from Stockholm, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Oscar Robert Themptander, born 14 February 1844, dead 30 January 1897) was a Swedish politician and public official. He served as the Prime Minister of Sweden from 1884 to 1888 during the reign of King Oscar II. He was also the Governor of Stockholm County between 1888 to 1896. Also, he served as Sweden's Minister for Finance.

[[Carl Johan Thyselius]]

CATEGORIES: 1811 births, 1891 deaths, Civil servants, Government ministers of Sweden, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Carl Johan Thyselius (8 June 1811 - 11 January 1891) was a Swedish politician and government official. He served as Justice Councillor (1856-1860), Minister for Ecclesiastical Affairs (1860-1863), Minister for Civil Affairs (responsible for trade, industry and ship transport (1875-80), and he served as the Prime Minister from 1883 to 1884.

[[Arvid Posse]]

CATEGORIES: 1820 births, 1901 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Prime Ministers of Sweden, Swedish nobility

Count Arvid Rutger Fredriksson Posse, born 15 February 1820, dead 24 April 1901, was a Swedish politician. He served as the Prime Minister of Sweden from 1880 to 1883.

[[Louis Gerard De Geer]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 births, 1896 deaths, Government ministers of Sweden, Prime Ministers of Sweden, Swedish nobility, Swedish writers

Baron Louis Gerard De Geer of Finspång, born 18 July 1818, dead 24 September 1896, was a Swedish statesman and writer. Between 1876 and 1880, he was the first Prime Minister of Sweden

[[Gustaf V]]

CATEGORIES: 1858 births, 1950 deaths, Kings and Queens of Sweden

Gustaf V (Oscar Gustaf Adolf, born 16 June 1858, dead 29 October 1950, was a Swedish monarch. He was the King of Sweden from 1907 until his death in 1950.

[[Charles XV]]

CATEGORIES: 1826 births, 1872 deaths, Kings and Queens of Sweden, People from Stockholm

Charles XV & IV also Carl (Carl Ludvig Eugen); Swedish and Norwegian: Karl, born 3 May 1826, dead 18 September 1872, was a Swedish monarch. He was the King of Sweden (Charles XV) and Norway (Charles IV) from 1859 until his death in 1872.

[[Oscar I of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1799 births, 1859 deaths, Kings and Queens of Sweden

Oscar I (born Joseph François Oscar Bernadotte 4 July 1799, dead 8 July 1859, was a Swedish monarch. He was the King of Sweden and Norway from 1844 until his death in 1859.

[[Charles XIV John of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1763 births, 1844 deaths, Kings and Queens of Sweden

Charles XIV & III John, also Carl John, Swedish and Norwegian: Carl Johan (26 January 1763 – 8 March 1844) was a Swedish monarch. He was the King of Sweden (as Charles XIV John) and King of Norway (as Charles III John) from 1818 until his 1844 death. Before he became Swedish royalty, he had also been the Sovereign Prince of Pontecorvo from 1806 until 1810, but then stopped using that title.

[[Östen Undén]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1974 deaths, Swedish academics, Civil servants, Government ministers of Sweden, Jurists, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Bo Östen Undén JD (25 August 1886 in Karlstad - 14 January 1974 in Stockholm) was a Swedish academic, civil servant and Social Democratic politician. He was acting Prime Minister of Sweden 6 October 1946 – 11 October 1946 following the death of Per Albin Hansson.

[[Ulf Lundell]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Musicians from Stockholm, Writers from Stockholm

Ulf Lundell (born 20 November 1949 in Södermalm, Stockholm, Sweden, full name Ulf Gerhard Lundell) is a Swedish writer, poet, songwriter, composer, musician and artist.

[[Tomas Ledin]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Tomas Folke Jonas Ledin (ˈtʰʊmas ˈfɔl.ˈkɛ ˈjuː.ˈnas lɛˈdiːn, born 25 February 1952, in Rätan, Sweden) is a Swedish singer, songwriter, guitarist, and producer. He grew up in the town of Sandviken in Sweden.

[[Ann-Louise Hanson]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Ann-Louise Hanson, born 4 April 1944 in Kristianstad, Sweden is a Swedish singer She has been involved in the music industry since 1956.

[[Towa Carson]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Towa Carson (actual name Birgit Rose-Marie Anlert, née Carlsson), born on 31 March 1936 in Eskilstuna, Sweden, is a Swedish schlager singer. She debuted in 1954, and scored most successes during the 1950s and 60s. She recorded many vocal duets with Lasse Lönndahl. She has also participated in Swedish Eurovision Song Contest) preselection Melodifestivalen.

[[Alice Tegnér]]

CATEGORIES: 1864 births, 1943 deaths, Swedish musicians

Alice Charlotta Tegnér, born 12 March 1864, dead 26 May 1943, was a Swedish music teacher, poet and composer. During the late 19th and early 20th century, she composed several children's songs.

[[Viktor Rydberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1828 births, 1895 deaths, Swedish writers

Abraham ''Viktor'' Rydberg (born 18 December 1828 in Jönköping, Sweden, died 21 September 1895 in Djursholm, Sweden) was a Swedish writer. Between 1877-1895 he was a member of the Swedish Academy.

[[Abdur Rahman Biswas]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Muslims, Presidents of Bangladesh, Bangladeshi Muslims

Abdur Rahman Biswas (1 September 1926 – 3 November 2017) was a Bangladeshi politician. He was the 11th President of Bangladesh during 1991 to 1996.

Biswas died on 3 November 2017 at a hospital in Dhaka of respiratory failure, at the age of 91.

[[Charles XIII of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1748 births, 1818 deaths, Kings and Queens of Sweden

Charles XIII & II also Carl, Karl XIII (born 7 October 1748 in Stockholm, Sweden, dead 5 February 1818 in, was a Swedish monarch. He was the King of Sweden (as Charles XIII) from 1809 and King of Norway (as Charles II) from 1814 until his 1818 death. He was the second son of King Adolf Frederick of Sweden and Louisa Ulrika of Prussia, sister of Frederick II of Prussia.

While known as King Charles XIII in Sweden, he was actually the seventh Swedish king by that name, as Charles IX (reigned 1604–1611) had adopted his numeral after studying a fictitious history of Sweden.

[[Alberto Breccia Guzzo]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2014 deaths, Uruguayan politicians, Uruguayan lawyers, People from Montevideo

Alberto Breccia (3 July 1946 – 1 December 2014) was a Uruguayan politician and lawyer. He served in the Chamber of Deputies of Uruguay representing the Broad Front party. Breccia was born in Montevideo, Uruguay.

Breccia died in Montevideo, Uruguay, aged 68.

[[Gustav IV Adolf of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: People from Stockholm, Kings and Queens of Sweden, 1778 births, 1837 deaths

Gustav IV Adolf or Gustav IV Adolph, born 1 November 1778, dead 7 February 1837 was a Swedish monarch. He was the King of Sweden from 1792 until he abdicated in 1809.

[[Gustav III of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1746 births, 1792 deaths, Kings and Queens of Sweden

Gustav III (24 January – 29 March 1792Dates) was King of Sweden from 1771 until he was shot to death death in 1792. He was the eldest son of King Adolph Frederick and Queen Louise Ulrika, who was a sister of Frederick the Great, King of Prussia.

[[Fritz Sdunek]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2014 deaths, Boxers, Coaches, Sportspeople from Mecklenburg-Vorpommern

Fritz Sdunek (pronounced free-ts zdoo-neck, April 18, 1947 – December 22, 2014) was a German professional boxing trainer and former amateur boxer.

Sdunek was one of the most successful and famous boxing trainers. He trained, among others, such world champions as Wladimir and Vitali Klitschko and Dariusz Michalczewski. He was born in Lüssow, Germany.

Sdunek died in Hamburg on December 22, 2014, at the age of 67.

[[Jan Malmsjö]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish actors, Swedish singers, 1932 births, Living people

Jan Wilhelm Malmsjö, born 29 May 1932, is a Swedish stage and film actor, musical star and singer. He is married to Marie Göranzon and father to Jonas Malmsjö.

[[Alan Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Former Labour MPs (UK), Politicians from Glamorgan

Alan John Williams (14 October 1930 – 21 December 2014) was a British Labour Party politician. He was the Member of Parliament (MP) for Swansea West from 1964 to 2010.

Williams was born in Caerphilly. He died in London at the age of 84 from a stroke on 21 December 2014.

[[Maia Hirasawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Swedish musicians

Maia Hirasawa, born May 5, 1980 in Sollentuna, Sweden, is a Swedish-Japanese singer-songwriter.

[[Morteza Ahmadi]]

CATEGORIES: Iranian actors, 1924 births, 2014 deaths, Iranian writers, Iranian singers, People from Tehran

Morteza Haj Seyed Ahmadi (مرتضی حاج سید احمدی‎; 1 November 1924 – 21 December 2014) was an Iranian actor, singer and writer. Ahmadi was known for his works in Autobus, Madrak-e Jorm and Khane-kharab. He was born in Tehran.

Ahmadi died on 21 December 2014 at his private house in Tehran, aged 90.

[[Karin Kock-Lindberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1976 deaths, Swedish economists, Government ministers of Sweden, Swedish academics, Swedish scientists

Karin Kock-Lindberg, née Kock, born 2 July 1891, dead 28 July 1976, was a Swedish social democrat politician and professor of economics. In 1947 she became the first woman to hold a Ministerial position in Sweden. She also became the first female professor of national economy in Sweden. She was known as Karin Kock-Lindberg after marrying lawyer Hugo Lindberg in 1936.

[[Frank Truitt]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2014 deaths, Sportspeople from Columbus, Ohio

Frank Wilson Truitt, Jr., (April 4, 1925 – December 21, 2014) was an American coach and a veteran of World War II. Truitt helped coach the Ohio State men's basketball team to the 1960 NCAA Championship. Truitt was born in Columbus, Ohio.

Truitt died in Columbus, Ohio, aged 89.

[[Lim Xiaoqing]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Swedish sportspeople, Badminton players

Lim Xiaoqing, born 15 August 1967, is a retired female badminton player. Originally from China, she later moved to Sweden.

She won three European Badminton Championships, one in the women's singles in 1994, and two in the women's doubles in 1992 and 1994. In 1995 she won the women's singles title at the All-England Championships. She then defeated Camilla Martin from Denmark in the final.

[[Jane Bown]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2014 deaths, English photographers, People from Herefordshire

Jane Hope Bown CBE (13 March 1925 – 21 December 2014) was an English photographer who worked for The Observer newspaper from 1949. Her portraits have been very popular to many critics. Bown was born in Eastnor, Herefordshire.

Bown died in London, aged 89.

[[Åke Johansson]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Swedish footballers

Åke "Bajdoff" Johansson (19 March 1928 – 21 December 2014) was a Swedish football player. Johansson played as a center half in IFK Norrköping and capped 53 times for the national team between 1955-1965.

Johansson became Swedish champion with his club 6 times (1952, 1956, 1957, 1960, 1962 and 1963), won Guldbollen 1957 and was a member of the silver winning team in 1958 FIFA World Cup but didn't appeared in the final. He also capped one time for the national team in ice hockey. He died after a brief illness, on 21 December 2014.

[[Falköpings KIK]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Falköpings KIK is a sports club in Falköping, Sweden. The club was established in 1976. In 2007, the women's soccer team played in the Swedish top division, Damallsvenskan.

[[IFK Vänersborg]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 establishments in Sweden, Bandy clubs in Sweden

IFK Vänersborg is a sports club in Vänersborg, Sweden. The club was established in 1903, and is most famous for its men's bandy successes. The club has played several seasons in the Swedish top division. During the 2014 World Cup the team played the final, losing 1-4 against Västerås SK.

[[Stefan Borsch]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Swedish singers, Living people

Stefan Borsch, born 19 January 1947 in Hagfors, Sweden, is a Swedish dansband singer. He originally sang for Öijwinds. From 1973, he sung for Vikingarna. After leaving Vikingarna, he began a solo career. He participated at the Swedish Melodifestivalen 1985 with the song "Sjung din sång", which was knocked out in the first round. In parallel to his solo albums, he also sang with Anders Engbergs until 1988. In 1989, he begun to appeari with Spotlight, later appearing under the name Stefan Borsch orkester. Under that name, they released albums until the band breakup in 1993 . Between 11 February 1995 and 4 December 1999 he was a member of Keith Elwins orkester. before ending his musical carrier in 1999

On 3 July 2004, he made an appearance in the Arvika Park together with Vikingarna during the band's final appearance.

[[Gripen Trollhättan BK]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 establishments in Europe, Bandy clubs in Sweden, 1930s establishments in Sweden

Gripen Trollhättan BK is a bandy club in Trollhättan, Sweden. The club was formed in 1936. The club was originally called Gripens BK, before changing name in 1988. The men's team played in the Swedish first division the seasons of 1973/1974, 2001/2002, 2002/2003 and 2004/2005. During the 2006/2007 season, the club managed to reach the top division again, where the club played during the 2007/2008. Their home ground is Slättbergshallen.

[[Ryan Shay]]

CATEGORIES: Sportspeople from Michigan, Deaths from myocardial infarction, 1979 births, 2007 deaths

Ryan Shay, born May 4, 1979 – dead 3 November 3, 2007 was an US professional long-distance runner. He was born in Ypsilanti, Michigan, USA. He attended the University of Notre Dame. He was married to Alicia Craig, who was also an American distance runner.

He won several USA championships titles.

[[The Rivieras]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s American music groups, Musical groups established in 1962, 1962 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Indiana, 1966 disestablishments in the United States

The Rivieras was a US rock and roll group. They mostly became famous for their hit song "California Sun".

[[Christina Lindberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Christina Lindberg, born 4 November  1968, is a Swedish country and dansband singer. She has sung together with Lasse Stefanz, and is probably most known for the song "De sista ljuva åren", which was a Svensktoppen hit from February 1989 and the upcoming 65 weeks, until the song left the chart in September 1990.

[[Olle Jönsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Olle Jönsson, born 1 December 1955, is a Swedish singer for the dansband Lasse Stefanz. The band was awarded a Grammis in the "Dansband of the year" in 1989. Earlier, he was also the band's drummer, until a wrist operation. In January 2007, Gunnar Nilsson replaced him as the band's drummer instead.

In November 2012, Olle Jönsson announced he would immediately leave the band. However, he reappeared on stage as the band's singer already the upcoming week.

[[Bill Bruford]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, English rock drummers, Musicians from Kent

William Scott "Bill" Bruford (born 17 May 1949 in Sevenoaks, Kent) is an English drummer, percussionist, composer, producer, and record label owner. He was the first drummer in the progressive rock group Yes, from 1968–1972. Bruford played in many other bands since the early 1970s. He was the drummer for Genesis in 1976 while they were on tour. Bruford was the drummer for progressive rock band King Crimson. Bruford now plays jazz, and has his own jazz group, Earthworks. He stopped performing in public in 2009. He still has two record labels, and continues to speak and write about music. His autobiography, Bill Bruford: The Autobiography, was published in early 2009.

[[Bertil Hallin]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Swedish musicians

Bertil Hallin, born 30 December 1931, is a Swedish church musician and music teacher. He as been active in Malmö. He participated as an expert in the hymn commission of 1969. It led to the creation of the 1986 Swedish hymnal.

[[Questioning (sexuality and gender)]]

CATEGORIES: Transgender

The questioning of one's status as a male, female or other (gender or gender identity), attraction to other people (sexual orientation) or both is often referred to in the LGBT community as just "questioning".

Questioning these aspects is a process of exploring things about oneself, which may make people unsure and worried about applying a label to themselves for different reasons.

The letter "Q" is often added to the end of the acronym LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender); the "Q" can refer to either queer or questioning. Many LGBT student groups and books include questioning in their books and literature; in the case of gay-straight alliances they do so in part so that students are not forced to label themselves or choose a sexual or gender identity.

According to the  American Psychological Association:

Some young people avoid "coming out of the closet" (telling others their sexual orientation) because of homophobic negative beliefs by other people. For some young people, admitting their sexual or gender identity can bring an end to this confusion. Those who receive support can often live happy and healthy lives. However, those who do not are more likely to have to deal with bullying, experiencing suicidal thoughts, and are more likely to engage in risky activities such as having unprotected sex (not using a condom), misuse drugs and become alcoholic. Questioning young people are at higher risk of these than their open LGBT peers.

An issue of anxiety or depression related to a doubt about one's gender identity or sexual orientation has been classified as sexual maturation disorder by the WHO in the ICD-10, under "Mental and behavioural sicknesses/problems connected with sexual development and orientation". Sexual orientation, by itself, is not an illness and is not classified under this heading. 

[[Viveca Lärn]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Swedish children's writers

Viveca Lärn, earlier Viveca Sundvall, born 6 April 1944 in Örgryte Parish in Gothenburg, Sweden, is a Swedish writer. and journalist. She is mostly famous for writing the Mimmi and the Eddie children's books series. She has also written books for adults. Her books for adults have led to the TV series Saltön.

[[Bonnot Gang]]

CATEGORIES: Anarchists

The Bonnot Gang was a group of French anarchists known for robbing banks. They were credited with being the first to use the getaway car. They also used repeating rifles, which not even the police had. Their crimes were violent—murder, bank robbery and auto theft. They were known for their belief in illegalism, a school of anarchism that promotes crime. The reasoning was the state had no legitimate authority so they could break any laws they wished. The gang was named after its leader, Jules Bonnot. They were very famous at the time (1911-1912) and have been made into legends through books, television, movies, etc. throughout France and other countries.

[[Barbro Lindgren]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Swedish children's writers

Barbro Lindgren, born 18 March 1937, is a Swedish children's books writer. In 2004, she was awarded the Hans Christian Andersen Award. In 2004, she was awarded the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award.

[[Tommy Nilsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Erik Tommy Nilsson , born 11 March 1960 in Köping, Sweden is a Swedish rock singer and composer.

[[Tommy Körberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Bert Gustav Tommy Körberg (ˈtɔmːʏ ˈɕɶːrˌbærj), born 4 July 1948 in Norsjö, Sweden is a Swedish singer, actor, and musician. He played the role as Anatoly/"The Russian" in the musical Chess.

[[Claes-Göran Hederström]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Claes-Göran Hederström, born on 20 October 1945 in Danderyd, Sweden) is a Swedish singer. He made his musical debut at SVT in 1967. He represented Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest 1968 with the song Det börjar verka kärlek, banne mej. The song ended up 5th.

[[Smegma]]

CATEGORIES: Exocrine system

Smegma is a substance that forms in the sex organs of mammals. It is made of epithelial cells, skin cells, and moisture. It is found around the foreskin of the penis in males, or in the folds of skin around the vulva in females. In males, the smegma acts like a lubricant which makes sexual intercourse easier. It can be white through to yellow in colour. Smegma does not cause any harm, and normal washing will keep it under control; in fact too much washing may cause other problems.

[[Anna-Lena Löfgren]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2010 deaths, Singers from Stockholm

Anna-Lena Löfgren, born 1 May 1944, dead 21 May 2010, was a singer from Stockholm, Sweden. Between 1962 and 1995, she scored more than 40 Svensktoppen hit songs. During the 1960s, she also scored successes in the German-speaking world.

[[Östen Warnerbring]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2006 deaths, Swedish singers

Östen Warnerbring, born 22 November 1934, died 18 January 2006, was a Swedish singer, musician, composer and lyricist. He represented Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest 1967 with the song Som en dröm. The music was written by Marcus Österdahl & Curt Pettersson. The lyrics were written by Patrice Hellberg.

[[Lill Lindfors]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, People from Helsinki, Swedish singers

Maj Lillemor "Lill" Lindfors, born 12 May 1940 in Helsinki, Finland is a Swedish singer. She has performed successful in Scandinavia since the 1960s. Together with Svante Thuresson, she performed the song "Nygammal vals during the Eurovision Song Contest 1966, where Sweden ended up 2nd.

[[Lillemor Arvidsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2012 deaths, Swedish politicians

Maj ''Lillemor'' Arvidsson, born 1 May 1943, dead 23 April 2012, was a Swedish trade union leader. She served as the Governor of Gotland from 1998 to 2004.

[[Selma Lagerlöf]]

CATEGORIES: 1858 births, 1940 deaths, LGBT Nobel Prize winners, LGBT writers, Swedish writers

Selma Ottilia Lovisa Lagerlöf (ˈsɛlˈma ˈlɑːɡə(r)ˈløːv; born 20 November 1858, dead 16 March 1940, was a Swedish writer. In 1909, she was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature becoming the first woman to do so. She is mostly known for her children's book Nils Holgerssons underbara resa genom Sverige (The Wonderful Adventures of Nils). She also worked for women's rights.

[[Yngve Stoor]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1985 deaths, Swedish singers

Hans ''Yngve'' Stoor, born 5 April 1912 in Stora Kopparberg, Sweden, dead 3 October 1985 in Älvsjö, Sweden, was a Swedish singer, lyricist and composer. One of his most famous recordings is the 1945 Christmas song Sjömansjul på Hawaii.

[[Barnens brevlåda]]

CATEGORIES: Radio programs, 1925 establishments in Sweden, 1972 disestablishments, Companies of Sweden

Barnens brevlåda was a Swedish children's radio programme. It was led by Sven Jerring. It aired totally 1 785 times between 11 September 1925 and 1972. When airing for last time, it was the longest-lasting Swedish radio programme of that time. The record was broken on 14 November 1999 by the programme Smoke Rings.

[[Sven Jerring]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1979 deaths, Swedish journalists, Swedish radio personalities

Sven Alfred Teodor Jerring (born Jonsson 8 December 1895 in Malung – 27 April 1979 in Stockholm) was a Swedish radio personality. He was active as a presenter, sports journalist and commentator for Sveriges Radio. From 1925, he was the annual Vasaloppet commentator.

[[Ylva Eggehorn]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Christian hymnwriters, Christian writers, Writers from Stockholm, Poets

Ylva Elisabet Eggehorn (born 6 March 1950 in Stockholm) is a Swedish Christian poet, writer, and hymnwriter. She has also written "historical fantasy" books about Gustav Badin.

[[Thomas Hodgkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1798 births, 1866 deaths, English physicians, People from Middlesex, Deaths from dysentery

Thomas Hodgkin (17 August 1798 – 5 April 1866) was an English physician. He was born in Pentonville, Middlesex. He researched many kinds of diseases and discovered Hodgkin's disease. He died of dysentery in Jaffa, Ottoman Syria.

[[Thomas Addison]]

CATEGORIES: 1793 births, 1860 deaths, English physicians, English scientists, People from Northumberland, Suicides by jumping in the United Kingdom

Thomas Addison (April 1793 – 29 June 1860) was an English physician and scientist. 

Addison was born in Longbenton, Northumberland. He discovered Addison's disease and Addison's anemia.

Addison killed himself in Brighton, East Sussex. He jumped from a hospital he worked in. He suffered from depression.

[[Richard Bright (physician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1789 births, 1858 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, English physicians, People from Bristol

Richard Bright (28 September 1789 – 16 December 1858) was an English physician. He was born in Bristol. Bright researched many kidney diseases. He discovered Bright's disease. 

Bright died in London from heart disease, aged 69.

[[James Parkinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1755 births, 1824 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from stroke, English activists, English geologists, English palaeontologists, English physicians, Scientists from London, Pharmacists

James Parkinson FGS (11 April 1755spaced ndash21 December 1824) was an English surgeon, apothecary, geologist, palaeontologist, and political activist. He researched and discovered Parkinson's disease.

Parkinson was born in Shoreditch, London. He died from a stroke in Langthorne, North Riding of Yorkshire, England, aged 69.

[[Jean-Martin Charcot]]

CATEGORIES: 1825 births, 1893 deaths, Neurologists, Scientists from Paris

Jean-Martin Charcot (ʃ; ʃaʁko; 29 November 1825 – 16 August 1893) was a French neurologist and professor of anatomical pathology.  He was known as "the founder of modern neurology". He discovered many diseases such as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and Charcot disease (better known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, motor neurone disease, or Lou Gehrig disease).

[[Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Bankers, Mayors of Warsaw, Polish businesspeople

Hanna Beata Gronkiewicz-Waltz (born 4 December 1952 in Warsaw) is a Polish lawyer, economist, politician. She was president of National Bank of Poland (1992-2001), vicepresident of European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (2001-2004). She is also viceleader of Civic Platform. In 2013 she received full professor title. In 2014 she has been again elected for Mayor of Warsaw. In 2018 she ended her term and did not run for the next one.

[[Pierre Marie]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 births, 1940 deaths, Neurologists, Scientists from Paris

Pierre Marie (9 September 1853 – 13 April 1940) was a French neurologist. He was born in Paris. He was one of the scientists to discover Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease.

[[Charcot–Marie–Tooth disease]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Charcot–Marie–Tooth disease (CMT), also known as Charcot–Marie–Tooth neuropathy, hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN) and peroneal muscular atrophy (PMA) — is a genetically and clinically heterogeneous group of inherited disorders of the peripheral nervous system characterised by progressive loss of muscle tissue and touch sensation across various parts of the body.

[[Howard Henry Tooth]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1925 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, English scientists, Neurologists

Howard Henry Tooth, CMG, CB (22 April 1856–1925) was a British neurologist. He was one of the scientists who discovered Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease.

Tooth died from a cerebral hemorrhage in Hadleigh, Suffolk, England.

[[Frederic Lewy]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1950 deaths, Scientists from California, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Neurologists, Scientists from Berlin

Frederic Henry Lewey (born Friedrich Heinrich Lewy, January 28, 1885 - October 5, 1950) was a Jewish German-born American neurologist. He is best known for the discovery of Lewy bodies.

[[Alfons Maria Jakob]]

CATEGORIES: 1884 births, 1931 deaths, German scientists, Neurologists

[[Hans Gerhard Creutzfeldt]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1964 deaths, German scientists, Neurologists

Hans Gerhard Creutzfeldt (June 2, 1885 – December 30, 1964) was a German neuropathologist. He was the first to describe Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. He was born in Harburg upon Elbe and died in Munich.

[[Dementia with Lewy bodies]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Dementia

Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), also known as diffuse Lewy body disease, cortical Lewy body disease, and senile dementia of Lewy type, is a type of dementia accompanied by changes in sleep, behavior, cognition, movement, and automatic bodily functions. It is characterized by the presence of Lewy bodies, parts of  alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin protein in neurons, detectable in post mortem brain histology.

Lewy body dementia affects 1.3 million individuals in the United States alone.

[[Beji Caid Essebsi]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2019 deaths, Presidents of Tunisia, Prime Ministers of Tunisia, Speakers of the Assembly of the Representatives of the People

Mohamed Beji Caid Essebsi (or el-Sebsi, محمد الباجي قائد السبسي, ar; 29 November 1926 – 25 July 2019) was a Tunisian lawyer and politician. He was the fifth President of Tunisia from 2014 until his death in 2019. He was elected in the first presidential election that followed the Tunisian Revolution. From 27 February 2011 to 24 December 2011, he was the Prime Minister of Tunisia.

On 27 June 2019, Essebsi was hospitalized at a military hospital in Tunis under critical condition due to a "severe medical crisis". The following day his condition stabilized. He died a month later on 25 July after being hospitalized after having a "medical scare" in Tunis at the age of 92.

[[Hédi Baccouche]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Prime Ministers of Tunisia

Hédi Baccouche (15 January 1930 – 21 January 2020) was the Prime Minister of Tunisia from 7 November 1987 to 27 September 1989.  Baccouche led the Socialist Destourian Party until it changed its name to the Constitutional Democratic Rally in 1988. He was born in Hammam Sousse.

[[Hamed Karoui]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2020 deaths, Prime Ministers of Tunisia

Hamed Karoui (30 December 1927 – 27 March 2020) was Prime Minister of Tunisia from 27 September 1989 to 17 November 1999. From 1986 to 1987 he was Minister of Youth and Sports and from 1988 to 1989 he was Minister of Justice.  He was a member of the Constitutional Democratic Rally party. He was born in Sousse, Tunisia.

Karoui died on 27 March 2020 at his home in Sousse at the age of 92.

[[Mohammed Mzali]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2010 deaths, Prime Ministers of Tunisia

Mohammed Mzali (محمد مزالي, 23 December 1925 – 23 June 2010) was a Tunisian politician. He served as Prime Minister of Tunisia from 23 April 1980 through 8 July 1986. Mzali was born in Monastir, Tunisia.

He served as a member of the International Olympic Committee from 1965 until his death in 2010.

Mzali died in Paris, France from a long-illness, aged 85.

[[Alvin Sargent]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winners, 1927 births, 2019 deaths, American screenwriters, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Alvin Sargent (April 12, 1927 – May 9, 2019) was an American screenwriter. He won two Academy Awards in 1978 and 1981 for his screenplays of Julia and Ordinary People. 

Sargent died on May 9, 2019 in Seattle, Washington at the age of 92.

[[Joseph Sargent]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning directors, 1925 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, American television directors, Movie directors from New Jersey, Movie producers from New Jersey, People from Jersey City, New Jersey

Joseph Sargent (born Giuseppe Danielle Sorgente, July 22, 1925 – December 22, 2014) was an American movie and television director and producer. He was best known for his movies White Lightning, MacArthur, Nightmares, Jaws: The Revenge, and The Taking of Pelham One Two Three. He won four Emmy Awards.

Sargent died of complications from heart disease at his home in Malibu, California, on December 22, 2014. He was 89.

[[Burrill Bernard Crohn]]

CATEGORIES: 1884 births, 1983 deaths, American physicians, Scientists from New York

Burrill B. Crohn (June 13, 1884 – July 29, 1983) was an American gastroenterologist. He was one of the first to describe Crohn's disease. He was born in New York. Crohn died in Connecticut at the age of 99.

[[George Huntington]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 births, 1916 deaths, American physicians, Scientists from New York City

George Huntington (April 9, 1850 – March 3, 1916) was an American physician. He discovered Huntington's disease. He was born in New York City. Huntington died in Long Island, New York, aged 65.

[[Autoimmunity]]

CATEGORIES: Immunology

Autoimunity is immune reaction against self components, which are recognized as antigens. This reaction can produce severe inflammation or can be innocuous, as when directed to intracellular autoantigens, which are not expressed to circulating antibodies or to the lymphocytes.

Autoimunity can develop spontaneously or can be induced experimentally by immunization with autoantigens or antigensd croos-reactive with autoantigens. Autoimunity reactions cause numerous autoimmune diseases and disorders.

[[Muhammed Zafar Iqbal]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Bangladeshi writers, People from Dhaka, Bangla Academy Literary Award winners

Muhammed Zafar Iqbal (মুহম্মদ জাফর ইকবাল;  born 23 December 1952) is a Bangladeshi author of science fiction and Children's literature He is a professor of computer science and engineering at Shahjalal University of Science and Technology. He is also head of the department of electrical and electronic engineering at that university. He was fled from war in 1971, but after winning the  liberation war, he came back from the cave and pretend to be a freedom fighter.   

[[Division of Barker]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, South Australia, 1903 establishments in Australia

The Division of Barker is an Australian Electoral Division in the south-east of South Australia. it includes the towns of Barmera, Berri, Bordertown, Keith, Kingston SE, Loxton, Mannum, Millicent, Mount Gambier, Murray Bridge, Naracoorte, Penola, Renmark, Tailem Bend, Waikerie, and parts of Nuriootpa and Tanunda. It was set up in 1903, and named for Collet Barker, who explored the mouth of the Murray River in 1831.

[[Division of Boothby]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, South Australia, 1903 establishments in Australia

The Division of Boothby is an Australian electoral division in South Australia. It was set up 1903 and is named for William Boothby (1829–1903), the Returning Officer for the first federal election in 1901.

It covers the suburbs south of Adelaide, including Aberfoyle Park, Belair, Blackwood, Brighton, Daw Park, Eden Hills, Flagstaff Hill, Marion, Mitcham, Seacliff, St Marys and Panorama.

[[Willie Rennie]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, People from Fife

William Cowan "Willie" Rennie (born 27 September 1967) is a Scottish politician. He is the current Leader of the Scottish Liberal Democrats. He became the Member of Parliament (MP) for Dunfermline and West Fife in February 2006. Rennie lost this seat to Labour in the May 2010 UK general election. He was then appointed as a Special Government Adviser. He  worked for the Scottish Secretaries of State Danny Alexander MP and then Michael Moore MP. He stood for the Scottish Parliament in the 2011 Scottish Parliament general election. He was elected as a member for the Mid Scotland and Fife region. Soon afterwards he was elected as leader of the Scottish Liberal Democrat party. He replaced Tavish Scott.

[[K. Balachander]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2014 deaths, Indian movie directors, Deaths from urinary tract infection, Infectious disease deaths in India, Indian movie producers, Indian screenwriters, Tamil directors

Kailasam Balachander (9 July 1930 – 23 December 2014) was an Indian movie director, screenwriter and producer. He was born in Nannilam, Madras presidency, British India. Balachander was known for directing Neerkumizhi (1965).

Balachander died from a urinary tract infection in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India, aged 84.

[[Gideon Ben-Yisrael]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2014 deaths, Former Members of Knesset, Jewish Israeli politicians, Mapai politicians, People from Haifa

Gideon Ben-Yisrael, Hebrew: גדעון בן-ישראל , (March 6, 1923 – December 18, 2014) was an Israeli politician. He served as a member of the Knesset for Mapai and Rafi in the 1950s and 1960s. He was born in Haifa, Mandatory Palestine.

Ben-Yisrael died in Tel Aviv from natural causes, aged 92. He was buried at the Trumpeldor Cemetery in Tel Aviv.

[[Ronald and Nancy Reagan Research Institute]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 establishments in Illinois, Buildings and structures in Chicago, Illinois, Nancy Reagan, Things named after Ronald Reagan

The Ronald and Nancy Reagan Research Institute, an affiliate of the National Alzheimer's Association in Chicago, Illinois, is an initiative founded by former United States President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan to accelerate the progress of Alzheimer's disease research. The center was dedicated in 1995.

[[Alsou]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Russian singers, Tatarstan

Alsou Ralifovna Abramova (Алсу́ Рали́фовна Абра́мова; Алсу Рәлиф кызы Абрамова; née Safina, born June 27, 1983) is a Bugulman singer. She is known simply as Alsou (Алсу́). She is a Tartar and a Muslim, born in Bugulma (Republic of Tatarstan). Alsou only speaks a few common phrases in her own language. At the age of 15 she gained recognition with her first recording, Alsou. 

She competed in the Eurovision Song Contest 2000 finishing in second place. She also released her first English album in 2000. Alsou hosted the final of the Eurovision Song Contest 2009 held in Moscow. On 7 July 2011 Alsou was appointed as a UNESCO Artist for Peace by Director-General Irina Bokova. She is a founder and organizer of the International Folk Music Festival of Peoples of the Volga River.

[[MTV Unplugged]]

CATEGORIES: Music television series, MTV, Peabody Award winners

MTV Unplugged is a TV series. It showcases many popular musical artists usually playing acoustic instruments. It received the George Foster Peabody Award and 3 Primetime Emmy nominations.

[[Aquilops]]

CATEGORIES: Ceratopsids

Aquilops is a small early Ceratopsian dinosaur from Montana, U.S.A.. It is from the Lower Cretaceous, about 109 to 104 million years ago (mya). This is 20 million years before the previous earliest known North American dinosaur of its type.

The skull, which is the only part found, is smaller than a man's hand.

[[Down (Jay Sean song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs

"Down" is the first single off British R&B singer Jay Sean's third studio album All or Nothing. The song was released in 31 May 2009 on US radio and on 30 June 2009 through digital retailer. The song also features American rapper Lil Wayne. 

Down would go on to sell four million copies in the United States and six million copies worldwide. It also received a large amount of airplay from two billion listener impressions on radio worldwide.

The song was able to reach #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart and overtook The Black Eyed Peas after their 26 week reign at number one. By doing this, it made Jay Sean the first British act to reach a Billboard Hot 100 number-one single since Coldplay's "Viva la Vida" in 2008, as well as the fourth British act overall this decade. It is the best-selling single by a British/European male artist in North America since Elton John's "Candle in the Wind" in 1997,and it is the first by a British Asian artist since Freddie Mercury in 1980.

The song has also been covered by Dutch pop punk band Destine as a stand alone single and by American electronic rock band Breathe Carolina for the compilation album Punk Goes Pop 3.

[[Saydabad District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Afghanistan

Saydabad is the main district of Wardak Province, Afghanistan. There are several villages in the district.

[[Down (Stone Temple Pilots song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 songs

"Down" is the first single off American hard rock band Stone Temple Pilots' fourth studio album No. 4. The song was released on April 5, 1999. The song is also featured on STP's compilation albums Thank You and Buy This.

On the Billboard charts, Down was able to peak at #5 on the Mainstream Rock Tracks chart, #7 on the Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart and at #9 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart.

In 2001, the song was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Hard Rock Performance at the 43rd Annual Grammy Awards but it lost to "Guerrilla Radio" by Rage Against the Machine.

[[Angham]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Egyptian singers, People from Alexandria, Record producers

Angham Mohamed Ali Suleiman (أنغام محمد علي سليمان) (born January 19, 1972) is an Egyptan singer, record producer and actress. She is one the most successful Egyptian female singers.

[[Amr Diab]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Egyptian singers

Amr Abdul-Basset Abdul-Azeez Diab (عمرو عبد الباسط عبد العزيز دياب , born 11 October 1961) is an Egyptian singer-songwriter.

[[MTV Unplugged (Julieta Venegas album)]]

CATEGORIES: Julieta Venegas albums, MTV Unplugged albums, 2008 albums

MTV Unplugged is the first live album recorded by Mexican singer-songwriter Julieta Venegas.

[[Wheldrake]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in North Yorkshire, Villages in North Yorkshire

Wheldrake is a village and a civil parish about 11 southeast of the city of York in England. In 2011, the parish had a population of 2,107. The parish of Wheldrake covers an area of 4,300. It was established before 1066. It was in the possession of Fountains Abbey in the Middle Ages. Wheldrake became part of a landed estate until the mid 20th century. It has a significant conservation area and a nature reserve of international importance. This, named Wheldrake Ings, is about 8 miles south of York. It is where many wildflowers flourish and rare birds prosper.

[[Aquí]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums, Julieta Venegas albums

Aquí ("Here") is the first studio album by Mexican singer-songwriter Julieta Venegas. It was released on March 24, 1997. It was well received by the public. The two singles released were "De Mis Pasos" and "Cómo Sé".

[[Crawfordsville]]

Crawfordsville may refer to several United States locations:

[[Crawfordville]]

Crawfordville may refer to two United States locations:

[[Patrick Harvie]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Scottish Parliament Members, Greens politicians

Patrick Harvie (born 18 March 1973) is a Scottish politician. He is a co-leader of the Scottish Green Party. He is the leader of the party in the Scottish Parliament. The other co-leader is Lorna Slater.

He became a Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) for the Glasgow region at the elections in May 2003.

He was first elected co-convener of the Scottish Green Party in 2008.

[[Uppingham]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in England, Settlements in Rutland

Uppingham is a town in Rutland, England about 6 miles from the county town of Rutland, Oakham. As of 2001, 3,781 people lived in Uppingham.

[[Etxebarri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Basque Country, Municipalities in the Basque Country

Etxebarri, Doneztebeko Elizatea (Etxebarri, Anteiglesia de San Esteban) is a town and municipality in the Biscay province, Basque Country, Spain.

[[Basque Country]]

Basque Country may refer to:

[[Vetagrande]]

CATEGORIES: Zacatecas, Settlements in Mexico, Municipalities of Mexico

Vetagrande is town and one of 58 municipalities of Zacatecas, Mexico. It has an area of 142 km² with 0.18% of state territory. Another town in this municipality is Llano de las Vírgenes.

[[Zacatecas City]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Mexico, Zacatecas, 1540s establishments in Mexico, 1548 establishments

Zacatecas (sakaˈtekas) is a city and municipality in Mexico. It is the capital and largest city of the state of Zacatecas. The name means "people of the grasslands."

[[Angel (disambiguation)]]

An angel is a supernatural being in many religions.

Angel might also refer to:

[[Europop]]

CATEGORIES: Pop music, European culture

Europop is a form of pop music that originated in Europe during the late 1970s. Europop is usually different than U.S. pop music due to its dance-oriented sound. It is similar to European electropop and Eurodance.

[[MC]]

MC is an initialism for master of ceremonies or mic controller.

MC, M.C., Mc, mC or mc may also refer to:

[[Hwaseong]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Korea

Hwaseong is a city in South Korea. It is in the Gyeonggi province.

[[Conga (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 songs, Pop songs

"Conga" is the first hit single by the Miami Sound Machine with Gloria Estefan. It was released in late 1985. It reached number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100. 

The longest version of the song is six minutes and six seconds.

[[Miami Sound Machine]]

CATEGORIES: American pop music groups

Miami Sound Machine was an American Latin music group. It started in 1975. It was originally called "Miami Latin Boys". In 1977, Gloria Estefan and another woman joined the group. After that, the group was renamed to "Miami Sound Machine". The group became very successful after Estefan joined.

The band had hit songs and albums. Starting with their album, Let it Loose, the group was called "Gloria Estefan and Miami Sound Machine". In 1989, the group name was dropped. Estefan started performing under her name alone.

In 2002, a new group formed using the "Miami Sound Machine" name. That group did not have any of the previous band members. They were not very successful.

[[Cuts Both Ways]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 albums, Pop albums

Cuts Both Ways is the first solo album by Gloria Estefan. It was also Estefan's last album with the Miami Sound Machine. The album contains Latin music, dance and ballads.

This album was released in July 1989. Its first single was "Don't Wanna Lose You."

[[Arlesey]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bedfordshire, Civil parishes in Bedfordshire

Arlesey is a small town and civil parish in Bedfordshire, England. In 2007, about 5,690 people lived in Arlesey. 

[[Dunstable]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Bedfordshire, Dunstable

Dunstable is a town and civil parish in Bedfordshire, England. As of 2001 35,000 people lived in Dunstable. 

[[Flitwick]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bedfordshire, Civil parishes in Bedfordshire

Flitwick is a small town and civil parish in Bedfordshire, England. 12,700 people live in Flitwick.

[[Houghton Regis]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bedfordshire, Civil parishes in Bedfordshire

Houghton Regis is a town and civil parish in Bedfordshire, England. Around 17,280 people live in Houghton Regis.

[[Kempston]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bedfordshire, Civil parishes in Bedfordshire

Kempston is a town and civil parish in Bedfordshire, England. As of 2001, 19,440 people lived in Kempston. It was once known as the largest village in England.

[[Leighton Buzzard]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bedfordshire

Leighton Buzzard is a town in Bedfordshire, England. There are around 37,000 people living in Leighton Buzzard.

[[Linslade]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bedfordshire

Linslade is a town in Bedfordshire, England. It is around one third of the way between London and Birmingham. It is located on the Bedfordshire side of the Bedfordshire-Buckinghamshire border. It is right next to the town of Leighton Buzzard. Together they form the civil parish of Leighton-Linslade. Linslade was transferred from Buckinghamshire in 1965. It was previously a separate urban district in its own right. It remained part of the Diocese of Oxford until 2008 when it joined Leighton Buzzard in the Diocese of St Albans. 

The original Anglo-Saxon settlement of Linslade was not located at the modern site. It is further north and survives today as the hamlet of Old Linslade. The present location, Linslade, experienced massive growth in the 1840s. This was associated with the construction of the Grand Union Canal and—particularly—the London and Birmingham Railway (now known as the West Coast Main Line). Linslade underwent a second major period of expansion, again associated with the railways, during the 1970s. As of the 2011 census there were 37,470 people living in Linslade.

[[Potton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bedfordshire, Civil parishes in Bedfordshire

Potton is a town and civil parish in Bedfordshire, England. It is about 10 from Bedford.

[[Sandy, Bedfordshire]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Bedfordshire, Towns in Bedfordshire

Sandy is a town and civil parish in Bedfordshire, England. It is between Cambridge and Bedford on the A1 road from London to Edinburgh. As of 2001, 10,887 people lived in Sandy.

[[Shefford, Bedfordshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bedfordshire, Civil parishes in Bedfordshire

Shefford is a town and civil parish in Bedfordshire, England. As of 2011 5,880 people lived in Shefford. There is archaeological evidence of Roman occupation here about the 1st century AD. In 1225 a Charter was granted to hold a market here. In 1312, Shefford was granted another charter to hold an annual fair at Michaelmas (September 29th). It is still held as a street fair every year on October 11th. In the 14th century a chapel was built here. Part of the church tower still exists. Shefford was divided between the parishes of Clifton, Campton, Meppershall and Southill. It was called Shefford-cum-Campton. Shefford became a parish in the early 19th century.

[[Stotfold]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bedfordshire, Civil parishes in Bedfordshire

Stotfold is a town and civil parish in Bedfordshire, England. As of 2001, 6,190 people lived in Stotfold.

[[Like a G6]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs

"Like a G6" is the first single off Asian-American hip hop group Far East Movement's third studio album Free Wired. The song was released in April 13, 2010. The song features The Cataracs and American rapper Dev. The song chorus features a sample from Dev's song "Booty Bounce".

"Like a G6" was able to stay as #1 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 for two weeks which ended on November 6, 2010. The song was able to reach #1 again for the week of November 27 in the same year.

The "G6" in the song "Booty Bounce", which was sampled in "Like a G6", was put into the lyrics after the producers of the song were trying to look for a rhyme for the line "Sippin' sizzurp in my ride, like Three 6", which is a reference to the 2000 song "Sippin' on Some Syrup" by American rap group Three 6 Mafia. The producers decided to choose "G6", which is meant to be a reference to the private airplane model Gulfstream IV, which is referred to as a "G4". According to Far East Movement member Kev Nish, they decided that a G6 was "flyer than a G4".

[[Wixams]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bedfordshire

Wixams is a new town in Bedfordshire, England. It started being built since 2007. It is thought that it will become the third largest settlement in the Borough of Bedford after Bedford and Kempston.

[[Woburn, Bedfordshire]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bedfordshire, Civil parishes in Bedfordshire

Woburn is a village and civil parish in Bedfordshire, England. It is about five miles from Milton Keynes. At the 2011 census, 930 people lived in Woburn.

According to the. Illage website, the first record of Woburn was in 969 AD as a hamlet. It was mentioned in the Domesday Book in 1086. The same source asserts: "the name Woburn comes from the Old English words 'wo', which means crooked, and 'burn' which means village. In 1145 Woburn Abbey was founded by Cistercian monks. In 1538, at the dissolution of the monasteries, the monastery was granted to the first Earl of Bedford."

Woburn has been burned down and rebuilt three times in its history. The first time was due to a chimney fire that spread to the other houses. The second time was during the English Civil War. The third time was in 1724 when another fire destroyed most of the village. It was rebuilt the last time in the Georgian style. New inns and a Market-house were added.

[[Puy de Sancy]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Puy de Sancy (Puèi de la Crotz, "Mount of the Cross") is a French mountain, the highest mountain in the Massif Central and the highest of volcanic origin in Metropolitan France. It is part of an old stratovolcano which has been inactive for about 250,000 years.

Puy de Sancy is in the Puy-de-Dôme departement in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. With an elevation of 1885 above sea level, it is the highest point of the department.

[[Eurodance]]

CATEGORIES: European culture, Dance music

Eurodance is a form of dance music that started in Europe in the late 1980s. It is an evolved and more synthesized form of Eurodisco, and is combined with house and Hi-NRG. It is known for its rich melodic sound. It is similar to dance-pop and techno music.

[[Strange Magic]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s comedy movies, 2010s fantasy movies, 2015 movies, Musical movies

Strange Magic is a 2015 animated musical comedy and fantasy movie. Evan Rachel Wood plays Marianne. Maya Rudolph plays Griselda. Kristin Chenoweth plays the Sugar Plum Fairy. 

The movie was released on January 23, 2015.

[[Jeremy Lloyd]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Essex, Deaths from pneumonia, English screenwriters, English poets, English television actors, Infectious disease deaths in London, Writers from Essex

John Jeremy Lloyd, OBE (22 July 1930 – 23 December 2014) was an English writer, screenwriter, author, poet and actor. He was best known as co-author and writer of several successful British sitcoms, including Are You Being Served? and 'Allo 'Allo!.

Lloyd was born in Danbury, Essex. He died on 23 December 2014, aged 84, after being admitted to a London hospital with pneumonia.

[[Bernard Stone]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2014 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, Chicago City Council members

Bernard "Berny" L. Stone (November 24, 1927 – December 22, 2014) was an American politician. He served as an alderman of the 50th Ward of the City of Chicago, Illinois.

Stone died on December 22, 2014 at age 87 from complications from a fall in Skokie, Illinois.

[[Krzysztof Krauze]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2014 deaths, Cancer deaths in Poland, Cinematographers, Deaths from prostate cancer, Photographers, Polish movie directors, Polish screenwriters, Writers from Warsaw

Krzysztof Krauze  (2 April 1953 – 24 December 2014) was a Polish movie director, screenwriter, photographer and cinematographer. He was best known for his 1999 thriller Debt.

Krauze died at the age of 61 from prostate cancer on 24 December 2014 in Warsaw, Poland.

[[Edward Greenspan]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2014 deaths, Canadian Jews, Canadian lawyers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Arizona, Deaths from heart failure, Jewish lawyers, Jewish writers, Writers from Ontario

Edward Leonard Greenspan, QC (February 28, 1944 – December 24, 2014) was a Canadian lawyer and author. He was of Jewish descent. He was one of the most famous defence lawyers in Canada. He owned the popular Canadian Broadcasting Corporation radio series, The Scales of Justice (1982–1989) and television series (1990-1994).

Greenspan died of heart failure at the age of 70 at his family home in Phoenix, Arizona in 2014.

[[Richard B. Stone]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2019 deaths, United States senators from Florida, Ambassadors of the United States, US Democratic Party politicians, Politicians from New York City

Richard Bernard Stone (September 22, 1928 – July 28, 2019) was an American politician. He was a Democratic United States Senator from Florida. Stone later served as Ambassador at Large to Central America and Ambassador to Denmark.

Stone died on July 28, 2019 at the age of 90.

[[Lise Nørgaard]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, Living people, Danish journalists, Danish screenwriters

Lise Nørgaard née Jensen (born 14 June 1917) is a Danish journalist, author, and screenwriter. She is known for her book Kun en pige (Only a girl) and for writing the screenplay of the television series Matador.

Nørgaard was born in Roskilde, Denmark.

[[John Kundla]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2017 deaths, American centenarians, National Basketball Association coaches, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

John Albert Kundla (July 3, 1916 – July 23, 2017) was an American former college and professional basketball coach.  He was the first head coach for the Minneapolis Lakers of the National Basketball Association (NBA).

Kundla died on July 23, 2017 in Minneapolis, Minnesota at the age of 101.

[[Charles Hard Townes]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2015 deaths, American physicists, American educators, People from Greenville, South Carolina

PhysicsCharles Hard Townes (July 28, 1915 – January 27, 2015) was an American Nobel Prize-winning physicist and educator.  

Townes is known for his work on the theory and application of the maser, on which he got the fundamental patent, and other work in quantum electronics connected with both maser and laser devices.  

He shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1964 with Nikolay Basov and Alexander Prokhorov. In 1982, Townes received the National Medal of Science, presented by President Ronald Reagan.

Townes was born in Greenville, South Carolina. Townes died at the age of 99 in Oakland, California, on January 27, 2015.

[[René Angélil]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Canadian singers, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from throat cancer, Disease-related deaths in Nevada, Musicians from Montreal

René Angélil (January 16, 1942 – January 14, 2016) was a Canadian singer. He was also the former manager of Celine Dion. He was married to Dion from 1994 until his death. 

Angélil was born in Montreal, Quebec. It was previously reported that he had throat cancer. In September 2015, Céline revealed that Angélil's cancer was terminal, and that he had only 'weeks' to live.  Angélil died on January 14, 2016 in Henderson, Nevada of a heart attack complicated from the disease at the age of 73.

[[Division of Grey]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, South Australia, 1903 establishments in Australia

The Division of Grey is an Australian electoral division in South Australia. It was set up in 1903 and is named for Sir George Grey, Governor of South Australia from 1841–45 (and later Prime Minister of New Zealand). 

The division covers 92% of the state. The borders of the electorate include the Western Australia, Northern Territory, Queensland and New South Wales borders, as well as the south coast. The division includes Ceduna, Port Lincoln, Whyalla, Port Augusta, Roxby Downs, Coober Pedy, Port Pirie, Kadina, Maitland, Orroroo, Peterborough, Burra and Eudunda.

[[The Nut Job]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 comedy movies, 2014 animated movies, American animated movies, American comedy movies, Canadian animated movies, Canadian comedy movies, South Korean movies

The Nut Job is a 2014 animated comedy movie about a heist. Will Arnett plays Surly, Brendan Fraser plays Grayson. Katherine Heigl plays Andie. Maya Rudolph plays Precious. 

This movie was released in the United States on January 17, 2014.

[[Alberta Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2014 deaths, Singers from Detroit, Michigan, Singers from Indianapolis, Indiana

Alberta Adams (born Roberta Louise Osborn on July 26, 1917 - December 25, 2014) was an American Detroit blues, jump blues, and Chicago blues singer. Adams was born in Indianapolis, Indiana.

She was raised in Detroit, she began performing as a tap dancer and nightclub singer in the 1930s. In 1952, she landed a recording contract with Chess Records and recorded alongside Red Saunders for the record label. Adams toured alongside Duke Ellington, Eddie Vinson, Louis Jordan, Lionel Hampton, and T-Bone Walker amongst others. 

Her solo career saw her secure a recording contract with the now defunct Cannonball Records, and she recorded two albums for them: 1999's Born With the Blues and 2000s Say Baby Say. Her 2004 album, I'm on the Move, was released on Eastlawn Records label. In 2006 she released the EP Detroit's Queen of the Blues, which was named Outstanding Blues/R&B Recording at the 2006 Detroit Music Awards. 

At age 91 she recorded Detroit Is My Home, with Ann Rabson and Thornetta Davis as guest artists.

Adams died in Detroit, Michigan after a period of failing health, aged 97.

[[Gleb Yakunin]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2014 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Russia, People from Moscow, Christian ministers, Russian politicians

Gleb Pavlovich Yakunin (Глеб Па́влович Яку́нин; 4 March 1934 – 25 December 2014) was a Russian priest and dissident. He fought for the freedom of conscience in the Soviet Union. He was member of Moscow Helsinki Group, and he was elected to Russian Parliaments from 1990 to 1999.

Yakunin was born in Moscow, Soviet Union. He died at the age of 80 after a long illness on 25 December 2014 in Moscow, Russia.

[[High Stakes & Dangerous Men (abum)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums

High Stakes & Dangerous Men  is the thirteenth album by British hard rock band UFO. It was released in February 1992.

[[Pascal Jardin]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), French movie directors

Pascal Jardin is a French director in animation, He directed many Marathon Media series and movies such as Totally Spies! (season 3-5 co-directed with Stephane Berry and directed season 6) and Gormiti: The Lords of Nature Return!. In 2009, he directed Totally Spies! The Movie.  

[[Walter Duncan]]

CATEGORIES: 1848 births, 1932 deaths, English painters, People from London

Walter Duncan was a British painter. He was born in 1848 in London, He died in 1932 in Richmond, London.

He completed his early studies in the family with his father Edward Duncan. His father was a member of the "Royal Society of Watercolours" in London.

He lived in London, then later in Surrey.

Duncan expressed himself with drawing, pastels, watercolor and oil.

[[Dylan Baker]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Actors from New York, Actors from Virginia, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, People from Lynchburg, Virginia, People from Syracuse, New York, Yale University alumni

Dylan Baker (born October 7, 1959) is an American actor. He is known for his roles in Happiness, Planes, Trains and Automobiles, Trick 'r Treat, Spider-Man 3, and in Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues.

Baker was born in Syracuse, New York, but was raised in Lynchburg, Virginia.

[[Alan Gross]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, People from New York

Alan Phillip Gross (born May 2, 1949) is an American international development professional.

In December 2009, he was arrested while in Cuba working as a U.S. government subcontractor for the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) as part of a program funded under the 1996 Helms-Burton Act. He was prosecuted in 2011 after being accused of crimes against the Cuban state for bringing satellite phones and computer equipment (to members of Cuba’s Jewish community) without the permit required under Cuban law.

After being accused of working  for American intelligence services in January 2010, he was ultimately convicted for “acts against the independence or the territorial integrity of the state" in March 2011. He was released from Cuban prison on December 17, 2014.

[[Divine Discontent]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 albums

Divine Discontent is the fourth studio album by American Christian rock band Sixpence None the Richer. The album was released on October 29, 2002. It was the group's first studio album of new material in 5 years. It was published by Warner Music label Reprise Records.

[[The Wild Heart]]

CATEGORIES: Rock albums, 1983 albums

The Wild Heart is a 1983 pop rock solo album from Stevie Nicks. It had three hit singles: "Stand Back", "If Anyone Falls" and "Nightbird". It peaked at #5 on the Billboard 200 chart. This album was released on June 10, 1983.

[[Little Red Corvette]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 songs, Prince songs, Songs about sexuality

"Little Red Corvette" is a pop/rock song by musician Prince. The song was his biggest hit at the time of release. It got to #6 on the Billboard Hot 100. The song was on the Prince album 1999. In this song, the LinnDrum was heard.

The song was released on February 9, 1983.

[[1999 (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, funk songs, R&B songs, 1982 songs

"1999" is a song by Prince. This was the title track from the album 1999. 

The song was released on September 24, 1982. At that time, it did not get into the top 40 in the United States or the United Kingdom. It peaked at #44 in December 1982. Later, after "Little Red Corvette" hit the top 10, "1999" peaked at #12 in the U.S. in July 1983. The Linn LM-1 and LinnDrum were heard in this song.

[[1999 (Prince album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 albums, Funk albums, Pop albums, Prince (musician), R&B albums

1999 is the fifth studio album from Prince. It contained the hit songs "Little Red Corvette", "1999" and "Delirious". The title track was a protest against nuclear proliferation.

The record was released on October 27, 1982.

The album's music is pop, funk and R&B.

[[Archaefructus]]

CATEGORIES: Flowering plants, Cretaceous, Fossil plants, Extinct plants

Archaefructus is an extinct genus of herbaceous aquatic seed plants. Its fossils come from the Yixian Formation in northeastern China, about 125 million years ago in the early Cretaceous. Archaefructus is  the earliest known genus of flowering plants.

It lacks sepals and petals. Its reproductive organs, carpels and stamens, are produced on an elongate stem rather than condensed into a flower as in modern angiosperms. Archaefructaceae has been proposed as a new basal angiosperm family.  

An alternate interpretation of the same fossil has the long stem as an inflorescence rather than a flower, with staminate (male) flowers below and pistillate (female) flower above.  The discovery of Archaefructus eoflora supports this interpretation, because a bisexual flower is present between staminate and pistillate organs. If this is correct, Archaefructus may not be basal within angiosperms, but it may be close to the Nymphaeales or the basal eudicots.

[[Tegnér barn]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

A Tegnér barn (Tegnérlada) or Tegnér church (Tegnérkyrka) is a popular nickname given to a type of church building. They are usually located in rural Sweden. They were often built during the late 18th century and the early 19th century. They were built when Esaias Tegnér was bishop of the Diocese of Växjö in the Church of Sweden.

These buildings are usually white. They are built in Neoclassicist style. They have a tall tower connected to the main building. Many of the buildings were built to replace demolished Medieval churches. The new churches were larger and could hold more people inside. This was needed because the population of Sweden was increasing.

[[Aumont family]]

CATEGORIES: Dukes and duchesses of France

The title of Duke of Aumont was established in 1665. It was first given to Antoine d'Aumont de Rochebaron (1601–1669). For a long time, the dukes of Aumont had the title of first Gentleman of the Chamber of the King (gentilhomme de la chambre du Roi). They were a fairly influential and wealthy family. They owned the Hôtel d'Aumont a large townhouse in Paris. The family also had many other titles including "Marquis of Villequier". This was sometimes used by the heir to the ducal title.

[[Cinque Ports]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of England, Port cities and towns of England, Kent, Sussex

The Cinque Ports is a confederation of coastal towns in Kent and Sussex. It was originally formed for military and trade purposes, but is now ceremonial. A Royal Charter of 1155 established the ports. The ports are at the eastern end of the English Channel, where the crossing to the continent is narrowest. In Norman French, the name means "five ports". They were:

However, Rye, originally a subsidiary of New Romney, changed to become one of the Cinque Ports, after New Romney was damaged by storms and silted up. Romney is now a mile from the sea, separated from it by Dungeness, which is a large pebble beach.

The Federation of Cinque Ports includes various other towns on the coast. These are called "limbs" of the Cinque Ports.

The Federation is supported by two towns, one of which is Rye, and the other (a few miles back from the coast) is Winchelsea. These towns once supported militias which could be used for defence of the area.

[[Common wheat]]

CATEGORIES: Wheat, Poales

Common wheat (Triticum aestivum), also known as bread wheat, is a cultivated wheat species. About 95% of the wheat produced is common wheat. 

Common wheat has been got by many generations of artificial selection by farmers choosing the most productive plants which occurred in their crops.

[[Ford Transit Connect]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

Ford Transit Connect is a compact van produced by Ford Motor Company from 2002 to the present day. It is currently in its second generation.

[[Buddy DeFranco]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2014 deaths, American clarinetists, American jazz musicians, Musicians from New Jersey, Musicians from Chicago, People from Camden, New Jersey

Boniface Ferdinand Leonard "Buddy" DeFranco (February 17, 1923 – December 24, 2014) was an American jazz clarinet player. He was known for performing with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.

DeFranco died in Panama City, Florida at the age of 91.

[[N. L. Balakrishnan]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Indian movie actors, Photographers

Narayanan Lakshmi Balakrishnan (born Velayudhan) (17 April 1943 – 25 December 2014), commonly known as N. L. Balakrishnan, was an Indian movie still photographer and actor. He starred in over 70 movies. He was known for his work in Kerala Kaumudi.

Balakrishnan died from cancer in a hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India, aged 71.

[[Stanisław Barańczak]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2014 deaths, Critics, Disease-related deaths in Massachusetts, Polish educators, People from Poznań, Polish poets

Stanisław Barańczak (November 13, 1946, Poznań, Poland – December 26, 2014, Boston, USA) was a Polish poet, literary critic, scholar, editor, translator and lecturer. 

He was most famous and valued for Polish translations of William Shakespeare dramas as well as numerous translations of English poetry by E.E. Cummings, Elizabeth Bishop, Emily Dickinson, Wystan Hugh Auden, Seamus Heaney, Thomas Hardy, Gerard Manley Hopkins, Thomas Stearns Eliot, John Keats, Robert Frost, Edward Lear and others.

Barańczak died in Boston, Massachusetts, aged 58.

[[Going Back (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Phil Collins, Rock albums

Going Back is the eighth and final studio album by English singer-songwriter Phil Collins. It was released on 14 September 2010 in the United Kingdom. It was released on 28 September 2010 in the United States. It features covers of '60s Motown & soul standards. It also was his first full solo release in eight years. Collins was primarily concentrated on soundtracks, compilations, and his extensive touring as a solo artist and with Genesis.

[[Kirti Nidhi Bista]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Prime Ministers of Nepal, People from Kathmandu

Kirdi Nidhi Bista (कीर्तिनिधि विष्ट) (15 January 1927 – 11 November 2017) was a Nepalese politician. He was born in Thamel, Kathmandu, Nepal in 1927. He served as prime minister of Nepal from 1969 to 1970, 1971 to 1973 and 1977 to 1979. Bista died on 11 November 2017 of prostate cancer in Gyaneshwar, Kathmandu, Nepal at the age of 90.

[[Surya Bahadur Thapa]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Deaths from surgical complications, Prime Ministers of Nepal

Surya Bahadur Thapa (सूर्य बहादुर थापा March 21, 1928 – April 15, 2015) was a Nepalese politician. He has served as the Prime Minister of Nepal for five terms, under three different kings, in a political career lasting more than 50 years. His terms were 1963-64, 1965–69, 1979–83, 1997–98 and 2003-04.

Surya Bahadur Thapa had been the first Prime Minister of the Panchayat System.

Thapa died at the age of 87 in a hospital in Delhi, India from respiratory failure after undergoing surgery.

[[Tulsi Giri]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Jehovah's Witnesses people, Prime Ministers of Nepal

Tulsi Giri (तुलसी गिरि 26 September 1926 – 18 December 2018) was the Prime Minister of Nepal from 1975 to 1977, and chairman of the Council of Ministers (a de facto Prime Ministerial position) between 1960 and 1963, and again in 1964 and  1965. He was born in Siraha District, Nepal in 1926.

Giri died on 18 December 2018 from liver cancer in Budhanilkantha, Kathmandu, Nepal, aged 92.

[[World Gone Crazy]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums

World Gone Crazy is the 13th studio album by the American rock band The Doobie Brothers. The album was released on September 28, 2010. World Gone Crazy debuted at number 39 on the Billboard top 200 albums chart. It was the group's first studio album of new material in 30 years. They worked with the producer of their first 10 albums, Ted Templeman.

[[Fly from Here]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums

Fly from Here is the 20th studio album by Yes. The album was released on July 4, 2011. It peaked at number 30 on the UK Albums Chart. It peaked at number 36 on the US Billboard 200 chart. Fly from Here is Yes' first studio album since the release of Magnification (2001).

[[Mudavadekh]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Gujarat

Mudavadekh is a village in Khanpur Taluka of Mahisagar District, Gujarat, India. People of various castes of the Hindu religion live there. Most of the people are from Patel and Brahmin castes. The village has a school for 1 to 12. A branch of Baroda Gujarat Gramin Bank is also there. The postal index number or PIN code for the village is 389230. The Head Post office is Lunawada. The main source of income for people is farming.

[[Regent's University London]]

CATEGORIES: Universities in London, 1984 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1980s establishments in England

Regent's University London is a private, not-for-profit university in London. It is one of six private teaching institutions in the United Kingdom which can award degrees.

It offers dual American and British programmes. It is the second oldest but largest private university in the country. The university has 15% of applicants from the UK, 10% from the United States and the rest from all over the world. Fees are about £14,000 a year for undergraduate courses.

Regent's University London has its campus in Regent's Park, central London. It was built on the site of South Villa, one of the original eight Regent's Park villas. Regent's occupies buildings left by the former Bedford College of the University of London. Bedford College merged with Royal Holloway College, and moved out of London into Surrey.

Regent's has a second campus in Marylebone, called Regent's Marylebone. There it runs the Regents School of Fashion and Design, a range of qualifications in fashion design, marketing, interior design and visual communication.

[[Brenden Dillon]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Dallas Stars players, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, Living people, San Jose Sharks players, Seattle Thunderbirds players, Washington Capitals players, American Hockey League players

Brenden Dillon (born November 13, 1990) is a Canadian ice hockey defenceman. He currently plays for the Washington Capitals of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Dallas Stars and San Jose Sharks.

[[Index Librorum Prohibitorum]]

CATEGORIES: Catholicism, Censorship

The Index Librorum Prohibitorum (List of Prohibited Books) was The Index, a list of books banned by the Catholic Church. They were banned if the Church thought they were heretical, anti-clerical (anti-church) or lascivious (obscene). It was censorship by the Catholic Church.

Early versions of the Index were published in Catholic Netherlands (1529); Venice (1543) and Paris (1551). By mid-century, with wars of religion in France and Germany, authorities thought control of the press could prevent the spread of heresy. This could be done by using a catalog of prohibited works, backed by ecclesiastic and civil authorities.

The first version published in Rome (the Pauline Index) was issued by Pope Paul IV in 1559.  From 1571 to 1917 the Sacred Congregation of the Index was in charge of updating the list. The 20th and final edition appeared in 1948, and the Index was formally abolished on 14 June 1966 by Pope Paul VI.

The aim of the list was to protect the belief and morals of the faithful. This was done by preventing them from reading heretical and  immoral books. Books thought to contain such errors included works by astronomers such as Johannes Kepler's Epitome astronomiae Copernicanae, which was on the Index from 1621 to 1835, and by philosophers, like Immanuel Kant's Critique of Pure Reason. The various editions of the Index also had the rules of the Church about the reading, selling and censorship of books. Even editions and translations of the Bible not been approved by the Church could be banned.

Enforcing the Index was the Inquisition. The burning at the stake of Giordano Bruno, whose entire works were placed on the Index on 8 February 1600, was (on the surface) for heresy, not for heliocentrism or other scientific views. However, those other views included a belief in 'other worlds', which was heresy.

Not until 1822 did the Church permit books to be printed which accepted the Earth's motion.

The developments since the abolition of the Index show "the loss of relevance of the Index in the 21st century". A complete list of the authors and writings present in the successive editions of the Index is given in J. Martínez de Bujanda, Index Librorum Prohibitorum, 1600–1966. A list of the books that were on the Index can be found on the World Wide Web.

[[The Addiction]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 horror movies, American horror movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City, Movies directed by Abel Ferrara

The Addiction is a 1995 American horror movie. It was directed by Abel Ferrara and was produced by Preston L. Holmes, Russell Simmons, Denis Hann, and Fernando Sulichin. The Addiction was released on October 6, 1995.

The movie gained positive reviews from critics and holds a 73% "Fresh" rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

[[Akina Nakamori]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Singers from Tokyo, Pop singers

Akina Nakamori is a Japanese pop singer and actress. She was one of the most popular singers of the 1980s in Japan. She is known for her deep, powerful voice.

Within two years of her debut, she set herself apart from all the singers of her generation by singing provocative songs with the release of each new single. 

Her hair style and dress sense was very much copied by teenagers in the 1980s. Music wise, her recording company moulded her to be a successor after the mature and sophisticated Momoe Yamaguchi, a singer who retired at age 21 for marriage. Her songs were always of heartbreaks, or rebellion, never to stray far from the 'mold'.

[[Oh Kyo-moon]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Archers, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic silver medalists, South Korean sportspeople

Oh Kyo-Moon (born March 2, 1972) is an archer from South Korea.

He won a team silver medal and an individual bronze medal at the 1996 Summer Olympics. Oh also was a member of Korea's gold medal men's archery team at the 2000 Summer Olympics. In the men's individual competition he finished sixth.

Oh was the world record holder for a single FITA with a score of 1379. That score was beaten by Oh Jin-Hyek at 2009 World Championship in Ulsan with 1386 points.

[[Hyun Hee]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, South Korean sportspeople, Fencers

Hyun Hee (born October 4, 1976 in Seongnam, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea) is a retired South Korean épée fencer.

At the 2002 FIE World Championships Hyun won the women's individual épée final match over Imke Duplitzer of Germany 15-11. She was the first Asian fencer to win a gold medal at the World Championships. In that year, Hyun was named South Korean Sportswoman of the Year.

[[Mimmi]]

The Mimmi series (Mimmiserien)  is a children's books series written by  Viveca Lärn (earlier Viveca Sundvall). The main character is Mimmi. She is a girl in late Kindergarten age and later in early primary school age. The books are told from the me-perspective. Many of them are written as diaries. The books were originally published between 1979 and 1996. 

Mimmi lives with her family in Kungälv. Her father Oskar is a postman while her mother Elin is a waitress at restaurant "Gyllene Svanen".

Two television series based on the books have been produced. The first was En ettas dagbok from 1985 and the second was Mimmi från 1988.

[[Eddie]]

CATEGORIES: Children's literature

The Eddie series (Eddieserien)  is a book series written by  Viveca Lärn (earlier Viveca Sundvall) about Eddie. He is a boy in early primary school. The books were originally published between 1991 and 2001. They make up a spinoff series set in the Mimmi universe. The books are told from a third-person perspective. The main character Eddie is the brother of Mimmi's friend Anders. Eddie's father is an alcoholic when the stories begin.

In 1994, a telvision series based on the books and named Håll huvudet kallt was produced. It aired as Sveriges Television's Christmas calendar that year.

[[Norrahammar Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Norrahammar Church (Norrahammars kyrka) is a church building in Norrahammar in Sweden. It belongs to Norrahammar Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened in 1930. It was originally a chapel.

[[Järsnäs Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Järsnäs Church (Järsnäs kyrka) is a church building in Järsnäs in Sweden. It belongs to Lekeryd Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church has a tradition dated back to the Middle Age. In 1905, the church was rebuilt.

[[Öxnehaga Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Huskvarna

Öxnehaga Church (Öxnehagas kyrka) is a church building at Öxnehaga in Huskvarna in Sweden. It belongs to the Huskvarna Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was inaugurated on 27 November 1976. That date was the Saturday before the First Advent Sunday that year.

[[Ekhagen Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

The Ekhagen Church (Ekhagskyrkan) is a church building at Ekhagen in Jönköping in Sweden. It belongs ot the Kristina-Ljungarum of the Church of Sweden. It was inaugurated on 12 May 1996 by Bishop Anders Wejryd and replaced the former temporary church that stood in Ekhagen between 1968 and mid 1995.

[[Råslätt Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

Råslätt Church (Råslätts kyrka) is a church building at Råslätt in Jönköping in Sweden. It belongs to the Kristina-Ljungarum of the Church of Sweden. The church is dated back to the 1970s. The architect was Per Rudenstam.

[[Trånghalla Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Trånghalla Church (Trånghalla kyrka) is a church building in Trånghalla in Sweden. It belongs to the Bankeryd Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened in 1969.

[[Trånghalla]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County, Villages in Europe

Trånghalla is a village in Jönköping Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2005, 1,251 people lived there.

[[Busungarna]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 disestablishments in Europe, Musical groups established in 1982, Swedish musical groups, 1982 establishments in Sweden, Musical groups disestablished in 1985, 1980s disestablishments in Sweden

Busungarna was a Swedish pop group. It was active between the early-mid 1980s  The group consisted of children. They scored a success in 1982 with the Christmas song Tomten, jag vill ha en riktig jul.

[[Österängen Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

Österängen Church (Österängskyrkan) is a church building at Österängen in Jönköping in Sweden. It belongs to the Christina-Ljungarum Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was inaugurated on First Advent Sunday 1961.

[[Brahe Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Brahe Church (Brakekyrkan) is a church building on the island of Visingsö in the lake of Vättern in Sweden. it belongs to the Visingsö Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was opened in 1636 as Wisingsborg Castle Church (Wisingsborgs slottskyrka).

[[Any Given Sunday]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 drama movies, 1990s sports movies, American sports drama movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Oliver Stone, Movies set in Miami, Florida, Warner Bros. movies

Any Given Sunday is a 1999 American drama movie. It was directed by Oliver Stone and was produced by Richard Donner, Oliver Stone, Dan Halsted, Lauren Shuler Donner, and Clayton Townsend. Any Given Sunday was released on December 22, 1999. The movie is based on the Pat Toomay novel, On Any Given Sunday.

The movie gained mixed reviews from critics and holds a 50% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

[[Landsjö Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Landsjö Church (Landsjökyrkan) is a church building in Kaxholmen in Sweden. It belongs to the Skärstad-Ölmstad Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was inaugurated in 1984.

[[Kaxholmen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Kaxholmen is a locality in Jönköping Municipality in Jönköping County, Sweden. In 2010, 1,458 people lived there. Kaxholmen is near lake Landsjön. The lake is well known for its bird habitats.

[[Bethel, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Connecticut, 1855 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Connecticut

Bethel (ˈ) is a town in Fairfield County, Connecticut, United States, about sixty miles from New York City.  Its population was 18,584 at the 2010 census.

[[Robert Guillaume]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning actors, 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Actors from St. Louis, Missouri, African American actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors

Robert Guillaume (born Robert Peter Williams; November 30, 1927 – October 24, 2017) was an American actor. He is known for his role as Benson on the TV-series Soap and the spin-off Benson, voicing the mandrill Rafiki in The Lion King and as Isaac Jaffe on Sports Night.

Guillaume died on October 24, 2017 at his home in Los Angeles, California from prostate cancer at the age of 89.

[[João Nílson Zunino]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2014 deaths, Brazilian businesspeople, Brazilian physicians

João Nílson Zunino commonly known as Zunino (9 April 1946 – 23 December 2014) was a Brazilian businessman and cardiologist. He served as the president of Avaí Futebol Clube from 2002 until 2013, succeeding Flávio Ricardo Félix. He was also a cardiology doctor and a businessman. He was born in São João Batista, Brazil.

Zunino died on 23 December 2014 in Florianópolis, Brazil, aged 68.

[[Saint John's Church, Habo]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Habo

Saint John's Church (Sankt Johannes kyrka) is a church building in Habo in Sweden. It belongs to the Habo Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was inaugurated on 12 September 1993.

[[Rugby railway station]]

Rugby railway station is a interchange station in the town of Rugby in Warwickshire. The station is on the West Coast Main Line and is a major interchange for services towards the West Midlands, the North West and London. London Midland provide services between Euston/Northampton-Rugby/Coventry/Birmingham and Euston-Crewe/Stafford/Stoke-on-Trent. Virgin Trains provide services between Euston-West Midlands/North West.

[[Fiskebäck Chapel]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Fiskebäck Chapel (Fiskebäcks kapell) is a chapel in Fiskebäck in Sweden. It belongs to the Habo Parish of the Church of Sweden. The chapel was opened on 2 December 1939.

[[Jacques Chancel]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, French journalists, French radio personalities, People from Occitanie

Jacques Chancel, (Joseph André Jacques Régis Crampes; 2 July 1928 – 23 December 2014) was a French journalist and writer. He was known for being the radio host of Radioscope and Le Grand Échiquier for 22 years. Chancel was born in Ayzac-Ost, France.

Chancel died at his home in Paris from cancer, aged 86.

[[Roberto Delmastro]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2014 deaths, Chilean politicians, Deaths from lung cancer, Disease-related deaths in Chile, Chilean engineers, People from Santiago

Roberto Delmastro Naso (17 October 1945 – 26 December 2014) was a Chilean politician and engineer. Delmastro was born in Santiago, Chile. He served in the Chamber of Deputies of Chile representing the 53rd district from March 1998 through March 2014.

Delmastro died from lung cancer at his home in Valdivia, Chile, aged 69.

[[Skärstad Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Skärstad Church (Skärstads kyrka) is a church building in Skärstad in Sweden. It belongs to the Skärstad-Ölmstad Parish of the Church of Sweden and was built in the early 19th century. It replaced a demolished 15th century church.

The first church service inside was held on 17 October 1819. The church was officially inaugurated on 27 May 1827 by Bishop Esaias Tegnér.

[[Skärstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Skärstad is a locality in Jönköping Municipality in Jönköping County, Sweden. In 2010, 341 people lived there.

[[David Ryall]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Sussex, English movie actors, English radio actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors

David John Ryall (5 January 1935 – 25 December 2014) was an English character actor. He appeared on British television beginning in the 1970s. Ryall was born in Shoreham-by-Sea, Sussex, England.

He was known for his roles in Lytton's Diary and Goodnight Sweetheart, as well as memorable roles in Dennis Potter's The Singing Detective and Andrew Davies's adaptation of To Play the King and The Final Cut, the final two parts in the House of Cards trilogy. He also played Grandad in BBC sitcom Outnumbered.

In recent years, he played the role of Elphias Doge in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1.

Ryall died in London, England, aged 79.

[[Tomaž Šalamun]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2014 deaths, Slovenian poets, People from Zagreb

Tomaž Šalamun (July 4, 1941 – December 27, 2014) was a Slovenian poet. He was a leading name of postwar neo-avant-garde poetry in Central Europe and internationally acclaimed absurdist.

Šalamun died on 27 December 2014 in Ljubljana, Slovenia, aged 73.

[[Vahan Hovhannisyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2014 deaths, Armenian politicians, Civil servants

Vahan Hovhannisyan (Վահան Հովհաննիսյան; August 16, 1956 – December 28, 2014) was an Armenian politician of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (ARF). He was Vice-President of the National Assembly of Armenia from 2007 to 2008 and was a candidate in the February 2008 presidential election.

[[Leopoldo Federico]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2014 deaths, Argentine musicians, Composers, People from Buenos Aires

Leopoldo Federico (12 January 1927 – 28 December 2014) was an Argentine bandoneon player, arranger, music director and composer. He was born in Buenos Aires. In 1955 he joined Astor Piazzolla's Octeto Buenos Aires and later that year, with his own orquesta típica, he made many recordings with the singer Julio Sosa. 

Federico died on 28 December 2014 in Buenos Aires. He was 87.

[[Karel Poma]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2014 deaths, Belgian mayors, Belgian politicians, People from Antwerp

Karel Emiel Hubert, Baron Poma (14 March 1920 – 27 December 2014) was a Belgian liberal and politician. He served as a minister of state. Poma later served as Mayor of Wilrijk from 1953 to 1958. He later served in the Belgian Federal Parliament from 1965 through 1985. He was born in Antwerp, Belgium.

Poma died at the age of 94 in Wilrijk, Antwerp, Belgium.

[[Nykyrka Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Nykyrka Church (Nykyrka kyrka) is a church building in the outer parts of western Mullsjö in Sweden. It belongs to the Mullsjö-Sandhem Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened in October 1887. It then replaced a 1656 church.

[[Utvängstorp Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Utvängstorp Church (Utvängstorps kyrka) is a church building in Mullsjö Municipality in Sweden. It is located circa two Scandinavian miles south of Tidaholm and two Scandinavian miles north of Mullsjö. It belongs to the Mullsjö-Sandhem Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church is dated back to the later 12th century.

[[Bjurbäck Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Bjurbäck Church (Bjurbäcks kyrka) is a church building in Mullsjö Municipality in Sweden. It is located on the northeastern shorelines of the Lake Näs. It belongs to the Mullsjö-Sandhem Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was inaugurated on 23 July 1899. It then replaced a 1732 church.

[[The Three Investigators]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction books

The Three Investigators is an American juvenile detective book series. It was first published as "Alfred Hitchcock and the Three Investigators" . It was created by Robert Arthur, Jr.. He modeled his series after the popular The Hardy Boys books. The characters known as the "three investigators" are three boys named Jupiter Jones, Peter Crenshaw and Bob Andrews. The original series of 43 books was published from 1964 to 1987 by Random House.

[[Electrolysis of water]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

Electrolysis of water is the decomposition of water into oxygen and hydrogen gas. This technique can be used to produce breathable oxygen or hydrogen gas as a fuel source, referred to as hydrogen fuel. However, that method is more expensive than the industrial way to produce hydrogen fuel from natural gas.April 2018

This is what is referred to as a non-spontaneous reaction which requires impetus.

At the cathode, reduction (in this case, the gain of electrons) occurs. At the anode, oxidation (in this case, the loss of electrons) occurs. Normally, the reaction is balanced with either an acid or a base as shown in the equations below.

That two reactions are half reactions. They are balanced with an acid. Commonly hydrochloric acid or sulfuric acid is used. However, the half reactions can also be balanced with a base, for example with sodium hydroxide.

Combining one pair of half reactions leads to an overall reaction, which is then the decomposition of water into oxygen and hydrogen.

[[Bringing Down the House]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 romance movies, 2003 comedy movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies

Bringing Down the House is a 2003 romantic comedy movie. The movie is about a working tax attorney who tries to turn his life around. Steve Martin plays Peter. Queen Latifah plays Charlene. Joan Plowright plays Virginia.

The movie received mixed to negative reviews from critics. It made quite a bit of money anyway.

[[Bottnaryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Bottnaryd is a locality in Jönköping Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 713 people lived there.

[[Lekeryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Lekeryd is a locality in Jönköping Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 817 people lived there.

[[Odensjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Odensjö is a locality in Jönköping Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,495 people lived there.

[[Öggestorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Öggestorp is a locality in Jönköping Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 212 people lived there.

[[Ölmstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Ölmstad is a locality in Jönköping Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 296 people lived there.

[[Örserum]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Örserum is a locality in Jönköping Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 322 people were living there.

[[Taberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Taberg is a locality in Jönköping Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,392 people lived there.

[[Case 39]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 horror movies, 2009 thriller movies, 2000s horror thriller movies, 2000s supernatural movies, American horror thriller movies, American supernatural movies, Canadian horror movies, Canadian thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies about dysfunctional families, Paramount movies

Case 39 is a 2009 American-Canadian psychological horror movie. It was directed by Christian Alvart and was produced by Lisa Bruce, Steve Golin, Alix Madigan, and Kevin Misher. Case 39 was released on August 13, 2009 in the United Kingdom, as well as European and Latin American countries. The movie was originally supposed to be released in North America in August 2008 but it was delayed twice.

[[Tunnerstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Tunnerstad is a locality on the island of Visingsö in the Lake of Vättern in Jönköping Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2017, 310 people lived there.

[[Memphis Belle]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 movies, 1990s war movies, British war movies, American war movies

Memphis Belle is a 1990 war movie. It is about an aircraft named Memphis Belle and its crew. Matthew Modine plays Captain Dennis Dearborn. Billy Zane plays Val. John Lithgow plays Bruce.

The movie was released in October 1990. It got mixed reviews from critics.

[[Bob Rivers]]

CATEGORIES: American radio actors, 1956 births, Living people, People from Connecticut

Bob Rivers (born July 7, 1956) is an American radio actor and personality. He spent almost six years working at WAAF in Worcester, Massachusetts. He has also hosted at other radio stations in Seattle and in Baltimore.

One of the first parodies Rivers produced was "Breakin' Up is Hard on You". That was about the Bell System Breakup. His 1987 album Twisted Christmas had the song "Twelve Pains of Christmas". He later had other Christmas parody albums.

Rivers was born in Branford, Connecticut.

[[MS Norman Atlantic]]

CATEGORIES: Maritime disasters, 2014, Ships

MS ''Norman Atlantic is a ferry. It transports both people and vehicles. It was built in 2009. It can take 850 passengers and 200 vehicles. Its original names were Akeman Street and Scintu. It was renamed Norman Atlantic'' in January 2014.

On 28 December 2014, Norman Atlantic caught fire in the Strait of Otranto, in the Adriatic Sea. Eight people were killed and 432 were rescued.

[[Latrell Sprewell]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Golden State Warriors players, New York Knicks players, Minnesota Timberwolves players

Latrell Sprewell is a retired American professional basketball player. His nickname was "Spree".

He was selected 24th overall in the 1992 NBA draft by the Golden State Warriors. He started 69 of the 77 games in his rookie season and averaged 15.4 points per game.

During his time as a professional, Sprewell was named to the yearly NBA All-Star game four times. He also helped the New York Knicks reach the NBA Finals and the Minnesota Timberwolves to the Western Conference finals. 

Despite the accomplishments, his career was overshadowed in 1997 because he choked coach P. J. Carlesimo during a practice. Sprewell's career came to an unexpected end in 2005 when he refused a $21-million three-year contract offer from the Timberwolves.

[[Rapture (disambiguation)]]

Rapture is a future event in Christian theology.

"Rapture" might also mean:

[[Holm Park]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Northern Ireland

Holm Park is a football ground in Armagh, Northern Ireland. It is the home of Armagh City F.C..

[[Floby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Floby is a locality in Falköping Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,499 people lived there.

[[Övre Soppero]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Övre Soppero is a locality in Kiruna Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 201 people lived there.

[[Jonsered]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Jonsered is a locality in Partille Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 930 people lived there.

[[Tärnaby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Tärnaby is an urban area of Sweden - a locality - in Storuman Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 482 people lived there.

[[Ullånger]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Ullånger is a locality in Kramfors Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 626 people lived there.

[[Bible for children]]

CATEGORIES: Bible versions, Children's literature

Children's Bibles, or Bibles for children, are often collections of Bible stories rather than actual translations of the Bible aimed at children.

The earliest Bible for children printed in America was The Children's Bible (Philadelphia, 1763). The Bible Story (1953–57) is a ten-volume series of hardcover children's story books written by Arthur Maxwell. It is based on the King James and Revised Standard versions of the Christian Bible. The Children's Bible Story Book (1991) is a children's version of the Bible by Anne de Graaf. It is distributed to British primary schools by the charity Bibles for Children (founded 1997).

Actual Bible versions include the New Century Version, a simplified English revision of the International Children's Bible.

[[Lillhärdal]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Lillhärdal is a locality in Härjedalen Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 335 people lived there.

[[Hede]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Hede is a locality in Härjedalen Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 741 people lived there.

[[Tärendö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Tärendö is a small locality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2000, 208 people lived there. It is located next to the Kalix River and the bifurcation Tärendö River.

[[Järna, Vansbro Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Järna is a locality in Vansbro Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,413 people lived there. Sometimes, it's called Dala-Järna to distinguish it from Järna in Södertälje Municipality.

[[Klintehamn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Klintehamn is a locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,363 people lived there.

[[Fårösund]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Fårösund is a locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 816 people lived there. The village is located on the minor island of Fårö. People can travel by ferry between Visby and Fårösund.

[[Brunflo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Brunflo is a locality in Östersund Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,890 people lived there. The locality is located circa 15 kilometers southeast from Östersund.

[[Ope]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Ope is a locality in Östersund Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 453 people lived there.

[[Lit]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Lit is a locality in Östersund Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,040 people lived there.

[[Åsarna]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Åsarna, older spelling: Åsarne, is a locality in Berg Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 268 people lived there.

[[Länghem]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Länghem is a locality in Tranemo Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 989 people lived there.

[[Alfta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Alfta is a locality in Ovanåker Municipality in Gävleborg County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,155 people lived there.

[[Fårö]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Sweden

Fårö is a Swedish minor island in the Baltic Sea. It is located north off Swedish Baltic Sea island of Gotland. The island is the second-largest island in the Swedish historical province of Gotland. The island has a population of fewer than 600 inhabitants. It has become a popular summer resort. From the island, a dialect of Modern Gutnish originates. It is, claimed to be the "oldest" language in Sweden.

[[Gotska Sandön]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Sweden

Gotska Sandön is a Swedish island in the Baltic Sea. It is located cirka 38 kilometres north of Fårö. The island is approximately 9 kilometres long and 6 kilometres wide. Its area is approximately 36 km².

The island mostly Gotska consists of sand. Its nature is dominated by beaches, dunes, and pine forests. In 1909, the island became one of the National parks of Sweden. In the summertime,regular boat tours are moving between the island and Fårö as well as nd Nynäshamn.

[[Que te perdone Dios]]

CATEGORIES: Telenovelas by Televisa, 2015 Mexican television series debuts

Que te perdone Dios Also known as Que te perdone Dios... Yo no is a Mexican telenovela produced by Angelli Nesma Medina for Televisa. It is the remake of the telenovela Abrázame muy fuerte produced in 2000. The production of the telenovela began on November 15, 2014.

Zuria Vega, Mark Tacher and Rebecca Jones star as the protagonists, while Sergio Goyri, Sabine Moussier and Altaír Jarabo star as the antagonists. With the special participation of María Sorté and René Strickler.

[[Convenience store]]

CATEGORIES: Retail markets

A convenience store is a small store that stocks a range of everyday items. These include groceries, snack foods, candy, toiletries, soft drinks, tobacco products, and newspapers. They may also offer money order and wire transfer services. In some places, corner stores are licensed to sell alcohol, typically beer and wine. 

They differ from general stores and village shops in that they are not usually in rural areas. A convenience store may be part of a gas/petrol station chain. It may be located alongside a busy road, in an urban area, or near a railway or railroad station or other transport hub. In some countries, convenience stores have long shopping hours, some being open 24 hours.

Convenience stores usually charge higher prices than conventional grocery stores or supermarkets. But convenience stores have gained market share. This shows consumers are willing to pay more for convenience. Convenience stores order smaller quantities of inventory at higher per-unit prices from wholesalers. However convenience stores make up for this with the convenience by having longer opening hours, serving more locations, and having shorter checkout lines.

[[Penguins of Madagascar]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 action movies, 2014 comedy movies, 2010s action comedy movies, 2014 animated movies, 2010s spy movies, American action comedy movies, American animated movies, American spy movies, Madagascar (franchise), Movie spin-offs

Penguins of Madagascar is a 2014 American 3D computer-animated movie by DreamWorks Animation and a spin-off of the 2005 movie Madagascar. It was released by 20th Century Fox on November 26, 2014. It was re-released by Universal Studios.

[[Slugterra]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian_animated_television_series

SlugTerra is a Canadian computer animation television series by Nerd Corps Entertainment. The show first aired in 2012. There were 39 episodes in 2 seasons. The plan also called for three Slugterra movies. The second movie was release on August 2, 2014. 

The show airs on Disney XD in Canada and Disney XD Worldwide. The series was released on DVD in Canada by Entertainment Eone. It was released in the United States by Shout! Factory.

[[Frankie Randall (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from New Jersey, American dancers, American singer-songwriters, American television actors, Cancer deaths in California, Comedians from New Jersey, Deaths from lung cancer, People from Passaic, New Jersey, Singers from New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey

Frankie Randall (born Franklin Joseph "Frank" Lisbona; January 11, 1938 – December 28, 2014) was an American singer, dancer, songwriter, vocalist, actor, and comedian. He was known for appearing on The Dean Martin Summer Show and Day of the Wolves.

Randall died of lung cancer in Palm Springs, California, aged 76.

[[Deaths in 2015]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 deaths, Index lists

The following is a list of notable deaths in the year 2015. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Months".

[[Deaths in January 2015]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 deaths, January events

The following is a list of notable deaths in January 2015. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".

[[Odd Iversen]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2014 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Norway, Norwegian footballers, People from Trondheim

Odd "Ivers" Iversen (6 November 1945 – 29 December 2014) was a Norwegian footballer. He was known for his former record of 158 goals in Norwegian top tier football, as well as his still-standing record of 30 goals in a single season.

Iversen died in Trondheim in the early hours of 29 December 2014 from an unknown illness, aged 69.

He was the father of Steffen Iversen.

[[Hardo Aasmäe]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2014 deaths, Estonian politicians, Mayors

Hardo Aasmäe (February 11, 1951 - December 29, 2014) was an Estonian geographer, entrepreneur, and politician. He was active in the Estonian People's Front. He was the first post-Soviet mayor of Tallinn, from 1990 to 1992.

Aasmäe died in Tallinn, Estonia, aged 63.

[[Antonio Brack Egg]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2014 deaths, Peruvian politicians, Civil servants

Antonio José Brack Egg (3 June 1940 – 30 December 2014), was a Peruvian agronomist engineer, an ecologist, and researcher. He was the first Peruvian Minister of the Environment. 

Egg died after a brief hospitalization in Lima, Peru, aged 74.

[[P. J. Byrne]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, DePaul University alumni, American movie actors, American television actors, American video game actors, American voice actors, Actors from New Jersey

Paul Jeffrey "P. J." Byrne (born December 15, 1974) is an American actor. He is known for his roles in movies, such as Horrible Bosses, Final Destination 5, The Campaign, The Wolf of Wall Street and Rampage.  He is known for the television roles, such as his role in The Game and Intelligence.

[[Cyd Charisse]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2008 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American dancers, Actors from Texas, People from Amarillo, Texas

Cyd Charisse (March 8, 1922 – June 17, 2008) was an American actress and dancer. She was known for her roles in Singin' in the Rain (1952), The Band Wagon (1953) and Silk Stockings (1957). Charisse was born in Amarillo, Texas. She was married to Tony Martin.

Charisse died in Los Angeles, California from a heart attack. aged 86.

[[Windows 10]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft operating systems

Windows 10 is a computer operating system by Microsoft as part of its Microsoft Windows family of operating systems. It was known as Threshold when it was being developed and announced at a press event on 30 September 2014. It came out for PCs on 29 July 2015. Beginning on that day, Windows 10 was available as a free upgrade for users running Windows 7 and Windows 8.1 for one year. 

Windows 10 is designed to provide a common, "universal" user interface for various systems. These include desktop, laptop, and all-in-one PCs, tablet computers, smartphones, and embedded systems such as the Xbox game console. This allows Microsoft to integrate each type of platform with greater ease.

Unlike earlier versions of Windows, Windows 10 is regularly updated with new features based on user feedback, including before it was first released.  Microsoft releases updates every half a year, an example of the software as a service principle.  Each release has a four-digit build number (a type of version number), the first two digits referring to the year of release, and the other two digits referring to the month of release (e.g. "1903" refers to a build released in March 2019).

[[Multinational corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Business, Law, Taxation

Multinational corporations (MNC) or multinational enterprises (MNE) are organizations which own or control production of goods or services in countries other than the home country. They include large corporations which produce or sell goods or services in various countries. They may be referred as 'international' or 'transnational'  or 'stateless' corporations.

MNCs play an important role in globalization. Arguably, the first multinational business organization was the "Knights Templar" , founded in 1120.  After that came the British East India Company in 1600 and the Dutch East India Company which started in1602 and would become the largest company in the world for nearly 200 years. These were made by national legislation to conduct international trade for their home countries.

The behavior of MNCs is much discussed.

[[William Tyndale]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 1480s births, 1536 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Bible translators, Christian theologians, Deaths by strangulation, English Protestants, English priests, English Roman Catholics, English theologians, Executed English people, Former Roman Catholics, People from Gloucestershire, Protestant Reformers, Roman Catholic priests

William Tyndale (c. 1484–1536) was an English scholar. He is well known for his translation of the Bible into English, and for his later prosecution and execution.

He was influenced by the work of Erasmus, who made the Greek New Testament available in Europe, and by Martin Luther. The spread of the Wycliffe Bible led to strong measures to keep translations in the hands of the Catholic Church. There was a death sentence for any unlicensed possession of scripture in English—even though translations in all other major European languages were accepted.

Tyndale's translation was the first English Bible to draw directly from Hebrew and Greek texts, and the first English one to take advantage of the printing press. It was seen as a direct challenge to the Roman Catholic Church. In 1530, Tyndale also wrote The Practyse of Prelates, opposing Henry VIII's divorce on the grounds that it contravened Scripture.

A copy of Tyndale's earlier The Obedience of a Christian Man fell into the hands of Henry VIII. There, the king found the reasons he used to break the Church in England from the Roman Catholic Church in 1534. Meanwhile, the agents of Chancellor Thomas More were searching in Europe for Tyndale, who had taken refuge where he hoped the Church could not get at him.

Eventually, in 1535, Tyndale was arrested and jailed  outside Brussels for over a year. More himself was executed on 6 July 1535. In 1536 Tyndale was convicted of heresy and executed by garrotting, and his body was burnt at the stake. Two years later Henry VIII authorized the so-called  Great Bible for the Church of England. It was largely Tyndale's own work. Hence, the Tyndale Bible, as it was known, played a key role in spreading Reformation ideas.

In 1611, the 54 scholars who produced the King James Version drew significantly from Tyndale, as well as translations that descended from his. One estimate suggests the New Testament in the King James Version is 83% Tyndale's and the Old Testament 76%. In 2002, Tyndale was placed at number 26 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons.

[[Allier (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté, Centre-Val de Loire, Occitanie, Rivers of France

The Allier (Alèir) is a river in central France, left tributary of the Loire River. It flows through several regions.

The Allier department is named after this river. In Ancient Rome, the river was named Elaver.

[[Blockade runner]]

CATEGORIES: Ship types

A blockade runner is usually a lighter-weight ship used for slipping past a naval blockade of a port or strait. This is not the same as ships used to challenge the blocking ships to break the blockade. Very often blockade running is done in order to bring food or arms to a blockaded city. In other cases the blockade runners would carry mail in an attempt to communicate with the outside world. Carrying trade goods from blockaded ports is another function.

[[The Iceman (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 crime movies, 2013 drama movies, 2013 thriller movies, 2010s crime drama movies, 2010s crime thriller movies, 2010s drama thriller movies, 2010s serial killer movies, American crime drama movies, American crime thriller movies, American drama thriller movies, American serial killer movies, Antisocial personality disorder in fiction, English-language movies, Movies set in New Jersey, Movies set in New York, Movies set in the 1960s, Movies set in the 1970s, American independent movies

The Iceman is a 2013 American crime drama thriller movie directed by Ariel Vernon. It is about the killing spree of contract killer Richard Kuklinski and mob boss Roy DeMeo.

It stars Michael Shannon, Winona Ryder, Ray Liotta, Chris Evans, James Franco, and David Schwimmer. It is set during the 1960s and 1970s in New York City and New Jersey.

It was released to mostly positive reviews on a limited release on May 3, 2013.

[[Per-Ingvar Brånemark]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, Swedish scientists

Per-Ingvar Brånemark (May 3, 1929 – December 20, 2014) was a Swedish orthopedic surgeon and research professor. He was called the "father of modern dental implantology". The Brånemark Osseointegration Center (BOC), named after its founder, was founded in 1989 in Gothenburg, Sweden.

Brånemark died at the age of 85 in Gothenburg.

[[Herbert Harris]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2014 deaths, United States representatives from Virginia, US Democratic Party politicians, Politicians from Kansas City, Missouri

Herbert Eugene Harris, II (April 14, 1926 – December 24, 2014) was an American politician. He was a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives from Virginia. His district included part of Fairfax County. He served as a representative from 1975 through 1981.

Harris died on December 24, 2014 at his house on Fairfax County, Virginia, aged 88.

[[Merrill Womach]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2014 deaths, Singers from Washington, People from Spokane, Washington

Merrill Womach (February 7, 1927 – December 28, 2014) was an American undertaker, organist and gospel singer. He was known for founding National Music Service (now Global Distribution Network, Inc.), which provided recorded music to funeral homes across America, and for surviving a plane crash in Beaver Marsh, Oregon. It left him disfigured with third degree burns on his hands and his entire head.

Womach died in his sleep on December 28, 2014 in his birthplace Spokane, Washington.

[[Marian Jurczyk]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2014 deaths, Mayors, Polish politicians, Trade unionists

Marian Jurczyk (16 October 1935 - 30 December 2014) was a Polish politician and Solidarity trade union activist. He served as Mayor of Szczecin from 1998 through 2000 and from 2002 through 2006. He was born in Karczewice, Second Polish Republic.

Jurczyk died in Szczecin, Poland, aged 79.

[[Walter Roque]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2014 deaths, Uruguayan footballers, Uruguayan football managers, Venezuelan people, Sportspeople from Montevideo

Walter "''Cata''" Roque (8 May 1937 – 30 December 2014) was a Uruguayan-born Venezuelan footballer and entertainer. He played for the Uruguay national team. During his later career he coached the Venezuela national team. Roque was born in Montevideo, Uruguay.

Roque died in Caracas, Venezuela, aged 77.

[[Arthur Valerian Wellesley, 8th Duke of Wellington]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2014 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British Army people, British people of World War II, People educated at Eton College, People from Rome

Brigadier Arthur Valerian Wellesley, 8th Duke of Wellington (2 July 1915 – 31 December 2014), styled Marquess of Douro between 1943 and 1972, was a senior British peer and a brigadier in the British Army. His main residence was Stratfield Saye House in Hampshire.

He was educated at Eton College and New College, Oxford.

He was a member of the House of Lords from 1972 until 1999, losing his seat by the House of Lords Act.

The 8th Duke died at the age of 99 at his home in Stratfield Saye House, Hampshire, England.

[[Franc Veliu]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Albanian footballers

Franc Veliu (born 11 November 1988) is a Albanian football player. He plays for Flamurtari Vlorë in Albanian Superliga and for Albania national team. Veliu is defender.

[[Edward Herrmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Michigan, Actors from Washington, D.C., American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television directors, American voice actors, Cancer deaths in New York City, Deaths from brain cancer, Emmy Award winning actors, People from Grosse Pointe, Michigan, Screenwriters from Michigan, Tony Award winning actors

Edward Kirk Herrmann (July 21, 1943 – December 31, 2014) was an American actor of movies and television, television director, narrator, and screenwriter. He won a Tony Award in 1976 and an Emmy Award in 1999.

Herrman was born in Washington, D.C.. He was raised in Grosse Pointe, Michigan. He studied at Bucknell University and at the  London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art.

His career began in 1971. He was known for playing Franklin D. Roosevelt on several movies and television shows. He played President Roosevelt in Annie. He was also known for his role as Richard Gilmore on the television series Gilmore Girls. 

He also narrated several shows on PBS, Nova, and the History Channel. His last role before his death in 2014, was as a narrator for a television commercial in 2013 Martin Scorsese's The Wolf of Wall Street. 

Hermann died on December 31, 2014 of brain cancer, at the age of 71 in New York City.

[[Menachem Begin]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1992 deaths, Belarusian Jews, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Israel, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, Israeli former political leaders, Israeli nationalists, Israeli Nobel Prize winners, Israeli opposition leaders, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish military people, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Likud politicians, Military personnel of World War II, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Brest, Belarus, Polish Jews, Polish military people, Prime Ministers of Israel, Zionists

Menachem Begin (16 August 1913 – 9 March 1992) was an Israeli politician. Originally a Zionist activist in Eastern Europe, he later became Prime Minister of Israel. 

In 1941 he joined the Free Polish army. This is how he arrived in Mandatory Palestine in 1942.

In 1942, Begin joined the Irgun, a Zionist-Jewish paramilitary organisation, which was labelled as a terrorist organization in the 1940s. From 1943 to 1948 he was commander of the Irgun.

He was the founder of the Israeli political party Likud. He was the sixth Prime Minister of Israel.

Begin’s most significant acts as Prime Minister include officially declaring Jerusalem the capital of Israel, imposing Israeli law on the Golan Heights destroying Saddam Hussein's nuclear reactor in Iraq controversially leading Israel through the early stages of the 1982 Lebanon War and most famously signing the Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty. For that treaty, Begin and Anwar Sadat shared the Nobel Peace Prize.

Begin resigned as Prime Minister in October 1983. He died on 9 March 1992 after a heart attack. He was buried on the Mount of Olives.

[[Bill Woodson]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American radio actors, American voice actors, Actors from Glendale, California

William T. Woodson (born July 16, 1917) is a retired American voice actor. He was best known for his narration of the radio series This is Your FBI and the animated series Super Friends and all its spin-offs.

[[Bill Maynard]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2018 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, English movie actors, English television actors, English comedians, Actors from Surrey

Walter Frederick George Williams (8 October 1928 – 30 March 2018), better known by the stage name Bill Maynard, was an English comedian and actor. He was born in Heath End, Surrey, England. He was known for his role as Claude Jeremiah Greengrass in the television series Heartbeat.

Maynard died at a Leicestershire hospital of complications from a fall on 30 March 2018 at the age of 89.

[[Eddie Large]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom, English television personalities, Entertainers from Glasgow, Entertainers from Manchester, Organ transplant recipients

Eddie Large (25 June 1941 – 2 April 2020) was the stage name of Edward Hugh McGinnis, a British comedian. He was best known as a part of the double act Little and Large, with Syd Little. They starred in the very popular British comedy series The Little and Large Show.

==Early life==  

Large was born Edward Hugh McGinnis in Glasgow in 1941. His father Teddy served as a Petty Officer in the Royal Navy during World War II and after he returned from the war the family moved to a tenement in Oatlands. When he was nine years old the family moved again to Manchester, where he attended Claremont Road Primary School and a grammar school.

[[Cliff Michelmore]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2016 deaths, BBC television presenters, English television presenters, English television producers, People from the Isle of Wight

Arthur Clifford "Cliff" Michelmore (11 December 1919 – 16 March 2016) was an English television presenter and producer. He was best known for the BBC television programme Tonight, which he presented from 1957 to 1965.

Michelmore died on 16 March 2016 in a hospital in Hampshire, England at the age of 96.

[[Martin Crowe]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2016 deaths, New Zealand cricketers, Deaths from lymphoma, Sports commentators, Sportspeople from Auckland

Martin David Crowe (22 September 1962 – 3 March 2016) was a New Zealand cricketer, commentator and author. He was a Wisden Cricketer of the Year in 1985, and was thought as one of the "best young batsmen in the world". A right-handed batsman, Crowe represented New Zealand from the early 1980s until his retirement in 1996. His cousin is actor Russell Crowe.

In 2012, Crowe announced that he is suffering from lymphoma. In 2013, he said that the cancer has disappeared. In 2014 however, Crowe announced that the lymphoma had returned and said that his chances of survival beyond a year were less than 5% and also of his wish to see the 2015 Cricket World Cup in February and March 2015.

Crowe died from complications of lymphoma in Auckland, New Zealand on 3 March 2016 at the age of 53.

[[Ken Kercheval]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Indiana, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from Indiana

Ken Kercheval (July 15, 1935 – April 21, 2019) was an American actor. He was best known for his role as Cliff Barnes on the 1980s television series Dallas and its 2012 revival.

Kercheval died of pneumonia in Clinton, Indiana on April 21, 2019 at the age of 83.

[[Fritz Albert Lipmann]]

CATEGORIES: German Nobel Prize winners

[[André Frédéric Cournand]]

CATEGORIES: French Nobel Prize winners

[[Erwin Neher]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, German Nobel Prize winners, German scientists, Physiologists

Physiology or MedicineErwin Neher (ˈ; ˈneːɐ; born 20 March 1944) is a German biophysicist. His works focused on cell physiology. In 1991, with Bert Sakmann, he won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for "their discoveries concerning the function of single ion channels in cells".

[[André Michel Lwoff]]

CATEGORIES: French Nobel Prize winners

[[Bert Sakmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, German scientists, Physiologists, German Nobel Prize winners, People from Stuttgart

Physiology or MedicineBert Sakmann (born 12 June 1942) is a German cell physiologist.  He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Erwin Neher in 1991 for their work on "the function of single ion channels in cells," and the invention of the patch clamp. 

Sakmann was Professor at Heidelberg University and is an Emeritus Scientific Member of the Max Planck Institute for Medical Research in Heidelberg, Germany. He has also worked with research group at the Max Planck Institute of Neurobiology.

Sakmann was born in Stuttgart.

[[Edmond H. Fischer]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2021 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Swiss scientists, American biochemists, People from Shanghai, American centenarians

Edmond Henri Fischer (April 6, 1920 – August 27, 2021) was a Swiss-born American biochemist. He and his partner Edwin G. Krebs were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1992 for their works on phosphorylation works as a switch to activate proteins and regulate various cellular processes.  From 2007 until 2014, he was the Honorary President of the World Cultural Council.

Fischer died on August 27, 2021 in Seattle, Washington at the age of 101.

[[Peter Mansfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, British academics, English physicists, Scientists from London

Physiology or MedicineSir Peter Mansfield FRS, (9 October 1933 – 8 February 2017) was an English physicist. He was awarded the 2003 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. He shared with Paul Lauterbur. He was known for his discoveries concerning Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). Mansfield was a professor at the University of Nottingham.

[[Thomas C. Südhof]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, German biochemists, American biochemists

Thomas Christian Südhof (born December 22, 1955),ForMemRS, is a German-American biochemist. He is known for his study of synaptic transmission.

Südhof, James Rothman and Randy Schekman won the 2013 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their work on vesicle trafficking.

[[John O'Keefe]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Fellows of the Royal Society, people from New York

John O'Keefe, FRS FMedSci (born November 18, 1939) is an American-British neuroscientist. He is a professor at the Sainsbury Wellcome Centre for Neural Circuits and Behaviour and the Research Department of Cell and Developmental Biology at University College London. He is one of the most notable alumni of City College of New York. 

[[Wilfrid Laurier]]

CATEGORIES: 1821 births, 1893 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Politicians from Ontario, Privy Councillors (Canada), Leaders of the Opposition (Canada), Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Quebec, Canadian Queen's Counsel

Sir Henri Charles Wilfrid Laurier CAN (20 November 1841 – 17 February 1919), known as Wilfrid Laurier (wilfʁid loʁje; lang), was the seventh Prime Minister of Canada from 11 July 1896 to 6 October 1911.

[[Robert Borden]]

CATEGORIES: 1854 births, 1937 deaths, Canadian lawyers, People from Nova Scotia, Privy Councillors (Canada), Leaders of the Opposition (Canada), Canadian Queen's Counsel, Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Ontario

Sir Robert Laird Borden CAN (June 26, 1854 – June 10, 1937) was a Canadian lawyer and politician. He served as the eighth Prime Minister of Canada from October 10, 1911, to July 10, 1920. He was the third Nova Scotian to hold this office.

After retiring from public life, he served as the chancellor of Queen's University. His portrait appears on Canadian $100 bills produced since 1976.

[[Arthur Meighen]]

CATEGORIES: 1874 births, 1960 deaths, Prime Ministers of Canada, Privy Councillors (Canada), Leaders of the Opposition (Canada), Canadian Queen's Counsel

Arthur Meighen CAN (ˈ; 16 June 1874 – 5 August 1960) was a Canadian lawyer and politician who served as the ninth prime minister of Canada, in office from July 1920 to December 1921 and again from June to September 1926. 

[[William Lyon Mackenzie King]]

CATEGORIES: 1874 births, 1950 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Ontario, Prime Ministers of Canada, Privy Councillors (Canada), Leaders of the Opposition (Canada)

William Lyon Mackenzie King, PC, OM, CMG (December 17, 1874 – July 22, 1950), also commonly known as Mackenzie King, was the dominant Canadian political leader from the 1920s through the 1940s.

He served as the tenth Prime Minister of Canada from December 29, 1921 to June 28, 1926; from September 25, 1926 to August 7, 1930; and from October 23, 1935 to November 15, 1948. A Liberal with 22 years in office, he was the longest-serving Prime Minister in Canadian history.

King died on July 22, 1950, at Kingsmere from pneumonia, aged 75. He is buried in Mount Pleasant Cemetery, Toronto.

[[R. B. Bennett]]

CATEGORIES: 1870 births, 1947 deaths, Knights of Grace of the Order of St John, Prime Ministers of Canada, Privy Councillors (Canada), Leaders of the Opposition (Canada), Canadian Queen's Counsel

Richard Bedford Bennett, 1st Viscount Bennett, CAN (3 July 1870 – 26 June 1947), was a Canadian lawyer, businessman, and politician. He was the 11th prime minister of Canada from 1930 to 1935.

[[Louis St. Laurent]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1973 deaths, Privy Councillors (Canada), Politicians from Quebec, Leaders of the Opposition (Canada), Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Quebec, Canadian Queen's Counsel

Louis Stephen St. Laurent CAN (Saint-Laurent or St-Laurent in French, baptized Louis-Étienne St-Laurent; 1 February 1882 – 25 July 1973) was the 12th prime minister of Canada, from 15 November 1948 to 21 June 1957. 

[[John Diefenbaker]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Canada, 1895 births, 1979 deaths, Privy Councillors (Canada), Leaders of the Opposition (Canada), Canadian Queen's Counsel

John George Diefenbaker CAN GBR (September 18, 1895 – August 16, 1979) was the 13th Prime Minister of Canada from June 21, 1957 to April 22, 1963.

Diefenbaker was known for his passing laws meant to reduce racial discrimination.

[[Pope Adrian VI]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch Roman Catholics

[[Pope Boniface VI]]

CATEGORIES: Italian popes, 806 births, 896 deaths, Popes

Pope Boniface VI (Bonifatius VI; 806 – April 896) was the bishop of Rome. He was Pope of the Papal States in April 896. He was from Rome. 

His election came about as a result of riots soon after the death of Pope Formosus. After a pontificate of fifteen days, he is said by some to have died of the gout.

John IX, in 898, said that his election was null and void.

[[Pope Clement VI]]

CATEGORIES: French popes, 1291 births, 1552 deaths, Popes

Pope Clement VI (Clemens VI; 1291 – 6 December 1352), born Pierre Roger, was Pope of the Catholic Church from 7 May 1342 to his death in 1352. He was the fourth Avignon pope. 

Clement reigned during the Black Death (1348–1350), during which he said all who died of the plague would not go to hell.

[[Pope Formosus]]

CATEGORIES: Italian popes, 816 births, 896 deaths, Popes

Pope Formosus (816snd896) was Pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 6 October 891 to his death. His reign as pope was troubled, marked by power struggles over the Patriarchate of Constantinople, the Kingdom of West Francia, and the Holy Roman Empire.

[[Pope Stephen VI]]

CATEGORIES: Italian popes, Deaths by strangulation, 897 deaths, Popes

Pope Stephen VI (Stephanus VI; died August 897) was the bishop of Rome. He was Pope of the Papal States from 22 May 896 to his death. He is best known for fighting the Cadaver Synod, which ultimately led to his downfall and death.

Stephen VI was strangled to death by protesters.

[[Omar Karami]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2015 deaths, Lebanese Muslims, Prime Ministers of Lebanon

Omar Abdul Hamid Karami (عمر عبد الحميد كرامي‎; 7 September 1934 – 1 January 2015) was a Lebanese politician. He served as the Prime Minister of Lebanon twice: from 24 December 1990 to 13 May 1992 and from 26 October 2004 to 19 April 2005.

Karami was born in An Nouri, near Tripoli, French Mandate of Lebanon to a Muslim family. He studied at Cairo University in Cairo, Egypt. His son, Faisal, also became a politician.

Karami died after a long illness on 1 January 2015 in Beirut, aged 80.

[[Megan Connolly]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2001 deaths, Actors from New South Wales, Australian movie actors, Australian stage actors, Australian television actors, Drug-related accidental deaths

Megan Jennifer Connolly (9 April 1974 – 6 September 2001) was an Australian actress. She was best known for her role as Rebecca Nash, replacing Belinda Emmett, in the television series Home and Away. She also appeared in other television productions such as Paradise Beach. In 1990, she starred in the movie The Crossing with Russell Crowe. She later became a television announcer.

Connolly was born in New South Wales and was of Irish ancestry.

Connolly died from a heroin overdose on 6 September 2001, aged 27.

[[Stitching awl]]

CATEGORIES: Tools

A stitching awl is a simple tool to punch holes in leather or other material. It can also be used to make holes larger. 

The awl is used for sewing leather or canvas. It has a thin, tapered metal shaft, coming to a sharp point, either straight or slightly bent. These shafts usually have an eye piercing at the pointed end. This helps to draw thread through holes for lock stitch sewing by hand. They are also called sewing awls.

[[Zbečník]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Zbečník is a village in north-eastern Bohemia, Czech Republic. It is approximately 5 from the border with Poland. It is 3 long and is part of the town of Hronov. The oldest known written evidence of Zbečník dates to the 15th century. It mentions a fortress of Quicken on a hill above Zbečník.

[[Élisabeth of France (1764–1794)]]

CATEGORIES: 1764 births, 1794 deaths, House of Bourbon, People from Versailles

Princess Élisabeth of France, "Granddaughter of France" (Élisabeth Philippine Marie Hélène de France (3 May 1764 – 10 May 1794), known as Madame Élisabeth, was a French princess. She was the youngest sibling of King Louis XVI. During the French Revolution, she stayed with the king and his family. She was executed at Place de la Révolution in Paris during the "Reign of Terror" in the French Revolution. She is regarded by the Roman Catholic Church as a martyr and is venerated as a Servant of God. 

[[Phoenician language]]

CATEGORIES: Language

Phoenician was a language originally spoken in the coastal Mediterranean region then called "Canaan" in Phoenician, Arabic, Greek, and Aramaic. It was called "Phoenicia" in Greek and Latin. The ancient Egyptians called it "Pūt". Phoenician is a Semitic language of the Canaanite subgroup. It is related to the Hebrew language but was more developed. Phoenician is divided into three groups. Archaic Phoenician dates from the 10th to the 7th century BC. Middle Phoenician dates from 6th to the 4th century BC. Late Phoenician was dated from the 3rd to the 1st century BC. The purple cloth produced by the Phoenicians gave the ancient Greeks their name for the color; Phoenicia.

The area where Phoenician was spoken includes modern-day Lebanon, coastal Syria, Palestine, northern Israel and parts of Cyprus. In some adjacent areas of Anatolia it was spoken as a prestige language. It was also spoken in the area of Phoenician colonization along the coasts of the Southwestern Mediterranean. These include the area of modern Tunisia, Morocco and Algeria. Also in Malta, the west of Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica and southernmost Spain. The Phoenicians were the first state-level society to make extensive use of the alphabet. The Phoenician alphabet is the oldest verified consonantal alphabet, or ''abjad.

[[Super Sentai]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 television series debuts

Super Sentai  is a Japanese tokusatsu media franchise that has been on the air since 1975. The franchise has had subsequent versions over the years. The seasons are adapted for an American franchise called Mighty Morphin Power Rangers. The current Sentai, Kikai Sentai Zenkaiger, debuted in March 7, 2021. The seasons air on the TV-Asahi television network.

[[Jos Wienen]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Aldermen of the Netherlands, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch councillors, Dutch mayors, Politicians from South Holland

Jos Wienen (born October 3, 1960 in Ridderkerk)  is a Dutch politician. He is mayor of Haarlem.

Wienen studied history and theology at Utrecht University. In 1986 he became a councilor for the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) in the town of Ridderkerk. In 1993 he became also an alderman. His job included the planning of space, housing, traffic and transportation affairs. Wienen was also vice-president of the city region Rotterdam.

In 2001, Wienen became mayor of Katwijk. In 2006, Katwijk merged with the towns of Rijnsburg and Valkenburg. He was also a member of the executive committee of the region Holland Rijnland, which includes Katwijk.

Since September 2016 Wienen has been mayor of Haarlem.

[[Jeff Golub]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from progressive supranuclear palsy, American guitarists, American jazz musicians, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Musicians from Akron, Ohio

Jeff Golub (April 15, 1955 – January 1, 2015) was an American jazz guitarist. He released fifteen albums between 1988 and 2013. He also worked with Rod Stewart and Billy Squier.

Golub was born in Copley, Ohio and raised in Akron. In June 2011, he became blind from optic nerve issues. In September 2012, he fell onto a train track in New York but was treated for his injuries.

Golub died from progressive supranuclear palsy on January 1, 2015, aged 59.

[[Boris Morukov]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2015 deaths, Cosmonauts, Disease-related deaths in Russia, NASA, People from Moscow, Russian physicians

Boris Vladimirovich Morukov (Борис Владимирович Моруков; 1 October 1950 – 1 January 2015) was a Russian physician and cosmonaut. He was best known for flying aboard NASA Space Shuttle mission STS-106 as a mission specialist. He also trained with the Russian Federal Space Agency as a research-cosmonaut.

Morukov was born in Moscow. In 1973, he got his M.D. from the Russian State Medical University. He was married to Nina and had two children: a son, Ivan, and a daughter, Olga.

Morukov died on 1 January 2015, aged 64.

[[1270s]]

CATEGORIES: 1270s

The 1270s is a decade. It started on 1 January 1270 and ended on 31 December 1279.

[[Eric Cunningham]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2015 deaths, Canadian businesspeople, People from Hamilton, Politicians from Ontario

Eric Gordon Cunningham (April 14, 1949 – January 1, 2015) was a Canadian politician. He was a Liberal Ontario MPP for the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1975 until 1984.

Cunningham was born in Hamilton, Ontario. Aside from politics, he was an advertising executive.

Cunningham died in his sleep on January 1, 2015 in Huntsville, Ontario, aged 65.

[[Mrunalini Devi Puar]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Academics, Disease-related deaths in India, Indian educators

Mrunalini Devi Puar (25 June 1931 – 1 January 2015) was an Indian educator and dietitian. She was an educator at the Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda before becoming the chancellor of the university after the death of her brother in 1988. She stayed chancellor until her death.

Puar was born in Gujarat. She was a member of the Gaekwad dynasty, the former ruling clan of Baroda State.

Puar died after a short illness on 1 January 2015, aged 83.

[[Edenryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Edenryd is a village in Bromölla Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden.

Swedish female singer Sanna Nielsen comes from Edenryd.

[[Education in Turkey]]

CATEGORIES: Education by country, Turkey

Education in Turkey is based on a national system which was established in accordance with the Atatürk's Reforms after the Turkish War of Independence. Compulsory education lasts 12 years. 

[[Branford, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Connecticut, 1640s establishments in Connecticut

Branford is a coastal town in southern Connecticut. The town is just east of New Haven. More than 28,000 people were living in Branford at the 2010 census.

[[Kartal, Istanbul]]

CATEGORIES: Districts in Istanbul

Kartal is a district of Istanbul, Turkey. It is located on the Asian side of the city. It is on the coast of the Marmara Sea between Maltepe and Pendik. Its total area is 38.54. It has a population of nearly 500,0000 people.

Kartal behind the coast the land rises sharply up to Yakacık Hill ("the balcony of Istanbul") and Aydos, on these hills the land is fertile. Kartal has a mild climate.

[[Bob Packwood]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, American lobbyists, Politicians from Portland, Oregon, United States senators from Oregon, US Republican Party politicians

Robert William "Bob" Packwood (born September 11, 1932) is an American politician. He was a United States Senator from the state of Oregon from 1969 to 1995. Although a member of the conservative Republican Party, Packwood was a moderate. He voted differently from other members of his party many times.

In 1995, Packwood resigned from the Senate after a sex scandal. He stayed involved in politics as a lobbyist and a political consultant. He lives in a suburb of Portland, with his second wife Elaine. She used to be his chief of staff.

[[The Grey Fox]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 drama movies, 1980s biographical movies, 1980s western movies, Canadian drama movies, English-language movies, Movies based on real life events

The Grey Fox is a 1982 Canadian biographical-western movie. It was directed by Phillip Borsos and was produced by Peter O'Brian. The Grey Fox was released on December 16, 1982 in Canada and on March 18, 1983 in the United States. The movie is based on the true story of Bill Miner, a stagecoach robber who staged Canada's first train robbery on September 10, 1904.

The movie gained positive reviews from critics and holds a 100% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Movie critic Roger Ebert rated the movie 3½ stars and said that it was "a lovely adventure". Farnsworth was nominated for a Golden Globe Award in the category of "Best Actor in a Motion Picture Drama" at the 41st Golden Globe Awards. The movie was also nominated for Best Foreign Film. It won many other awards.

[[Lam Po-chuen]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2015 deaths, Buddhists, Deaths from diabetes, Actors from Hong Kong, Movie actors, Television actors, Voice actors

Lam Po-chuen (林保全, 10 October 1951 – 2 January 2015) was a Hong Kong voice actor. His career began in 1971. He was known for voicing Doraemon for over twenty years and dubbing many blockbuster movies into Cantonese.

Lam was born in Portuguese Macau. He was a Buddhist.

Lam died at the age of 63 from diabetes problems at his home in Hong Kong.

[[Miller Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, American poets, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Arkansas, Writers from Arkansas

Miller Williams (April 8, 1930 – January 1, 2015) was an American contemporary poet, as well as a translator and editor. He wrote over 25 books and won several awards for his poetry. He was perhaps best known for reading a poem at President Clinton's 1997 inauguration. One of his best-known poems was "The Shrinking Lonesome Sestina."

Williams suffered from spina bifida. He died in Fayetteville, Arkansas from Alzheimer's disease, aged 84.

[[Field of study]]

CATEGORIES: Knowledge, Training, Education

A field of study (also called a discipline) is a general topic of knowledge, learning, or research. In schools they are often called "subjects". Some examples include mathematics, biology, and classical studies. Disciplines require training and qualification. Qualified people are able to use the methods of a discipline, and have knowledge of that discipline. Thus, for example, a chemist knows chemistry, and can carry out chemical analysis in a standard chemical laboratory. The discipline of palaeography, the study of ancient writing, covers knowledge of older forms of writing, and how to study, decipher and translate examples of early writing.

[[Donna Douglas]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Louisiana, American Christians, American country musicians, American movie actors, American television actors, Beauty pageant winners, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Disease-related deaths in Louisiana, Singers from Louisiana

Donna Douglas (born Doris Ione Smith; September 26, 1932 – January 1, 2015) was an American actress. She was best known for her role as Elly May Clampett in the CBS television series The Beverly Hillbillies from 1962 to 1971. She also appeared in the series The Twilight Zone and the movie Frankie and Johnny (1966), alongside Elvis Presley.

Douglas was born in Pride, Louisiana. She had a son, Danny P. Bourgeois (born September 14, 1954). She was married twice, both ending in divorce.

Douglas died from pancreatic cancer on January 1, 2015 in Zachary, Louisiana, aged 82.

[[Bethany Mota]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American fashion designers, 1990s births

Bethany Noel Mota (born November 7, 1995) is an American video blogger from Los Banos, California. She was a shy person, lived her childhood with cyber bullying. Starting with her YouTube channel of as "MacBarbie07" created in 2009, she rose to fame for her haul videos, in which she shows her fashion purchases via the internet. She changed her channel name to "Bethany Mota" as she grew more and more well known. She uploads videos of outfit ideas, makeup and hair tutorials, recipes, and do it yourself ideas. She has since expanded into her own fashion line at Aéropostale. She recently went on a tour, which she calls her "Motavatour" to meet and interact with fans. She is now (8/23/2016) is in a Camp to meet and interact with her fans, with a Youtuber named Tyler Oakley.

[[Little Jimmy Dickens]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2015 deaths, American country singers, American country guitarists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Tennessee, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Musicians from West Virginia, Singers from West Virginia

James Cecil Dickens (December 19, 1920 – January 2, 2015), better known as Little Jimmy Dickens, was an American country music singer. He was famous for his humorous novelty songs, his small size, 4'11" (150 cm), and his rhinestone-studded outfits. 

He started as a member of the Grand Ole Opry in 1948 and became a member of the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1983. 

Dickens was hospitalized after a stroke on December 25, 2014. He died of cardiac arrest on January 2, 2015, at the age of 94.

[[Arthur A. Neu]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, Lieutenant Governors of Iowa, US Republican Party politicians

Arthur Alan Neu (February 9, 1933 – January 2, 2015) was an American Republican politician and lawyer. He served as the 40th Lieutenant Governor of Iowa from 1973 to 1979.

Neu died at a hospital in Des Moines, Iowa at the age of 81 on January 2, 2015.

[[Roger Jepsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, People from Cedar Falls, Iowa, Lieutenant Governors of Iowa, United States senators from Iowa, US Republican Party politicians

Roger William Jepsen (December 23, 1928 – November 13, 2020) was an American politician from the state of Iowa. A Republican, he served in the United States Senate and as Lieutenant Governor of Iowa. He was born in Cedar Falls, Iowa.

Jepsen died on November 13, 2020 in Davenport, Iowa at the age of 91.

[[Tom Wolf]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Governors of Pennsylvania, People with cancer, US Democratic Party politicians

Thomas Westerman "Tom" Wolf (born November 17, 1948) is an American businessman and politician. He became Governor of Pennsylvania on January 20, 2015.  He defeated Republican incumbent Tom Corbett in the 2014 election for governor.

Wolf is a Democrat. Before being governor, he was the secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue from April 2007 until November 2008.

On February 24, 2016, Wolf announced that he had been diagnosed with prostate cancer in its early stages.

[[Muriel Bowser]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, African American politicians, Mayors of Washington, D.C., US Democratic Party politicians, Women politicians

Muriel Elizabeth Bowser (born August 2, 1972) is an American politician and member of the Democratic Party. She is serving as the eighth Mayor of the District of Columbia. She succeeded Vincent C. Gray on January 2, 2014.

[[Bill Walker (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American Christians, American mayors, Governors of Alaska, Businesspeople from Alaska, Independent politicians in the United States, US Republican Party politicians, People from Fairbanks, Alaska

William Martin "Bill" Walker (born April 16, 1951) is an American attorney and politician. He was the 11th Governor of Alaska from December 1, 2014 to December 3, 2018.

Walker ran for re-election in 2018 but three days after the resignation of Lieutenant Governor Byron Mallott, and having low polling numbers, he dropped out of the race on October 19 and supported Democrat Mark Begich.

In August 2021, Walker announced his plans to run for governor again in the 2022 election.

[[David Ige]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Governors of Hawaii, US Democratic Party politicians

David Yutaka Ige (born January 15, 1957) is an American politician. He serves as the eighth and current Governor of Hawaii. A Democrat, he previously served in the Hawaii State Senate, representing the 16th district, from 1995–2014. 

[[Greg Abbott]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Governors of Texas, US Republican Party politicians

Gregory Wayne "Greg" Abbott (born November 13, 1957) is an American lawyer and politician. He is currently the Governor of Texas. He defeated Wendy Davis in the November 4, 2014 general election.  Prior to being governor, he was the 50th Attorney General of Texas. He is a Republican.

[[Power Rangers Wild Force]]

CATEGORIES: Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, ABC network shows, Superheroes, English-language television programs

Power Rangers Wild Force is the tenth season of the Power Rangers American television series. It aired from February to November 2002. The first half was aired on Fox Kids. After the Disney purchase Of Fox Family, the second half aired on ABC Kids. This was the last Power Rangers to be filmed in the US. Disney moved filming to New Zealand. It is based off the Super Sentai series, Hyakujuu Sentai Gaoranger. Ironically, Gaoranger celebrated 25 years of Sentai while Wild Force celebrated 10 years of Power Rangers. The show is best known for one of the best Power Rangers specials to date, "Forever Red".

[[Division of Hindmarsh]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, South Australia, 1903 establishments in Australia

The Division of Hindmarsh is an Australian Electoral Division in South Australia. It covers the western suburbs of Adelaide, including Adelaide Airport, Ascot Park, Brooklyn Park, Edwardstown, Fulham, Glenelg, Grange, Henley Beach, Kidman Park, Kurralta Park, Morphettville, Plympton, Richmond, Semaphore Park, Torrensville, West Beach and West Lakes.

It was set up in 1903 and is named after Sir John Hindmarsh, who was Governor of South Australia 1836-38.  

[[Division of Kingston]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, South Australia, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Kingston is an Australian Electoral Division in South Australia. It covers south part of the Adelaide metropolitan area. It includes the suburbs of Aldinga Beach, Christie Downs, Christies Beach, Hackham, Hallett Cove, Huntfield Heights, Lonsdale, Maslin Beach, Moana, Morphett Vale, Old Noarlunga, Onkaparinga Hills, Port Noarlunga, Reynella, Seaford, Sellicks Beach, Sheidow Park, Port Willunga, Trott Park, Woodcroft, and parts of Happy Valley and McLaren Flat.

It was set up in 1949 and is named after Charles Kingston, Premier of South Australia (1893–1899). He was elected to the first House of Representatives in 1901 and the first Federal member of the Division of Adelaide in 1903. 

[[Frans Molenaar]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2015 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Fashion designers, Dutch LGBT people, People from Amsterdam

Frans Molenaar (11 May 1940 – 9 January 2015) was a Dutch fashion designer.

He studied to become a tailor in Amsterdam from 1955–1958. After his studies he did an internship with Charles Montaigne in Paris from 1959–1960 and worked for Gerard Pipart at Nina Ricci also in Paris from 1961–1964.

In 1967 he started his own business "Frans Molenaar Couture" and he worked as an haute couture designer since. He created the fashion award Frans Molenaar prijs in 1995.

Molenaar died from complications following from a fall at the age of 74 in Amsterdam.

[[German Moreno]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Filipino actors, Comedians, Television presenters, Television producers, People from Manila

German Molina Moreno (4 October 1933 – 8 January 2016), also known as Kuya Germs or the Master Showman, was a Filipino television host, actor, comedian and talent manager. He was most popular during the 1980s. He was known for formerly hosting GMA Supershow.

Moreno was born in Santa Cruz, Manila, Philippines. He died in Quezon City, Philippines from cardiac arrest due to a stroke he had on 7 January 2016.

[[Abu Anas al-Libi]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2015 deaths, Al-Qaeda people, Disease-related deaths in New York, Deaths from surgical complications, Libyan people, People from Tripoli, People who died in prison custody

Nazih Abdul-Hamed Nabih al-Ruqai'i (أبو أنس الليبي‎; 30 March or 14 May 1964 – 2 January 2015), better known as Abu Anas al-Libi, was a Libyan al-Qaeda member held as a prisoner in the United States for terrorism offenses. He was wanted for his part in the 1998 United States embassy bombings in Nairobi, Kenya and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. He worked as a computer specialist for the terrorist group. He was captured by the U.S. on 5 October 2013 in Tripoli. Before this event, he was on the FBI's most wanted terrorists list. His trial in the U.S. was to begin on 12 January 2015.

Al-Libi was born in Tripoli. He was married and had four sons.

Al-Libi died from surgery problems on 2 January 2015 in a New York City hospital, aged 50. He had liver disease from hepatitis C as well as liver cancer at the time of his death.

[[Aydıncık, Mersin]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Turkey

Aydıncık is a district of Mersin Province on the Mediterranean coast of Turkey. It is 173 from Mersin and 325 from Antalya.

[[Ulrich Beck]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Germany, Deaths from myocardial infarction, German scientists, German sociologists

Ulrich Beck (15 May 1944 – 1 January 2015) was a German sociologist and educator. He made the term risk society out of globalization. And made studies on democratic and cosmopolitan society. He was also a professor of sociology at the University of Munich and at the London School of Economics.

Beck was born in the Pomeranian town of Stolp (now Słupsk in Poland). He got his Ph.D. in 1972. He was married to Elisabeth Beck-Gernsheim.

Beck died from a heart attack on 1 January 2015, aged 70.

[[Mini metro]]

Mini Metro or Minimetro may refer to:

[[Hyacinth macaw]]

CATEGORIES: True parrots

The hyacinth macaw (Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus), or hyacinthine macaw, is a parrot native to central and eastern South America.

It is longer than any other species of parrot, from the top of its head to the tip of its long pointed tail it is about 100 cm (3.3 ft). It is the largest macaw and the largest flying parrot species.

Habitat loss and trapping wild birds for the pet trade has taken a heavy toll on their population in the wild, and as a result the species is classified as endangered on the International Union for Conservation of Nature's Red List, and it is protected by its listing on Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES).

They eat nuts from native palms. They have large, powerful beaks that can crack nuts and seeds, while their dry, smooth tongues have a bone inside them that makes them effective for tapping into fruits. The acuri nut is so hard that the parrots cannot feed on it until it has passed through the digestive system of cattle. In addition, they eat fruits and other vegetable matter. Their diet includes fruits, nuts, nectar, and various kinds of seeds. They travel for ripe food over a vast area.

This beautiful bird is endangered. In the wild its eggs are eaten by various small mammals, by vultures, and by the toucan. The hyacinth depends on the toucan, which spreads the seeds of the Manduvi tree (Sterculia apetala) that the macaw needs for reproduction. The tree is just right for the macaw to make its nest, and there are few other places as good. The toucan disperses 83% of the tree's seeds, but also eats 53% of the macaw's eggs.

But by far, humans are the main cause of its problems. The illegal trade in fancy feathers, the pet trade and the destruction of habitat has greatly reduced its numbers.

[[The Three Little Pigs]]

CATEGORIES: Fairy tales

"The Three Little Pigs" is a fable/fairy tale featuring three pigs. They each build houses of different materials. A big bad wolf (the villain or bad guy) is able to blow down the first two pigs' houses. The first is made of straw, the second is made of wood. But he is unable to destroy the third pig's house. This is because it is made of bricks. The moral or lesson of the story is to plan ahead. Printed versions of the story date back to the 1840s. But the story may have borrowed parts from older stories. One is The Wolf and the Seven Young Kids (Der Wolf und die sieben jungen Geißlein). This is a German folktale collected as the fifth tale in Grimms' Fairy Tales in 1812. The phrases used in the story, and the various morals that can be drawn from it, have become a part of Western culture.

Walt Disney made an animated version of the story. It features the song, "Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?"

[[Ajdovščina]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Slovenia, 1994 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Slovenia

Ajdovščina (Aidussina, Haidenschaft) is a small Slovenian town that is the administrative centre of the Municipality of Ajdovščina (Občina Ajdovščina). It is an economic and cultural centre of the Vipava Valley (Vipavska dolina), southwestern Slovenia, near the border with Italy.

The municipality of Ajdovščina was established on 10 March 1994. Its administrative centre is the town of Ajdovščina.

[[Statistical regions of Slovenia]]

CATEGORIES: Statistical regions of Slovenia

The statistical regions of Slovenia (Statistične regije, singular: Statistična regija) are 12 administrative sub-divisions (NUTS 3 level) created in Slovenia on May 2005 for legal and statistical purposes.

In total there are 12 statistical regions in Slovenia. These 12 statistical regions are grouped in two groups (NUTS-2 level): Eastern Slovenia (Vzhodna Slovenija) and Western Slovenia (Zahodna Slovenija)

From 1 January 2015, the name of the Spodnjeposavska statistical region changes to Posavska and the name of Notranjsko-kraška to Primorsko-notranjska.

[[Heth]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Heth (also spelled Khet, Kheth, Chet, Cheth, or Het) is the eighth letter of the Hebrew and Arabic alphabets.

[[Teth]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Teth, (also Tet),  is the ninth  letter from Masha and the Bear and of the Hebrew alphabet.

[[Goriška Statistical Region]]

CATEGORIES: Establishments in Slovenia, 2005 establishments in Europe, Statistical regions of Slovenia

The Goriška Statistical Region or Gorizia Statistical Region (Goriška statistična regija) is a statistical region in western Slovenia, along the border with Italy.

The region was created in 2005 for statistical purposes only. The western Julian Alps, the Soča river and the fertile Vipava Valley are the most recognizable natural geographic characteristics of the region.

[[Bobby Moynihan]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, American television actors, American comedians

Robert Michael Moynihan Jr. (born January 31, 1977) is an American actor, voice actor, comedian and writer. He was on NBC's Saturday Night Live from 2008 to 2017. He also stars as Panda in the 2015 Cartoon Network series We Bare Bears. In August 2016, he married actress Brynn O'Malley. They had their first child in July 2017.

[[Ratchet & Clank (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 movies, American movies, American animated movies, American fantasy movies, Animated movies, Canadian movies, Canadian animated movies, Canadian family movies, English-language movies, Movies based on video games, Ratchet & Clank

Ratchet & Clank is a 3D computer-animated science fiction action comedy movie. It was directed by Jericca Cleland and Kevin Munroe. The movie is based on the platforming video game series of the same name. The movie was originally scheduled to be released in 2015. The movie was released on April 29, 2016.

The movie was produced at Rainmaker Entertainment's Vancouver studio in Canada. It was executive produced by Michael Hefferon, the President of Rainmaker Entertainment.

At the 2014 Electronic Entertainment Expo on June 9, 2014, the first trailer for the movie was revealed during Sony's press conference.

[[Municipalities of Slovenia]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Slovenia

Slovenia is divided into 212 municipalities (Občine, singular: Občina), of which 11 (in bold) are cities (cities municipalities).

Slovene is an official language of all the municipalities. Hungarian is a second official language of 3 municipalities in the Prekmurje region: Dobrovnik/Dobronak, Hodoš/Hodos and Lendava/Lendva. Italian is a second official language of 4 municipalities (of which one has urban status) in the Slovene Littoral region: Ankaran/Ancarano, Izola/Isola, Koper/Capodistria and Piran/Pirano.

The largest municipality in area is Kočevje with 555 and the smallest is Odranci with only 7. The municipality with the highest population is Ljubljana, the capital of Slovenia, and the one with the lowest population is Hodoš with only 382 people living there.

[[Lateralization of brain function]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the brain, Physiology

The human brain has two halves, called the left and right hemispheres.  These two halves of the brain are not exactly alike.  For most tasks, both sides of the brain work together.  But each side of the brain specializes in some things and works harder on those things than the other side.  The term brain lateralization, or lateralization of brain function, means that the different halves do things differently.

[[Infrared telescope]]

CATEGORIES: Telescopes, Infrared

An infrared telescope is a telescope that detects infrared radiation (heat energy). All objects in the universe that have a temperature above absolute zero give off some form of electromagnetic radiation. Infrared light is one of several types of radiation present in the electromagnetic spectrum.

Astronomers use several different types of telescopes to detect different types of emitted radiation in the electromagnetic spectrum.  Some of these are gamma ray, x-ray, ultra-violet, regular visible light (optical), as well as infrared telescopes. 

Ground-based infrared telescopes are affected by Earth's atmosphere. They work best in the shorter part of the infrared, a micrometer or two. Putting an infrared telescope in outer space or above the clouds (water vapor) is  big help, especially for longer wavelengths (several micrometers) which cooler objects emit. Examples would be asteroids and interstellar clouds. 

[[Løjenkær]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Denmark

Løjenkær is a village and civil parish of the municipality of Århus.

The infamous physician Carl Værnet was born here.

[[Longitudinal fissure]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the brain

In vertebrates, the longitudinal fissure separates the cerebrum into two parts. The fissure is sometimes also called 'longitudinal cerebral fissure', 'great longitudinal fissure' or 'interhemispheric longitudinal fissure'. The two parts are often called cerebral hemispheres. The cerebrum is the largest part of the human brain. 

A bundle of nerve fibres called the corpus calllosum connects the left and right hemispheres. A tough membrane called falx cerebri covers the fissure.  

[[Jack Fellure]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States presidential candidates, 2016 United States presidential candidates, 2012 United States presidential candidates, 1992 United States presidential candidates, 1931 births, Living people, American engineers, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from West Virginia

Lowell Jackson "Jack" Fellure (born October 3, 1931) is an American perennial political candidate and retired engineer. 

He was the presidential nominee of the Prohibition Party for the 2012 presidential election. He also tried to run for president in 2016 as a Repubican.

[[Cambridge, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Cambridge is a city in and the county seat of Guernsey County, Ohio, United States.  It lies in southeastern Ohio, in the Appalachian Plateau of the Appalachian Mountains.  The population was 11,129 at the 2010 census.

[[John Conyers]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2019 deaths, American civil rights activists, Deans of the United States House of Representatives, United States representatives from Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians, 21st-century American politicians

John James Conyers, Jr. (May 16, 1929 – October 27, 2019) was an American politician. He served as the U.S. Representative for Michigan's 13th district, serving in Congress from 1965 (the district was numbered as the 1st District until 1993, and as the 14th district from 1993 to 2013) until his resignation in 2017. He was a member of the Democratic Party. Conyers, was its longest-serving member, and was the Dean of the House of Representatives. He was also the longest-serving member of the entire United States Congress.

In November 2017, Conyers was accused of sexual harassment and for paying off the accuser. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi called on Conyers to resign. On December 5, 2017, Conyers resigned his seat in the US House of Representatives because of his mounting sexual scandals.

Conyers died in his sleep at his Detroit home on October 27, 2019 at the age of 90.

[[Highland Park, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan

Highland Park is a city in Wayne County in the State of Michigan. The population was 11,776 at the 2010 census. 

[[Basil Hansen]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Australian ice hockey players, Ice hockey coaches, Sportspeople from Melbourne

Basil Hansen (7 October 1926 – 2 January 2015) was an Australian ice hockey player. He played from 1946 until 1963. He was a member of the Australian national team during the 1960 Winter Olympics in Squaw Valley, California, United States. He played for the Monarchs his entire career and even coarched the team for two years after his retirement.

Hansen was born in Melbourne, Victoria. His son, Greg, also became an ice hockey player.

Hansen died on 2 January 2015 at the age of 88.

[[Bovec]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Slovenia, 1994 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Slovenia

Bovec (Plezzo, Flitsch) is a small Slovenian town in the Julian Alps that is the administrative centre of the Municipality of Bovec (Občina Bovec).

The municipality of Bovec was established on 10 March 1994. Before that date, Bovec was part of the municipality of Tolmin.

[[Cerkno]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Slovenia, 1994 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Slovenia

Cerkno (Circhina, Kirchheim) is a small Slovenian town that is the administrative centre of the Municipality of Cerkno (Občina Cerkno). It is an economic and cultural centre of the Cerkno Hills (Cerkljansko) region.

The municipality of Cerkno was established on 10 March 1994. Its administrative centre is the town of Cerkno and is well known for its ski resort.

[[Idrija]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Slovenia, 1994 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Slovenia

Idrija (Idria, Idria) is a small Slovenian town that is the administrative centre of the Municipality of Idrija (Občina Idrija). It is known for its mercury mine and the production of lace.

The municipality of Idrija was established on 10 March 1994. In 2011, Idrija was given the Alpine Town of the Year award.

[[Traumatic brain injury]]

CATEGORIES: Brain, Health problems

A traumatic brain injury (TBI), also known as an intracranial injury, is an injury to the brain caused by an external force. 

Head injury is a broader category that may involve damage to other structures such as the scalp and skull. TBI can result in physical, cognitive, social, emotional and behavioral symptoms, and outcomes can range from complete recovery to permanent disability or death.

This could be caused from falls, crashes or in sport.

[[Joshua Nkomo]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1999 deaths, African military people, Government ministers, Roman Catholics, Vice-Presidents of Zimbabwe

Joshua Mqabuko Nyongolo Nkomo (19 June 1917 – 1 July 1999) was the leader and founder of the Zimbabwe African People's Union (ZAPU) and a member of the Ndebele (Kalanga) tribe.

Nkomo was jailed for ten years by Rhodesia's white minority government. After his release, ZAPU contributed to the fall of that government. Then they fought with a rival group led by Robert Mugabe. Mugabe became President of Zimbabwe. Nkomo was not trusted and eventually fled the country.

[[Naval fleet]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology, Naval ships of the United States

A Naval Fleet is usually a permanent formation. Fleets are generally assigned to a particular ocean or sea. Many fleets are named after the particular ocean or sea they are assigned to. Since 1942 the United States Navy uses numbers to identify their fleets. 

A fleet is normally commanded by an Admiral. Usually his rank is Admiral of the Fleet. Some fleets have been or are commanded by Vice-Admirals or even Rear-Admirals. Most fleets are divided into several squadrons. Each squadron is commanded by a subordinate admiral. Those squadrons in turn are often divided into divisions. In the age of sail, fleets were divided into van, centre and rear squadrons. These were named after each squadron’s place in the line of battle. In more modern times, the squadrons are typically composed of groups of the same class of warships. Examples would be frigates or destroyers. 

Since many smaller navies only contain a single fleet, the term the fleet usually means the navy.

[[Focus (2015 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 romance movies, 2015 drama movies, 2010s crime drama movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, American crime drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Argentine movies, Buenos Aires, English-language movies, Movies set in Louisiana, New Orleans, Louisiana in fiction

Focus is a 2015 American romantic crime-drama movie. This movie is about a con-man drawing a young attractive woman into his romantic circle. Will Smith plays Nicky. Margot Robbie plays Jess.

Focus is set in New Orleans and Buenos Aires.

The movie was released on February 27, 2015.

[[GMC Acadia]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, General Motors vehicles

GMC Acadia is a full-sized crossover vehicle. It is manufactured by GMC. It went on sale beginning in December 2006. It seats seven or eight passengers, depending on the model. The GMC Acadia replaces four vehicles the Envoy SUV and its XL package, the Isuzu Asscender SUV and the Pontiac Montana SV6 minivan.

The GMC Acadia was improved in 2012 for the 2013 model year. The second generation Acadia uses the body shell of GM's discontinued Saturn Outlook.

[[Stuart Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2015 deaths, African American television personalities, Cancer deaths in Connecticut, Deaths from appendix cancer, Journalists from Chicago, National Basketball Association broadcasters, National Football League broadcasters

Stuart Orlando Scott (July 19, 1965 – January 4, 2015) was an American sportscaster and anchor on ESPN, most notably on the network's SportsCenter. He was born in Chicago, Illinois.

Scott died in Avon, Connecticut from appendix cancer aged 49. 

[[René Vautier]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, French movie directors, People from Brittany

René Vautier (15 January 1928 – 4 January 2015) was a French movie director. His movies were about many issues, such as the Algerian War, French colonialism in Africa, pollution, racism, women's rights, and apartheid in South Africa. His best known works were Afrique 50 and Avoir 20 ans dans les Aurès.

[[Edmund Wnuk-Lipiński]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Polish educators

Edmund Wnuk-Lipiński (4 May 1944 – 4 January 2015) was a Polish professor of sociology. He was the founder and first head of the Polish Academy of Sciences Institute of Political Studies, Rector of Collegium Civitas in Warsaw. 

He was a Fellow at the Institute of Human Sciences in Vienna, the University of Notre Dame, and Wissenschaftskolleg in Berlin. He is a member of the Polish National Council for Civil Service and the National Council for European Integration.

Wnuk-Lipiński was born in Sucha. He was the author of a social fiction dystopia trilogy, Apostezjon (Wir pamieci, Rozpad polowiczny, Mord zalozycielski). He was the winner of Janusz A. Zajdel Award in 1988 for Rozpad polowiczny.

Wnuk-Lipiński died in Warsaw, Poland, aged 60.

[[Hank Peters]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Businesspeople from St. Louis, Missouri

Henry J. "Hank" Peters (September 16, 1924 – January 4, 2015) was an American baseball executive. He was known for being the general manager of the Baltimore Orioles and to the Kansas City Athletics. Peters was born in St. Louis, Missouri.

Peters died from complications from a stroke in Boca Raton, Florida, aged 90.

[[Division of Makin]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, South Australia, 1984 establishments in Australia

The Division of Makin is an electoral division for the Australian House of Representatives. It covers the northeastern suburbs of Adelaide, including Banksia Park, Fairview Park, Golden Grove, Greenwith, Gulfview Heights, Ingle Farm, Mawson Lakes, Modbury, Para Hills, Para Vista, Pooraka, Redwood Park, Ridgehaven, Salisbury East, Salisbury Heights, St Agnes, Surrey Downs, Tea Tree Gully, Valley View, Vista, Walkley Heights, Wynn Vale, Yatala Vale, and parts of Gepps Cross and Hope Valley.

It was set up in 1984 and named after Norman Makin, a former member of Parliament, Speaker and diplomat.

[[Derek Minter]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, English sportspeople, Sportspeople from Kent

Derek Minter (27 April 1932 – 3 January 2015) was a British Grand Prix motorcycle and short-circuit road racer. He rode professionally from 1955 and 1967. In 1958, he in fifth place in the 500cc world championship. In 1960, Minter won the North West 200 race in Northern Ireland. In 1962, he won the Isle of Man 250cc Lightweight TT.

Minter was born in Kent. He was an electrician before becoming a racer.

Minter died on 3 January 2015 at the age of 82.

[[Olga Knyazeva]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2015 deaths, Fencers, Medalists at the 1976 Summer Olympics, Russian sportspeople, Soviet Olympic gold medalists

Olga Knyazeva (Ольга Николаевна Князева; 9 August 1954 – 3 January 2015) was a Soviet fencer from Kazan. She won a gold medal in the women's team foil event at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Knyazeva died on 3 January 2015 in Kazan, aged 60.

[[Ford Edge]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Ford automobiles

Ford Edge is a mid-size crossover vehicle. It comes in different models. It was first seen in 2006 as a 2007 model year car.

The outside of this vehicle has been changed several times over the years.

[[Högalid Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Stockholm, Church of Sweden churches

The Högalid Church (Högalidskyrkan) is a protected church building. It is located at the district of Södermalm in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. It was designed by architect Ivar Tengbom. It was built upon elevated ground between 1916–1923. The area it was built on was originally barren. Later, the area was turned into a park, >The church is one of the more prominent buildings in town. It Complements the contemporary Stockholm City Hall on the opposite side of Riddarfjärden. The church is considered being one of Sweden's foremost examples of the National Romantic architectural style.

[[Gustaf Vasa Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Stockholm, Church of Sweden churches

Gustaf Vasa Church (Gustaf Vasa kyrka) is a church building in the Vasastaden district in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. The church was inaugurated in 1906. It is named after 16th century King Gustav I of Sweden. The church was designed in the Baroque Revival style by architect Agi Lindegren. The church is located between two busy avenues partially lined with trees. The dome of the church rises 60 above the nearby Odenplan plaza. The floor plan is in the shape of a Greek cross. The church seats 1,500 people. The seating capacity makes it one of the larger churches in Stockholm.

[[Engelbrekt Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Stockholm, Church of Sweden churches

The Engelbrekt Church (Engelbrektskyrkan) is a protected church building. It is located at Lärkstaden in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. The church was designed in the National Romantic style by architect Lars Israel Wahlman. In 1914, it was completed. It has 1,400 seats. The seating capacity makes it one of the larger churches in Stockholm.

The church was named after 15th century rebel Engelbrekt Engelbrektsson. The naming followed the spirit of romantic nationalism. The church built atop a hill in the years 1910–1914, after an design competition held in 1906. Most of the rock where the church stands was left mostly intact. That was in accordance to the urban planning ideals at the time. It gave the church a naturally elevated position in town. 

The building has some features common to Byzantine architecture. It has a cruciform architectural plan with a 32 high nave, The nave is the highest in Scandinavia. The church has been internationally appreciated in architectural circles. The church has not underwent any major changes since its inauguration. The church is regarded as a paragon of the Swedish Art Nouveau era and of the National Romantic style.

[[Saint Matthew's Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Stockholm, Church of Sweden churches

Saint Matthew's Church (Sankt Matteus kyrka) is a protected church building. It is located in the Vasastaden district in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. The building was originally intended to be a chapel in the Adolf Fredrik Parish. The church was designed by Erik Lallerstedt. It was built at an intersection in Vasastaden between 1901-1903.

The large hall at ground floor was originally meant to be used for various charity-activities. This was thought because the chapel was located in a poorer  neighbourhood at the time. The church building is in many ways reminiscent of the Methodist church Saint Peter's Church at Norrmalm. The Saint Peters Church was also designed by Erik Lallerstedt in 1899. The Saint Matthew's Church underwent some changes between 1907–1908 under guidance of the original architect. The changes occurred when the parish was split and the chapel became a parish church.

[[Oscar Fredrik Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Gothenburg

Oscar Fredrik Church (Oscar Fredriks kyrka) is a church building in Olivedal in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden. It belongs to the Gothenburg Oscar Fredrik Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened on Easter Sunday 1893.

[[Örgryte New Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Gothenburg

The Örgryte New Church (Örgryte nya kyrka) is a church building in Örgryte in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden. It belongs to the Örgryte Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened on 6 July 1890.

[[Örgryte Old Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Gothenburg

The Örgryte Old Church (Örgryte gamla kyrka) is a church building in Örgryte in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden. It belongs to the Örgryte Parish of the Church of Sweden. A church at the present site of the Örgryte Old Church has been around since the 13th century.

[[Örgryte Church]]

Örgryte Church (Örgryte kyrka) may refer to:

[[Gränna Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Gränna Church (Gränna kyrka) is a church building in Gränna in Sweden. It belongs to the Gränna Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened on 15 September 1895. It replaced an older church destroyed by an 1889 fire.

SVT's Luciamorgon in December 2019 was celebrated inside the church.

[[Olaus Petri Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Örebro

Olaus Petri Church (Olaus Petri kyrka) is a church building in the town of Örebro in Sweden. It belongs to the Örebro Olaus Petri Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was opened on Fourth Advent Sunday 1912.

[[Mitsuhide Hirasawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Japanese professional wrestlers, Living people, People from Sapporo

Mitsuhide Hirasawa is an Japanese professional wrestler. He works under a mask and is better known by his ring name Captain New Japan. He currently works for New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW). He is also known by his former ring name Hideo Saito.

[[Oscar Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Stockholm, Church of Sweden churches

The Oscar Church (Oscarskyrkan) a church building in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. It's is a three-aisled hall church. It holds 1,250 people. In the southwestern part of the church building is a 80 tower. The church was inaugurated in September 1903. It was build following a design competition nine years earlier. Gustaf Hermansson won the competition. He also designed the Sofia Church. The church is located in the southeastern part of Östermalm. It is placed where Storgatan and Narvavägen meet near the Swedish History Museum. Together with nearby Strandvägen Narvavägen is one of the Stockholm's main boulevards. The road is lined with several residential palaces. The church is also  visible from Narvavägen.

The church was named after king Oscar II of Sweden. Oscar II himself laid the foundation stone 1897. Construction work was delayed several times because of problems with the foundation and non-deliveries as well as labour strikes. This led to the church not being consecrated until 1903. The church was  originally meant to be partly clad in brick. This was changed to a uniformly white façade, clad in limestone and marble. Construction was criticised from the start for its Gothic Revival. 

The church underwent several renovations during the 20th century. Between 1921–1923 major changes were done to the interior. During those years new stained glass windows designed by Emanuel Vigeland were added. The work was led under the direction of architect Lars Israel Wahlman. He had previously designed the Engelbrekt Church. Between 1954–1956 additional changes were made to the church interior. During those years the altarpiece was changed and some ornamental ceiling decorations were removed.

[[Gongchen Tower]]

CATEGORIES: History of China, 1390 establishments, Establishments in China, 14th century establishments in Asia, Yunnan

Gongchen Tower was a historical monument located in the ancient city of Weishan in the Chinese province of Yunnan. The Gongchen tower was a city gate tower. It was built in 1390 during the Ming Dynasty. Built in wood, on January 3, 2015 the tower was burnt completely.

[[Noel Cobb]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths

Noel Cobb (21 March 1938 – 2 January 2015) was an American-born British philosopher, psychologist, and author. He has published mostly books of poetry and non-fiction. He founded a charitable trust The London Convivium for Archetypal Studies. He is the author of Prospero's Island: The Secret Alchemy at the Heart of The Tempest. He also worked with R. D. Laing.

Cobb was born in Grand Rapids, Michigan. He studied in Oslo, Norway from 1959 to 1966. He also studied the Tibetan language, Buddhism, therapy, and meditation in Nepal and India.

Cobb died on 2 January 2015 at the age of 75.

[[Power Rangers Ninja Storm]]

CATEGORIES: Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, English-language television programs

Power Rangers Ninja Storm is the eleventh season of Power Rangers. It debuted on ABC Kids in February 2003. This was the first season filmed in New Zealand. It was the first season made entirely by Disney. It was the first season to have Australian and New Zealand actors (speaking in American accent).

[[Hubertus Ernst]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch activists, Dutch centenarians, Dutch Roman Catholics, People from Breda, Roman Catholic bishops

Hubertus Cornelis Antonius "Huub" Ernst  (8 April 1917 in Breda – 19 May 2017 in Breda) was a Dutch prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. During his life he was one of the oldest Roman Catholic bishops and one of oldest Dutch bishops. He was also a peace activist.

Ernst died at his home in Breda, Netherlands on 19 May 2017 at the age of 100.

[[Bolesław Pylak]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2019 deaths, Polish Roman Catholics

Bolesław Pylak (20 August 1921 – 6 June 2019) was a Polish prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. At the time of his death in 2019, he was oldest living Roman Catholic bishop in Poland. Pylak was born in Łopiennik Górny, Poland. 

He was ordained a priest on 29 June 1948 from Archdiocese of Lublin. He was appointed archbishop of the Archdiocese of Lublin on 27 June 1975 and served in that capacity until his retirement on 14 June 1997.

[[Yaeyama Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Ryukyu Islands, Okinawa Prefecture

The Yaeyama Islands (八重山諸島 Yaeyama-shotō, also 八重山列島 Yaeyama-rettō, Yaeyama: Yaima Okinawan: Eema) are an archipelago or group of islands in the southwest of Okinawa Prefecture, Japan. They cover 591.46. The islands are southwest of the Miyako Islands. They are part of the Ryukyu Islands archipelago. The Yaeyama Islands are the remotest part of Japan from the main islands. They contain Japan's most southern (Hateruma) and most western (Yonaguni) inhabited islands.  The city of Ishigaki serves as the political, cultural, and economic head of the Yaeyama Islands.

The Yaeyama Islands have numerous species of subtropical plants and mangrove forests.  The islands produce sugarcane and pineapples.  Coral reefs around the islands are ideal habitats for dolphins, sea turtles, and larger fish such as Manta rays and Whale sharks. Before being wiped out by humans, whales and Dugongs were common. Yaeyama once had the largest population of Dugongs in the Ryukyu Islands. On Aragusuku Island, there is a Utaki which has laid to rest Dugongs with their skulls. Non-residents are not allowed to enter unless they get an okay from the locals. It is said that any aliens without permission will be driven out by force.

[[Saint John's Church, Stockholm]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Stockholm, Church of Sweden churches

Saint John's Church (Sankt Johannes kyrka) is a church building in Norrmalm in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. The church was designed Carl Möller in the Gothic Revival style. It was completed in 1890.

[[Saint John's Church]]

Saint John's Church may refer to:

[[Saint John's Church, Malmö]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Malmo

Saint John's Church (Sankt Johannes kyrka) is a church building near the Triangeln railway station in the Innerstaden district in the of Malmö in Sweden. The church was designed by Axel Anderberg in the Jugend style. It was built between 1903-1907.

[[Finnish Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Stockholm

The Finnish Church (Suomalainen kirkko, Finska kyrkan) is a church building in Gamla stan in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. It belongs to the Stockholm Finnish Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened in 1725. It is located in what once was Lilla Bollhuset before it was rebuilt into a church.

[[Frida Appelgren]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, People from Malmo, Swedish singers

Frida Erika Appelgren, earlier married Muranius, born 5 April 1981 in Malmö, Sweden, is a Swedish music artist. She scored a mid-2007 hit with the song Dunka mig gul och blå. 

Together with Headline she participated at Melodifestivalen 2008 with the song Upp o hoppa. The song ended up 10th in the finals.

[[Cen (surname)]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames

Cen is a Chinese surname. It is a romanization of 岑. Cen is listed 67th in the Song dynasty classic text Hundred Family Surnames. As of 2008, it is the 235th most common surname in China. There are 340,000 people with this surname.

[[Washington, Tyne and Wear]]

CATEGORIES: Sunderland, Tyne and Wear

Washington is a new town in Sunderland, in the northeast of England. Historically it was part of County Durham. It joined a new county in 1974 with the creation of Tyne and Wear. Washington is an equal distance from the centres of Newcastle upon Tyne, Durham and Sunderland, and it has close ties to all three cities. It was named a new town in 1964. At the 2011 census, the town had a population of 67,085. 

Sometime before 1183, William de Hertburn acquired the manor of Washington Old Hall. De Hertburn changed his name to de Washington. George Washington, first President of the United States is a direct descendant of William de Hertburn.

[[Dalvik Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

The Dalvik Church (Dalvikskyrkan) is a church building at Dalvik in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It is a Swedish Evangelical Mission church. It belongs to the Jönköping Sofia-Järstorp Parish of the Swedish Evangelical Mission. It was inaugurated on 8 February 1969 and expanded in 1985.

[[Bymarken Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

The Bymarken Church (Bymarkskyrkan) is a church building at Bymarken in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It belongs to the Jönköping Sofia-Järstorp Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened in 1935.

[[Barnarp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Barnarp is a village in Jönköping Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2005, 724 people lived there.

[[Barnarp Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Barnarp Church (Barnarps kyrka) is a church building in Barnarp it Sweden. It belongs to the Barnarp Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church is dated back to 13th century. It is supposed to have replaced an older wooden church.

[[Miyako Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Japan, Okinawa Prefecture

The Miyako Islands are a group of islands in Okinawa Prefecture, Japan, east of the Yaeyama Islands. They are between the Ryukyu Islands and Taiwan.

Miyako Island has 55,914 people. A bridge connects Miyako Island to Ikema Island. Ikema Island has 801 people. Tarama village has 1,214 people. It is between the islands of Minna and Tarama. 

The native people of the Miyako Islands are the Miyako people, who are a subgroup of a larger Ryukyuan ethnicity. 

The languages spoken on the islands include the native Miyako language and Japanese. Because Japan suppressed the Miyako language in the past, the younger generation mostly speaks Japanese instead.  

[[Bottnaryd Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Wooden churches

Bottnaryd Church (Bottnaryds kyrka) is a wooden church building in Bottnaryd in Sweden. It belongs to the Norra Mo Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was built in the late 17th century. It replaced a Medieval church demolished on 16 May 1666.

[[Ölmstad Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Ölmstad Church (Ölmstads kyrka) is a church building in Ölmstad in Sweden. It belogns to the Skärstad-Ölmstad Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church is supposed to be dated back to 12th century.

[[Tumby Bay, South Australia]]

Tumby Bay  is a coastal town on the Spencer Gulf, on the eastern coast of  Eyre Peninsula in South Australia. It is 45 north of Port Lincoln. The town of Tumby Bay is the major population centre of the District Council of Tumby Bay. It is the centre of an agricultural district farming cereal crops and sheep. It also has fishing and tourism industries.

[[Örserum Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Örserum Church (Örserums kyrka) is a church building in Örserum, Sweden. It belongs to the Gränna Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was completed in 1937.

[[Walter Ulbricht]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1973 deaths, Former dictators, German atheists, German historians, Members of the Reichstag (Weimar Republic), Members of the Volkskammer, People from Leipzig, Politicians from Saxony, Presidents of East Germany

Walter Ernst Paul Ulbricht (30 June 1893spaced ndash1 August 1973) was a German communist politician.

Ulbricht played a leading role in the creation of the Weimar-era Communist Party of Germany (KPD). He was a member of both the Landtag of Saxony and the Reichstag during the Weimar Republic.

Some time after Hitler's rise to power Ulbricht fled to France and later to the Soviet Union. As leader of the communist Ulbricht Group he returned to Berlin on April 30, 1945. He was the first secretary of the Socialist Unity Party  (SED), and leading East Germany from 1950 to 1971. From President Wilhelm Pieck's death in 1960, he was also the East German head of state until his own death in 1973.

Besides being a sports fanatic, Ulbricht considered himself an expert on architecture and urban planning, and was therefore responsible for the destruction of several ancient buildings in East Germany.

He was also involved in intellectual activities by writing a series of books about the history of the German labor movement.

[[Gräshagen Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

The Gräshagen Church (Gräshagskyrkan) is a church building at Gräshagen in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It belongs to the Jönköping Sofia-Järstorp Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened on 1 December 1962.

[[Forserum]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Forserum is a locality in Nässjö Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,039 people lived there.

[[PEGIDA]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 establishments in Europe, 2010s establishments in Germany, Islamophobia, Political movements, Politics of Germany

Patriotische Europäer gegen die Islamisierung des Abendlandes (PEGIDA, in English: "Patriotic Europeans Against the Islamization of the West") is a controversial German political movement based in Dresden. It was started in October 2014 by Lutz Bachmann. Thousands of people have joined public demonstrations against the "Islamization of Europe". German leaders have termed it xenophobia. Larger German counter-demonstrations against Pegida, estimated at about 30,000 people, have taken place in Stuttgart, Hamburg, Cologne and Berlin. Joining those speaking out against Pegida are the Roman Catholic, Protestant churches and several social groups.  Tommy Robinson founded a Pegida offshoot group.

[[Öggestorp Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Öggestorp Church (Öggestorps kyrka) is a church building in Öggestorp, Sweden. It belongs to the Rogberga-Öggestorp Parish of the Church of Sweden. The church was opened on 18 August 1883. It replaced replacing the old church. The older church was demolished in 1882.

[[Holmsund]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Holmsund is a locality in Umeå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 5,489 people lived there. The locality is 18 kilometers south of the town of Umeå. Holmsund serves as a port for Umeå.

[[Obbola]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Obbola is a locality in Umeå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,197 people lived there. The locality is located close to the town of Holmsund, and to the west of the mouth of Ume River at the Gulf of Bothnia. SCA is a major employer in the locality.

[[Röbäck]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Röbäck is a town in Umeå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,230 people lived there.

[[Klockrike]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Klockrike is a locality in Motala Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 272 people lived there.

[[Tjällmo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Tjällmo is a locality in Motala Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 557 people lived there.

[[Borensberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Borensberg is a locality in Motala Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,886 people lived there.

[[Silly Symphony]]

CATEGORIES: Animated movies

Silly Symphony was a series of animated short films produced by Walt Disney Productions from 1929 to 1939. 

[[Power Rangers Dino Thunder]]

CATEGORIES: Mighty Morphin Power Rangers, English-language television programs

Power Rangers Dino Thunder is the twelfth Power Rangers season. It aired on ABC Kids (and Jetix) in February 2004. The show is notable for bringing back Jason David Frank. He played Tommy Oliver (one of the most liked characters of the franchise) in Mighty Morphin Power Rangers.

[[Peterbilt]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States, 1939 establishments

The Peterbilt Motors Company is an American company. It makes medium or heavy duty Class 5 through 8 trucks. 

The Peterbilt company started making trucks in 1939 and built 15 trucks that year. Their semi-trucks are made in different styles. 

[[Kenworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 establishments in the United States, Companies of the United States

Kenworth is an American company. It makes medium and heavy duty class 8 trucks. The company used to also make school buses and transit buses.

The company was founded in 1923.

[[Fågelsta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Fågelsta is a locality in Motala Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 287 people lived there.

[[Fornåsa]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Fornåsa is a locality in Motala Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 433 people lived there.

[[Godegård]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Godegård is a locality in Motala Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 200 people lived there. The Mjölby-Hallsberg railway line runs through the village.

[[Nykyrka]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Nykyrka is a locality in Motala Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 414 people lived there.

[[Österstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Österstad is a locality in Motala Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 318 people lived there.

[[Cabu]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, Cartoonists, People from Grand Est, French artists, French murder victims, Murders by firearm in France

Jean Cabut (13 January 1938 – 7 January 2015), better known as Cabu, was a French comic strip artist and caricaturist. He was best known for his work on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo.

Cabu was born in Châlons-en-Champagne. His son was singer Mano Solo.

Cabu was among the victims who were killed in a shooting at Charlie Hebdo's Paris headquarters on 7 January 2015. He was 76.

[[Charb]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2015 deaths, Cartoonists, French artists, French journalists, French murder victims, Murders by firearm in France, People from Ile-de-France

Stéphane Charbonnier (ʃaʁbɔnje; 21 August 1967 – 7 January 2015), better known as Charb (ʃaʁb, was a French cartoonist, journalist, and caricaturist. He was best known for his work on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo.

Charb was born in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine.

Charb was among the victims who were killed in a shooting at Charlie Hebdo's Paris headquarters on 7 January 2015. He was 47.

[[Tignous]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2015 deaths, Artists from Paris, Cartoonists, French murder victims, Murders by firearm in France

Bernard Verlhac (21 August 1957 – 7 January 2015), better known as Tignous, was a French cartoonist and caricaturist. He was best known for his work on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo. He was born and grew up in Paris.

Tignous was among the victims who were killed in a shooting at Charlie Hebdo's Paris headquarters on 7 January 2015. He was 57.

[[Georges Wolinski]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2015 deaths, Cartoonists, French artists, French journalists, French murder victims, Jewish French writers, Legion of Honour, Murders by firearm in France, People from Tunis, Writers from Paris

Georges Wolinski (28 June 1934 – 7 January 2015) was a French cartoonist, journalist and comic book writer. He is best known for his work on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo and the daily newspaper Libération. In 2005, he was awarded the Legion of Honour.

Wolinski was born in Tunis, Tunisia. His father was Polish and his mother was a Tunisian of Italian Jewish ancestry.

Wolinski was among the victims who were killed in a shooting at Charlie Hebdo's Paris headquarters on 7 January 2015. He was 80.

[[Bäckaby Old Church]]

CATEGORIES: Fires in Sweden, Church of Sweden churches, Wooden churches, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

Bäckaby Old Church (Bäckaby gamla kyrka) was a woooden church building in Sweden. The oldest pieces were dated back to the 1320s. The old wooden church was originally in Bäckaby outside Vetlanda. The church was later purchased by a private person and moved to the town park in Jönköping. In Jönköping, it was reopened on 31 August 1902. Back in Bäckaby, Bäckaby Old Church had been replaced by the newer Bäckaby Church in 1899.

On late Friday evening, 28 April 2000 a fire totally destroyed the church. Soon, it was learnt that the fire was caused by arson. Local press brought major attention to the fire when it appeared to be connected to satanism. and modern paganism. Many people missed the church because it had been popular a place for weddings and baptism.

In 2003 a memorial site was opened.

[[Kulla Chapel]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Fires, 1927 establishments in Sweden, 2000 disestablishments in Europe, 2000s disestablishments in Sweden

Kulla Chapel (Kulla kapell) is a chapel in Eksjö Municipality in Sweden. It is located down country road 28 Eksjö and Nässjö. It belongs to the Höreda Parish of the Church of Sweden. The chapel was opened in 1927.

The chapel was destroyed in a fire on 27 May 2000. The fire was connected to Satanism  However the chapel was rebuilt and reopened on 13 May 2001.

[[Södra Råda Old Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Fires in Sweden, Wooden churches, 14th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in Sweden, 2001 disestablishments, 2000s disestablishments in Sweden

Södra Råda Old Church (Södra Råda gamla kyrka) was a timbered church building in Gullspång Municipality in Sweden. The church was dated to the 14th century. It was one of the oldest preserved wooden churches in Sweden.

The church was destroyed by a fire on 12 November 2001.

[[Blank Space]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 songs, Borderline personality disorder in fiction, Pop songs, Taylor Swift songs

"Blank Space" is a 2014 song by American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift. The song is about the way the media sees Swift and her relationships. The song is an electropop single.  It has been compared to New Zealand singer-songwriter Lorde's musical style.

"Blank Space" was released on November 10, 2014. It received positive reviews from music critics. It reached #1 on the Billboard Hot 100, which made it become her second number-one single from 1989 (after "Shake It Off") and her third number-one single overall.

[[Nightcrawler]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 crime movies, 2014 thriller movies, 2010s crime thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, Antisocial personality disorder in fiction, Film noir, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, American independent movies

Nightcrawler is a 2014 American crime thriller movie. It is set in Los Angeles. It is about a petty thief who becomes a photojournalist. There is a home invasion. Jake Gyllenhaal plays Louis. Rene Russo plays Nina. Bill Paxton plays Joe. 

The movie was released on October 31, 2014. It got positive reviews from movie critics. It made US$38.3 million.

[[Home invasion]]

CATEGORIES: Burglary, Violence

A home invasion is when a criminal illegally goes into someone's home intending to use violence against the people inside. The criminal usually plans to commit assault, murder, rape, robbery or kidnapping. 

The term "home invasion" was first used in 1912.January 2015

[[Indonesia AirAsia Flight 8501]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 disasters, 2010s in Indonesia, Aviation disasters in Asia, Aviation disasters in the 2010s, December events

Indonesia AirAsia Flight 8501 was a passenger flight from Surabaya to Singapore. The plane was an Airbus A320. On  December 28 2014, the airplane crashed due to technical failure and bad weather in the Java Sea, Indonesia. All 162 people on the plane were killed. Human bodies and debris began surfacing two days after the incident. The plane was said to have lost contact with air traffic control 42 minutes after takeoff. The plane wreckage and bodies of the passengers were pulled from the Java Sea in the waters of Kalimantan, the Indonesian part of Borneo island, The Guardian reported.

According to the reports, investigators traced the failure of both the rudder and computer systems to a cracked solder joint inside circuit boards. The rudder system had experienced problems 23 times since January 2014, reported the aircraft maintenance team.

[[Åby, Norrköping Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Åby is a locality in Norrköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,980 people lived there.

[[Kimstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Kimstad is a locality in Norrköping Municipality in  Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,510 people lived there.

[[Bernice Madigan]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 2015 deaths, American supercentenarians, People from Massachusetts

Bernice Madigan (July 24, 1899 – January 3, 2015) was an American supercentenarian. She was the oldest living resident of Massachusetts, the fourth-oldest living person in the United States, and the world's fifth-oldest living person at the time of her death.

A lifelong Republican, she attended the Inauguration of Warren G. Harding in 1921, and cited Dwight D. Eisenhower and Ronald Reagan as her favorite U.S. Presidents. "Reagan accomplished more for the government. Eisenhower I thought was very good in some ways in the White House. I liked them both very much."

Madigan met her husband, Paul, in Washington, and they were married 50 years. Paul died in 1976. She has outlived a brother, Roy Emerson, and a sister, Marilyn Emerson Martin.

Madigan died in Cheshire, Massachusetts, aged 115.

[[Ljunga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Ljunga is a locality in Norrköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 688 people lived there.

[[Skärblacka]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Skärblacka is a locality in Norrköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,059 people lived there. In everyday use, the town is known as simply Blacka.

[[Vånga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Vånga is a locality in Norrköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 220 people lived there. The locality is located north of Lake Roxen.

[[Lindö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Lindö is a locality in Norrköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,915 people lived there.

[[Simonstorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Simonstorp is a locality in Norrköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 258 people lived there.

[[Strömsfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Strömsfors is a locality in Norrköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 528 people lived there.

[[Norsholm]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Norsholm is a locality in Norrköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 615 people lived there. The locality is located circa 15 kilometers southwest of the town Norrköping, near the E4 and Göta kanal.

[[Östra Husby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Östra Husby is a locality in Norrköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 792 people lived there. The locality is located 20 kilometers east of Norrköping and 16 kilometers northeast of Söderköping.

[[Åselstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Åselstad is a locality in Norrköping Municipality in Östergötland County in Sweden. In 2010, 475 people lived there.

[[Julio Scherer García]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from sepsis, Disease-related deaths in Mexico, Mexican journalists, Writers from Mexico City

Julio Scherer García (7 April 1926 – 7 January 2015) was a Mexican author and journalist. He was the editor of the Mexican newspaper Excelsior from 1968 to 1976. He also was the founder of the news magazine Proceso.

Garcia died in Mexico City from  septic shock, aged 88.

[[Bernard Maris]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2015 deaths, French economists, French journalists, French murder victims, Murders by firearm in France, People from Toulouse

Bernard Maris (23 September 1946spaced ndash7 January 2015) was a French economist, writer and journalist. He was also a shareholder in Charlie Hebdo magazine. He was born in Toulouse, France.

Maris was murdered in January 2015, in the Charlie Hebdo shooting at the headquarters of the magazine in Paris.

[[Charlie Hebdo shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in France, 2015 mass shootings, 2015 murders in Europe, 2010s crimes in France, 2010s in Paris, 2010s mass shootings in Europe, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2015, Islamic terrorist incidents in France, January events, Massacres in Europe, Mass murder in 2015, Mass murder in France, Murder in Paris, Murders by firearm in France, Terrorist incidents in Europe in the 2010s, Terrorist incidents in Paris

On 7 January 2015, at approximately 11:30 CET (10:30 UTC), three masked gunmen armed with Kalashnikov rifles, a shotgun, and a rocket-propelled grenade launcher stormed the headquarters of the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris. They shot and killed 12 people, including  Charlie Hebdo staff and two French National police officers, and wounded 11 others. In Niger churches and cars were burned in protest of Muhammed on the cover of Charlie Hebdo.

The gunmen entered the building and began shooting with automatic weapons, while shouting "Allahu Akbar". Up to 50 shots were fired during the attack. Following a massive manhunt, the French police believe they have located the attackers and are mounting an operation against them. On Twitter people used the hashtag #JeSuisCharlie to show support for freedom of speech after the shooting.

[[Charlie Hebdo]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in France, French-language newspapers, Paris

; French for Weekly Charlie) is a French satirical weekly newspaper, featuring cartoons, reports, and jokes. It was founded by Georges Bernier and François Cavanna in 1970.

The stories and cartoons they publish are very left-wing and anarchist, with primarily political satire. Following a long tradition in France, called anti-clericalism, the magazine strongly criticized all religions; it has often published caricatures of Jews, Muslims or Christians (especially Catholics). Some Islamic fundamentalists were offended at some cartoons, and repeatedly sent death threats to the journalists of Charlie Hebdo.

On 7 January 2015, there was a massacre at their office, in which six journalists and cartoonists were killed. This massacre was a shock to millions of people in the world. It was felt to many people like an attack on the freedom of speech, which is an essential part of a democracy.

[[Per-Olof Åstrand]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Swedish scientists

Per-Olof Åstrand (October 21, 1922 – January 2, 2015) was a Swedish professor of physiology. He worked at the Royal Gymnastic Central Institute (GCI/GIH) in Stockholm 1970-1977, and 1977-1988 at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Sweden. He was a member of the Nobel Assembly at Karolinska Institutet (1977–1988). Åstrand is considered a "pioneer", "legend" and one of the "founding fathers" of modern exercise physiology.

[[Lance Diamond]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2015 deaths, American radio personalities, Singers from Buffalo, New York

Lance Diamond (c. 1946 — January 4, 2015) was an American lounge singer and radio personality from Buffalo, New York. His career spanned over 40 years.  He often called himself the "Love Doctor," getting the name from his #1 radio show, Saturday Night Fever which he hosted every Saturday night.

Diamond died on January 4, 2015, aged 68, a few days after being hospitalized due to heart complications that prevented him from performing his annual New Year's Eve show. He was unmarried and had no children.

[[Stu Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, St. Louis Cardinals players, Philadelphia Phillies players, San Francisco Giants players, Baltimore Orioles players, Atlanta Braves players, Sportspeople from Massachusetts

Stuart Leonard "Stu" Miller (December 26, 1927 – January 4, 2015) was a former American pitcher in Major League Baseball. He played for the St. Louis Cardinals (1952–1956), Philadelphia Phillies (1956), New York/San Francisco Giants (1957–1962), Baltimore Orioles (1963–1967) and Atlanta Braves (1968). 

He batted and threw right-handed. In a 16-season career, Miller posted a 105–103 record with a 3.24 earned run average, 1164 strikeouts, and 154 saves in 704 games pitched (93 as a starter).

Miller died January 4, 2015, in Cameron Park, California, aged 87 after a brief illness.

[[Vlastimil Bubník]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Czech footballers, People from Brno

Vlastimil Bubník (ˈvlascɪmɪl ˈbubɲiːk; 18 March 1931 – 6 January 2015) was a Czech ice hockey player and footballer.

Bubník was born in Kelč, Czechoslovakia, and played in the Czechoslovak Extraliga. He played for HC Brno and Královo Pole. He also won a bronze medal at the 1964 Winter Olympics. He was inducted into the International Ice Hockey Federation Hall of Fame in 1997.

[[Joy Ali]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, 2015 deaths, Boxers, Fijian sportspeople

Zulfikar Joy Ali (22 December 1978 – 5 January 2015) was an Indo-Fijian boxer. Ali was once ranked 13th in the world and, in October 2005, was ranked 15th by the WBA in the Super welterweight division. He beat Gary Comers for the PABA title. He was the brother of Junior Farzan Ali.

[[King Sporty]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2015 deaths, Jamaican singers

Noel G. Williams (September 19, 1943 – January 5, 2015), better known as King Sporty, was a Jamaican DJ, reggae musician, and record producer for the Tashamba and Konduko labels. He is best known for writing the song, "Buffalo Soldier", made famous by Bob Marley. He was born in Portland, Jamaica.

Sporty died on January 5, 2015 in Miami, Florida, United States, aged 71.

[[Sentai]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Japan

In Japanese, sentai is a military unit and may be literally translated as squadron, "task force", "group" or "wing". The terms "regiment" and "flotilla", while sometimes used as translations of Sentai, are also used to refer to larger formations. Sentai television series are Live-action shows with young heros in spandex fighting monsters with their martial arts.

[[Khan Bonfils]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2015 deaths, Unexplained deaths, British movie actors, British stage actors

Khan Bonflis (Kan Bonflis; c. 1972 – January 5, 2015) was a British actor of Asian origin. He was known for his small roles in Tomorrow Never Dies, Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow, Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace, Batman Begins, and in Skyfall.

Bonflis died while rehearsing for a play in London, aged 42.

[[Jean-Pierre Beltoise]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Formula One drivers, Sportspeople from Paris

Jean-Pierre Maurice Georges Beltoise (26 April 1937 – 5 January 2015) was a French Grand Prix motorcycle road racer and Formula One driver. He raced for the Matra and BRM teams. François Cevert was his brother-in-law (his wife's brother). He competed in 88 Grands Prix achieving one win and eight podium finishes. He was born in Paris.

Beltoise died at his holiday home in Dakar, Senegal, on 5 January 2015, aged 77, following two strokes .

[[Pino Daniele]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Italy, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Entertainers from Campania, Guitarists, Singer-songwriters, People from Naples

Pino Daniele (19 March 1955 – 4 January 2015) was an Italian singer-songwriter,  and guitarist. He was born in Naples, Italy. He was known for his songs; Passi d'autore of 2004 and Il Fatto Quotidiano''.

On January 5th, 2015, it was announced via Instagram by Daniele's longtime friend Eros Ramazzotti that he had died from a heart attack between 4 and 5 January. Daniele is considered to have been one of the best singer-songwriters in Italian history. Daniele's death was confirmed at 10:45pm at "Sant'Eugenio" Hospital in Rome (Italy) on 4 January.

[[Philippe Honoré]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2015 deaths, People from Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, Cartoonists, French artists, French murder victims, Murders by firearm in France

Philippe Honoré (ɔnɔʁe; 25 November 1941 – 7 January 2015), known by the pen-name Honoré, was a French cartoonist. He was born in Vichy, France. Honoré worked with the newspaper company Charlie Hebdo during most of his career. He was a staff cartoonist there.

Honoré died on January 7, 2015, during the January 2015 shooting attack on the Charlie Hebdo newspaper office. 

[[Professeur Choron]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2005 deaths, French comedians

Georges Bernier (21 September 1929 – 10 January 2005), more commonly known as Le Professeur Choron, was a French humorist. He was the founder of Hara Kiri magazine and helped discover Charlie Hebdo, a satirical newspaper.

[[Swiss Chalet]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 establishments in Canada, Canadian restaurants

Swiss Chalet is a Canadian chain of casual dining restaurants. Swiss Chalet was started in 1954 in Toronto, Ontario. The restaurant chain is owned by Cara Operations. Swiss chalet's signature food is rotisserie chicken. Their signature dish is the Quarter Chicken Dinner, either a roasted chicken leg or breast with "Chalet Sauce", a bread roll, and a side dish of the customers choice. Other combinations up to and including a whole chicken are also available.

The first Swiss Chalet restaurant was opened at 234 Bloor Street West in Toronto and it operated for 52 years. This restaurant was closed in 2006 and it was demolished in 2009 to make way for condominiums.

In 2008, Swiss Chalet food products were added to Air Canada to be on their buy-on-board menu.

[[Jethro Pugh]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, American football defensive ends, American football defensive tackles, Dallas Cowboys players, Sportspeople from North Carolina

Jethro Pugh, Jr. (July 3, 1944 – January 7, 2015) was an American football player. He played as a defensive tackle and a defensive end in the National Football League (NFL) for the Dallas Cowboys from 1965 until 1978. Pugh retired on January 29, 1979.

Pugh was born in Windsor, North Carolina. He attended Elizabeth City State University in Elizabeth City, North Carolina.

Pugh died on January 7, 2015 in Dallas, Texas, aged 70.

[[Tim Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2015 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from New York City

Timothy "Tim" Roberts (December 27, 1976 – January 7, 2015), also known by his ring names "The Arsonist" or "El Piromaniaco" Tim Arson, was an American professional wrestler. He made his first wrestling appearance in 2001, and was signed by both WWE and Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW). He was trained by Johnny Rodz. He competed in shows and tournaments over the United States and Puerto Rico.

Roberts was born in Staten Island, New York City.

Roberts died on January 7, 2015 in Haskell, New Jersey, aged 38.

[[Kep Enderby]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Australian judges, Australian Labor Party politicians, Politicians from New South Wales

Keppel Earl "Kep" Enderby QC (25 June 1926 – 8 January 2015) was an Australian politician and judge. He was a member of the House of Representatives for the Australian Labor Party between 1970 and 1975. He also became a senior cabinet minister in the Gough Whitlam government. After politics, he was became a Justice of the Supreme Court of New South Wales, serving from 1982 to 1992. He was the president of the Universal Esperanto Association from 1998 to 2001.

Enderby was born in Dubbo, New South Wales. He was married to Dot and lived in Sydney.

Enderby died on 8 January 2015 at the age of 88.

[[Intel Core i5]]

CATEGORIES: Computer processors

Intel Core i5 is a name that Intel uses for the computer processors it makes for desktop and laptop computers. 

The first Core i5 is a version of the earlier Core i7, the Lynnfield core. Lynnfield Core i5 processors have an 8 MB L3 cache. They have a DMI (Direct Media Interface) bus running at 2.5 GT/s. Core i5 also has support for dual-channel DDR SDRAM memory and have Hyper-threading disabled. A new feature called Turbo Boost Technology was introduced which maximizes speed for demanding computer programs. This increases performance to match the amount of work the computer must do.

The Core i5-5xx mobile processors are named Arrandale. They are based on the 32nm Westmere shrink of the Nehalem microarchitecture. Arrandale processors have integrated graphics capability but only two processor cores. They were released in January 2010. Clarkdale, is the desktop version of Arrandale. These are the first processors to have integrated video. It has Hyper-Threading enabled and the full 4 MB L3 cache.

[[Svartbyn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Svartbyn is a locality in Överkalix Municipality, in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 265 people lived there.

[[Tallvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Tallvik is a locality in Överkalix Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 434 people lived there.

[[Vittsjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Vittsjö is a locality in Hässleholm Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,665 people lived there.

[[Yngsjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Yngsjö is a locality in Kristianstad Municipality in Skåne County in Sweden. In 2010, 302 people lived there. The Yngsjö murder took place here in 1889.

[[Morgongåva]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Morgongåva is a locality in Heby Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,409 people lived there.

[[Östervåla]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Östervåla is a locality in Heby Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,595 people lived there.

[[Saint Peter's Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Stockholm

The Saint Peter's Church (Sankt Peterskyrkan) is church building at Norrmalm in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. It was designed by Erik Lallerstedt. The church was built in the Art Nouveau style 1900-1901.

[[Immanuel Church, Stockholm]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Stockholm

Immanuel Church (Immanuelskyrkan) is church building located in the central parts of the town of Stockholm in Sweden. The church was designed by Sture Frölén. It was built in 1974. The lot it was built on earlier housed a tram depot at the intersection of Birger Jarlsgatan and Kungstensgatan. 

The entire block consists of offices and a hotel. The block was built between 1970–1974 on behalf of the church. The church has been considered a nice example of 1970s modernist architecture. It is of major historical value according to the Stockholm City Museum. 

[[German Church, Gothenburg]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Churches in Gothenburg

The German Church (Deutsche Kirche, Tyska kyrkan), also called Christinae Church (Christinae kyrka, Christinenkirche), is a church building in the central parts of the town of Gothenburg in Sweden. It was named after queen Christina of Sweden. The church was opened 1748. It is used by the German Parish of the Church of Sweden in Gothenburg. 

[[Cookie Clicker]]

CATEGORIES: Video games

Cookie Clicker is a JavaScript-based browser video game written by French programmer Julien Thiennot.

The point of the game is to bake cookies as fast as possible. To start the game, a player bakes cookies by clicking on a giant cookie. One cookie is gained each time it is clicked. With sufficient cookies to use as currency, a player can buy items and upgrades that will bake more cookies. They will also increase the number of cookies per click. There is no true end to the game. 

[[German Church, Stockholm]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Stockholm, Church of Sweden churches

The German Church (Deutsche Kirche, Tyska kyrkan), sometimes called Saint Gertrude's Church (Sankta Gertruds kyrka), is a church in Gamla stan, the old town in central Stockholm in Sweden. It belongs to the German Saint Gertrude Parish of the Church of Sweden.

[[German Church]]

German Church may refer to:

[[Immanuel Church, Jönköping]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Jönköping

The Immanuel Church (Immanuelskyrkan) is a church building at the street of Oxtorgsgatan in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. It belongs to the Uniting Church in Sweden. The church was built in 1975. In 1976, it was opened.

[[Emmanuel Church]]

The Emmanuel Church or Immanuel Church may refer to:

[[Swedish Pentecostal Movement]]

CATEGORIES: Pentecostalism, Protestantism in Sweden, 1900s establishments in Sweden

The Swedish Pentecostal Movement (Pingströrelsen i Sverige) is a Protestant community. On 31 December 2011 it consisted of 463 congregations. Together they make up the Swedish pentecostalism movement. The movement came to Sweden by 1906-1907.

[[Philadelphia Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Stockholm

The Philadelphia Church (Filadelfiakyrkan) is a church building at Rörstrandsgatan 7 in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. It belongs to the Swedish Pentecostal Movement. The church was inaugurated on 2 November 1930.

[[Statistics Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: Sweden, Government agencies, Statistics, 1858 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in Sweden

Statistics Sweden (Statistiska centralbyrån, SCB) is the Swedish government agency that makes the official statistics for Sweden. National statistics in Sweden were first created in 1686 when the Church of Sweden was told to start keeping records on the population. Before the SBC, the Office of Tables (Tabellverket), was set up in 1749. The current name was changed in 1858.

Since 2008, the agency had about 1,400 employees. The offices of the agency are in Stockholm and Örebro. Statistics Sweden prints the Journal of Official Statistics.

[[Garphyttan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Garphyttan is a locality in Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,619 people lived there. The locality is located 16 kilometers northwest of the town of Örebro. It is located near the Garphyttan National Park.

[[Media franchise]]

CATEGORIES: Media franchises

A media franchise is a collection of related media, usually in a series based on an original work. This can be as movies, books, television programs, or video games. It generally involves the licensing of intellectual property (IP) to other parties and partners. This is for usually for the purpose of selling related goods. Basically a media franchise is a brand. Valuable franchises can sometimes be worth more than the original product. 

A transmedia franchise or multimedia franchise is a kind of media franchise. It consists of cross-marketing across more than one type of medium. An example is American Idol. From the start it was a transmedia franchise. The season-one winner was Kelly Clarkson. She was signed to RCA Records and her first release was an immediate hit. An American Idol book made the bestseller list. American idol contestants went on a nationwide tour and played to sold-out Concert halls. There was even an American idol movie From Justin to Kelly.

[[Grythyttan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Grythyttan is a locality in Hällefors Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 891 people lived there.

[[Seventh-day Adventist Church in Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 establishments in Europe, Protestantism in Sweden, 1880s establishments in Sweden

The Seventh-day Adventist Church in Sweden (Adventistsamfundet i Sverige) is a Seventh-day Adventist denomination in Sweden. The first Seventh-day Adventist Church congregation in Sweden was established in Grythyttan in 1880. Circa 40 Swedish Seventh-day Adventist denominations were around in Sweden during the early 2000s. Most of them existed in Central Sweden.

[[Christian Council of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 establishments in Sweden, Christianity in Sweden

The Christian Council of Sweden (Sveriges kristna råd) is an echumenical Christian organization in Sweden. It was established on 15 December 1992.

[[Canada men's national ice hockey team]]

CATEGORIES: National ice hockey teams, Ice hockey in Canada, 1963 establishments in North America, 1960s establishments in Canada

The Canadian National Men's Ice Hockey Team (also known as Team Canada) is the ice hockey team for Canada. The team is run by Hockey Canada, a member of the International Ice Hockey Federation. From 1920 until 1963 Canada did not have a single national hockey team. Instead, senior amateur club teams played for Canada . Canada's national men's team was created in 1963 by Father David Bauer as a part of the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association. This team played out of the University of British Columbia. During the 1972 Summit Series, the name "Team Canada" was first used. The Canadian national team is now often called "Team Canada".

Team Canada has been one of the leading national ice hockey teams playing around the world. They won the 1972 Summit Series against the Soviet Union, four of five Canada Cups since 1976, nine Olympic gold medals (the most of any hockey nation); Salt Lake City 2002, Vancouver 2010, and Sochi 2014. They are 25-time IIHF World Champions and winner of the 2004 World Cup of Hockey.

[[David Rolfe (swimmer)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 deaths, 1964 births, Australian Paralympic bronze medalists, Australian swimmers, Deaths from surgical complications, Sportspeople from New South Wales

David John Rolfe (26 June 1964 – 7 January 2015) was an Australian swimmer and Paralympian. He won a bronze medal at the 2000 Summer Paralympics in the Men's 4x100 m Medley 34 pts event in Sydney.

Rolfe was born in Inverell, New South Wales. He was married with one child and lived on the Gold Coast in Queensland.

Rolfe died from complications relating to heart surgery on 7 January 2015 on the Gold Coast. He was 50.

[[Lethal Weapon 4]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s action movies, 1990s comedy movies, 1998 movies, English-language movies, Warner Bros. movies

Lethal Weapon 4 is a 1998 comedy-action movie. Danny Glover plays Roger. Mel Gibson plays Martin. Rene Russo plays Lorna Cole. Chris Rock plays Lee.

This movie was released in July 1998. It got mixed to negative reviews from critics. However, it made about $285 million.

[[Lethal Weapon 3]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 action movies, 1992 comedy movies, 1992 movies, Warner Bros. movies

Lethal Weapon 3 is a 1992 comedy-action movie. Rene Russo plays Lorna Cole. Danny Glover plays Roger. Joe Pesci plays Leo. Mel Gibson plays Martin.

This movie was released on May 15, 1992. It got mixed reviews. It made over US$320 million.

[[Bonnie]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Bonnie is a given name. It is usually used for females. Some males also have the name. It comes from the Scottish word "bonnie", which means pretty or attractive. There are several celebrities with the name, including Bonnie Franklin and Bonnie Raitt.

[[Tadeusz Konwicki]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Polish movie directors, Polish screenwriters

Tadeusz Konwicki (22 June 1926 – 7 January 2015) was a Polish screenwriter and movie director. He was a member of the Polish Language Council. He was known for his movies A Tale of Adam Mickiewicz's 'Forefathers' Eve, Kronika wypadków milosnych and Mother Joan of the Angels. Konwicki was born in present day Naujoji Vilnia, Lithuania.

Konwicki died in Warsaw, Poland, aged 88.

[[Staryl C. Austin]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2015 deaths, American military people, People from Oregon

Staryl Chester Austin, Jr. (September 16, 1920 – January 1, 2015) was an American brigadier general in the United States Air Force. He was a former Assistant Adjutant General of Oregon and 142nd Fighter Group’s Air Officer, Chief of the Administrative Division. He was a member of the Oregon Aviation Hall of Honor.

[[Andraé Crouch]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2015 deaths, African-American singers, American Christians, American gospel musicians, American record producers, Singer-songwriters from California, Christian clergy, American gospel singers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Gospel Music Hall of Fame inductees, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from San Francisco

Andraé Edward Crouch (July 1, 1942 – January 8, 2015) was an American gospel singer, songwriter, arranger, recording artist, record producer, and pastor. He was known for his compositions The Blood Will Never Lose Its Power, My Tribute (To God Be the Glory), and Soon and Very Soon.  In the 1980s, he led choirs that sang on the Michael Jackson hit Man in the Mirror as well as Madonna's Like a Prayer.

Crouch was born in San Francisco, California. He was co-pastor at the Christ Memorial Church in Pacoima, Los Angeles with his twin sister, Sandra.

Crouch died from a heart attack on January 8, 2015 in Los Angeles, California, aged 72.

[[Jan Olszewski]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, Politicians from Warsaw, Prime Ministers of Poland

Jan Ferdynand Olszewski AUD (20 August 1930 in Warsaw – 7 February 2019 in Warsaw) was a Polish lawyer and political figure. He is best known for serving as Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland from 1991 to 1992.

Olszewski died after a long illness on 7 February 2019 in a Warsaw hospital, aged 88.

[[Józef Oleksy]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in Poland, Prime Ministers of Poland, Marshals of the Sejm

Józef Oleksy (22 June 1946 – 9 January 2015) was a Polish left-wing politician and economist. He served as the seventh Prime Minister of Poland from 7 March 1995 until 7 February 1996. He was also the former chairman of the Democratic Left Alliance (Sojusz Lewicy Demokratycznej, SLD). From 1968 to 1990, he was a member of the communist Polish United Workers' Party.

Oleksy was born in Nowy Sącz, Lesser Poland Voivodeship. He was an atheist before becoming a Roman Catholic.December 2015

Oleksy died from cancer on 9 January 2015 in Warsaw, aged 68.

[[Mompati Merafhe]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, Botswana politicians, Vice Presidents of Botswana

Lt. Gen. Mompati Sebogodi Merafhe (6 June 1936 – 7 January 2015) was a Botswanan politician. He was Vice-President of Botswana from 2008 to 2012. He was a Lieutenant-General and was Botswana's Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1994 to 2008.

[[B. S. Abdur Rahman]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Indian businesspeople, Indian educators, Indian philanthropists

Buhari Syed Abdur Rahman (15 October 1927 – 7 January 2015) was an Indian serial entrepreneur, philanthropist and educator. He had a range of business interests in the UAE and India. He was one of the 24 Indians to feature in The 500 Most Influential Muslims. Rahman was the Vice-chairman of Emirates Trading Agency from 1973 to 2015. He was the founder of B. S. Abdur Rahman University. Rahman was born in Kilakarai, Madras State, British India.

Rahman died in Chennai, India, aged 87.

[[Theo van Gogh]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2004 deaths, Dutch columnists, Dutch movie actors, Dutch movie directors, Dutch movie producers, Dutch murder victims, Dutch television actors, Islamophobia, People murdered in the Netherlands, Writers from The Hague

Theodoor "Theo" van Gogh (ˈteːjoː vɑŋ ˈɣɔx; 23 July 1957spaced ndash2 November 2004) was a Dutch movie director, movie producer, columnist, author and actor. He was born in The Hague, Netherlands. His great-great uncle was artist Vincent van Gogh. 

[[Elsa Cayat]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s births, 2015 deaths, French journalists, French murder victims, French scientists, Murders by firearm in France, Writers from Paris

Elsa Cayat (ɛlza kaja) (9 March 1960 – 7 January 2015) was a French psychoanalyst and columnist. She had a biweekly column "Le Divan" ('"The Couch") in Charlie Hebdo. The column was based on facts she hated about society. Cayat was also the author of several works on the couple and sexuality, one with the participation of Antonio Fischetti, physics teacher and researcher.

Cayat died in the January 2015 shooting attack on the Charlie Hebdo newspaper offices in Paris, aged 54.

[[Tihomir Novakov]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Serbian people, American physicists, Scientists from California

Tihomir Novakov, Ph.D known also as Tica Novakov (March 16, 1929 – January 2, 2015) was an Serbian-born American physicist. As a scientist, Novakov was known for his black carbon, air quality, and climate change research. James Hansen dubbed him "the godfather of black carbon." He was born in Sombor, Serbia.

Novakov died on January 2, 2015 in Kensington, California from natural causes, aged 85.

[[Kiruna Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Kiruna Church (Kiruna kyrka) is a church building in the town of Kiruna in Sweden. It was built in the early 20th century. The church belongs to the Jukkasjärvi Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was opened on 8 December 1912 by bishop Olof Bergqvist.

[[Ray McFall]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, The Beatles, English businesspeople, People from Liverpool

Andrew Raymond "Ray" McFall (26 November 1926 – 8 January 2015) was a British businessman. He owned The Cavern Club in Liverpool and was well known for promoting The Beatles during the early 1960s.

McFall was born in Garston, south Liverpool. He married Shirley Wilkins in 1952, and had six children with her: three sons and three daughters. He retired in 1999.

McFall died on 8 January 2015 at the age of 88.

[[Joseph Djida]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2015 deaths, Cameroonian people, Roman Catholic bishops

Joseph Djida OMI (8 April 1945 – 6 January 2015) was a Cameroonian Roman Catholic bishop. He became a priest on 5 December 1976. He was appointed the second bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Ngaoundéré on 23 October 2000.

[[Umeå City Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches, Umeå

Umeå City Church (Umeå stads kyrka) is a church building in the central parts of Umeå in Sweden. It is located between Vänortsparken and the northern bank of the Ume River. The church belongs to the Umeå City Parish of the Church of Sweden. It was inaugurated on 2 December 1894. That day was First Advent Sunday the same year year.

[[Mizda]]

CATEGORIES: Libya, Towns in Africa

Mizda or Mesdah (مزدة Mizdah) is a town in the Jabal al Gharbi District in Libya. It was the capital of the former Mizda District. 

Just to the west of Mizda is the Mizda Army Base at 31

[[Emily Lloyd]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, English movie actors, English television actors, 1970 births, Living people

Emily Lloyd (born 29 September 1970) is an English actress. She played Emily in Wish You Were Here. She played Samantha Hughes in In Country. She also played Cookie in the movie Cookie.

She was born in London, England. Her father was Roger Lloyd-Pack. Her grandfather was Charles Lloyd-Pack.

[[Vittangi]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Vittangi is a locality in Kiruna Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 784 people lived there.

[[Jukkasjärvi]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Jukkasjärvi jʊkɑsjɛrvi is a locality in Kiruna Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 548 people lived there.

[[Karesuando]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Karesuando (Kaaresuvanto or Karesuvanto, Sami: Karesuanto, Gárasavvon or Karasavvon) is a locality in Kiruna Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. It is the northernmost locality in Sweden. In 2010, 303 people lived there. In 2011, 350 people lived there.

[[Lara Fabian]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, People from Brussels-Capital Region, Canadian singers, Musicians from Brussels

Lara Fabian (born January 9, 1970) is a Belgian singer. She has sold more than twenty million records worldwide. She sings in French, Spanish, English and other languages.

Fabian was born in Etterbeek, Brussels, Belgium to a Sicilian mother and Belgian father.

[[Julie Bowen]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Baltimore, Maryland, American movie actors, American television actors, 1970 births, Living people

Julie Bowen (born March 3, 1970) is an American actress. She played Denise Bauer in the television series Boston Legal. She plays Claire on Modern Family.

She was born in Baltimore, Maryland.

[[Svappavaara]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Svappavaara is a locality in Kiruna Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 417 people lived there.

[[Kuttainen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Kuttainen is a locality in Kiruna Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. The locality is located near the Muonio River. In 2010, 333 people lived there.

[[Korpilombolo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Korpilombolo is a locality in Pajala Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 529 people lived there.

[[Gammelstaden]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Gammelstaden or Gammelstad (Luleå Old Town) is a locality in Luleå Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 4,960 people lived there. The Gammelstad Church Town became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1996.

[[Bälinge]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Bälinge is a locality in Uppsala Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,437 people lived there.

[[Öxabäck]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Öxabäck is a locality in Mark Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 300 people lived there.

[[Västerhaninge]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Västerhaninge is a locality in Haninge Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 15,134 people lived there. The locality is connected to Stockholm by commuter rail.

[[Ljugarn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gotland County

Ljugarn is a locality in Gotland Municipality in Gotland County in Sweden. In 2010, 238 people lived there. It is located on the East Coast of Swedsih Baltic Sea island of Gotland and lies south of Slite.

[[Sexdrega]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Sexdrega is a locality in Svenljunga Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 787 people lived there.

[[Östra Frölunda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Östra Frölunda is a locality in Svenljunga Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 309 people lived there.

[[Harplinge]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Harplinge is a locality in Halmstad Municipality in Halland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,450 people lived there. The village of Harplinge is known for its surrounding nature.

[[Kinnarp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Kinnarp is a locality in Falköping Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 917 people lived there.

[[Kättilstorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Kättilstorp is a locality in Falköping Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. It had 253 inhabitants in 2010.

[[Vartofta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Vartofta is a locality in Falköping Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 540 people lived there.

[[Åsarp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Åsarp is a locality in Falköping Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 598 people lived there.

[[Stenstorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Stenstorp is a locality in Falköping Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,668 people lived there. The Western Main Line runs through Stenstorp, and local/regional passenger trains stop there.

[[Torbjörntorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Torbjörntorp is a locality in Falköping Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 475 people lived there.

[[Odensberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Odensberg is a locality in Falköping Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 287 people lived there.

[[Gudhem]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Gudhem is a locality in Falköping Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 427 people lived there.

[[Hagbyhöjden]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Hagbyhöjden is a locality in Österåker Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 479 people lived there.

[[Blikstorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Blikstorp is a locality in Hjo Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 222 people lived there.

[[Korsberga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Korsberga is a locality in Hjo Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 214 people lived there.

[[Slottsskogen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Slottsskogen is a locality in Håbo Municipality, Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,492 people lived there.

[[Alvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Alvik is a locality in Luleå Municipality in Norrbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 777 people lived there.

[[Järna, Södertälje Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Järna is a locality in Södertälje Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 6,377 people lived there.

[[Järna]]

Järna may refer to:

[[Nås]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Nås is a locality in Vansbro Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 417 people lived there.

[[Äppelbo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Äppelbo is a locality in Vansbro Municipality in Dalarna County in Sweden. In 2010, 258 people lived there.

[[Täfteå]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Täfteå is a locality in Umeå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,231 people lived there.

[[Robert Cunning]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Scottish footballers, 1983 deaths, Fife

Robert 'Bobby' Robertson Innes Cunning (12 February 1930 – 24 January 1983) was a footballer from Scotland. Cunning was born on 12 February 1930 in Dunfermline, Scotland. He played for Sunderland, Hamilton and the Rangers football clubs. He was a striker.

In 1951, Cunning was on the Sunderland roster playing outside left. In 1952 and 1953, he was on the Hamilton roster. In the 1953/54 season, he played 19 games and scored 2 goals for Hamilton. In 1954, he signed to the Rangers for £2,500. His first match for Rangers was against Clyde in the Glasgow Cup. This was on 9 September 1954 when he was 24. Cunning played seven games for the Rangers. His vision problems ended his career. Cunning died 24 January, 1983 in Dunoon, Scotland.

[[Tavelsjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Tavelsjö is a locality in Umeå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 245 people lived there. It is near the northern shorelines of the lake Tavelsjön between Umeå and Vindeln.

[[Sävar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Sävar is a locality in Umeå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,670 people lived there. The locality is located by E4 circa 15 kilometers north of Umeå.

[[Hörnefors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Hörnefors is a locality in Umeå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,542 people lived there.

[[Lori Beth Denberg]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, Comedians from Los Angeles, California, 1976 births, Living people

Lori Beth Denberg (born February 2, 1976) is an American comedian and actress. She was an original cast member on All That on Nickelodeon. She also played Lydia on The Steve Harvey Show.

She was born in Northridge, Los Angeles, California.

[[Boliden]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Boliden is a locality in Skellefteå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,566 people lived there. It is located 28,5 kilometers from the town of Skellefteå. Swedish mining company Boliden AB was established here.

[[Malmbäck]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Malmbäck is a locality in Nässjö Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,031 people lived there.

[[Bodafors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Bodafors is a locality in Nässjö Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,886 people lived there.

[[Stensjön]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Stensjön is a locality in Nässjö Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 224 people lived there.

[[Myresjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Myresjö is a locality in Vetlanda Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 646 people lived there.

[[Landsbro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Landsbro is a locality in Vetlanda Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,426 people lived there.

[[Skede]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Skede is a locality in Vetlanda Municipality in Jönköping County in Sweden. In 2010, 304 people lived there.

[[Surte]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Surte is a locality in Ale Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 5,798 people lived there. It is a located circa 15 kilometers north of the town of Gothenburg.

[[Skepplanda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Skepplanda is a locality in Ale Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,803 people lived there.

[[Hyssna]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Hyssna is a locality in Mark Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 638 people lived there.

[[Burträsk]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Burträsk is a locality in Skellefteå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,575 people lived there.

[[Lövånger]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Lövånger is a locality in Skellefteå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 761 people lived there.

[[Bureå]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Bureå is a locality in Skellefteå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,360 people lived there. The Bure kinship is associated with the locality.

[[Byske]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Byske is a locality in Skellefteå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,728 people lived there.

[[Ursviken]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Ursviken is a locality in Skellefteå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,977 people lived there.

[[Bergsbyn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Bergsbyn is a locality in Skellefteå Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,780 people lived there.

[[Hemavan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Hemavan or Bierke is a locality in Storuman Municipality in Västerbotten County in Sweden. In 2010, 222 people lived there.

It is located on European route E12 between Storuman in Sweden and Mo i Rana in Norway. Hemavan is also known as a ski. The Hemavan Airport, is also here.

[[Stensele]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Stensele is a locality in Storuman Municipality in Västerbotten County, Sweden, In 2010, 546 people lived there.

[[Junsele]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Junsele is a locality in Sollefteå Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 895 people lived there. The village is known for its zooligical gardens.

[[Ramsele]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Ramsele is a locality in Sollefteå Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 968 people lived there. Since the 1960s the population has been reduced from 1 563 to 968. The locality is located near the Fax River circa 70 kilometers northwest of the town of Sollefteå.

[[Långsele]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Långsele is a locality in Sollefteå Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,584 people lived there.

[[Ramvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Ramvik is a locality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 691 people lived there. The locality is bimunicipal. That means it spans across the borderlines of two municipalities (Härnösand Municipality and Kramfors Municipality).

[[Högsjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Högsjö is a locality in Vingåker Municipality in Södermanland County in Sweden. In 2010, 713 people lived there.

[[Marma]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Marma is a locality in Älvkarleby Municipality in Uppsala County in Sweden. In 2010, 298 people lived there.

[[Ås]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Ås (from Old Norse áss 'ridge') is a locality in Krokom Municipality in Jämtland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,218 people lived there.

[[Ryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Ryd is a locality in Tingsryd Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,415 people lived there.

[[Viskafors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Viskafors is a locality in Borås Municipality in Västra Götaland County in Sweden. In 2010, 3,790 people lived there.

[[Väckelsång]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Väckelsång is a locality in Tingsryd Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 905 people lived there.

[[Brian Leetch]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, American ice hockey players, Boston Bruins players, Calder Trophy winners, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Living people, New York Rangers players, James Norris Memorial Trophy winners, People from Corpus Christi, Texas, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Ice hockey defencemen

Brian Joseph Leetch (born January 18, 1961) is an American retired professional ice hockey defenseman. He played 18 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the New York Rangers, Toronto Maple Leafs, and Boston Bruins.

He was the winner of the James Norris Memorial Trophy in 1992 and 1997. He won the Stanley Cup with the Rangers in 1994. He also won the Conn Smythe Trophy, becoming the first American-born player to win the trophy. He won the silver medal with U.S. ice hockey team at the 2002 Winter Olympics.

He was inducted into the United States Hockey Hall of Fame with his Rangers teammate Mike Richter in 2008. He was also inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame during his first year of eligibility in 2009.

[[Stöde]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Stöde is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 572 people lived there.

[[Njurundabommen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Njurundabommen is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,983 people lived there.

[[Docksta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Docksta is a locality in Kramfors Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 378 people lived there.

[[Bollstabruk]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Bollstabruk is a locality in Kramfors Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 1 871 people lived there.

[[Lugnvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Lugnvik is a locality in Kramfors Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 349 people lived there.

[[Nyland]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Nyland is a locality in Kramfors Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 903 people lived there.

[[Frånö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Frånö is a locality in Kramfors Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 640 people lived there.

[[Lunde]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Lunde is a locality in Kramfors Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 399 people lived there.

[[Sandslån]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Sandslån is a locality in Kramfors Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 272 people lived there.

[[Julia Archibald Holmes]]

CATEGORIES: 1838 births, 1887 deaths, American journalists

Julia Anna Archibald Holmes (February 15, 1838 – January 19, 1887) was a Canadian-American suffragist, abolitionist, mountaineer and journalist. She was the first woman to climb Pikes Peak.

[[Stockholm metro]]

CATEGORIES: Stockholm, Transport in Sweden, Rapid transit systems

The Stockholm metro (Stockholms tunnelbana) is a metro system in Stockholm in Sweden. The first line was opened in 1950. However, underground trams had been used since 1933. The system has 100 stations in use, 47 of them are underground and 53 above ground. There are three lines (Green, Red and Blue) travelling through  Central Stockholm. In the year of 2013 the Stockholm metro cars totally carried 328 million passengers inside. It corresponds to approximately 898,630 passengers per day.

The 105.7 long metro system is owned by the Stockholm County Council through Storstockholms Lokaltrafik (SL). The operation is currently contracted to MTR Corporation.

The Stockholm metro system has been referred to as the"world's longest art gallery", with more over 90 of the network's 100 stations being decorated with various works of art.

[[Ringwoodite]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals

Ringwoodite is a mineral. It is a type of olivine which is formed at high temperatures and pressures in the Earth's mantle between 525 and 660 km deep. Olivine is a magnesium iron silicate. This mineral was first identified in a meteorite in 1969. It may be present in large quantity in the Earth’s mantle.

Ringwoodite is notable because to contains hydroxide ions (oxygen and hydrogen atoms bound together) in its structure. This suggests that there is from one to three times the world ocean's equivalent of water in the mantle's transition zone from 410 to 660 km deep.

[[Roger Kitter]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, Cancer deaths in London, British movie actors, British television actors, British stage actors

Roger Kitter (20 October 1949 – 3 January 2015) was a British actor. He was known for his role as 'Allo 'Allo!. In September 2009, he became Chairman of the Entertainment Artistes' Benevolent Fund.

Kitter died from cancer in London of cancer of unknown primary origin at the age of 65.

[[Fungi imperfecti]]

CATEGORIES: Fungi

The fungi imperfecti or imperfect fungi, also known as Deuteromycota, is a type of fungi. It is not a taxonomic category: they are linked only by their asexuality. The taxonomy of fungi is either based on morphological characteristics (what they look like), or that of biological species. Fungi imperfecti do not fit well into these schemes. 

Deueromycota literally means "second fungi", and was once a phylum within the fungi. The fungi in deuteromycota reproduce asexually, or vegetatively: sexual reproduction has never been observed in these species. The term is now used only informally for species of fungi that are asexually reproducing members of the fungal phyla Ascomycota and Basidiomycota.

There are about 25,000 species that have been classified in the deuteromycota and many are basidiomycota or ascomycota. Fungi producing the antibiotic penicillin and those that cause athlete's foot and yeast infections are imperfect fungi. In addition, there are a number of edible imperfect fungi, including the ones that provide the distinctive characteristics of Roquefort and Camembert cheese. Some fungi which are used to develop immunosuppressant drugs, are imperfect fungi. Other imperfect fungi are used for insect pest control. 

Other, more informal, names besides Deuteromycota ("Deuteromycetes") and fungi imperfecti, are  anamorphic fungi, or mitosporic fungi. None of these names are terms of taxonomic rank. They are convenience terms.

[[Akikan!]]

CATEGORIES: Anime characters, Manga

Akikan! is a Japanese manga novel series. It is about a group of anthropomorphic drink cans who do battle. It was created by Riku Ranjō, with illustrations by Hiro Suzuhira. She is known for her artistry in Shuffle!. The first novel was released on May 24, 2007. As of April 24, 2009, eight volumes have been published by Shueisha under their Super Dash Bunko label. In 2008 a project started to create a harem anime version based on the book.

[[Danny Dunton]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, English businesspeople, Sportspeople from Buckinghamshire

Dennis Clifford "Danny" Dunton (13 May 1924 – 2 January 2015) was an English international motorcycle speedway rider and promoter. He reached the final of the Speedway World Championship in 1950, achieving 12th place with 5 points. As well as riding, Danny promoted Peterborough Panthers and co-promoted Oxford Cheetahs, then Oxford Rebels and finally White City Rebels. Dunton was born in Cholesbury, Buckinghamshire.

Dunton died after a long illness on 2 January 2015, aged 90.

[[Sundby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Sundby is a locality in Ekerö Municipality in Stockholm County in Sweden. In 2010, 270 people lived there.

[[Liden]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Liden is a locality in Sundsvall Municipality in Västernorrland County in Sweden. In 2010, 254 people lived there. The locality is near the Indalen River. The locality is located circa 50& kilometers (road 86) northwest of the town of Sundsvall.

[[Strömsnäsbruk]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Strömsnäsbruk is a locality in Markaryd Municipality in Kronoberg County in Sweden. In 2010, 2,066 people lived there.

[[Concealed weapon]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons

A concealed weapon is a dangerous weapon that is carried by a person and is hidden from view. It can also be a dangerous weapon under a person's control that is not readily visible. The term is most often applied to handguns. A dangerous weapon is any weapon that can inflict death or serious injury on another person. Various jurisdictions define what a dangerous weapon is. Carrying a concealed weapon is illegal as defined by laws of many states, provinces, and countries. The usual exceptions are law enforcement officers and members of the military who carry weapons as part of their jobs. Many jurisdictions may issue concealed weapons permits (also called concealed carry permits) giving individuals permission to carry a concealed weapon within their jurisdiction.

[[Ron Hovey]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, Australian rules footballers, Order of Australia

Ron Hovey OAM (25 August 1932 – 6 January 2015) was an Australian rules footballer. He played with Geelong in the Victorian Football League (VFL) from 1951 until 1960. He later served as the President of Geelong Football Club from 1988 until 1998. Two of his brothers, Ced and Jim, also played league football for Geelong.

Hovey died on 6 January 2015 at the age of 82.

[[Kenneth Mapp]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Governors of the United States Virgin Islands, Politicians from New York City, Independent politicians in the United States, Lieutenant Governors of the United States Virgin Islands

Kenneth E. Mapp (born November 2, 1955) is an American politician. He was the 29th Governor of the United States Virgin Islands from 2015 to 2019. He is a registered Republican, but ran as an independent.

A former three term Virgin Islands Senator, Mapp served as the Lieutenant Governor of the United States Virgin Islands from 1995 until 1999. Mapp was an independent candidate for Governor of the U.S. Virgin Islands in the 2010 gubernatorial election, but was defeated by  John de Jongh.

He ran in the 2014 gubernatorial election for Governor of the United States Virgin Islands, defeating Donna Christian-Christensen, the longtime Delegate to Congress in a run-off.

[[Gina Raimondo]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Governors of Rhode Island, United States Secretaries of Commerce, Businesspeople from Rhode Island, US Democratic Party politicians, Women politicians

Gina Marie Raimondo (born May 17, 1971) is an American politician, businesswoman, and venture capitalist. She is a member of the Democratic Party. In 2021, she became the United States Secretary of Commerce under the Joe Biden administration.

In 2015, Raimondo became the 75th Governor of the State of Rhode Island. She is the first woman to be Governor of Rhode Island. She was the General Treasurer for the State of Rhode Island from 2011 through 2015.

On January 7, 2021, President-elect Joe Biden nominated Raimondo to serve as the United States Secretary of Commerce in his cabinet. Her nomination was confirmed by the United States Senate on March 2, 2021 with a 84-15 vote.

[[Pete Ricketts]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Governors of Nebraska, Businesspeople from Nebraska, US Republican Party politicians

John Peter "Pete" Ricketts (born August 19, 1964) is the 40th and current Governor of Nebraska and former Chief Operating Officer of Ameritrade.

He was the Republican nominee for the 2006 U.S. Senate race in Nebraska, which he lost to then incumbent Ben Nelson. He ran for Governor of Nebraska in the 2014 election, this time defeating the Democratic nominee, Chuck Hassebrook. He was inaugurated as Governor in January 2015.

[[Charlie Baker]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American Calvinists, Congregationalists, Governors of Massachusetts, Harvard University alumni, Politicians from New York, Businesspeople from New York, Businesspeople from Massachusetts, US Republican Party politicians

Charles Duane "Charlie" Baker, Jr. (born November 13, 1956) is an American businessman and politician. He is the 72nd and current Governor of Massachusetts, since 2015. He was a cabinet official under two Massachusetts governors, spent ten years as CEO of Harvard Pilgrim Health Care. He was also the Republican nominee for Governor of Massachusetts in his unsuccessful bid in 2010.

[[Doug Ducey]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Governors of Arizona, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Ohio, People from Toledo, Ohio

Douglas A. "Doug" Ducey (born April 9, 1964) is the 23rd and current Governor of the U.S. State of Arizona. He is a member of the Republican Party, and was sworn in as Governor on January 5, 2015. He also served as the 32nd State Treasurer of Arizona.

[[Susan Howard]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Texas, American movie actors, American television actors, Writers from Texas, 1944 births, Living people

Jeri Lynn Mooney (born January 28, 1944), also known as Susan Howard, is an American actress and writer. She works in both movies and television series. She played Maggie in Petrocelli. She played Donna in Dallas from 1979 to 1987. In The Love Boat, she played Cynthia.

Mooney was born in Marshall, Texas.

[[Lance Percival]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Comedians from Kent, Actors from Kent

John Lancelot Blades Percival, known as Lance Percival (26 July 1933 – 6 January 2015), was an English actor, comedian and after-dinner speaker. He was known for making the voices of Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr in the animated series The Beatles.

Percival died in January 2015, aged 81. He will be cremated at Putney Vale Cemetery on 20 January 2015.

[[Marshall, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Marshall is a city in northeastern Texas. At the 2010 census, 23,523 people lived there.

