[[West Division (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League divisions

The West Division of the National Hockey League existed from 1967, when the NHL was made up of a single division, until 1974 when the league changed its format into two conferences of two divisions each.

[[East Division (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League divisions

The East Division of the National Hockey League existed from 1967, when the NHL was made up of a single division, until 1974 when the league changed its format into two conferences of two divisions each.

[[Acrelândia]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Acre (state), 1992 establishments, 1990s establishments in Brazil

Acrelândia is a municipality in the northwest part of the Brazilian state Acre.

[[Saint Alban]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 3rd century births, 304 deaths, British Christians, Christian saints, Converts to Christianity, Executed people, Roman people

Sant Alban was the first  British Christian martyr. He was a Roman soldier who converted to Christianity. His home town of Verulamium is now is named St Albans after him. 

A priest was being chased by the Romans and Alban swapped clothes with the priest so he could escape. When they found out, the Romans ordered Alban to be killed. As he was a fine soldier, he was allowed to be beheaded by the sword than by the axe, because it was more honourable. When they cut off St. Alban's head, the executioner's eyes fell out into his hand, and he was blinded. 

The bones of  Alban were kept in a shrine in St Albans Abbey. They were stolen during the 19th century.

[[Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people

PeaceCarlos Filipe Ximenes Belo SDB, GCL (born February 3, 1948) is a Roman Catholic bishop. Together with José Ramos-Horta, they both received 1996 Nobel Peace Prize, for their work "towards a just and peaceful solution to the conflict in East Timor." 

[[Pope Innocent VIII]]

CATEGORIES: Italian popes, 1432 births, 1492 deaths

Pope Innocent VIII (Innocentius Octavus; 1432 – July 25, 1492), born Giovanni Battista Cibo, was an Italian cleric of the Roman Catholic Church and the 214th Pope from 1484 until his death.

[[Lō'ihi Seamount]]

CATEGORIES: Seamounts, Pacific Ocean, Volcanoes of Oceania

Lō'ihi Seamount, also known as Loihi or Lōokinaihi, is an submarine volcano (seamount) in the Hawaiian–Emperor seamount chain.   It lies in the Pacific Ocean south of the island of Hawaii. 

Lōokinaihi is an active volcano.

[[Mark Knopfler]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, British record producers, English rock guitarists, English rock singers, English singer-songwriters, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from Glasgow, People from Northumberland

Mark Freuder Knopfler (born 12 August 1949 in Glasgow) is a British guitarist, singer, songwriter, record producer and film score composer.

Knopfler is best known as the founder of the British rock band Dire Straits which formed 1977. After Dire Straits disbanded in 1995, Knopfler continued to record and produce albums as a solo artist and has played in other groups including The Notting Hillbillies. Knopfler has worked with many other music artists such as: Bob Dylan,Eric Clapton and Chet Atkins.

Knopfler is a respected finger-style guitarist and was ranked #27 on Rolling Stone Magazine's list of "The 100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time."

Mark Knopfler and Dire Straits have sold in excess of 120 million albums.

Knopfler was born to an English mother and Jewish Hungarian father. Knopfler moved to Blyth, Northumberland at age seven. He has a brother, David Knopfler (born 1952) who has also been a member of Dire Straits.

[[Vision of Ezra]]

CATEGORIES: Religious texts

Vision of Ezra is the name of an ancient apocryphal text, whose authorship is associated to Ezra, the scribe. The remaining manuscript are written in Latin and date as of the 11th century, but researches say that the original document must have been written in Greek. Just like the Greek Apocalypse of Ezra, the text shows a clearly Christian origin.

[[Chamba district]]

CATEGORIES: Himachal Pradesh

Chamba is the northwestern district of Himachal Pradesh state, in north Republic of India, with its headquarters in Chamba town. The towns of Dalhousie and Khajjhiar are popular hill stations and vacation spots for the people from the plains of northern India.

[[Bear worship]]

CATEGORIES: Religions

Bear worship (also known as the Bear Cult or Arctolatry) is the religious practice of the worshiping of bears. Many North American and North Eurasian ethnic arctic religions include the worship of bears in their beliefs. These include the Sami, Nivkhs, Ainu, and pre-Christian Finns.

There are also a number of deities from Celtic Gaul and Britain similar to the bear. The bear is also featured on many totems throughout northern cultures that carve them. Bear worship may have been practiced as far back as the Middle Palaeolithic time period amongst Neanderthal societies.(Wunn, 2000, p. 434-435)

[[Chet Atkins]]

CATEGORIES: American guitarists, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Musicians from Tennessee, American folk musicians, American jazz musicians, Country musicians, American classical musicians, Grammy Award winners, 1924 births, 2001 deaths

Chester Burton "Chet" Atkins (June 20, 1924 – June 30, 2001) was an American guitarist and record producer. He helped create a smooth country music style known as the "Nashville Sound."

His guitar picking style was inspired by Merle Travis, Django Reinhardt and Les Paul and brought him admirers both in the United States and internationally as well as earning him the nickname "Mister Guitar."

Chet Atkins produced records for Perry Como, Elvis Presley, the Everly Brothers, Eddy Arnold, Jim Reeves, Jerry Reed and Waylon Jennings along with many others.

Chet Atkins received many honors including 14 Grammy Awards as well as the "Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award." He won nine Country Music Association "Instrumentalist of the Year" awards, and was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame.

He died from cancer on June 30, 2001, at his home in Nashville, Tennessee.

In 2002, Atkins was posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. The following year, Atkins was ranked #28 in CMT's "40 Greatest Men of Country Music."

[[Merle Travis]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1983 deaths, American guitarists, Grammy Award winners

Merle Robert Travis (November 29, 1917 – October 20, 1983) was an American country singer, songwriter and guitarist. He was born in Rosewood, Kentucky. Travis wrote many well-known songs including: "Sixteen Tons."  Travis is best known for his masterful guitar playing style. The style of finger-picking known as "Travis picking" is named after him. He was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1977.

[[Clodovil Hernandes]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2009 deaths, Brazilian people

Clodovil Hernandes (17 June 1937 – 17 March 2009) was a Brazilian fashion designer, television host and politician.

A designer in the '60s and '70s, he was invited to work in television, where he hosted numerous programs on several stations.

He launched congress election in 2006 and became the third most voted congressman in the country, with 493,951 votes or 2.43% of valid votes. Once, when he was asked about running in the municipal elections for São Paulo Mayor position, he changed the subject and did not answer the question.

He was known mainly for his controversial statements, deemed inappropriate or rude, often directed at other famous personalities. Among other problems, he was accused of racism and anti-Semitism.

[[Waylon Jennings]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, American guitarists, American rock musicians, American rock singers, Singer-songwriters from Texas, Deaths from diabetes, Grammy Award winners, 1937 births, 2002 deaths

Waylon Arnold Jennings (June 15, 1937 – February 13, 2002) was an American country singer-songwriter and guitarist. Jennings first became famous as a member of Buddy Holly's backing band. On February 3, 1959, while playing shows with Holly, he gave up his airplane seat J. P. "The Big Bopper" Richardson. The airplane crashed after it took-off killing Richarson, Ritchie Valens and Buddy Holly. Jennings claimed that in the years afterward he felt severe guilt over the crash.

By the 1970s, Jennings had become associated with a country music scene known as outlaw country. Jennings recorded a series of albums with Willie Nelson in the late 1970s which increased the popularity of the outlaw country sound.

In 1979, he recorded the theme song for the television show The Dukes of Hazzard. Jennings also became the narrator of the show for all seven seasons.

In the 1980s he formed the group The Highwaymen along with Willie Nelson, Johnny Cash and Kris Kristofferson.

In 2001, he was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame.

On February 13, 2002, Waylon Jennings died in Chandler, Arizona from health complications due to diabetes.

[[FIFA 10]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, FIFA, Sports video games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation Portable games, Wii games, Xbox 360 games, Nintendo DS games, Windows games

FIFA 10 (also known as FIFA Soccer 10 in North America) is video game in Electronic Arts' FIFA series of football video games. It was released for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Windows, PlayStation 2, and Wii.

[[NBA 2K10]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation Portable games, Wii games, Windows games, Xbox 360 games, Sports video games

NBA 2K10 is a basketball video game developed by Visual Concepts and published by 2K Sports. It was released on October 6, 2009 on Xbox 360, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, and PSP and on October 12, 2009 on PC. It was released on the Wii on November 9, 2009. Retired Lakers star Kobe Bryant is the cover athlete of the game. The game is the first PSP and Wii release of the NBA 2K series, and the first on a Nintendo system since NBA 2K3 for the GameCube in 2002.

[[NBA Live 10]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation Portable games, Xbox 360 games

NBA Live 10 (also known as NBA Live 2010) is the 2009 installment in the NBA Live series developed and published by Electronic Arts. It was released on October 6, 2009.

[[Michael Grabner]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Arizona Coyotes players, American Hockey League players, Austrian ice hockey players, Living people, New Jersey Devils players, New York Islanders players, New York Rangers players, People from Carinthia (state), Spokane Chiefs players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vancouver Canucks players

Michael René Grabner (born October 5, 1987 in Villach, Austria) is an Austrian professional ice hockey player who is with the New York Islanders, a team in the National Hockey League (NHL). Grabner plays right wing for the Islanders, a team he first joined in 2010 after being with the Vancouver Canucks, who selected him in the 2006 NHL Entry Draft. Before that, Grabner played for EC VSV, a team from Austria who play in the Austrian Hockey League, and the Manitoba Moose, who play in the American Hockey League. As well as those teams, Grabner played for the Spokane Chiefs, a junior team with the Western Hockey League. He is a fast skater who has a quick shot. His first game with the Canucks was on October 14, 2009, and scored his first goal with them on October 21. He was traded to the Florida Panthers, along with Steve Bernier and a first round draft pick in the 2010 NHL Entry Draft, on June 25, 2010 for Keith Ballard and Victor Oreskovich. When the Panthers tried to send Grabner to their AHL team, the Islanders claimed his rights.

[[Nuclear chain-reaction]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear physics

A nuclear chain reaction is a nuclear reaction in which a heavy isotope atom such as uranium or plutonium splits and the neutrons released by the fissioning of that atom strike and split other heavy atoms which, as a result, hit others one after another after another. Chain reactions are the main way of getting nuclear energy. Power plants use a slow chain reaction to make steam. Fast reactions can make a nuclear explosion. Nuclear reactions make ionizing radiation that is harmful to life.

[[Dargai]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Dargai is a town in district Charsadda. It is the oldest village in the Charsadda District, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Five tribes, the Sipah, Dagwall, Khattak and Kashmiryans and Awan live in Dargai. The village is famous because of several battles which took place there during British rule between 1853 and 1897.

[[Hillsong Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches, Buildings and structures in Sydney

The Hillsong Church, Australia is a very large church in Sydney. According to the church, over 35,000 people attend services each week. It also has churches in Brisbane, London, Kiev, Cape Town, Stockholm, Paris, Moscow and New York City. The churches are pastored by senior pastor Brian Houston. Hillsong is also well known for their worship music CDs and DVDs.

[[Yoshi Tatsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Boxers, Former WWE wrestlers, Japanese professional wrestlers, Living people, People from Gifu Prefecture

Naofumi Yamamoto (born August 1, 1977 in Gifu, Japan) is a Japanese professional wrestler and retired boxer. He is best known for his time working with New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW) and the WWE. During his time in the WWE, he competed under the ring name Yoshi Tatsu. He has challenged Christian in the past for the ECW Championship and has also challenged for the Unified Tag Team Championship with Goldust but came up short in capturing the titles.

[[Long John Silver's]]

CATEGORIES: American fast food restaurants, Companies based in Kentucky, 1969 establishments in the United States, Louisville, Kentucky, 20th-century establishments in Kentucky

Long John Silver's is a fast food restaurant that sells mainly seafood. 

It was created in 1969 in Lexington, Kentucky. The name for the restaurant is named after Long John Silver from the novel Treasure Island by Robert Louis Stevenson. They used to be a private owned company but they went bankrupt in 1998. 

Their parent company Yum! sold Long John Silver's to LJS Partners LLC and A&W Restaurants to A Great American Brand LLC in September 2011 to focus on expanding in China.

The restaurant chain also has many restaurants world-wide.

[[Yoshikiyo Kuboyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Yoshikiyo Kuboyama (born 21 July 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Koji Yoshimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Kōchi Prefecture

Koji Yoshimura (born 13 April 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jungo Kono]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Jungo Kono (born 9 July 1982) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Superettan]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 establishments in Sweden, Football leagues, Football in Sweden

Superettan is a men's football league. It is the second division in Sweden.

[[Dakota Wizards]]

CATEGORIES: Bismarck, North Dakota, National Basketball Association teams

The Dakota Wizards are an NBA Development League team based in Bismarck, North Dakota, United States.

[[Patrick Sharp]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Chicago Blackhawks players, Dallas Stars players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, People from Thunder Bay, Sportspeople from Vermont, Stanley Cup champions, United States Hockey League players

Patrick Sharp (born December 27, 1981) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He currently plays for the Dallas Stars of the National Hockey League (NHL). Sharp has also played for the Philadelphia Flyers and the Chicago Blackhawks. Sharp played college hockey with the University of Vermont's Catamounts.

On June 9, 2010, Sharp won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Blackhawks contributing 11 goals and 11 assists in the playoffs. On June 24, 2013, He won his second Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals.

On July 10, 2015, the Blackhawks faced salary cap issues and they traded Sharp along with Stephen Johns to the Dallas Stars in exchange for Trevor Daley and Ryan Garbutt.

[[Desertification]]

CATEGORIES: Environmental issues

Desertification is the expansion of desert into the surrounding areas. The desert area in the world is getting bigger. Desertification usually happens on the edge of deserts. It is caused by a variety of factors.

[[Dwayne Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Actors from Alameda County, California, African American actors, African-American sportspeople, American Christians, American movie actors, American television actors, American video game actors, American professional wrestlers, Canadian Christians, Canadian movie actors, Canadian professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, People from Hayward, California, Sportspeople from California, WWE wrestlers

Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson OC (born May 2, 1972) is an American actor and semi-retired professional wrestler. He is the Father of Leia Cardillo. He is best known for his work with the WWE.

[[Shaquille O'Neal]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Actors from Newark, New Jersey, African American actors, African-American basketball players, African American musicians, American movie actors, American movie producers, American Muslims, American rap musicians from New Jersey, Musicians from Newark, New Jersey, Sportspeople from Newark, New Jersey, American television personalities, American television producers, Boston Celtics players, Cleveland Cavaliers players, Los Angeles Lakers players, Miami Heat players, Orlando Magic players, Businesspeople from Newark, New Jersey, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, American basketball players

Shaquille Rashaun "Shaq" O'Neal (born March 6, 1972 in Newark, New Jersey)  is an American retired professional basketball player, actor and rapper. He had a 19 year career in the National Basketball Association (NBA) for the Orlando Magic, Los Angeles Lakers, Miami Heat, Phoenix Suns, Cleveland Cavaliers and Boston Celtics. He is often considered one of the most well-known players in the history of the NBA. He stands at 7 feet 1 inch and weighs 325 pounds, making him one of the heaviest players to ever play in the NBA.

[[Left 4 Dead]]

CATEGORIES: Xbox 360 games, Windows games, 2008 video games, Shooter video games, Horror video games

Left 4 Dead is a first-person shooter video game made by Valve Corporation for Mac computers, Windows PCs, and the Xbox 360. It was released in North America and Australasia on October 18, 2008, and on October 21, 2008 in Japan and Europe. There are four game modes available: a single-player mode, where the player controls one character and the 3 other characters are controlled by the game; a four-player, co-op campaign mode; an eight-player online versus mode (4 humans and 4 mutated zombies/"Special Infected"); and a four-player survival mode. Left 4 Dead was named the Best Multiplayer Game of 2008 by IGN, GameSpy, BAFTA, Spike TV, and NoFrag. The sequel, Left 4 Dead 2 was released on November 17, 2009. 

[[Rivers Cuomo]]

CATEGORIES: American guitarists, American rock musicians, Musicians from New York City, Harvard University alumni, Living people, 1970 births

Rivers Cuomo (born June 13, 1970) is an American musician. He is best known for being a member of the rock band Weezer. Cuomo plays electric and acoustic guitar. He also knows how to play drums, bass guitar, clarinet, harmonica, keyboards, trumpet and piano. In 2007 he released an album on his own called Alone: The Home Recordings of Rivers Cuomo. It is a collection of eighteen demos he made between 1992 and 2007.

[[Pau Gasol]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, 2004 Summer Olympics, Chicago Bulls players, Los Angeles Lakers players, Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Memphis Grizzlies players, Olympic silver medalists, Spanish basketball players, Spanish Olympic medalists, Sportspeople from Barcelona

Pau Gasol i Sàez (born July 6, 1980 in Barcelona, Spain) is a Spanish basketball player. Gasol plays for the Portland Trailblazers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played for the Los Angeles Lakers from 2008 to 2014. He also played for the, Chicago Bulls, San Antonio Spurs, And Milwaukee Bucks.

He has won an NBA championship with the Lakers. He played with the Spanish basketball team at the 2004, 2008 and 2012 Summer Olympics, winning silver medals in 2008 and 2012.  Before playing with the Lakers, he played in Spain and for the Memphis Grizzlies.  He wears #16 for the Lakers, and plays both forward and center. He is 7 feet tall and weighs 250 lbs, and has a younger brother named Marc Gasol who plays for the Toronto Raptors.

[[Mezzaluna]]

CATEGORIES: Kitchenware

A mezzaluna is a tool that is used for chopping herbs and the large single bladed versions are usually used for cutting pizza or pesto.

[[Cascoplecia]]

CATEGORIES: Flies

Cascoplecia is the genus of a very old fly that lived in the Early Cretaceous and was found in amber. The genus only has one type of species, the Cascoplecia insolitis, which means old and strange.

[[Sungai Besar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Malaysia

Sungai Besar is a town in district Sabak Bernam in the state of Selangor, Malaysia. The town is about 120 km north of Kuala Lumpur, the capital city of Malaysia.

[[Selangor]]

CATEGORIES: States of Malaysia

Selangor (also known as Selangor Darul Ehsan or Selangor the Abode of Sincerity) is one of the states that form Malaysia. It is located in peninsular Malaysia. The state surrounds Kuala Lumpur and Putrajaya.

[[Ichiro Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Japanese baseball players, New York Yankees players, Seattle Mariners players, People from Aichi Prefecture, Florida Marlins players

Ichiro Suzuki (鈴木 一朗, Suzuki Ichirō) (born October 22, 1974 in Toyoyama, Nishikasugai, Aichi Prefecture, Japan, is a retired Japanese baseball player.

He is the first MLB player to enter the Japanese Baseball Hall of Fame and has won a Gold Glove award in each of his first ten years in the major leagues. He spent most of his carrier with the Seattle Mariners but also played for the New York Yankees and the Miami Marlins.

[[SuccessTech Academy shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in the United States, 2000s in Cleveland, Ohio, 2000s crimes in the United States, Deaths by firearm, Suicide

The SuccessTech Academy shooting was a attempted murder-suicide at SuccessTech Academy in Cleveland, Ohio on October 10, 2007.

Asa Coon, a student at the school, came to school armed with two handguns and three tactical folding knives. After being punched in the face for bumping into Michael Peek, Coon shot  Peek in the abdomen as he walked away. He walked through the school's halls shooting at another student, Darnell Rodgers, but the bullet just scratched Rodgers, hurting his elbow. Then Coon went to a social studies class where he shot the teacher Michael Grassie in the chest. Another teacher, David Kachadourian, was shot in the shoulder while helping his students get to a safe place. A 14-year old student, Trinnetta McGrady, had knee and back injuries from being stepped on in a hallway by students who were trying to get away. The only person who died because of this was Asa Coon. He killed himself by shooting himself in the right side of his head.

A controversial crime scene photo taken of Coon after his suicide was leaked to the public from a radio disc jockey from the Rover's Morning Glory show. A Cleveland police officer Walter Emerick, who took the picture using his camera phone was suspended from his job for eight days for sending the photo to other people, eventually leading to it being leaked on the Internet.

[[Koji Arimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Koji Arimura (born 25 August 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hideaki Tominaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukui Prefecture

Hideaki Tominaga (born 27 August 1976) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Blaublitz Akita.

[[Graham Arnold]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Australian football managers, Sportspeople from Sydney

Graham Arnold (born 3 August 1963) is a former Australian football player. He has played for Australia national team.

[[Kurt Angle]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, American Olympic gold medalists, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Kurt Steven Angle (born December 9, 1968), is a retired American professional wrestler signed to WWE, where he is a backstage producer.

In 2006 he signed a contract to Total Nonstop Action Wrestling where he is a former TNA World Champion. His TNA contract expired in September 2014.

Angle won a gold medal at the 1996 Summer Olympics, winning with a broken neck. He is the only Olympic gold medalist in professional wrestling history. He wrestled for the WWE and WWF from 1998 to 2006 .

Angle returned to WWE on April 3, 2017, as the general manager of Raw. He  wrestled on occasions.

Angle retired in April 7, 2019.

[[Boris Balashov]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1974 deaths, Soviet writers, Journalists, Philatelists, Philately of the Soviet Union, Editors

Boris Aleksandrovich Balashov (7 December 1927spaced ndash20 January 1974) was Editor-in-Chief of the Soviet magazine "Filateliya SSSR" ("Philately of the USSR").

[[1960–61 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 in North America, 1961 in North America

The 1960–61 NHL season was the 44th season of the National Hockey League. Six teams each played 70 games. For the first time since 1949, two American based teams competed for the Stanley Cup and it was the Chicago Black Hawks beating the Detroit Red Wings four games to two. It was Chicago's first Cup win since 1938, not winning another until 2010.

[[Whitey Bulger]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths by beating, Murdered criminals, American murder victims, People murdered in the United States, People who died in prison custody in the United States, American prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment, American gangsters, American murderers, American prisoners, People from Boston, Massachusetts

James Joseph "Whitey" Bulger, Jr. (September 3, 1929 – October 30, 2018) was an American former mob boss that worked out of South Boston, Massachusetts. He was on the ten top most wanted fugitives in the United States from 1999 until 2011. His story was on America's Most Wanted on FOX. He was captured by police on 22 June 2011.

On October 30, 2018, Bulger was transferred to the United States Penitentiary, Hazelton in West Virginia. Later that day, he was found dead in the prison, aged 89. Bulger was beaten to death in his prison cell by other inmates.

[[Semion Mogilevich]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Fraudsters, Living people, People from Kiev

Semion Mogilevich (born 1946) is a Ukrainian criminal. He was born in Kiev, Ukrainian SSR, Soviet Union. He has many aliases. He is on charges for a multi-million-dollar fraud deal.

He was on the top ten list of fugitives by the FBI. Only 7 fugitives have been removed from the list since 1950. 

[[Ali Saed Bin Ali El-Hoorie]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Muslim terrorists, Saudi Arabian people

Ali Saed Bin Ali El-Hoorie (علي سعيد بن علي الحوري) is a terrorist working for Saudi Hizbollah. He was born in Saudi Arabia in 1965. In 1996 he bombed the Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia. He is on the most wanted list of Terrorists from the FBI.

[[Shamil Basayev]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2006 deaths, Asian military people, Chechnya, European military people, Muslim terrorists, Russian people

Shamil Basayev (Шамиль Салманович Басаев; 14 January 1965 - 10 July 2006) was a Muslim Chechen leader and warlord. During an attack in Ingushetia he was killed in Russia as he was planning a rush attack to Moscow in order to capture Kremlin.

[[Napredak Krusevac]]

CATEGORIES: Serbian football clubs

Napredak Krusevac is a Serbian football club. Their colours are red and white. Their stadium is called Mladost and can hold 10,331 people.

[[Zeta Golubovci]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs

Zeta Golubovci is a football club from Montenegro. It is in Golubovci, a suburb of Podgorica. Their colours are blue and white. They play in Trešnjica Stadium.  It can hold 3,000 people.

[[Drexel University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Pennsylvania, 1891 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in Pennsylvania

Drexel University is a university in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in the United States.

[[Eddy Gordo]]

CATEGORIES: Tekken characters

Eddy Gordo is a capoeira expert from the Tekken video games. He  appears in Tekken 3, Tekken Tag Tournament, Tekken 4 and 5. He can spin on his head. He is from Brazil.

[[Mines of Paris]]

CATEGORIES: Paris, Subterranea

The Mines of Paris (in French Carrières de Paris — "quarries of Paris") are made up of a number of abandoned, underground mines under Paris, France, connected together by large chambers called galleries. Three main networks exist; the largest, called the grand réseau sud ("large south network"), lies under the Ve, VIe, XIVe and XVe arrondissements, a second under the XIIIe arrondissement, and a third under the XVIe, though other minor networks are found under the XIIe, XIVe and XVIe for instance. Together, the mines and galleries run for about 280 kilometres.

Exploring the mines is not allowed by the prefecture and people caught get heavy fines.  A limited part of the network (1.7 km) was used as an underground ossuary (storage place for human bones) in the past known as the catacombs of Paris, and can be legally visited from the entrance on Place Denfert-Rochereau. The entire network is commonly but mistakenly called "the catacombs". Despite restrictions, the network is often toured by urban explorers popularly called cataphiles.

[[Tank Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Chicago Bears players, Cincinnati Bengals players, Dallas Cowboys players

Tank Johnson is a defensive tackle in the NFL for the Cincinnati Bengals. He is #99 and he is 27 years old. He went to Washington for college. He was born in Chandler, Arizona. He is 6'3" and weighs 305 lbs. He has 10 tackles on the season of 2009. He was born on December 7, 1981. He has been in the NFL for 6 years. 

[[San Cristóbal, Dominican Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dominican Republic, 18th-century establishments in the Spanish Empire

San Cristóbal is a Dominican city and the head municipality of the San Cristóbal province.

The city is only 26 from the national capital and, because of that, it is a city where many people live but work at Santo Domingo.

[[I've Got a Secret]]

CATEGORIES: Television game shows, CBS network shows, First run syndicated television programs, English-language television programs

I've Got a Secret was a weekly game show produced by Mark Goodson and Bill Todman for CBS television. It was a panel game show, which means that it had, in addition to a host and guests, a group of people who together acted as judges. The show was created by comedy writers Allan Sherman and Howard Merrill. It was related to Goodson-Todman's other panel show, What's My Line?. The first episode of the show aired on June 19, 1952 and ran until April 3, 1967. The first version of the show was in black and white. It switched to color in 1966.

The show was canceled in 1967 and then brought back for the 1972-1973 season and again from June 15 to July 6, 1976, for a summer run. Another production ran on the Oxygen cable channel in a daily version, airing from 2000 through 2003. GSN ran a revival from April 17 to June 9, 2006 with an all-gay panel. In October 2006, GSN decided not to renew the show for a second season, although reruns remained on its schedule for some time afterward.

[[Yann Tiersen]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1970 births, Composers, French musicians

Yann Tiersen (born 23 June 1970) is a musician from France. He did the soundtrack songs from the movie Amélie.

His music usually includes a large variety of instruments; primarily the guitar, synthesizer or violin together with instruments like the melodica, xylophone, toy piano, harpsichord, accordion and typewriter.

[[Antônio Carlos Zago]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Brazilian football managers

Antônio Carlos Zago (born 18 May 1969) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Sandro Chaves de Assis Rosa]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Sandro Chaves de Assis Rosa (born May 19, 1973) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Hernán Gaviria]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2002 deaths, Colombian footballers

Hernán Gaviria (27 November 1969 – 24 October 2002) is a former Colombian football player. He has played for Colombia national team.

[[Carrow Road]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in England, Norwich, 1935 establishments in Europe, 1930s establishments in England

Carrow Road is a British football stadium in Norwich, England. It is the home of Norwich City. The stadium is in the centre of the city, near to Norwich railway station and the River Wensum.

The stadium is on Carrow Road, and is named after the road.  The stadium was built by Norwich City in 1935. Construction took just 82 days. There has been a lot of work done to Carrow Road since 1935. Since 1990 the stadium has been an all-seater. The ground can accommodate 27,244 today and the record attendance is presently 27,091. The record attendance at Carrow Road before it became an all-seater stadium was 43,984 in 1963. The modern Carrow Road site has a club superstore, catering facilities and a Holiday Inn hotel.

[[Five Suns]]

CATEGORIES: Mythology

Five Suns is an Aztec myth about how the world was created. It says that there were four other suns before our own, because different gods served as the Sun at different times:

[[Ages of Man]]

CATEGORIES: Greek mythology, Roman mythology

Ages of Man is an Ancient Greek myth that divides the history of the world into five eras. In the first eras, humans lived close to gods and were happy. In the latest eras, the gods have left the world and humans live in pain and unhappiness. This myth was first written down by Greek poet Hesiod, about 2700 years ago.

Roman poet Ovid also wrote about the Ages of Man about two thousand years ago, although he did not mention the Heroic Age.

[[Harvey Keitel]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Movie producers from New York, Living people

Harvey Keitel (born May 13, 1939) is an American actor. He has played in movies such as Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction, Smoke, and Thelma and Louise.

[[Tim Roth]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Actors from London, BAFTA Award winners, British television producers, English movie actors, English movie directors, English stage actors, English television actors

Tim Roth (born 14 May 1961) is an English movie actor and director. He starred in the television series Lie to Me.

[[John McCrae]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1918 deaths, Canadian military people, Canadian poets, Military personnel of World War I, People from Guelph

Lieutenant Colonel John McCrae (November 30, 1872 – January 28, 1918) was a Canadian poet and soldier in World War I who is best known for writing the poem "In Flanders Fields" after seeing the death of his friend the day before.

[[Stan Mikita]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2018 deaths, Art Ross Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey centres, Chicago Blackhawks players, Deaths from dementia with Lewy bodies, Disease-related deaths in Chicago, Illinois, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Slovak ice hockey players, Stanley Cup champions

Stan Mikita (born Stanislav Guoth; May 20, 1940 – August 7, 2018) was a Slovak-born Canadian retired professional ice hockey centre. He played a career total of 22 years in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played his entire NHL career with the Chicago Black Hawks. He was often regarded as the best centre of the 1960s.

He won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Black Hawks in 1961. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1983. He was also inducted into the Slovak Hockey Hall of Fame in 2002.

He worked as an good will ambassador for the Chicago Blackhawks.

Mikita died at the age of 78 on August 7, 2018 from complications of Lewy body dementia in Chicago.

[[Left 4 Dead 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, Windows games, Xbox 360 games, Shooter video games, Horror video games

Left 4 Dead 2 is a shooter video game released in 2009. It is the sequel to Left 4 Dead. It was released on November 17, 2009. It made its world premiere at E3 in 2009. Left 4 Dead 2 brings new elements to the game that Let 4 Dead left out in the previous version such as melee weapons, new types of infected, and a story-arc that connects each of the game's five campaigns together. It is banned in Australia.

[[Reservoir Dogs (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, PlayStation 2 games, Windows games, Xbox games, Video games based on movies

Reservoir Dogs is a video game based on the Quentin Tarantino movie of the same name.

[[WWF SmackDown! Just Bring It]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 video games, PlayStation 2 games, THQ games, WWE video game series

WWF SmackDown! Just Bring It, named Exciting Pro Wrestling 3 in Japan, is a wrestling video game released only for the PlayStation 2. It was published by THQ and developed by Yuke's. The Rock is on the cover of the game. It is part of the WWF Smackdown! series.

[[Saint Germaine]]

CATEGORIES: People from Occitanie, Christian saints, 1579 births, 1601 deaths

Sainte Germaine lived from 1579 to 1601. She was born in a village in France called Pibrac, which is about ten miles from Toulouse, France. 

[[Kricogonia lyside]]

CATEGORIES: Pieridae

The Lyside Sulphur or Guayacan Sulphur (Kricogonia lyside) is a North American and South American butterfly.  It is in the family Pieridae.  In seasons with heavy monsoons, this butterfly is seen in large migrations.  These migrations are common in Texas.  They are less common in the southwest.  It sometimes lives in southern Florida.

[[All That You Can't Leave Behind]]

CATEGORIES: U2 albums, 2000 albums, Island Records albums

All That You Can't Leave Behind is the tenth studio album by Irish rock band U2. It was put in stores in October 2000. The album received mostly praise, and brought a return of a more traditional rock sound for the band.

[[Wigtownshire]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Scotland

Wigtownshire or the County of Wigtown is a registration county in the southwest of Scotland.  It was a county until 1975July 2010.

[[Forza Motorsport 3]]

CATEGORIES: Racing video games, Xbox 360 games, 2009 video games

Forza Motorsport 3 is a realistic simulation driving video game. It was released for Xbox 360 in 2009.

[[Patau syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Trisomies

Patau Sydrome, also known as Trisomy 13 or Trisomy D is a problem with the chromosomes. People who suffer from it have an extra copy of chromosome 13. This is usually because of a problem that occurred during meiosis, but it can also be the result of Robertsonian translocation, a common rearrangement of chromosomes in humans. The risk of getting a problem during meiosis increases when women have babies later in life. The average age for this syndrome is at 31 years.

It is the rarest of the three common trisomies. Down syndrome and Edwards syndrome are more common. Patau syndrome affects about one in 25,000 live births.

[[Steve Bernier]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, American Hockey League players, Buffalo Sabres players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Florida Panthers players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, Moncton Wildcats players, New Jersey Devils players, People from Quebec City, San Jose Sharks players, Vancouver Canucks players

Steve Bernier (born March 31, 1985 in Quebec City, Quebec) is a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger who plays for the New Jersey Devils of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has played for the San Jose Sharks, Buffalo Sabres, Vancouver Canucks and Florida Panthers. The Sharks selected Bernier 16th overall in the 2003 NHL Entry Draft.

[[Henryk Vogelfanger]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1990 deaths, Polish movie actors

Henryk Vogelfanger (4 October 1904 – 6 October 1990), was a Polish actor. He worked and lived in Lviv until World War Two when he joined Polish underground army, Armia Krajowa. Together with the legendary actor, radio personality Kazimierz Wajda, he was a star of the radio and theater comedy show Szczepko and Tonko. This was widely popular in Poland and other countries with over six million regular listeners, 1932-1939. The show ended when World War Two started. The team made three family movies, adventures of Szczepko & Tomko.

[[Dăbuleni]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Romania

Dăbuleni is a town of Dolj County, in Romania. It was made a town in 2004July 2010.

[[Fraternity]]

CATEGORIES: Ethics, Philosophy

Fraternity is some kind of morality, ethics or idea. A synonym of fraternity is brotherhood.

Fraternity is adopted for the national motto of France, "Liberty, Equality, Fraternity".

Japan's prime minister Ichiro Hatoyama had an idea of a fraternity. The origin of his idea is the book "The totalitarian state against man" (original title in German; "Totaler Staat, totaler Mensch") written by Count Richard Nikolaus Eijiro von Coudenhove-Kalergi, an Austrian politician, geopolitician, and philosopher. Ichiro Hatoyama had made an effort to spread the idea of the fraternity. Ichiro's grandchild Yukio Hatoyama also has become the prime minister of Japan. Yukio Hatoyama has taken over the idea of his grandfather Ichiro's. The family of Hatoyama's fraternity means "Yūai" in Japanese.

[[Rocky Rapids, Alberta]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in Alberta

Rocky Rapids is a hamlet in Brazeau County, Alberta, Canada. It has 300 people.

[[Envigado]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colombia, Geography of Colombia

Envigado (pronounced ˈeŋβ̞iɡað̞o) is a Colombian municipality in the northwestern part of the country and part of the Metropolitan Area of Medellín of the Antioquia Department.

[[Jerry Hairston Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, African-American baseball players, Baltimore Orioles players, Chicago Cubs players, Cincinnati Reds players, Los Angeles Dodgers players, Milwaukee Brewers players, New York Yankees players, San Diego Padres players, Texas Rangers players, Washington Nationals players, Sportspeople from Des Moines, Iowa

Jerry Wayne Hairston, Jr. (born May 29, 1976) was a Major League Baseball infielder and outfielder for nine different teams. He played for the Baltimore Orioles, Chicago Cubs, Texas Rangers, Cincinnati Reds, New York Yankees, San Diego Padres, Washington Nationals, Milwaukee Brewers, and Los Angeles Dodgers.

[[Little Green Bag]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 songs, Pop songs

Little Green Bag is a 1969 song written by Jan Visser and George Baker, and recorded by the George Baker Selection.

[[Matt Bonner]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Sportspeople from New Hampshire, San Antonio Spurs players, Toronto Raptors players, People from Concord, New Hampshire

Matthew Robert Bonner (born April 5, 1980) is an American professional basketball player with the San Antonio Spurs of the National Basketball Association (NBA).  Bonner played college basketball for the University of Florida.  He was selected by the Chicago Bulls in the second round of the 2003 NBA Draft.  He has also played for the Toronto Raptors.

Bonner was named the Verizon Academic All-American of the Year for the sport of basketball in both 2002 and 2003.

[[Luol Deng]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Black British sportspeople, Chicago Bulls players, Cleveland Cavaliers players, Los Angeles Lakers players, Miami Heat players, Minnesota Timberwolves players, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, People from Wau, South Sudan

Luol Deng (born 16 April 1985) is a former South Sudanese-born British professional basketball player. He played in the National Basketball Association (NBA) for the Chicago Bulls (2004–2014), the Cleveland Cavaliers (2014), the Miami Heat (2014–2016), the Los Angeles Lakers (2016–2018) and the Minnesota Timberwolves (2018–2019). He became a British citizen in 2006, and played for the Great Britain national team. He played college basketball for the Duke Blue Devils.

Deng was born in Wau, Sudan (now South Sudan). His father is politician Aldo Deng. His older brother, Ajou Deng, was also a basketball player.

[[Pedro Troglio]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Argentine football managers, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

Pedro Troglio (born 28 July 1965) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.

[[Marcos Nozomi Munakata]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Marcos Nozomi Munakata (born 1959 3 February) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Ademir Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Brazilian-Japanese footballers

Ademir Santos (born 28 March 1968) is a former Brazilian-Japanese football player.

[[Abraxas (moth)]]

CATEGORIES: Geometridae

Abraxas is a genus of moth in the family Geometridae. They are called the 'magpie moths'.

Most of these moths have been given different names at different times. Abraxus was the name chosen by Linnaeus, and used today. It was first used by Leach in 1815.

[[Baltoro Kangri]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Pakistan

Baltoro Kangri (or Golden Throne) is a mountain in the Karakoram mountain range in the Northern Areas of Pakistan. It lies to the south of the Gasherbrums and east of Chogolisa Peak (7,665 m). The huge Baltoro Glacier, which is one of the largest glaciers outside polar regions, rises from the foot of Baltoro Kangri. In the north of Baltoro Kangri is the Abruzzi Glacier.

[[Accomack County, Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Virginia counties, 1671 establishments, 1670s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 17th-century establishments in Virginia

Accomack County, which used to be called Accomac Shire, is a U.S. county in the Commonwealth of Virginia. The 2000 census said that 38,305 lived there.  Its county seat is Accomac6.

Accomack and Northampton Counties comprise the Eastern Shore of Virginia, part of the Delmarva Peninsula.

[[University of New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in New Hampshire, Hockey East, 1866 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in New Hampshire

The University of New Hampshire is a university in Durham, New Hampshire. They are called the Wildcats. The UNH business school is one of the top in New England. The former Chairman of UNH was Stephen Reno.

New Hampshire's sports teams, known as Wildcats, mostly play in the America East Conference. The football team plays in the Colonial Athletic Association, and the men's and women's ice hockey teams play in Hockey East.

[[University of Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Vermont, 1791 establishments in the United States, 18th-century establishments in Vermont

The University of Vermont is a university in the U.S. state of Vermont. The university has over 10,000 students. The school was found in 1791, and is one of the oldest universities in the United States.

[[Immunosuppressant drugs]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Immunosuppressant drugs are simply drugs which suppress the immune system. In other words, they reduce the effect of the tiny germs that protect your body from dangerous germs. This makes the body open to disease but it is useful in other ways:

When someone receives an organ transplant, the body thinks the new organ is dangerous and tries to get rid of it. This is called organ rejection. If immunosuppressant drugs are taken the body usually accepts the new organ.

[[Sigur Rós]]

CATEGORIES: People from Reykjavík, Rock bands, 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups

Sigur Rós (ˈsɪɡər ˈrɒs, ˈsɪːɣʏr ˈrouːs) is an Icelandic post-rock band. The band was started in 1994 by Jón Þór "Jónsi" Birgisson, Georg Hólm, and  Ágúst Ævar Gunnarsson. In 1997 they released their first album Von. Their best known tune is Hoppipola released in 2006

which has seen extensive use in TV shows, adverts and films. 

[[Millbrook, Southampton]]

CATEGORIES: Southampton

Millbrook is a suburb and a former parish of Southampton, England.

[[Totton and Eling]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hampshire

Totton and Eling is a town and civil parish in Hampshire, UK. It has a population of around 28,000 people.

[[List of settlements in Acre]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Acre (state), Lists of settlements

The following is a list of the municipalities in the state of Acre, Brazil.

[[Deodoro da Fonseca]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Brazil, 1827 births, 1892 deaths, Alagoas

Marshal Manuel Deodoro da Fonseca (Alagoas City, August 5, 1827 - Rio de Janeiro, August 23, 1892) was the first president of the Republic of Brazil and he reached this position after a military strategy that put down the Emperor Pedro II.

[[Arrondissement of Caen]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Caen is an arrondissement of France. It is in the department of Calvados, in a region called Basse-Normandie. It has 24 cantons and 288 communes.

[[Băilești]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Romania

Băileşti is a city in Dolj County, Oltenia, Romania. As of 2011, 22,231 people live here.

The Romanian actor and comedian Amza Pellea and Romanian actor and theatre actor Marcel Iureş were born here.

[[Filiași]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Romania

Filiași is a town in Dolj County, Romania, on the Jiu River. In 2002, the population was 18,848.

[[Bechet]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Romania

Bechet is a town in Dolj County, Oltenia, Romania. It is on the river Danube. This is near the Bulgarian city of Oryahovo. In 2002 it had a population of 3,864.

[[Arrondissement of Lisieux]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Lisieux is an arrondissement of France. It is in the department of Calvados, in a region called Basse-Normandie. It has 13 cantons and 204 communes.

[[Northern Rhodesia]]

CATEGORIES: Zambia, 1911 establishments, 1964 disestablishments

Northern Rhodesia was a territory in south central Africa. It was founded in 1911. It became independent in 1964 as Zambia.

The term "Rhodesia" in geography meant a region which is now Zambia and Zimbabwe. From 1964 on, it only meant Southern Rhodesia.

[[San Juan de la Maguana]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dominican Republic, 1500s establishments in the Spanish Empire

The Dominican city of San Juan de la Maguana, or simply San Juan, is the head municipality of the San Juan province, on the west of the country.

It is the largest city of western Dominican and the centre of the region. It was one of the first European city founded in the Hispaniola island.

[[Bloody Mary]]

Bloody Mary could refer to:

[[Chess club]]

CATEGORIES: Chess

A chess club is a place where people come to play chess. Sometimes, chess clubs host chess tournaments. Many chess clubs are open to the public, while others are for groups of people in a specific area or people in a specific school.

[[Assis Brasil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Acre (state), 1976 establishments in Brazil

Assis Brasil is a Brazilian municipality in the state of Acre. In 2007, 5,351 people lived there. Its total area is 2,875,915 km².

Vicente Bessa founded the municipality on March 1, 1976. It was separated from another municipality called Brasiléia.

[[Armageddon (2005)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in professional wrestling, History of Providence, Rhode Island, WWE Armageddon, 2005 in the United States, 2000s in Rhode Island, December events

Armageddon was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), which took place on December 18, 2005 at the Dunkin' Donuts Center in Providence, Rhode Island, It was a Smackdown-only PPV. There were eight matches on for the event's card.

[[Nesquehoning, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pennsylvania

Nesquehoning is a city in the state of Pennsylvania in the United States. The population is 3,288 as of the 2000 census mark. 

Former WWE star Gene Snitsky was born here.

[[Jessica Watson]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Queensland, People from the Sunshine Coast, Queensland, Sailors

Jessica Watson (May 18, 1993 – ) is an Australian teenager who became the youngest person to sail around the world alone. She did it without stopping or getting assistance during the journey.

Jessica Watson's first attempt was in September 2009, when she left from Mooloolaba in Queensland in attempt to sail around the world. About 15 hours after she left, her yacht, "Ella's Pink Lady", collided with a bulk carrier near Stradbroke Island. Watson was uninjured in the incident, but her yacht was badly damaged. After the repairs to her yacht were completed, Watson sailed from Queensland's Gold Coast to Sydney and then left from Sydney on October 18, 2009 (five months after her sixteenth birthday) to sail around the world.

The distance of her voyage is about 19,000 nautical miles (35,000 kilometres) and took almost seven months to complete, as she finished her journey on May 15, 2010.

[[Astrolabe]]

CATEGORIES: Measuring tools

The astrolabe is a tool using the positions of the stars or sun.  It was formerly used in navigation to help explorers and sailors figure out where they were.  They found their distance north and south of the equator by measuring the distance of the sun and stars above the horizon.  Astronomers used other kinds of astrolabes, usually larger ones.

An early astrolabe was made in the Hellenistic world in 150 BC. It is often attributed to Hipparchus. The astrolabe was a marriage of the planisphere (a star chart analog computing instrument) and dioptra (a tool to measure angles). It was a calculator able to work out many kinds of problems in astronomy. Theon of Alexandria wrote a complex book on the astrolabe. Lewis says that Ptolemy used an astrolabe to make the astronomical observations recorded in the Tetrabiblos.

[[Electric Avenue (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 songs, Reggae songs, Songs about London

"Electric Avenue" is a reggae song released by Guyanese singer Eddy Grant on his Killer on the Rampage album in January 1983.  It is a reggae, synthpop, new wave, and disco song.  Grant wrote and produced the song himself.

It reached #2 on both the United States and UK singles charts.

The song is named after a market street in Brixton, London, England. It has been covered by many artists.

[[Queen Latifah]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American rap musicians from New Jersey, Models from New Jersey, Actors from New Jersey, Singers from New Jersey

Dana Elaine Owens (born March 18, 1970 in Newark, New Jersey), best known under the name Queen Latifah is an American, rapper singer, actress and model. She has won a Golden Globe award, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, two Image Awards, a Grammy Award, six additional Grammy nominations, an Emmy Award nomination and an Academy Award nomination.

[[Queen + Paul Rodgers]]

CATEGORIES: English musical groups, Musical groups established in 2004, 2004 establishments in England, Musical groups disestablished in 2009, 2009 disestablishments in England

Queen + Paul Rodgers was a rock band formed by Brian May and Roger Taylor, formerly of Queen, and Paul Rodgers of Bad Company, Free and The Firm.

Because of the popularity of Freddie Mercury, it was made clear that Paul Rodgers would not be replacing the former Queen lead singer, who died in 1991 from complications due to AIDS. Rodgers would be called "featured with" along with the former Queen members. When in concert Brian May, Roger Taylor and Paul Rodgers would be helped by keyboard player Spike Edney, rhythm guitarist Jamie Moses and bassist Danny Miranda.

The band recorded an album called The Cosmos Rocks. It was released in 2008.

In May, 2009 Paul Rodgers announced that Queen + Paul Rodgers had come to an end. He said "It was fun but was never meant to be a permanent arrangement". He said it was always possible that the band would get together again.

[[The Cosmos Rocks]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Queen albums, Rock albums

The Cosmos Rocks is an album by Queen + Paul Rodgers. It was released on 15 September, 2008 in the Europe and on 28 October, 2008 in North America. The album has 14 songs written by Brian May, Paul Rodgers and Roger Taylor. It is the only studio album the former Queen members recorded with Paul Rodgers. The album received mostly bad reviews and it did not sell very many copies.

[[Kenji Onitake]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, People from Hiroshima

Kenji Onitake (born 19 September 1939) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Manabu Nakamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture

Manabu Nakamura (born 26 June 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Edwin Uehara]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Peruvian footballers, Japanese footballers, People from Lima

Edwin Uehara is a former Peruvian-Japanese football player.

[[Marián Gáborík]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Los Angeles Kings players, Living people, Minnesota Wild players, New York Rangers players, Ottawa Senators players, Slovak ice hockey players, Swedish Hockey League players

Marián Gáborík (born February 14, 1982 in Trenčín, Czechoslovakia) is a Slovak ice hockey right winger the plays for the New York Rangers of the National Hockey League. He was drafted by the Minnesota Wild in the 2000 NHL entry draft where he played 8 seasons with them.

[[MAR]]

CATEGORIES: Anime

MAR, short for Marchen Awakens Romance is a Japanese manga and anime. The manga ran from 2003-2006, while the anime ran from 2005-2007, made up of 102 episodes. A sequel was made named MAR Omega.

[[MyLifeIsAverage]]

CATEGORIES: Websites

MyLifeIsAverage (MLIA) is a website where people submit stories about their day. MLIA is similar to FMyLife, except the stories are about average things, rather than bad things. The stories are judged by several users. If enough users vote that the story is worthy of being posted, then it becomes the first story on the home page, and will later be pushed down the page. Anyone can submit a story. Users may click on a story to leave a comment. 

The stories almost always begin with the words "Today" and end with the phrase "MLIA". 

MLIA has received more than 100,000 stories. Most of the users are students in high school or college.

The co-founder of the site, Guru Khalsa, says that MLIA tries to "bring to light how much stupid and boring stuff gets posted on the Internet."

[[Check]]

The word Check has a number of meanings:

[[Chuck Knoblauch]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American baseball players, Sportspeople from Houston, Texas, New York Yankees players, Kansas City Royals players, Minnesota Twins players

Edward Charles "Chuck" Knoblauch (born July 7, 1968) is a retired Major League Baseball player. He played for the Minnesota Twins (1991–97), New York Yankees (1998–2001) and Kansas City Royals (2002). He played mostly as a second baseman before moving to left field for his last two seasons.

[[Romeo Crennel]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, People from Lynchburg, Virginia

Romeo Crennel (born June 18, 1947 in Lynchburg, Virginia) is the former head coach of the Cleveland Browns of the National Football League.

[[Der Rosenkavalier]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Richard Strauss, 1910s operas, 1911 works

Der Rosenkavalier (in English: The Knight of the Rose) is a comic opera by Richard Strauss.  The words (libretto) were especially written for the opera by the German poet Hugo von Hofmannsthal.

It was first performed in Dresden on 26 January 1911 and was an immediate success.  It continues to be a very popular opera in opera houses all over the world and has been performed more often than any other German language 20th century opera.

The story is supposed to be happening in Vienna in the time of  the Empress Maria Theresa (mid to late 18th century).  The music and the words deliberately show the elegant life of aristocratic society of that time.  For example: the title of the opera is about the silver rose which traditionally was sent by a bridegroom to his bride and was brought by a knight (the Knight of the Rose).

[[Dagger]]

CATEGORIES: Blades

A dagger is a knife which is used to stab people.  It has a double-edged blade, so it cannot be used for normal cutting like a knife.

Daggers are small, so they can often be hidden under the attacker's clothing and then suddenly produced.

They were also used in the Middle Ages for the infantry armies to defend or attack their opponents.

Some people like Julius Caesar were assassinated with a dagger.

[[Ronnie Wood]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, British bass guitarists, English painters, English rock guitarists, English songwriters, Musicians from Middlesex, The Rolling Stones members

Ronald David "Ronnie" Wood (born 1 June 1947) is an English rock guitarist and bassist. He is best known as a member of The Rolling Stones. He first worked with the band as a touring guitarist for their 1975 world tour. In February 1976 he was made a full-time member and has recorded and toured with the band ever since. Prior to his work with the Rolling Stones, Wood was the guitarist in the English rock band Faces. He was in Faces from 1969 until the band broke up in 1975. From 1967 until 1969 Wood was the bass guitar player for The Jeff Beck Group.

In addition to the Rolling Stones, Wood has maintained a solo music career. Since 1974 he has recorded and released 12 studio and live albums.

Wood has also had a lot of success as a painter. In the early 1960s, he trained at Ealing Art College. His paintings and prints have been shown in art galleries all over the world. A London art gallery named "Scream" is co-owned by Wood and his sons. The clothing company "Liberty & Co." have produced a clothing line using fabric that has been printed with Wood's art.

Ronnie Wood was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1989 as a member of The Rolling Stones.

[[Mick Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, English rock guitarists, English songwriters, Musicians from Hertfordshire, The Rolling Stones members

Michael Kevin "Mick" Taylor (born 17 January 1949) is an English musician best known as a former member of John Mayall's Bluesbreakers and The Rolling Stones. He is well known for his skills as a slide guitar player. He also plays piano, bass and drums.

[[Standing army]]

CATEGORIES: Army

A standing army is an army that is made up of full time soldiers. It is still kept ready even in times of peace. It is always ready to attack, invade, or defend. These armies are more prepared for war than militias or military reserves. States have had standing armies for thousands of years and started using the term around 1600.

[[Marechal Deodoro]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Alagoas

Marechal Deodoro is a Brazilian municipality of Alagoas state. Its population reached, in 2004, 41,538 inhabitants and the municipality is part of Maceió Metropolitan Region.

[[Brian Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 1969 deaths, Deaths by drowning, English rock guitarists, Musicians from Gloucestershire, The Rolling Stones members

Lewis Brian Hopkin Jones (28 February 1942 – 3 July 1969) was an English musician. He is best known as one of the founding members of the rock band The Rolling Stones. Jones was known for his ability to play multiple instruments including: guitar, harmonica, piano, organ, mellotron, sitar, recorder, saxophone, drums and marimba as well as many others. He was also well known for his drug and alcohol abuse which led to him being fired from the Rolling Stones on 8 June 1969. Just after midnight on 3 July 1969 Jones was discovered dead at the bottom of his swimming pool at his home in Sussex, England. The details surrounding his death were controversial and Jones' girlfriend claimed he was murdered. However the coroner's official report stated that Jones had drowned and declared the incident a "death by misadventure." The coroner noted that his liver and heart were greatly enlarged by his long-term drug and alcohol abuse.

[[1st millennium]]

CATEGORIES: 1st millennium, Millennia

The 1st millennium was a period of time from January 1, 1 A.D. to December 31, 1000 A.D.

[[Cho Kwi-Jea]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Cho Kwi-Jea (born 16 January 1969) used to be a South Korean football player.

[[Aílton Gonçalves da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Brazilian footballers, Living people

Aílton Gonçalves da Silva (born 19 July 1973) is a Brazilian football player. In 2004, he was named the German Footballer of the Year.

[[Landskrona BoIS]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, 1915 establishments in Sweden

Landskrona BoIS is an association football club in the town of Landskrona in Sweden. The club has played several Allsvenskan seasons.

[[IFK Malmö]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, Sport in Malmö, 1899 establishments in Sweden

IFK Malmö is a association football club in the town of Malmö in Sweden. The club has played several Allsvenskan seasons.

[[Västerås IK]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, 1913 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in Sweden

Västerås IK is an association football club which in the town of Västerås in Sweden. The club played in Allsvenskan during the 1924/1925 season.

[[Sandvikens IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Sandvikens IF is an association football club in the town of Sandviken in Sweden. The club has played several Allsvenskan seasons.

[[Gefle IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 establishments in Europe, Swedish football clubs, 1880s establishments in Sweden

Gefle IF is an association football club in the town of Gävle in Sweden. The club has played several Allsvenskan seasons.

[[IK Brage]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

IK Brage is an association football club in the town of Borlänge in Sweden.

[[Degerfors IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Degerfors IF is a association football club in Degerfors in Sweden. The club has played several Allsvenskan seasons where it ended up second in 1941 and 1963.The club also won the Swedish cup in 1993.

[[Marcelo Trivisonno]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Marcelo Trivisonno (born June 8, 1966) is a former Argentine football player.

[[Fernando Gago]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Fernando Gago (born 10 April 1986) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Real Madrid and Argentina national team. 

[[Gwak Kyung-Keun]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Gwak Kyung-Keun (born 10 October 1972) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Jönköpings Södra IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Sport in Jönköping

Jönköpings Södra IF is an association football club in the town of Jönköping in Sweden. The club finished up on the second place at Allsvenskan in 1950. The club once again qualifyed for Allsvenskan again on 17 October 2015. 

[[Örebro SK]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Örebro

Örebro SK is an association football club in the town of Örebro in Sweden. The club has played several Allsvenskan seasons.

[[Råå IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Råå IF is an association football club in the small village of Råå south of Helsingborg in Sweden. The club won the Swedish cup in 1948. It has played in Allsvenskan where it ended up second during the season of 1950-1951.

[[Västerås SK]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Västerås SK is a association football club in the town of Västerås in Sweden. The club has played in Allsvenskan.

[[Takafumi Hori]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Takafumi Hori is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kim Joo-sung]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Kim Joo-Sung (born 17 January 1966) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Edmílson Matias]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Edmílson Matias (born 26 March 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[GIF Sundsvall]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Sundsvall

GIF Sundsvall is an association football club in the town of Sundsvall in Sweden. The club has played several Allsvenskan seasons. The club's mascot is Giffen.

[[IFK Sundsvall]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, 1895 establishments in Europe, Sundsvall, 1890s establishments in Sweden

IFK Sundsvall is an association football club in the town of Sundsvall in Sweden. The team played in Allsvenskan during the late 1970's and early 1980's.

[[Mark Bowen]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Welsh footballers

Mark Bowen (born 7 December 1963) is a former Welsh football player. He has played for Wales national team.

[[Francisco Molinero]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, People from Toledo, Spain

Francisco Molinero (born 26 July 1985) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Dinamo Bucureşti.

[[Swedish Division 1]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Football in Sweden

Swedish Division 1 is a football league which is third division in Sweden.

[[BK Häcken]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 establishments in Europe, Swedish football clubs, 1940s establishments in Sweden

BK Häcken is an association football club on the island of Hisingen in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden.

[[Trelleborgs FF]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Trelleborgs FF is a association football club in the town of Trelleborg in Sweden. The club has played several Allsvenskan seasons, debuting in 1985.

[[Västra Frölunda IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Västra Frölunda IF is an association football club in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden. The club debuted at Allsvenskan in 1987.

[[Kiruna FF]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, 1970 establishments in Sweden

Kiruna FF is an association football club in the town of Kiruna in Sweden. The club has played in the Swedish second-division.

[[Umeå FC]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Umeå

Umeå FC is an association football club in the town of Umeå in Sweden. The club played in Allsvenskan during the 1996 season.

[[IK Oddevold]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

IK Oddevold is an association football club in the town of Uddevalla in Sweden. The club played in Allsvenskan during the 1996 season.

[[Ljungskile SK]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Ljungskile SK is an association football club in Ljungskile in Sweden. The club played it's first Allsvenskan season in 1997.

[[Enköpings SK]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

Enköpings SK is an association football club in the town of Enköping in Sweden. The club played in Allsvenskan during the 2003 season.

[[Assyriska Föreningen]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, 1974 establishments in Sweden

Assyriska Föreningen is a football club which plays in Sweden.

[[Santiago Denia Sánchez]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Santiago Denia Sánchez (born 9 March 1974) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Seydou Doumbia]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Ivorian footballers

Seydou Doumbia (born 12 December 1987) is a Côte d'Ivoire football player. He plays for Young Boys and Côte d'Ivoire national team.

[[Pedro II of Brazil]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian people, Emperors and empresses, 1825 births, 1891 deaths, People from Rio de Janeiro, House of Braganza

Don Pedro II of Brazil (complete name: Pedro de Alcântara João Carlos Leopoldo Salvador Bibiano Francisco Xavier de Paula Leocádio Miguel Gabriel Rafael Gonzaga; Rio de Janeiro, December 2, 1825 — Paris, December 5, 1891), known as O Magnânimo (The Magnanimous), was the second and last de facto Brazilian Emperor. He was the seventh son of Pedro I and the archduchess Maria Leopoldina of Austria. Pedro II succeeded his father in the Brazilian Throne when he was 16 years of age. Pedro I had to return to Portugal in order to rule over the country as an Emperor and this action made him abdicate from the Brazilian Throne in favor of his son. But, when in Portugal, Pedro I renounced the Portuguese Throne, in favor of his eldest daughter Dona Maria da Glória.

Pedro II was nephew of Miguel I (father's part), Napoleon Bonaparte (mother's part) and cousin of Emperors Napoleon II, Franz Joseph I and Maximilian I of Mexico. He was Maria da Glória's youngst brother and uncle of kings Pedro V and Luís I.

[[President of Brazil]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Brazil

The president of Brazil (Presidente do Brasil), officially the president of the Federative Republic of Brazil (Presidente da República Federativa do Brasil) or simply the President of the Republic, is the head of state and head of government of Brazil.

[[Barry Manilow]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, American pop singers, Gay men, LGBT musicians, LGBT people from New York City, LGBT singers, Musicians from Brooklyn, Singer-songwriters from New York City, Emmy Award winners, Grammy Award winners, Clio Award winners, American Music Awards

Barry Manilow (born June 17, 1943 in Brooklyn, New York City) is an American singer-songwriter and musician.  He is best known for songs such as "Could It Be Magic", "Mandy", "Can't Smile Without You", and "Copacabana (At the Copa)".

[[Bobby Abreu]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1974 births, Houston Astros players, Philadelphia Phillies players, New York Yankees players, Los Angeles Dodgers players, National League All-Stars, Venezuelan baseball players, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim players

Bob Kelly "Bobby" Abreu (born March 11, 1974, in Turmero, Venezuela), is a Major League Baseball player.  He plays with the Los Angeles Dodgers.  His nicknames are "El Comedulce" and also "La Luche".

[[Gabriel Zakuani]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, African footballers, People from Kinshasa

Gabriel Zakuani (born 31 May 1986 in Kinshasa) is a football player from the Democratic Republic of the Congo who currently plays for Peterborough United.

[[Dubstep]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic dance music

Dubstep is a genre of music that started in South London. It draws influence from 2-step garage, dub, drum and bass, grime and reggae. A popular dubstep producer Skrillex changed the genre into something much heavier with more growls, gritty basslines and fat sub-basses. 

Since then, the dubstep scene has changed a lot with dubstep going from the underground genre that it was to a mainstream one. It has been played on big festivals, like Ultra Music Festival and Lost Lands.

[[Washington Capitols]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 establishments in the United States, 1950s disestablishments in the United States, 1951 disestablishments, 20th-century establishments in Washington, D.C., Basketball teams

The Washington Capitols were a basketball that played in the NBA from 1946-51, when it folded (stopped being a team).  They went to the NBA Finals in 1949, when they were beaten by the Minneapolis Lakers.  Their coach was Red Auerbach, and their players include Bob Feerick and Horace McKinney.

[[George Ouzounian]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, American writers, Bloggers, American Internet celebrities

George Ouzounian (Maddox) is an American blogger, satirist and writer. In 2006 he wrote the book The Alphabet of Manliness which ranked number 2 in New York Times Best Seller List in the "Advice, How-To, and Miscellaneous" category and number 1 on Amazon.com's sales chart. He is a slightly well known personality on the internet, who achieved a small amount of fame due to his website The Best Page in the Universe. The websites consists of satirical ramblings about society, manliness, pirates, celebrities, fat people, Garfield  etc. 

[[LinuxLive USB Creator]]

CATEGORIES: Free software, Microsoft Windows software

LinuxLive USB Creator is a free software for Windows that allows users to create bootable Live USB systems for many Linux distributions.

This software is designed to be as easy to use as possible. Its graphical interface uses a step by step approach and some traffic lights indicates to the user if each mandatory steps are validated.

[[Simple machine]]

CATEGORIES: Tools, Machines, Physics

A simple machine is a device that can change the direction or the magnitude of a force, or the point where it is applied. This is done so that the force can be used to do work.  All mechanical machines are made by combining simple machines.

There are six basic "simple machines", as defined by Renaissance scientists:  

The use of simple machines can be traced back to homo habilis (the first humans to use tools), but certain animals other than man also use them. 

A compound machine is made up of two or more simple machines.

[[List of numbered state highways in New York]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in New York, Lists of roads

This is a list of numbered state highways in the U.S. state of New York. Signed state highways in New York, referred to as "touring routes" by the New York State Department of Transportation, are numbered from 1 to 899. A large number of unsigned state highways, known as "reference routes", are numbered from 900 to 999 and often have a suffix. 

[[Sydney, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Former cities in Canada

Sydney (2001 population: 24,115) is a Canadian community in the province of Nova Scotia. It is located on the east coast of Cape Breton Island and is part of the Cape Breton Regional Municipality.

Sydney was incorporated in 1904 and dissolved on August 1, 1995 when it was added into the regional municipality. 

[[Baron Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Cleveland Cavaliers players, Golden State Warriors players, Los Angeles Clippers players, New Orleans Hornets players, New York Knicks players, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California

Baron Walter Louis Davis (born April 13, 1979 in Los Angeles, California) is a professional basketball player who currently plays for the New York Knicks of the NBA. He played college basketball at UCLA. Davis has also played in the NBA for the Charlotte/New Orleans Hornets from 1999 to 2005, the Golden State Warriors from 2005 to 2008, the Los Angeles Clippers from 2008 to 2011 and the Cleveland Cavaliers in 2011.

[[Manchester F.C.]]

Manchester F.C. may be one of the following football (soccer) teams:

[[Song of the South]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, Movies based on books, Animated movies, Disney movies, Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award

Song of the South is a movie produced by Walt Disney. It was released on November 12, 1946, by RKO Radio Pictures. It is based on the Uncle Remus stories written by Joel Chandler Harris.

Song of the South has never been fully released on home video in the USA because of content which some people could see as racism towards black people and is thus subject to rumors. However, a song from the movie, Zip a Dee Doo Dah, is very popular, and there is a ride based on the movie at various Disney theme parks, though it was recently announced that it will be changed to a ride based on The Princess and the Frog as a result of the George Floyd protests. The movie also got a limited home video release in Asia, Europe, and South America.

[[Sony Music Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels, Companies based in New York City, Sony, Columbia Broadcasting System

Sony Music Entertainment (or Sony Music) is the second-largest global recorded music company of the "big four" record companies and is controlled by Sony Corporation of America.

[[1970 Bhola cyclone]]

CATEGORIES: 1970, 1970s in India, Cyclonic storms, North Indian Ocean cyclones, 1970s in Bangladesh

The 1970 Bhola cyclone was the strongest storm of the 1970 North Indian Ocean cyclone season. The Bhola cyclone made landfall in East Pakistan (today known as Bangladesh). Since the Bhola cyclone killed from 300,000 to 500,000 people, the Bhola cyclone holds the world record as the deadliest storm. Most of the people that were killed, were killed in East Pakistan (Bangladesh), because of the storm surge that caused flooding.  

The Bhola cyclone was also one of the deadliest Natural disaster in modern times. It also affected India and left $86.4 million in damage.  This cyclone was the sixth cyclonic storm of the 1970 North Indian Ocean cyclone season.

[[Snake River Plain]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Idaho, Landforms of the United States

The Snake River Plain is a valley in the U.S. state of Idaho. It covers most of the southern part of the state and is transected by the Snake River. The Snake River Plain was formed by magma rising up below the North American Plate. As the plate moved westward, the magma melted rock under the plate. This melting caused the surface to drop and form the Snake River Plain. Underneath the plain is the Snake River Aquifer. The aquifer is fed by the Snake River and its tributaries. Much of the soil in the Snake River Plain is fertile. As a result, today the primary human purpose of the plain is for agriculture.

[[North American plate]]

CATEGORIES: Tectonic plates, North America

The North American plate is a large tectonic plate. It covers most of North America. Also it includes Greenland, Cuba, the Bahamas, extreme northeastern Asia, and parts of Iceland and the Azores. Its area is 76,000,000. It is the Earth's second largest tectonic plate, behind the Pacific Plate (which borders the plate to the west).

It extends east to the Mid-Atlantic Ridge and west to the Chersky Range in eastern Siberia.  The plate includes both continental and oceanic crust.  The interior of the landmass is an extensive granitic craton.  Along most of the edges of this craton are fragments of crustal material called terranes. They are stuck on (accreted) to the craton over a long span of time. Much of North America west of the Rocky Mountains is composed of such terranes.

[[Xinhua News Agency]]

CATEGORIES: People's Republic of China, Media in Asia

Xinhua News Agency is the official press agency of the People's Republic of China (PRC). It was first named Red China News Agency in 1931 but changed its name to the current one in 1937. It is a subsidiary of the Chinese Communist Party.

[[Wijerd Jelckama]]

CATEGORIES: 1490 births, 1523 deaths, Dutch military people, People executed by decapitation, People from Friesland, Pirates

Wijerd Jelckama (1490 – July 7 1523) was a Frisian freedom fighter, legendary warrior, warlord, rebel and pirate.

[[The Happiest Millionaire]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 movies, Disney movies, 1960s musical movies, Movies based on books, English-language movies

The Happiest Millionaire is a 1967 musical movie, based upon the true story of Philadelphia millionaire Anthony J. Drexel Biddle. The movie received an Academy Award nomination for Costume Design by Bill Thomas. The musical song score is by Robert and Richard Sherman. The screenplay is by AJ Carothers based on the play that was based on the book My Philadelphia Father by Cordelia Drexel Biddle. This was the last live-action musical comedy movie produced by Walt Disney, who died during its production.

[[Shinji Tanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Yokohama F. Marinos players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Kyoto Sanga FC players

Shinji Tanaka is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Jean-Marie Pfaff]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Belgian footballers, Association football goalkeepers, People from East Flanders

Jean-Marie Pfaff (born 4 December 1953) is a former Belgian football player. He has played for Belgium national team.

[[IF Sylvia]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, Norrköping

IF Sylvia is an association football club in the town of Norrköping in Sweden. The club has played in Superettan.

[[Qviding FIF]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, 1987 establishments in Sweden, Sport in Gothenburg

Qviding FIF is an association football club in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden. The club debuted in Superettan in 1987.

[[Syrianska FC]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, 1977 establishments in Sweden

Syrianska FC is an association football club in the town of Södertälje in Sweden. The club was founded by Aramean refugees in Sweden. The club debuted in Allsvenskan in 2011.

[[FC Trollhättan]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, 2001 establishments in Sweden

FC Trollhättan is an association football club in the town of Trollhättan in Sweden. The club has played in Superettan.

[[Edu Marangon]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Brazilian football managers

Edu Marangon (born February 2, 1963) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazilian national team.

[[Michael Obiku]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Nigerian footballers

Michael Obiku (born 24 September 1968) is a former Nigerian football player. He has played for Nigeria national team.

[[Marcelo Silva Ramos]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Salvador, Bahia

Marcelo Silva Ramos (born 25 June 1973) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Santa Cruz.

[[FC Energie Cottbus]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s establishments in Germany, 1966 establishments in Europe, German football clubs

FC Energie Cottbus is a German football club from Cottbus. They are also known as ´´Energie`` or ´´Die Lausitzer``.

Thery have been switching between the Bundesliga and the 2. Bundesliga (second division) several times. Currently, they play in the 2nd division as they got relegated by 1.FC Nuremberg.

[[Battle of Curupaity]]

CATEGORIES: Battles, Paraguay, 1866, 19th century in South America, September events

The Battle of Curupaity happened between the joint force (composed of Empire of Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay) and Paraguay during the War of the Triple Alliance on September 22, 1866.

[[Chronic stress]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses

Chronic stress is stress that happens over a long period of time.  It is different than acute stress, which happens over a short period of time and then goes away.

Stress is a normal part of every living thing's daily life.  However, when stress becomes chronic, it can damage the body and the mind.  When a person (or animal) is stressed, the body reacts in certain ways - for example, by releasing chemicals called corticosteroids.  If this happens again and again, over a long period of time, it can change the way the brain works. These changes can damage working memory spatial memory, and decision-making skills. They can also increase aggression.

Chronic stress can cause (or worsen) many different medical problems.  For example, people who have had chronic stress are more likely to get hypertension (high blood pressure) and heart disease.

[[Eustress]]

CATEGORIES: Health

Eustress is positive or good stress. It is the opposite of distress. Eustress is the positive stress that a person gets from riding a roller coaster, or a high speed bike, or singing in front of an audience. People may feel very good afterwards if they experience eustress. 

People often have the same physical reactions (sweating, trembling, shivering, etc.) for both eustress and distress.

[[Conservative Party (Empire of Brazil)]]

CATEGORIES: History of Brazil, Conservative parties, 1836 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Brazil, 1889 disestablishments, Disestablishments in Brazil, 1830s establishments in South America

The Conservative Party was a Brazilian political party of the Imperial period, which was formed circa 1836 and was made extinct with the Proclamation of the Republic, in 1889. This party arose from the Restoration Party, which was a reunion of the old Caramurus and the dissident group of moderate liberals. The conservative party was also known as regressist, being a counterpart to the Liberal Party, whose leader was Padre Feijó.

[[UK Singles Chart]]

CATEGORIES: Record charts, British music

The UK Singles Chart is made by Official Charts Company (OCC) for the British record industry. The full chart lists the top 200 singles. These are judged by combined record sales and download numbers, though some media outlets only list the Top 40 (such as the BBC) or the Top 75 (such as Music Week Magazine) of this list. 

Around 6,500 UK stores help with sales data, as well as most UK online digital download stores. Unlike in the U.S., no airplay statistics are used for the official UK Singles Chart. The chart week runs starts on Sunday and goes to Saturday. Most UK singles are released on Mondays.

[[Rotation (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry

In broadcasting, rotation is the repeated airing of the limited playlist of songs on a radio station or satellite radio channel, or music videos on a TV network.  They are usually in a different order each time, however they are not completely shuffled, so as to avoid playing the same song again too long or short apart.

Heavy rotation or power rotation is a term that applies to a list of songs that get the most airplay on a radio station.  Songs in heavy rotation will be played many times in a 24-hour period.

[[Rockfield Studios]]

CATEGORIES: Monmouthshire, Music industry, Companies of the United Kingdom

Rockfield Studios, near Monmouth in Wales and just outside the village of Rockfield, Monmouthshire, are where many of British rock music’s most successful recordings have been made.

[[Impersonator]]

CATEGORIES: Deception, Types of crime

An impersonator is someone who imitates or copies the behavior or actions of another.  There are many reasons for someone to be an impersonator, some common ones being as follows:

[[Sergio Rodríguez García]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Sergio Rodríguez García (born 17 August 1984) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Hércules.

[[Steven Tweed]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers, Sportspeople from Edinburgh

Steven Tweed (born 8 August 1972) is a Scottish football player. He plays for Montrose.

[[Dennis Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Trinidad and Tobago footballers

Dennis Lawrence (born 1 August 1974) is a Trinidad and Tobago football player. He plays for San Juan Jabloteh and Trinidad and Tobago national team.

[[Igor Akinfeev]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Russian footballers, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, 2018 FIFA World Cup players, UEFA Euro 2004 players, UEFA Euro 2008 players, UEFA Euro 2012 players, UEFA Euro 2016 players

Igor Akinfeev (born 8 April 1986) is a Russian football player. He plays for CSKA Moscow and Russia national team.

[[Jérémy Menez]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, French footballers

Jérémy Menez (born 7 May 1987) is a French football player. He plays for A.C. Milan.

[[Andreas Görlitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Bavaria

Andreas Görlitz (born 31 January 1982) is a German football player. He plays for Bayern Munich.

[[Ramón Medina Bello]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Ramón Medina Bello (born April 29, 1966) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for the Argentine national team.

[[Aurelio Vidmar]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Australian football managers, People from Adelaide, Sportspeople from South Australia

Aurelio Vidmar (born 3 February 1967) is a former Australian football player. He has played for Australia national team.

[[Yellow Pages]]

CATEGORIES: Telephone numbers

The term Yellow Pages refers to a telephone directory of businesses, categorized according to the product or service provided. As the name suggests, such directories were originally printed on yellow paper, as opposed to white pages for non-commercial listings. The traditional term Yellow Pages is now also applied to online directories of businesses.

[[Luka Modrić]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Luka Modrić (lûːka mǒːdritɕ; born 9 September 1985) is a Croatian football player who plays as a midfielder for Spanish club Real Madrid and is the captain of the Croatia national team. 

[[Irish Singles Chart]]

CATEGORIES: Record charts

The Irish Singles Chart is the Republic of Ireland music industry standard singles popularity chart issued weekly by the Irish Recorded Music Association and compiled on behalf of the IRMA by Chart-Track. Chart rankings are based on sales, which are compiled through over-the-counter retail data captured electronically each day from retailers' EPOS systems. Currently all major record stores and over forty independents submit data for the charts, accounting for over 80% of the market, according to Chart-Track. A new chart is compiled and officially released to the public by the Irish Recorded Music Association on Friday at noon. Each chart is dated with the "week-ending" date of the previous Thursday (i.e. the day before issue).

[[Syndicat National de l'Édition Phonographique]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry, Copyright

The Syndicat national de l'édition phonographique (SNEP) is the inter-professional organisation which protects the interests of the French record industry. SNEP was established in 1922, and has 48 member companies.

[[Recorded Music NZ]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry, Non-profit organizations, New Zealand

The Recorded Music NZ, before June 2013: Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ)  is a non-profit trade association of record producers, distributors and recording artists in New Zealand. Membership of RIANZ is open to any record label operating in New Zealand.

[[Grammy Award for Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Awards

U2 holds the record for most awards with a total of seven, followed by Aerosmith with four awards.

[[Grammy Award for Best Rock Song]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Awards, Rock songs

The Grammy Award for Best  Rock Song has been awarded since 1992.  The award is presented to the writers of the song.  Years reflect the year in which the Grammy Awards were presented, for works released in the previous year. Bruce Springsteen is the category's biggest winner, at four awards.

[[The Cancer Council Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in Australia, Cancer, Charities

The Cancer Council Australia is a national, not-for-profit organisation which aims to promote cancer-control policies and to reduce the illness caused by cancer in Australia. It advises various groups, including the government, on cancer-related issues, acts as an advocate for cancer patients and their families, and is a major funding contributor towards cancer research.

[[Safety (EP)]]

CATEGORIES: Coldplay, 1998 albums

Safety is an extended play album by English band Coldplay. It was the band's first public release. It was recorded over a weekend during May 1998, and was intended as a demo for record companies. It was financed by the band and their manager Phil Harvey for around £200.

[[Edisto Beach, South Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Carolina, 1500s establishments in North America

Edisto Beach is a town in Colleton County, South Carolina, United States. In 2000, 641 lived there. Edisto Beach was formed by the Edistow Indians and was discovered by the Spanish in the late 1500s.  

Edisto Beach is located at 32 (32.487613, -80.324402).

[[Oregon Inlet]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of North Carolina, Bodies of water of the United States

Oregon Inlet is an inlet along North Carolina's Outer Banks. It joins the Pamlico Sound with the Atlantic Ocean and separates Bodie Island from Pea Island, which are kept together by a bridge over this inlet. It is home to a Coast Guard station.

[[Hi-hat]]

CATEGORIES: Percussion instruments

A hi-hat, or hihat, is a pair of cymbals which can be pushed together with a pedal. It is usually part of a drum kit, and is used in many forms of music including reggae, jazz and rock and roll as well as many others.music-stub

[[Overdubbing]]

CATEGORIES: Music technology

Overdubbing (the process of making an overdub, or overdubs) is a techique used by recording studios to add extra recorded sounds to a previously recorded performance.

[[Fort Ticonderoga]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in New York, National Register of Historic Places, Forts in the United States, 1750s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in New York (state)

Fort Ticonderoga is a fort where there was a major battle. It is in New York State.

[[Chesapeake Bay]]

CATEGORIES: Bays of the United States

The Chesapeake Bay ('tʃɛsəpi:k) is the largest estuary in the United States. It lies off the Atlantic Ocean and is surrounded by Maryland and Virginia.  The bay's watershed covers 64299 in the District of Columbia and parts of six states: New York, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia. More than 150 rivers and streams drain into it.

The Chesapeake Bay is about 200 miles (300 km) long, from the Susquehanna River in the north to the Atlantic Ocean. At its narrowest point between Kent County's Plum Point (near Newtown) and the Harford County shore near Romney Creek, the bay isabout 2.8 miles (4.5 km) wide. At the widest location, it is 30 miles (50 km) wide. The bay is 46 deep on average.

The bay has two bridges over it. The Chesapeake Bay Bridge crosses the bay in Maryland from Sandy Point (near Annapolis) to Kent Island. The Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel in Virginia connects Virginia Beach to Cape Charles.

[[Surf City, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Carolina

Surf City is a town in Pender and Onslow counties in the U.S. state of North Carolina. As of 2000, 1,393 lived in the town.

Surf City is located at 34 (34.428137, -77.543198). According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 5.3 square miles (13.7 km²). 4.2 square miles (10.9 km²) of it is land and 1.1 square miles (2.8 km²) of it (20.45%) is water.

[[Wallace and Gromit]]

CATEGORIES: Clay animation movies, Animated characters, Movie characters

Wallace and Gromit  are the main characters in a series of animations by Aardman Animations. Wallace is an absent-minded inventor while Gromit is his faithful dog. They have starred in several short movies for BBC television in the UK, and one full length feature movie. Wallace & Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit is the longest claymation movie ever made. It was created in five years. It stars Peter Sallis as Wallace.

[[Marty Wright]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Arizona

Martin "Marty" Wright (born 15 July, 1964) is an American professional wrestler and actor.  He is best known for his time with World Wrestling Entertainment under the ring name The Boogeyman.

[[Baker's dozen]]

CATEGORIES: Numbers

A baker's dozen is 13, one more than a regular dozen. It is also known as a long dozen or devil's dozen.

[[Pro Tools]]

CATEGORIES: Music technology, Music software

Pro Tools is a Digital Audio Workstation platform for Mac OS X and Microsoft Windows operating systems. It was developed and manufactured by Digidesign. Digidesign a division of Avid Technology. Pro Tools is similar to a multi-track tape recorder and mixer. It has other features that can only be done in the digital medium. The high-end version supports sample rates of up to 192 kHz and bit depths of 16 and 24 bit, opens WAV, AIFF, mp3, SDII audio files. It also supports QuickTime video files.

[[Campus radio]]

CATEGORIES: Radio

Campus radio is a type of radio station that is run by the students of a college or university. The programming may be done only by students, or may include other programmers from the community in which the station is based.

[[Loverboy]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s music groups, 1980s Canadian music groups, 1990s Canadian music groups, 2000s Canadian music groups, 2010s Canadian music groups, Canadian hard rock bands, Musical groups established in 1979, 1979 establishments in Canada, Musical groups disestablished in 1988, 20th century disestablishments in Canada, Musical groups established in 1989, 1989 establishments in North America, 1980s establishments in Canada, Musical groups disestablished in 1989, Musical groups established in 1991, 1991 establishments in Canada, 1980s disestablishments in North America

Loverboy is a Canadian rock band. It was formed in 1979. The band member are:

[[Beaufort, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Carolina, County seats in North Carolina, Carteret County, North Carolina, 1722 establishments

Beaufort (ˈboʊfərt) is a town in Carteret County, North Carolina, United States.  It was established in 1722, which makes it the fourth-oldest town in North Carolina.

In 2000, 771 people lived in Beaufort. The town is the county seat of Carteret County.6 It is sometimes confused with Beaufort in South Carolina. However, the two names are pronounced differently. 

Beaufort is in North Carolina's Inner Banks region. The North Carolina Maritime Museum is in Beaufort.

[[North Carolina Highway 12]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in the United States, North Carolina

North Carolina Highway 12 (NC 12) is a road in the U.S. state of North Carolina. It runs along the state's northeastern coast. It is a popular route for visitors touring the Outer Banks. Most sections of NC 12 are two lanes wide. Two sections of the route are connected by ferries.

[[The Independent]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 establishments in the United Kingdom, Newspapers published in the United Kingdom

The Independent is a daily online newspaper in the United Kingdom, founded in 1986. Its sister paper, the Independent on Sunday is, as the name suggests, published on a Sunday. 

Originally a broadsheet newspaper, it became a tabloid in 2006. The paper stopped being printed in March 2016 and is now only available online. It tends to take a liberal and centrist political position.

[[Take on Me]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 songs, Pop songs, Synth-pop

"Take on Me" is a 1985 synthpop song by the Norwegian pop band a-ha.

It was first released in 1984, and was mixed by Tony Mansfield, but did not sell well in the United Kingdom. The song was re-recorded and re-released in 1985. A music video was made, which was shown on television a lot. This helped the song to become very popular. 

[[Mockingbird]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes

Mockingbirds are a group of New World passerine song-birds. They are best known for the habit of some species mimicking the songs of insect and amphibian sounds, and other bird songs, often loudly and in rapid succession. There are about 17 species in three genera.

[[Smallville]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 American television series debuts, 2011 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American teen drama television series, Superman, WB network shows, English-language television programs, The WB original programming

Smallville is a Warner Bros. television show about a teenaged version of the comic book character Clark Kent. He later becomes Superman and has to stop his enemy Lex Luthor.

[[Pieridae]]

CATEGORIES: Pieridae

The Pieridae are a large family of butterflies. It has about 76 genera and 1,100 species.  They are mostly from tropical Africa and Asia. Most pierid butterflies are white, yellow or orange with black spots. The pigments are a characteristic of this family.

The name "butterfly" may have come from a member of this family, the Brimstone Gonepteryx rhamni.  It was called the "butter-coloured fly" by early British naturalists.

The caterpillars of some species, such as Pieris brassicae and Pieris rapae, are often seen in gardens. They are agricultural pests because they feed on brassicas.

Males of many species feed on salts from moist soil.  They do this in groups.  This behavior is known as 'mud-puddling' or 'puddling'.

[[1903 in baseball]]

CATEGORIES: History of baseball

In 1903, the Boston Red Sox won the World Series. They were against the Pittsburgh Pirates. They had won the first of the whole series.

[[Pamela Weston]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2009 deaths, British teachers, Clarinetists, Deaths by euthanasia, Drug-related suicides, Musicians from London, Musicians who committed suicide

Pamela Weston (born London, 17 October 1921; died 9 September 2009, Zürich, Switzerland) was a British clarinettist, teacher and writer.  She inspired many musicians through her inspiring teaching and her books about clarinettists and clarinet playing.

Pamela Weston was born in London.  Her father was a doctor.  She went to Priors Field School, then went to the Royal Academy of Music and then got a scholarship to the Guildhall School of Music.  She studied privately with  Frederick Thurston, the principal clarinettist of the BBC Symphony Orchestra. She became Professor of Clarinet at the Guildhall in 1951, and stayed there until 1969.

She played in many concerts: sometimes as a soloist with orchestras, sometimes giving recitals or playing in chamber music.  She was a member of the Klarion Trio (soprano, clarinet and piano) with whom she often played newly composed music including the "Songs of Innocence" which was written for them in 1957 by Arnold Cooke.

She wrote several books about famous clarinet players of the past.  She also wrote "The Clarinet Teacher's Companion", a book which was used by many clarinet teachers.

During her last years she had a serious illness called encephalomyelitis.  She did not want to suffer any more, so she travelled to Switzerland where she was allowed to have an assisted suicide. 

[[Jeff Hanneman]]

CATEGORIES: American guitarists, American heavy metal musicians, Musicians from Oakland, California, 2013 deaths, 1964 births

Jeffery John "Jeff" Hanneman (January 31, 1964 - May 2, 2013) was an American musician. He was most famous for being one of the founding members of the thrash metal band Slayer. He grew up in Los Angeles. His family had a military background which made Hanneman very interested in war. He expressed this interest in the words to many of the songs he has written for Slayer which are about warfare and destruction.

When he was young he liked punk rock. Hanneman said that the fast aggressive sound of punk music helped influence Slayer. Hanneman wrote both words and music for Slayer. Some of his songs include: "Raining Blood", "War Ensemble", "Seasons in the Abyss" and "Angel of Death." All of these songs are played at almost every Slayer concert. A guitar company called ESP Guitars makes a guitar which looks exactly like Hanneman's main onstage guitar and is called the "ESP Jeff Hanneman Signature Model."

Hanneman died on May 2, 2013 in Inland Empire, California, aged 49. He was staying in an area hospital when he suffered liver failure.

[[Santo Domingo Este]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dominican Republic, 2001 establishments in the Dominican Republic

Santo Domingo Este is a Dominican municipality and the provincial capital of the Santo Domingo province. It is on the eastern (left) side of the Ozama River.

[[2009 World Series]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball World Series, 2009 in sports, 2009 in New York (state), New York Yankees, Philadelphia Phillies, 2009 in Pennsylvania

The 2009 World Series was the MLB World Series of 2009 in the game of baseball. The New York Yankees won the series to take the 2009 World Series 4 games to 2, beating the Philadelphia Phillies. Hideki Matsui was the first ever Japanese born MVP.

[[Closer (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 drama movies, 2004 romance movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, BAFTA Award winning movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Infidelity in movies, Movies directed by Mike Nichols, Movies set in London, American independent movies

Closer is a 2004 American romantic drama movie set in London, England. The movie stars Julia Roberts, Jude Law, Natalie Portman and Clive Owen. It was produced and directed by Mike Nichols. The movie was recognized with a number of awards and nominations, including Academy Award nominations and Golden Globe wins for both Portman and Owen for their acting in supporting roles. The movie was written by Patrick Marber, based on his award-winning 1997 play of the same name.

[[Maryse Ouellet]]

CATEGORIES: Beauty pageant winners, Canadian professional wrestlers, Female professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Canadian models, People from Montreal, Sportspeople from Quebec, 1983 births

Maryse Ouellet (born January 21, 1983 in Montreal, Quebec) is a French Canadian glamour model, professional wrestler, professional wrestling valet, and businesswoman. She is perhaps best known for her time with WWE where she worked from 2006 to 2011.

During her time in the WWE, she won the WWE Diva's Championship twice. In August, she underwent surgery for an abdominal hernia and took time off of WWE programming. She was released from her WWE contract on October 28 after two months of inactivity. She announced that had plans to start a clothing and jewelry line called House of Maryse.

In 2003, She won Miss Hawaiian Tropic Canada and she also finished second at the International Finals of Miss Hawaiian Tropic 2004. In 2007, she was on the cover of Playboy's Girls of Canada calendar.

[[Misanthropy]]

CATEGORIES: Hatred

Misanthropy is the general distrust or hatred of humanity.  A person who feels that way is called a misanthropist.

Many misanthropists are labeled using offensive terms such as hermits and loners. Some Misanthropic people prefer to be alone whilst others do not trust many people outside of their immediate family or friends and Some do not trust anyone. 

Molière's character Alceste in Le Misanthrope (1666) states:

[[Cygnus X-1]]

CATEGORIES: Binary stars, Black holes

Cygnus X-1 (abbreviated Cyg X-1) is a well-known galactic X-ray source. It is thought to be a black hole in the constellation Cygnus. 

It was discovered in 1964 during a rocket flight, and is one of the strongest X-ray sources seen from Earth. Cygnus X-1 was the first X-ray source accepted as a black hole. It is among the most studied astronomical objects in its class. The compact object is estimated to have a mass about 14.8 times the mass of the Sun. It is too small to be any known kind of normal star, or other likely object besides a black hole. If so, the radius of its event horizon is about 44.

[[Woodcut]]

CATEGORIES: Printmaking

A woodcut is a way of printing. An image is cut into a block of wood. The printing part remains level with the surface. The non-printing parts are removed, often with a tool called a  gouge. The areas that are 'white' are cut away with a knife or chisel. Therefore the wood still at the original surface level are black in the final print.

The wood block is cut in the direction of the grain of the wood. In Europe beechwood was most commonly used. In Japan, a special type of cherry wood was used.

The surface is covered with ink. It is rolled over the surface with an ink-covered roller (called a brayer). This leaves ink upon the flat surface, but none in the non-printing areas. Sometimes woodcuts are referred to by a formal word, xylography.clear

[[Ivan Boldirev]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Atlanta Flames players, Boston Bruins players, California Golden Seals players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Living people, Ontario Hockey League players, Stanley Cup champions, Vancouver Canucks players, Ice hockey centres

Ivan Boldirev (born August 15, 1949 in Zrenjanin, SR Serbia, SFR Yugoslavia (now Serbia)) is a retired NHL ice hockey centre who played for numerous NHL teams.

[[Jose Reginaldo Vital]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Jose Reginaldo Vital (born 29 February 1976) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Peter Bosz]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Eredivisie managers, People from Apeldoorn, Sportspeople from Gelderland

Peter Bosz (born 21 November 1963) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Valeriy Lobanovskyi]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2002 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Deaths from surgical complications, Ukrainian football managers, Sportspeople from Kiev, Ukrainian footballers

Valeriy Lobanovskyi (6 January 1939 – 13 May 2002) was a Ukrainian football player turned manager. He played for Soviet Union national team. He died after a stroke and brain surgery.

[[Blood Brothers]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s musicals, Broadway musicals, Laurence Olivier Award winning musicals, Plays by Willy Russell, Musicals based on books, West End musicals, Works about brothers

Blood Brothers is a musical. The book, lyrics, and music were written by Willy Russell. It is one of the longest running musicals in history, with the performance running since its original 1988 West End production. It opened on Broadway on 25 April 1993 at the Music Box Theatre. It closed on 30 April 1995 after 840 performances.

The musical has a main theme of nature vs. nurture; where two twins have been separated at birth. The twins different backgrounds are shown through class,wealth and social status. This continues showing the extremes in British society by one twin becoming an University graduate and the other being stuck with money and home problems. Both fall in love with the same girl, Linda, and end up dying on the same day. As the narrator tells you at the start of the performance.

Over the years the musical has been changed to suit the director. Some changes are that:

[[2027]]

CATEGORIES: 2027, Years in the future

2027 (MMXXVII) will be 2027.

[[Daniel Edusei]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Ghanaian footballers

Daniel Edusei (born 2 September 1980) is a Ghanaian football player. He has played for Ghana national team.

[[Dodô]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Dodô (born 2 May 1974) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[José Róbson do Nascimento]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

José Róbson do Nascimento (born 10 May 1969) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Peterloo Massacre]]

CATEGORIES: 1819, 1810s in the United Kingdom, Battles, History of Manchester, 19th century in England, August events

The Peterloo Massacre (or Battle of Peterloo) happened at St Peter's Field, Manchester, England, on 16 August 1819. It was when cavalry charged into a crowd of 60,000 to 80,000 gathered at a meeting to demand the reform of parliamentary representation.

The end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815 had resulted in a time of famine and chronic unemployment. This was made worse by the introduction of the first of the Corn Laws. By the beginning of 1819 there were poor economic conditions. That, and the limited suffrage (few people had the vote), inceased the appeal of political radicalism. 

In response, the Manchester Patriotic Union organised a demonstration to be addressed by the radical orator Henry Hunt. The Manchester Patriotic Union was a group agitating for parliamentary reform.

Shortly after the meeting began, local magistrates called on the military authorities to arrest Henry Hunt and several others with him, and to disperse the men. Cavalry charged into the crowd with sabres drawn. In the resulting confusion, 15 people were killed and 400 to 700 were injured. The massacre was given the name Peterloo in ironic comparison to the Battle of Waterloo, which had taken place four years earlier.

[[Radekhiv]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ukraine

Radekhiv (Раде́хів, Radziechów) is a city in Lviv Oblast (province) of Ukraine. It is the administrative center of the Radekhiv Raion. About 9,230 live there.

[[Richard Arkwright]]

CATEGORIES: 1733 births, 1792 deaths, English inventors, People from Lancashire

Sir Richard Arkwright (3 January 1733 – 3 August 1792) was an English inventor and a leading entrepreneur during the early Industrial Revolution. 

He invented the spinning frame. This was later called the water frame after the change to water power. Arkwright patented the technology in 1767.

A self-made man, Arkwright's achievement was to combine power, machinery, and semi-skilled labour. In the new   cotton industry, this created mass production more than a century before Henry Ford. 

Arkwright had great mechanical abilities and a genius for organisation. This made him, more than anyone else, the creator of the modern factory system. The water frame is still used today.

Arkwright was born in Preston, Lancashire, England and died in Cromford, Derbyshire at the age of 59.

[[Port of Manchester]]

CATEGORIES: Greater Manchester

The Port of Manchester is in the north west of England. It was created as a customs port on 1 January 1894. This was four months before the opening of the Manchester Ship Canal transformed Manchester from a landlocked city into a major sea port. It extended along the whole 36 miles length of the canal, from Eastham in the west to Manchester in the east, absorbing the Port of Runcorn, which had been created in 1862. The creation of the new port moved the Port of Liverpool's boundary 11 milles to the west. Once delivered to the port, goods travelled as far west as Warrington, about 20 miles north, as far east as Leeds, and up to 100 miles south to Birmingham.

[[Manchester Piccadilly station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England

Manchester Piccadilly station is the main railway station of Manchester, England. It serves intercity routes to London Euston, Birmingham New Street, South Wales and the south coast of England, Edinburgh and Glasgow Central in Scotland, and routes throughout Northern England. One of 18 British railway stations managed by Network Rail, it is the largest and busiest of the five city centre railway stations in Central Manchester/Salford. The others are Manchester Victoria, Salford Central, Deansgate and Manchester Oxford Road.

Piccadilly is the busiest station in England outside of London for passenger usage, and the second busiest station in the United Kingdom outside London. According to an independent poll carried out in 2007, Manchester Piccadilly has the highest customer satisfaction level of any UK station, with 92% of passengers satisfied with the station; the national average was 60%.

[[First Greater Manchester]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in the United Kingdom, Greater Manchester, 1996 establishments in England

First Greater Manchester (formerly First Manchester) is one of the bus companies serving Greater Manchester, a metropolitan county in North West England. It is part of "FirstGroup", a company operating transport services across the British Isles and in North America. The company operates within the area covered by the Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive, a public body responsible for helping to co-ordinate public transport services in the Greater Manchester area.

[[Victorian architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural styles

During the industrial revolution, the Victorian era was well known for its thousands of terraced buildings designed for workers living in the vicinity of industrial areas, particularly in the North and Midlands. Various larger buildings have also been built for the houses of rich members society. A Victorian property has several distinguishable characteristics such as brickwork, high ceilings, bay windows, brick porches, and ornate gable trim among others. The term Victorian architecture can refer to one of a number of architectural styles that were employed in the Victorian era. This kind of architecture is named after Queen Victoria. Built-in the late 1800s and early 1900s (during the reign of Queen Victoria), this architecture is a style of its own. Gracious, modestly ornate, solidly built and practical, these homes have stood the test of time.  These architectural styles include:

[[Rotifer]]

CATEGORIES: Rotifers, Extremophiles, Horizontal gene transfer

The rotifers are a phylum of tiny animals which are common in freshwater environments, such as ponds and puddles. Some rotifers are free swimming, others move by inching along, and some are fixed. A few species live in colonies. 

[[Contemporary architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Architecture

Contemporary architecture is generally speaking the architecture being made at the present time. The term contemporary architecture is also applied to a range of styles of recently built structures and spaces (broadly speaking - since the 1980s) which are optimized for current use. 

[[Estigmene acrea]]

CATEGORIES: Arctiidae

The salt marsh moth or acrea moth (Estigmene acrea) is a North American moth.  It is in the family Arctiidae.  The caterpillar is known as the 'salt marsh caterpillar'.

[[Heliocheilus julia]]

CATEGORIES: Noctuidae

Heliocheilus julia is a North American moth.  It is in the family Noctuidae.  Heliocheilus julia is attracted to lights.  Its life history and host plants are unknown.

[[Claus von Stauffenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1944 deaths, Colonels, Deaths by firearm in Germany, Executed German people, German military personnel of World War II, People from Baden-Württemberg, Victims of Nazism

 Claus Philipp Maria Justinian Schenk Graf von Stauffenberg (15 November 1907 – 21 July 1944) was a German army officer and Catholic aristocrat.

von Stauffenberg was a leader of the failed 20 July plot of 1944. This aimed to kill the German dictator Adolf Hitler, and remove the Nazi Party from power in Nazi Germany.  With Henning von Tresckow and Hans Oster, he was one of the central figures of the German Resistance movement within the Wehrmacht.

For his involvement in the plot to kill Adolf Hitler, von Stauffenberg was executed, as were many other Nazi German resistance members.

[[Führerbunker]]

CATEGORIES: Nazi Germany, Buildings and structures in Berlin

The Führerbunker (German, literally meaning "shelter for the leader" or "the Führer's shelter") was under Hitler's New Reich Chancellery in Berlin, Germany. It was in this subterranean bunker where Adolf Hitler and his wife Eva Braun spent the last weeks of the war. Both are believed to have died there on April 30, 1945. 

The elaborate complex consisted of two separate levels, the "Vorbunker" (the upper bunker) or "forward bunker" and the newer Führerbunker one level below. They were both connected together by a stairway set at right angles (they were not spiral). The Führerbunker was about 8.2 meters beneath the garden of the old Reich Chancellery building at Wilhelmstraße 77. This is about 120 meters north of the new Reich Chancellery building, which had the address Voßstraße 6. The Vorbunker was under the large hall behind the old Reich Chancellery. It was connected to the new Reich Chancellery. The Führerbunker was somewhat lower than the Vorbunker and in the west of it. The two bunkers were connected via sets of stairs set at right angles.

The complex was protected by circa four meters of concrete.  About 30 small rooms were distributed over two levels with exits into the main buildings and an emergency exit into the garden. The complex was built in two distinct phases, one part in 1936 and the other in 1943. The 1943 development was built by the Hochtief company as part of an extensive program of subterranean construction in Berlin that began in 1940.  The rooms of Hitler were in the newer, lower section and by February 1945 it had high quality furniture taken from the Chancellery along with several framed oil paintings.

[[Barcelona Metro]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona Metro

The Barcelona Metro (Catalan and Spanish: Metro de Barcelona), part of the public transportation system of Barcelona, Spain is an extensive network of electrified railways that run underground in central Barcelona and above ground into the city's suburbs. There are 189 stations with 12 lines together with 166 km of total track line.

[[Kelenna Azubuike]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, Golden State Warriors players, Sportspeople from London, American basketball players

Kelenna David Azubuike (born 16 December 1983 in London, England) is an American basketball player for the Golden State Warriors of the NBA. He plays as a shooting guard and small forward. He wears the jersey number 7 on his team. He played college basketball at the University of Kentucky Wildcats.

[[Harry Catterick]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1975 deaths, English football managers, English footballers, Sportspeople from County Durham

Harry Catterick was an English football player and manager. He was most successful when he managed Everton FC during the 1970s.

[[Howard Kendall]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2015 deaths, English football managers, English footballers, Sportspeople from County Durham

Howard Kendall (22 May 1946 - 17 October 2015) was an English football player turned manager. He was born in Ryton, County Durham. He is most famous for managing Everton FC during one of their most successful periods. He was briefly chairman of the club and has also been manager of Manchester City and Blackburn Rovers.

[[Patrick Henry]]

CATEGORIES: 1736 births, 1799 deaths, Founding Fathers of the United States

Patrick Henry (May 29, 1736 – June 6, 1799) served as the first post-colonial Governor of Virginia from 1776 to 1779. He is known for his "Give me Liberty or give me death" speech in 1775 shortly before the American Revolutionary War in St. John's Church. He was a fiery speaker who evoked great emotion from listeners. He unsuccessfully opposed the United States Constitution, which made him an enemy of John Adams and the Federalist Party. After the French Revolution, however, he supported Adams. 

His wife, Sarah Shelton, had a mental illness and died in 1775. He married his second wife, Dorthea Dandrige, two years later in 1777.

As governor of Virginia, Patrick Henry since 1776, he was one of the main architects of the requests for aid to the nascent United States, for which, in 1776 he requested support from the governor of Louisiana, Luis de Unzaga, key help for this birth.

[[Typhoon Tip]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 Pacific typhoon season, Pacific typhoons

Typhoon Tip, known in the Philippines as Typhoon Warling (international designation: T7920, JTWC designation: 23W) was the biggest and strongest known tropical cyclone on record. It was the 19th tropical storm and 12th typhoon of the 1979 Pacific typhoon season. The typhoon formed out of a disturbance in a monsoon trough on October 4 near Pohnpei. At first, a tropical storm to the northwest prevented Tip from strengthening, but after it moved further north, the storm was able to gain more strength. After passing near Guam, it strengthened quickly and reached its highest winds of 305 km/h (190 mph) and a worldwide record low barometric pressure of 870 mbar (hPa, 25.69 inHg) on October 12. At its peak strength, it was also the biggest tropical cyclone on record, with a diameter of 2,220 km (1,380 mi). Tip slowly weakened as it kept moving towards the west-northwest, and later turned to the northeast. Tip made landfall on southern Japan on October 19, and became an extratropical cyclone shortly thereafter.

U.S. Air Force Reconnaissance flew into the typhoon on 60 different times, making Tip one of the most closely watched tropical cyclones. Rainfall from the storm breached a wall that was used to stop flooding at a United States Marine Corps training camp in the Kanagawa Prefecture of Japan. This eventually led to a fire which killed 13 Marines and hurt 68. Elsewhere in the country, the typhoon caused lots of damage and 42 deaths and shipwrecks left another 44 killed or missing.

[[Pohnpei]]

CATEGORIES: Federated States of Micronesia

Pohnpei is one of the four states in the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM). It is part of the Senyavin Islands group. Palikir is a city on Pohnpei.

[[1979 Pacific typhoon season]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 Pacific typhoon season

The 1979 Pacific typhoon season has no official limits; it ran year-round in 1979, but most tropical cyclones tend to form in the northwestern Pacific Ocean between June and December. 

28 tropical depressions formed this year in the Western Pacific, of which 23 became tropical storms. 14 storms reached typhoon intensity. Four of these reached super typhoon strength.

[[Freighter]]

CATEGORIES: Ship types

A cargo ship or freighter is any kind of ship that carries cargo, goods, and materials from one port to another. Thousands of cargo carriers travel on the world's seas and oceans each year, and handle most international trade. Cargo ships are usually specially designed for a special task, often carrying tools like cranes to load and unload. They come in all sizes.

[[Common scold]]

CATEGORIES: Law

In the criminal common law of England and Wales, a common scold was a type of public nuisance. The term was applied to a woman who caused trouble and who disturbed the peace by arguing and fighting with her neighbours all the time. The Latin language name for this type of woman was communis rixatrix. This name's grammar only applies to females. This makes it clear that only women could commit this type of crime.  

When British people first went to the North America, they took this crime with them. 

The crime was often punished by "ducking". Ducking meant that the offender was placed in a chair over a river or pond. They were then lowered into the water, until they were all in the water. This was done several times. Few people were actually convicted of being a common scold, but it remained a crime listed on the law books of England and Wales until 1967. Because it applied only to women, it was eventually banned in the United States. This was because the U.S. Constitution (the highest law in the U.S.) does not allow people to be treated differently from each other. This comes from a section of the Constitution called the Equal Protection Clause.

[[Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in Los Angeles, California, 1923 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in California

The Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum is a sports stadium in Los Angeles, California.  It was built in 1923.  It has hosted many different sporting events.  In 1932 and 1984, it hosted the track events and ceremonies of the Olympic Games.

In football, it used to be the stadium of the Chargers, Raiders and Rams before they moved to other cities.  The University of Southern California, which is across the street, has played in the Coliseum for many years, and UCLA played there for several years as well.  The Coliseum hosted two Super Bowls and 20 Pro Bowls, or NFL All-Star Games. On January 13, 2016, the Rams relocated back to Los Angeles. They will play at the Coliseum until their new stadium is built for the 2020 season.

The Los Angeles Dodgers played in the Coliseum for four years before Dodger Stadium was built.  While there, they won a World Series and set records for most people at a baseball game.

[[John Miszuk]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, American Hockey League players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Minnesota North Stars players, Polish ice hockey players, Philadelphia Flyers players, World Hockey Association players, Central Professional Hockey League players, Ice hockey defencemen

John Stanley Miszuk (born September 29, 1940 in Naliboki, Poland) is a retired Polish-born NHL ice hockey defenceman who played for numerous NHL teams.

[[Roger Machado Marques]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Brazilian football managers, People from Porto Alegre

Roger Machado Marques (born 25 April 1975) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazil national team.

[[Álvaro Saborío]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Costa Rican footballers

Álvaro Saborío (born 25 March 1982) is a Costa Rican football player. He plays for Real Salt Lake and Costa Rica national team.

[[Yoshiyuki Morisaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Yoshiyuki Morisaki (born 20 April 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[S.K. Jugoslavija]]

CATEGORIES: Serbian football clubs, Yugoslavia, 1913 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in Serbia, 1945 disestablishments in Europe

S.K. Jugoslavija is a former football club which has played in Yugoslavia.

[[Tomoaki Ōgami]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers

Tomoaki Ōgami (born 7 June 1970) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryan Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, English footballers, Actors from London, Arsenal F.C. players, Crystal Palace F.C. players

Ryan Smith (born 10 November 1968) is an English football player. He plays for Kansas City Wizards.

[[Nigel Reo-Coker]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Nigel Reo-Coker (born 14 May 1984) is an English football player. He plays for Aston Villa.

[[Baltazar Maria de Morais Júnior]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Goiânia

Baltazar Maria de Morais Júnior (born 17 July 1959) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Rubén Paz]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Uruguayan footballers

Rubén Paz (born 8 August 1959) is a former Uruguayan football player. He has played for Uruguay national team.

[[Nelson Luís Kerchner]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Brazilian football managers

Nelson Luís Kerchner (born December 31, 1962) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazilian national team.

[[Yokosuka, Kanagawa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kanagawa Prefecture

Yokosuka is a city in Kanagawa, Japan. It is at the beginning of the Tokyo Bay in the Miura Peninsula. The city stretches across the peninsula to Sagami Bay.

It has been recognized as a core city since 2001.

[[Chuuk]]

CATEGORIES: Federated States of Micronesia

Chuuk (formerly Truk, Ruk, Hogoleu, Torres, Ugulat, and Lugulus) is a group of islands island in the southwestern part of the Pacific Ocean. It is one of the four states of the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM). The other three are Kosrae, Pohnpei, and Yap. Chuuk has more people than any of the other FSM states. Geographically, Chuuk is also part of the larger Caroline Islands group. 

[[Monsoon trough]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology

The monsoon trough is part of the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) which extends into or through a monsoon circulation. It is shown on a weather map by a line showing the areas of lower barometric pressure.

[[Syncytium]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

Syncytium is a living tissue where there are no  complete cell walls (plants) or cell membranes (animals). Syncytia have cytoplasm and many nuclei, but are not divided into separate cells.

[[Chang Beer]]

CATEGORIES: Beer, Thai culture

Chang Beer is a beer brand from Thailand. They are one of the biggest alcohol producers in South East Asia. They sponsor Everton Football Club.

[[Tropical Storm Peter (2003)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 Atlantic hurricane season, Atlantic tropical storms

Tropical Storm Peter was a short-lived tropical storm that formed after the end of the Atlantic hurricane season. It formed from an extratropical storm, and at first, it was a subtropical cyclone. However, as it moved over warmer waters, it began to gain strength. On December 9, 2003, it became a tropical cyclone. An eye formed within the cyclone, and Peter almost became a hurricane. It reached its peak winds of 70 mph (110 km/h), but wind shear and cooler waters quickly caused Peter to lose strength. 

[[Gesamtkunstwerk]]

CATEGORIES: Art

Gesamtkunstwerk is a German word meaning "total artwork". 

Richard Wagner used gesamtkunstwerk in creating his operas. In the Classical era, there was more emphasis on the music in an opera. But in the Romantic era, there was more of an emphasis on personal expression. Wagner made his operas into movie-like performances.

[[Poland, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ohio

Poland is a village in Mahoning County, Ohio, United States.

[[Lycée Michel-Rodange]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 establishments in Europe, Luxembourg City, Schools

The Lycée Michel-Rodange is a high school in Luxembourg City, Luxembourg. It was founded in 1968. It was named after a famous Luxembourgian writer, Michel Rodange.

[[Ghost (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 drama movies, 1990 romance movies, 1990s fantasy movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, Academy Award winning movies, American fantasy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Ghost movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies about couples, Movies about revenge, Murder in movies, Movies set in New York City, Saturn Award winners

Ghost is a 1990 American romantic drama fantasy movie set in New York City. It stars Demi Moore, Patrick Swayze, Whoopi Goldberg, and Tony Goldwyn.

The movie became an unexpected and huge box office success, earning $505,702,588 on a budget of $22,000,000. It was the most financially successful movie of 1990.

The movie also got very positive reviews from the audience and mostly positive reviews from movie critics as well. Its popularity has made it a cult movie.

[[Fox Sports]]

CATEGORIES: Fox Broadcasting Company

Fox Sports, also referred to as Fox Sports Media Group and stylized in all caps as FOX Sports, is the sports programming division of the Fox Corporation that is responsible for sports broadcasts carried by the Fox broadcast network, Fox Sports 1 (FS1), Fox Sports 2 (FS2), and the Fox Sports Radio network.

The division was formed in 1994 with Fox's acquisition of broadcast rights to National Football League (NFL) games. In subsequent years, Fox has televised the National Hockey League (NHL) (1994–1999), Major League Baseball (1996–present), NASCAR (2001–present), the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) (2007–2010), Major League Soccer (MLS) (2003–2011, 2015–present), the U.S. Open golf tournament (2015–2019), the National Hot Rod Association (NHRA) (2016–present), and WWE programming (2019–present).  

On December 14, 2017, The Walt Disney Company announced plans to acquire then-parent company 21st Century Fox for $52.4 billion, which included key assets such as the regional Fox Sports Networks (which were later sold by Disney to the Sinclair Broadcast Group), FX Networks Group (which had previously aired sports-related programming), and Fox Sports International. Under the terms of the proposed acquisition, Fox Sports 1, Fox Sports 2, and other assets were spun off into the division's current parent company, which is independently owned by 21st Century Fox’s current shareholders. The current branding they are using is the Fox Sports branding.

[[The Girl and the Robot]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs

"The Girl and the Robot" is a song by Royksopp from their album Junior (2009). The song features Swedish singer, Robyn. The song tells the story of a girl in love with a man who works too much and never sees her.

[[Like Toy Soldiers]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 songs, Eminem songs, Rhythm and blues ballads

Like Toy Soldiers is a song by rapper Eminem. It samples the song "Toy Soldiers" by Martika. In the song, Eminem declares a truce with all the people that engaged in a feud with and claims that he tried to stop the fights between 50 Cent and Ja Rule. It was from his fifth album Encore. It was No.1 in the UK. The song is about Eminem's attempts to calm an angry community of rappers, He speaks highly about the struggles he had with The Source's editor Benitzo, and also speaks highly about the fued with Ja Rule saying he tried to stop the fued, but lost it when he heard him making fun of his daughter in his diss song "Loose Change". The song was also about the feuds of Dr. Dre and 50 Cent, and because of this song Eminem refused to get involved with 50's later feuds which included: Jadakiss, Fat Joe, Game and Young Buck.

[[Jeff Beck]]

CATEGORIES: English guitarists, Grammy Award winners, 1944 births, Living people

Geoffrey Arnold "Jeff" Beck (born 24 June 1944) is an English rock musician. He became famous when he replaced Eric Clapton as the guitarist for the Yardbirds. After leaving the Yardbirds in 1966 Beck went on to work with his own group and with other musicians.

A lot Jeff Beck's music has no singing and focuses on Beck's skilled guitar style. His music crosses many genres including: blues-rock, heavy metal and jazz fusion. He has won 4 Grammy Awards for "Best Rock Instrumental Performance."

Beck was listed 14th in Rolling Stone Magazine's list of the "100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time",

Beck has inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame twice. First as a member of the Yardbirds. And again as a solo artist.

[[Milla Jovovich]]

CATEGORIES: American child actors, American models, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Ukrainian actors, Ukrainian singers, 1975 births, Living people, People from Kiev

Milla Jovovich (born Milica Jovović, Милица Јововић, December 17, 1975) is an American model, actress and singer of Russian and Serbian descent, known for being Alice in the Resident Evil movies. She was born in Kiev to a Serbian father and Russian mother. Jovovich became an American citizen in 1994.

[[Texas Revolution]]

CATEGORIES: 1835, 1836, 1830s in Texas, 19th century in Mexico, Wars of independence

The Texas Revolution was a successful fight of Texas for independence from Mexico.

In the 1820s, landowning empresarios led immigrants, mostly from the United States, to Texas, which was part Mexico, for cheap land. At first, the Mexican government was happy to fill the land, but most Texans soon were Americans. Mexico began to worry about losing Texas to the United States and so decided to stop all immigration from there. 

To make things worse, Mexico had a new president, Antonio López de Santa Anna, who got rid of the Mexican Constitution and made himself president for life. People in several places, especially in northeastern Mexico, joined together to fight him and the Mexican Army and to secede from Mexico.

Most Texans wanted independence; one reason was that they refused to accept an 1829 Mexican law that banned slavery. Many from the Southern United States saw slavery as a way of life. They brought enslaved African Americans to work as field hands in the production of cotton, corn, and sugar.

The war in Texas lasted from October 2, 1835 to April 21, 1836. A famous battle in the war was the Battle of the Alamo in which about 200 Texans were killed. After the war, Texas was declared an independent country and called itself the Republic of Texas.

It remained an independent country for ten years. In 1845, the United States Congress voted to admit Texas as a slave state, which made it the country's 28th state. Mexico was angry and so the Mexican–American War began.

[[Joey Wheeler]]

CATEGORIES: Television characters

Joey Wheeler is a fictional character on the children's television show Yu-Gi-Oh!. He has blond hair. He normally wears an open green jacket with a white T-shirt underneath and blue jeans. He is often seen with a KaibaCorp Duel Disk on his left arm.

[[Max Euwe]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1981 deaths, Chess grandmasters, Dutch academics, Dutch computer scientists, Dutch mathematicians, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Machgielis "Max" Euwe  (20 May 1901 in Amsterdam – 26 November 1981 in Amsterdam) was the 5th World Chess Champion, from 1935 to 1937. He was a Dutch chess grandmaster, mathematician, and author. He was not a full-time professional player; he got his PhD in pure mathematics in 1926, and worked as a school and college teacher. He was made Professor of Mathematics in 1964.p132

Against all expectations, Max won the world chess championship in a match with Alexander Alekhine in 1935. Alekhine won the title back in a rematch two years later. After World War II, Euwe was still the best player in western Europe, and played in two world championship candidates tournaments. Max played for the world championship in 1948, in the match-tournament which decided the successor to Alekhine. He finished below Botvinnik, Smyslov, Keres and Reshevsky. Again he tried, at the Candidates' tournament in 1953, but this was also unsuccessful, though he was still a strong player.

Max used his teaching skills in chess as well as mathematics. He wrote 20 chess books, most aimed at helping the club player improve. He invented a subscription correspondence course called The Chess Archives, but known everywhere as Euwe's Archives. This gave teaching on chess openings, which were then an area of great weakness for club players. The Archives were published in Dutch, German and English, and helped to give professional help to amateur players.

Euwe served as President of FIDE, the World Chess Federation, from 1970 to 1978. He tried to expand chess into more countries, a goal which has succeeded.

[[Billy the Kid]]

CATEGORIES: 1859 births, 1881 deaths, American murderers, Deaths by firearm

Henry McCarty (1859 – July 14, 1881) was also known as William H. Bonney, and known popularly as Billy the Kid. He was an American gunman who took part in the Lincoln County War. 

Legends say that Billy the kid killed 21 men, but history tells us that he murdered at least four men.  The first murder was in 1877. He was shot dead in New Mexico by Sheriff Pat Garrett. Bonney  was born September 17 or November 23, 1859. He died July 14, 1881 when he was 21 years old.  

Before he started using the alias "William Bonney", McCarty's first arrest was for stealing food in late 1875. Within five months he was arrested for stealing clothing and firearms. Two days later, he escaped from jail and fled from New Mexico Territory into the neighboring Arizona Territory, making him an outlaw and a federal fugitive. After murdering a blacksmith during an argument in August 1877, Bonney became a wanted man in Arizona Territory. He returned to New Mexico and joined a group of cattle rustlers. He became a well-known figure in the region when he joined the Regulators and took part in the Lincoln County War. In April 1878, the Regulators killed three men, including Lincoln County Sheriff William J. Brady and one of his deputies. Bonney and two other Regulators were later charged with killing all three men.

[[Luke Donald]]

CATEGORIES: British golfers, Sportspeople from Hertfordshire, Living people, 1977 births

Luke Campbell Donald MBE (born 7 December 1977) is an English professional golfer. He turned pro in 2001. He plays mainly on the U.S. based PGA Tour but is also a member of the European Tour.  He is the only player to ever win both money lists on the PGA and European Tours in the same year. This was in 2011.  In 2011 he was named the PGA Player of the Year and PGA Tour Player of the Year.  He became the first Englishman to win either award.  He was also named the European Tour Golfer of the Year. 

Donald was born in Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire. He went to Northwestern University. His father is Scottish.

His first time as a professional was at the Reno-Tahoe Open on the PGA Tour.  He became only the 11th rookie in PGA Tour history to earn more than $1 million in his first season. 

In 2004 he won the Omega European Masters and the Scandinavian Masters on the European Tour. 

[[Pit bull]]

CATEGORIES: Terriers

Pit bull is a word used to describe several breeds of dog. This includes the American Pit Bull Terrier, American Staffordshire Terrier, American Bully and Staffordshire Bull Terrier, and dogs with a mix of these breeds. In some locations,  the modern American Bulldog and Bull Terrier are described as a "pit bull-type dog". Pit bull can also mean dogs that were known as "bull terriers" before the development of the modern Bull Terrier in the early 20th century.

These dogs were bred by crossing bulldog breeds and terriers. Pit bulls are very strong and can pull many times their weight. They were also bred for dog fighting. The place where such dogs fought was called a pit. As such dogs can be  dangerous, very often a special permit is needed to breed or to own them. Some places or countries may have forbiddden their use.

[[IAHD]]

CATEGORIES: Sports for the disabled, Diving, Non-profit organizations, 1993 establishments

The International Association of Handicapped Divers, the IAHD, is an association whose aim is to promote, develop and conduct programs for the training of people with a disability in scuba diving. Since it's began in 1993 the IAHD has held many professional and nonprofessional programs at locations all around the world.

The IAHD is a non profit foundation and all the people on the board are volunteers. There are also volunteers in regions around the world. Physical exercise helps people improve their health both physically and mentally. A person with a disability gets these benefits as well as increased social activity by taking up an activity like scuba diving. The risks in training a disabled person in diving are no higher than for able bodied people.

Instructors may have to alter some of the techniques and some equipment may also need changing to meet the individual's need. In some cases extra pool and / or open water training may be needed. In some extreme cases even individual lessons may be needed. IAHD believes that people with a disability should be in a regular class at some point in their training. Being involved with activities like scuba diving may even result in giving a person with a disability a renewed interest in life and provide positive and lasting  benefits.  

[[Alex Mineiro]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Belo Horizonte

Alexander Pereira Cardoso (born 15 March 1975) is a Brazilian football player. He is called Alex Mineiro by most people. He plays for Atlético Paranaense.

[[Giuseppe Rossi]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Italian footballers, People from Teaneck, New Jersey

Giuseppe Rossi (born 1 February 1987) is an Italian football player. He plays for Villarreal and Italy national team.

[[Nemanja Vidić]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Manchester United F.C. players, Serbian footballers

Nemanja Vidić (born 21 October 1981) is a Serbian football player. He plays for Manchester United and Serbia national team.

[[Lino Marzoratti]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Lino Marzoratti (born 12 October 1986) is an Italian football player. He plays for Cagliari.

[[OFK Beograd]]

CATEGORIES: Serbian football clubs, Belgrade, 1911 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in Serbia

O.F.K. Beograd is a football club which plays in Serbia.

[[Ricardo Rangel]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2009 deaths, Mozambican people, Photojournalists

Ricardo Achiles Rangel (15 February 1924 - 11 June 2009) was a Mozambican photojournalist and photographer.

==Biography== 

[[Reverberation]]

CATEGORIES: Sound

Reverberation is  when sound waves continue to vibrate after the original source of the sound has stopped emitting sound. Reverberation can cause echoes.

[[Regina Moraes]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2009 deaths

Regina Fonseca de Moraes (10 March 1938 – 12 September 2009) was a housewife, shepherd and evangelist.

[[Adílson Batista]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Brazilian football managers, People from Curitiba

Adílson Dias Batista (born 16 March 1968) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[José Fábio Santos de Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Maceió

José Fábio Santos de Oliveira (born 21 April 1987) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Jia Xiuquan]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Chinese footballers

Jia Xiuquan (born November 9, 1963) is a former Chinese football player. He has played for the China PR national team.

[[Yoshiaki Ota]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, J1 League players, J2 League players, Júbilo Iwata players, Vegalta Sendai players

Yoshiaki Ota is a former Japanese football player. His brother Keisuke Ota is also a former footballer.

[[Tomasz Frankowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Polish footballers

Tomasz Frankowski (born 16 August 1974) is a retired Polish football player. He retired in 2013. 

[[Ryoichi Kawakatsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo players, Tokyo Verdy players, Kyoto Sanga FC players, FC Tokyo players

Ryoichi Kawakatsu is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Suplex]]

CATEGORIES: Professional wrestling moves

A suplex is a well-known wrestling move. Many wrestlers use this move. There are also variations of the suplex, like the belly to belly suplex, fisherman's suplex and many more.

[[Drake (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: Drake (rapper), 1986 births, Living people, Actors from Toronto, Canadian movie actors, Canadian musicians, Canadian rap musicians, Canadian television actors, Singers from Toronto

Aubrey Drake Graham CAN (born October 24, 1986) is a Canadian rapper, singer, songwriter, producer, actor, and entrepreneur who has sold over five million album copies. He was born in Toronto, Ontario. He was the character Jimmy Brooks for eight seasons on the television show Degrassi: The Next Generation.

Drake has worked with a lot of other musicians. Drake collaborated with Rihanna on the number-one singles "What's My Name?" (2010) and "Work" (2016). He also rapped on "Moment 4 Life" (2011) by Nicki Minaj. "Moment 4 Life" was nominated for a 2012 Grammy Award in the category Best Rap Performance. His third album Take Care won the award for Best Rap Album at the 2013 Grammy Awards.

On September 30, 2013, he was named as the "global ambassador" for the Toronto Raptors of the National Basketball Association (NBA).

In 2016, he released Views, an album that was only on iTunes at first. His single "One Dance" became his first number-one single on the US Billboard Hot 100 as a main artist.

On March 18, 2017, Drake released More Life, which he referred to as a "playlist" instead of an album. The singles "Fake Love" and "Passionfruit" reached the top ten in countries worldwide.

In 2018, Drake worked with Travis Scott and published "Sicko Mode". It was nominated for the Grammy Awards for Best Rap Song and Best Rap Performance.

Drake's single, "God's Plan", from the EP Scary Hours, entered at the top of the US Billboard Hot 100. After 11 weeks at number one, the single "Nice for What" also entered at number one, making Drake the first artist to have a number-one entry replace another number-one entry at the top of the chart. "Nice for What" became Drake's fifth American chart-topper. Drake released the single "I'm Upset" in May 2018 and announced he would release his next album, Scorpion, in June. Despite rumors, particularly a beef with rapper Pusha T, Drake revealed in the album that he has a child, a son named Adonis, with French artist Sophie Brussaux.

On April 2, 2020, Drake released the single "Toosie Slide", based on the dance of the same name that had been posted to social media app TikTok.  It became his third number-one entrance on the Billboard Hot 100, tying him with Mariah Carey as having the most songs enter at the top.  It became his seventh US number-one single overall.

[[Sled]]

CATEGORIES: Winter sports, Land vehicles, Sports equipment, Animal-powered vehicles, Snow

A sled, sledge, or sleigh is a type of vehicle that is used to travel over ice or snow.

[[Telamon]]

CATEGORIES: People in Greek mythology

In Greek mythology, Telamon (ˈ; Ancient Greek: Τελαμών) was the son of Aeacus, king of Aegina, and Endeïs, a mountain nymph. He was the older brother of Peleus. The brothers joined Jason as members of the Argonauts. He was also the father of Ajax the Greater and Teucer. They both fought during the Trojan War. 

[[Tom Green (disambiguation)]]

Tom Green could mean:

[[Sol Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Gloucestershire

Solomon Sebastian "Sol" Davis (born 4 September 1979) is an English footballer who plays for Kettering Town.  He began his career for Swindon Town.

[[The Three Stooges]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Comedy

The Three Stooges was a comedy act that made short movies from 1934 to 1970. The Three Stooges used physical comedy to entertain. This form of comedy is called slapstick comedy. The actors were Moe Howard, Larry Fine, Jerome Curly Howard, and Shemp Howard.

The Three Stooges also made a cameo appearance in the 1963 comedy classic It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.

[[Christine Lieberknecht]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Christian ministers, East German politicians, German Lutherans, Ministers-President of Germany, People from Weimar, Politicians from Thuringia, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany

Christine Lieberknecht (born 7 May 1958) is a German politician of the CDU. From 2009 to 2014, she was Minister-President of the state of Thuringia.

[[Aerodynamics]]

CATEGORIES: Fluid mechanics, Aerospace engineering

Aerodynamics means studying how air (or gas) travels around something moving through it. Streamlining to reduce drag in vehicles is a major field in aerodynamics. Aircraft design is another.

The study of gases that are not in motion is called aerostatics.

Aerodynamics comes from Aero (Air), and Dynamics (Moving).

For aircraft, lift (force) is the force pushing up. Gravity is the force pushing down. If lift is stronger than gravity the plane goes up. If gravity is stronger than lift, the plane goes down. In planes, lift is caused by airflow. Airplane wings are designed in such a way that, the air molecules prefer moving under the wing rather than above it, so as a result there is more air flowing underneath the wing compared to above it. This motion of the air gives upward lift to the aircraft. See Bernoulli's principle.   

Thrust and drag govern forward motion.  Thrust is the force pushing forward, and drag is the force pushing backward.  Thrust is usually made by either propellers or jets.  Drag is the force pushing backward.  Most drag is caused by air friction.

[[Fennec fox]]

The fennec fox (Vulpes zerda) is a small fox that lives in sandy deserts. It lives in the Sahara (in northern Africa) and the northern part of Saudi Arabia. Foxes belong in the family name Canidae. Canidae also includes dogs, wolves, and coyotes.

This fox is agile. It has huge ears and very large eyes. The large ears help the fox lose excess heat. They also help it hear its prey from a long distance away. The fennec fox has hairy feet that protect it from the hot sand.  

The fennec fox is nocturnal (most active at night). It rests during the day in a burrow in the sand. It lives in groups of up to 10 animals. It marks its territory with urine. Its life span is 10 to 12 years and in captivity 10-14 years.

Fennec foxes can reproduce at the age of about 9 months.

[[Salvage]]

Salvage means 'rescue' and as such may refer to:

[[East Carolina University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in North Carolina, American Athletic Conference

East Carolina University (ECU) is an accredited university in Greenville, North Carolina, USA.

ECU's sports teams are called the Pirates. They joined the American Athletic Conference in July 2014.

[[Kodomo]]

CATEGORIES: Anime

Kodomo is a type of anime aimed at all children, regardless of gender. It is often educational, teaching social skills like sharing, teamwork or just getting along with others. Characters in here could have supernatural or mutant powers as they help each other fight evil characters or 'bad guys', or simply complete a mission or task. An example would be pokemon, which is a really popular anime for kids which was originally adopted by the game. This is aimed at the kids because of the popular game. Pokemon go! There are other versions too. Generally, to say, TV-PG would be the highest. 

[[Seinen manga]]

CATEGORIES: Manga

Seinen manga are Japanese comics for young men. There are also seinen anime. Much the same way that shônen is meant for boys up to about high school age, seinen is meant for men older than high school age. It’s basically the next male demographic.

Seinen manga and anime have a very wide range of stories. Seinen can be almost anything that’s intended for men over 18 years of age. Action, comedy, drama and even hentai can all be called seinen.

[[Josei]]

CATEGORIES: Anime

Josei anime is anime intended for women older than high school age. Josei means “women”. It is the next female demographic after shōjo. Much like shōnen and seinen there is a little overlap. Some anime fitting both demographics.

Josei might share some traits with shôjo, but josei tends to be more realistic. The stories portrayed in Josei anime are usually more like real life than the stories found in shôjo. This is because the Josei audience is more mature, and want more mature anime.

[[The Marine]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 movies, English-language movies, 20th Century Fox movies

The Marine is a 2006 American action thriller movie starring WWE wrestler John Cena. It was produced by the films division of WWE, called WWE Studios. It was distributed in the United States by 20th Century Fox. The film made approximately $15.1 million at the United States box office in its first week. It was in theaters for ten weeks. The film grossed $18.8 million in the US.

[[Harem (genre)]]

CATEGORIES: Anime and manga terms

Harem is a kind of story in Japanese anime and manga where a male character is surrounded and loved by many female characters. Suzuka, Love Hina, Ai Yori Aoshi, Rosario + Vampire and Sekirei are just a few examples.February 2012 Most of the time the females are romantically interested in the main character. The term "harem" is generally not used by itself, but as an adjective to the genre—such as harem anime or harem manga. The term orginates from the Arabic word "hareem"  which literally means women and was also used to refer to one man many women like a sultan hareem. 

Daryl Surat, a contributor to Otaku USA, suggests that many harem anime are built around one core fetish (e.g. meido (Hanaukyo Maid Team), meganekko (G-On Riders), lolicon (Rozen Maiden), nuns (Amaenaideyo), large breasts (Eiken)). There are also reverse harem anime in which a female protagonist is surrounded by gorgeous boys: Ouran Host Club and The Wallflower being the best known.

Some recent harem titles have experienced a backlash from some anime fans in the United States, particularly from females, due to recurring usage of female fan service in series with the genre designation, prompting calls of sexism from some viewers. However, this is in spite of portrayals of male sexuality in anime being a fast-growing trend in the U.S.

[[MS-13]]

CATEGORIES: Criminals, El Salvador, Gangs

Mara Salvatrucha (also known as MS-13) is one of the most dangerous gangs in the world.cn They are mostly Salvadorian.cn

[[Lois Lane]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics characters, Superman

Lois Lane is a fictional character created by writer Jerry Siegel and artist Joe Shuster. She is the romantic interest of Superman in the comic books from DC Comics. She first appeared in Action Comics #1 in June 1938. Like Superman's alter ego Clark Kent, she is a reporter for the newspaper, The Daily Planet.

[[Woody Austin]]

CATEGORIES: American golfers, Sportspeople from Tampa, Florida, 1964 births, Living people

Albert Woody Austin II (born January 27, 1964) is an American PGA golfer. He turned pro in 1986. He was born in Tampa, Florida. He went to the University of Miami.

[[Lex Luthor]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional business executives, Fictional characters introduced in 1940, Superman, DC Comics supervillains, Fictional mass murderers

Lex Luthor (full name: Alexander Joseph Luthor) is a fictional supervillain from the comic books published by DC Comics. He is the biggest enemy of Superman. He is also an enemy of Batman and other superheroes in the DC Comics. The character was created by writer Jerry Siegel and artist Joe Shuster. He first appeared in Action Comics #23 (April 1940). He has been adapted into movies, tv shows and video games as well. Several actors have played Lex Luthor in motion pictures as well as in TV shows such as Lyle Talbot, Gene Hackman, Clancy Brown, Michael Rosenbaum, Kevin Spacey, Jesse Eisenberg and Jon Cryer.

[[Bones (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 American television series debuts, 2000s American drama television series, 2000s American workplace television series, 2000s crime television series, 2000s mystery television series, 2010s American crime television series, 2010s American drama television series, 2010s American workplace television series, 2010s mystery television series, American crime drama television series, American mystery television series, American police television series, American workplace drama television series, Fox television series, Television series set in Washington, D.C., English-language television programs

Bones is an American television program on the Fox Network. Emily Deschanel plays the title character forensic pathologist Dr. Temperance "Bones" Brennan, and David Boreanaz plays Special Agent Seeley Booth. The show is set in Washington, D.C. Together the two of them solve crimes. There is a spin-off titled The Finder.

[[69 (sex position)]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual acts

69 (or spelled sixty-nine) is a sex act in which two people align themselves so that each person's mouth is near the other's genitals (penis, vagina) performing oral sex. The 69 position can be used by a male and a female, two males, or two females. Both people are facing opposite directions which is like the numbers 6 and 9. This is where the name "69" comes from.

[[Goodfellow's tree-kangaroo]]

CATEGORIES: Macropods, Mammals of Asia

Goodfellow's tree-kangaroo (Dendrolagus goodfellowi), also called the ornate tree kangaroo, is an animal in the biological family Macropodidae. The family includes kangaroos, wallabies and their relatives, and the genus Dendrolagus, with eleven species. The species live in the rainforests of New Guinea, and the border of central Irian Jaya in Indonesia. In the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species, Goodfellow's tree-kangaroos are listed as endangered. This is a result of too much hunting of them, and humans living too close to their habitat. 

[[Mahamadou Diarra]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Malian footballers, People from Bamako

Mahamadou Diarra (born 18 May 1981) is a Malian football player. He plays for Monaco and Mali national team.

[[Rodrigo Batata]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Curitiba

Rodrigo Batata (born September 10, 1977) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Francisco Arce]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Paraguayan footballers

Francisco Arce (born 2 April 1971) used to be a Paraguayan football player. He has played for the Paraguay national football team.

[[H.Š.K. Concordia]]

CATEGORIES: Croatian football clubs, Establishments in Croatia, 1906 establishments in Europe, 1945 disestablishments in Europe

H.Š.K. Concordia is a former football club which has played in Yugoslavia.

[[Mirko Hrgović]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Bosnia and Herzegovina footballers

Mirko Hrgović (born 5 February 1979) is a Bosnia and Herzegovina football player. He plays for Široki Brijeg and Bosnia and Herzegovina national team.

[[Emerson Thome]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Porto Alegre

Emerson Thome (born 30 March 1972) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Sérgio Ricardo de Jesus Vertello]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Sérgio Ricardo de Jesus Vertello (born 19 September 1975) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Michel Pensée]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Cameroonian footballers

Michel Pensée (born 16 June 1973) is a former Cameroonian football player. He has played for Cameroon national team.

[[Rodrigo Nunes de Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Rodrigo Nunes de Oliveira (born 11 January 1979) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[F.K. Vojvodina]]

CATEGORIES: Serbian football clubs, 1914 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in Serbia

F.K. Vojvodina is a football club which plays in Serbia.

[[Mike Myers]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Actors from Toronto, American game show hosts, American movie actors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, American television actors, American television personalities, American television writers, American voice actors, British game show hosts, British movie actors, British movie producers, British screenwriters, British television actors, British television personalities, British television writers, British voice actors, Canadian movie actors, Canadian movie producers, Canadian screenwriters, Canadian television actors, Canadian television writers, Canadian voice actors, Comedians from Toronto, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Order of Canada, Writers from Toronto

Michael John "Mike" Myers CAN (born 25 May 1963) is a Canadian actor, comedian, director, producer and screenwriter. He was a comedian on Saturday Night Live from 1989 to 1995. He has acted in movies including: Wayne's World, Austin Powers, Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me, Austin Powers in Goldmember, Shrek and The Love Guru.

Myers was born to English parents and raised in Scarborough, Ontario, Canada. He holds three citizenships: Canadian, British and American.

[[Haddaway]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Trinidad and Tobago people, German singers

Alexander Nestor Haddaway (born January 9, 1965) known as Haddaway is a Trinidadian-German singer. He is best known for his 1993 song "What is Love". The song was featured in the movie Night at the Roxbury and on Saturday Night Live.

[[Fine Young Cannibals]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1996 disestablishments in England, English pop music groups, English rock bands, Musical groups disestablished in 1996, Musical groups established in 1984, Musical groups from Birmingham, West Midlands, Soul bands

The Fine Young Cannibals was an English pop rock band. Their hit song was "She Drives Me Crazy".

[[Pet Sematary (1989 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s horror movies, 1989 movies, Movies based on books by Stephen King, English-language movies

Pet Sematary is a 1989 horror movie. It is based on the novel by Maine author Stephen King.

[[Hedy Lamarr]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2000 deaths, Actors from Vienna, American autobiographers, American inventors, American movie actors, American television actors, Austrian movie actors, Austrian television actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Hedy Lamarr (9 November 1914 – 19 January 2000) was an Austrian-American actress and inventor.

[[Bowie knife]]

CATEGORIES: Blades

A Bowie knife is a large hunting knife. It is named after Colonel Jim Bowie. The knife was probably designed by his brother, Rezin P. Bowie. Rezin (pronounced "reason") gave his younger brother (Jim) the knife so he would always have a backup weapon. It became history after the "sandbar fight" on the banks of the Mississippi River in September 1827.  This started as a duel but quickly became a fight between the two seconds, Judge Crane and Jim Bowie. Crane pulled out a pistol and shot at Bowie twice. One bullet hit Bowie in the leg the other killed an onlooker. Friends on both sides began shooting and slashing with knives. Bowie was wounded several times but managed to kill one assailant and wound another with what witnesses called a "big butcher knife". This made both Bowie, the knife-fighter, and his knife famous. More than a dozen knifemakers of the time claim to have made the first Bowie knife. But no one knows who made the first one or exactly what it looked like.

[[Kitarō]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Japanese composers, Grammy Award winners, People from Aichi Prefecture

Kitarō is Japanese musician and composer. He makes new age music. He won a Grammy for best New Age album.

[[Dick in a Box]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs

"Dick in a Box" is a comedy song by The Lonely Island. The song features Justin Timberlake.

[[Jizz in My Pants]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, YouTube

"Jizz in My Pants" (also known as "J*** in My Pants") is a comedy sketch that was performed on YouTube and the television show Saturday Night Live on 6 December 2008. The sketch was made into the music video for a song by The Lonely Island. It is from their debut album, Incredibad. The video stars band members Andy Samberg, Jorma Taccone and Akiva Schaffer. It also features Justin Timberlake, Molly Sims and Jamie-Lynn Sigler. "Jizz in My Pants" has been viewed over 117 million times on YouTube, 2012. 

[[Walking Tall]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 movies, American action movies, Movies set in Washington (U.S. state), English-language movies

Walking Tall is an American action movie with "The Rock", also known as Dwayne Johnson, starring in it. It is set in Kitsap County, Washington. The main character carries a 2x4 piece of wood and uses it as a weapon against the bad guys.

[[Green Goblin]]

CATEGORIES: Characters created by Stan Lee, Fictional business executives, Fictional characters introduced in the 1960s, Spider-Man, Marvel Comics supervillains, Marvel Comics mutates

Green Goblin (Norman Osborn) is an enemy of Spider-Man in Marvel Comics. He was played by Willem Dafoe in Spider-Man and by Chris Cooper in The Amazing Spider-Man 2. 

[[Danaus eresimus]]

CATEGORIES: Danaus

The Soldier or Tropical Queen (Danaus eresimus) is a North American and South American butterfly.  It is in the family Nymphalidae.  Their flight is slow and they are easy to approach.  They will fly for some distance if approached too closely.

[[New Super Mario Bros. Wii]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, Wii games

New Super Mario Bros. Wii is a 2009 platform game for the Wii, and is the follow-up to the 2006 game New Super Mario Bros. for the Nintendo DS. The game was first revealed at Nintendo's E3 2009 and was released on November 12, 2009 in Australia, November 15, 2009 in North America, November 20, 2009 in Europe, December 3, 2009 in Japan, and August 7, 2010 in South Korea. A follow-up to this game, which is also a sequel to the 2006 game, titled New Super Mario Bros. 2, was released on the Nintendo 3DS in August 2012. A sequel to New Super Mario Bros. Wii and a follow-up to New Super Mario Bros. 2, titled New Super Mario Bros. U, was released on the Wii U in November 18, 2012, which had an extension pack titled New Super Luigi U which was also released on the Wii U June 2013.

[[Luigi's Mansion]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 video games, Mario video games, Nintendo 3DS games, Nintendo GameCube games

Luigi's Mansion is a 2001 video game released for the Nintendo GameCube. It was developed, created, and released by Nintendo, a famous Japanese video game company.

This game has a sequel for the Nintendo 3DS: Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon, which supports tilt motion. It was released in North America on March 24, 2013.

[[Thurberiphaga diffusa]]

CATEGORIES: Noctuidae

Thurberiphaga diffusa is a North American moth.  It is in the family Noctuidae.

[[Glandular fever]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by viruses

Glandular fever is a viral infection caused by the EpsteinBarr virus. Glandular fever is often spread through oral acts such as kissing which is why it is sometimes called "the kissing disease". However, glandular fever can also be spread by airborne saliva droplets. 

[[Hard Rock Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 establishments in the United States, Buildings and structures in Miami, Florida, National Football League venues, Sports in Miami, Florida, Miami Marlins, Major League Baseball venues, 1980s establishments in Florida

Hard Rock Stadium is a stadium where football, soccer, and other sports are played.  The stadium is in Miami Gardens, Florida, which is part of the Miami metropolitan area. It replaced the Orange Bowl, Miami's other football stadium. The Miami Dolphins (pro football) and the Miami Hurricanes (University of Miami football) both play in the stadium. Also, Major League Baseball's Miami Marlins, then known as the Florida Marlins, played there from their first season in 1993 through the 2011 season, after they moved to Marlins Park, a stadium built for baseball at the former Orange Bowl site.

Since it was built, six Super Bowls (Super Bowl XXIII, Super Bowl XXIX, Super Bowl XXXIII, Super Bowl XLI, Super Bowl XLIV, Super Bowl LIV), two World Series (1997 World Series and 2003 World Series), and three BCS National Championship Games (2001 Orange Bowl, 2005 Orange Bowl, 2009 BCS National Championship Game) and 2012 WWE WrestleMania XXVIII have been held in the stadium.April 2009

[[Greater St. Louis]]

CATEGORIES: St. Louis, Missouri, Metropolitan areas of the United States

The Greater Saint Louis Metropolitan Area surrounds the city of St. Louis, Missouri. Saint Louis is the main city and commercial center for the area.

[[Ecological niche]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology

An ecological niche is the part of the environment into which a species fits, and to which it is adapted. A shorthand definition of niche in biology is how an organism makes a living in a place.

However, the term has been used in different ways. It is not only a place but a way of life. For example, grazers, insectivores, scavengers and predators can all live their different lifestyles in the same forest. A niche can be occupied by different species in different places even though they 'earn their living' in roughly the same way. Thus the 'bird of prey eating small mammals' niche would in grasslands include the kestrel, but in an oak wood it would be filled by the tawny owl.

The idea of a niche in natural history is ancient: many writers noticed that animals and plants live in places where they are well adapted to live. The word niche was first used in biology by naturalist Roswell Johnson, but in 1917 Joseph Grinnell was the first to use it in a research program. Later, he described the niches of a variety of species. Grinnell was the first to offer the "exclusion principle" in which only one species could occupy a particular niche at any one time.

Scientists who study the interactions between living things, such as animals and their environment are called ecologists, and their branch of science is called ecology. A niche is a term which describes a position or opportunity into which some organism fits well. Thus, an ecological niche is a place in nature that is filled by an animal or plant because it is well suited to do so.

[[Ascension of Jesus]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

According to the New Testament, the Ascension of Jesus happened at the end of Jesus' life on earth.  The Acts of the Apostles says that after Jesus told his apostles to teach the gospel to everyone, he went up to heaven to be with God.The Apostles' Creed says that Jesus "ascended into  heaven and is seated at the right hand of God the Father". There He is praying for those who believe in Him.  

Ascension Day is often celebrated on a Thursday, the fortieth day of Easter, although some Christian denominations have moved the observance to the following Sunday.

[[Degenerate art]]

CATEGORIES: Nazism, Art

Degenerate art (entartete Kunst) was the term used by the Nazi regime in Germany to describe nearly all modern art. The Nazis banned the art because they said it was un-German or was Jewish or Bolshevist in nature. Artists who were labeled as degenerate were punished by the laws. They were not allowed to teach, they could not show or sell their art, and some were even forbidden from creating any art at all. 

Degenerate Art was also used as the name for an exhibition put on by the Nazis in Munich in 1937. The exhibition was made up of modern artworks, displayed badly, with text labels making fun of the art. This was meant to make people hate modernism. The show traveled to several other cities in Germany and Austria.

While modern styles of art were not allowed, the Nazis liked paintings and sculptures that were very traditional and old fashioned. They thought art should glorify Nazi ideas of the "blood and soil" values of racial purity, militarism, and obedience. Music was also expected to be tonal and free of any jazz influences; movies and plays were censored.  The censorship was done by the Ministry of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda.

[[Paulo Henrique Miranda]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Paulo Henrique Miranda (born 21 February 1972) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Alexandre Finazzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Alexandre Silveira Finazzi (born 20 August 1973) is a Brazilian professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player.

[[Jan Vennegoor of Hesselink]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Overijssel

Jan Vennegoor of Hesselink (born 7 November 1978) is a Dutch football player. He plays for SK Rapid Wien.

[[Kuniya Daini]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players

Kuniya Daini is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. He also former president of Japan Football Association.

[[Antonio de la Cruz]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Spanish football managers

Antonio de la Cruz (born 7 May 1947) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Tomislav Erceg]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Croatian footballers, People from Split

Tomislav Erceg (born 22 October 1971) is a former Croatian football player. He has played for Croatia national team.

[[Luis Robson]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Luis Robson (born 21 September 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Jadílson]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Maceió

José Jadílson dos Santos Silva (born 4 December 1977) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Goiás.

[[Wannsee Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Nazism, The Holocaust

The Wannsee Conference was a meeting of senior members of the Nazi German government. It was held in the Berlin suburb of Wannsee on 20 January 1942. The conference was to tell leaders of government departments that dealt with Jews, that Adolf Eichmann had been put in charge of the "Final Solution to the Jewish question" (in German: 'die Endlösung der Judenfrage'). They were expected to give the plan their full support. Heydrich presented a plan for removing the Jewish population of Europe and French North Africa (Morocco, Algeria, and Tunisia) to German-occupied areas in eastern Europe. Those people that were fit, would be put to work on road building projects. It was expected that they would be worked to death. The survivors would be executed when the projects were finished. The plan was never carried out as planned, as it was based on the continued German occupation of Polish and Soviet lands. Instead, as the Soviet army gradually pushed back the German lines, most of the Jews of German-occupied Europe were sent to concentration or death camps, or killed where they lived. Because of the effort of historian Joseph Wulf, the Wannsee House, where the conference was held, is now a Holocaust Memorial.

[[Rheydt]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs of Germany, Mönchengladbach

Rheydt is a borough of the city of Mönchengladbach, Germany. It lies in the very west of North Rhine-Westphalia. 

The first written mention of the town is in 1180. From 1918 until 1933 it was part of the city of Mönchengladbach. Dr. Joseph Goebbels, who was born in Rheydt, arranged for the city to get back its independence. It is a town with many factories, mainly silk and textiles. It was bombed heavily during World War II. In 1975 it again became part of Mönchengladbach. The central station, Rheydt Hauptbahnhof, kept its original name, which makes Mönchengladbach the only city in Germany to have two stations called Hauptbahnhof.

Schloss Rheydt, one of the best preserved palaces of the Renaissance period, is located in Rheydt.

[[Animals of New Zealand]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of New Zealand

The animals of New Zealand have an unusual history. The main thing to know is that the islands were part of Gondwana, from which they separated 84 million years (mya) ago. New Zealand has some animals and plants which survive from that time, and birds which flew there much later. The islands are well known for their terrestrial birds, some of which were large species (the moas). For millions of years the islands did not have any native mammalian carnivores, and the moas' only predators were other birds, such as the giant Haast's eagle.

[[University of Jena]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Germany, Jena

The Friedrich Schiller University of Jena (German: Friedrich-Schiller-Universität Jena; abbreviation: FSU) is a university in Jena, Germany. It was founded in the year 1558. In 2009, there were more than 21,000 students.

The University of Jena has got ten faculties:

In 1934 the University of Jena was named after Friedrich Schiller. Schiller, a very famous German poet, had been a professor in Jena since the year 1789.

The University of Jena is a member of the Coimbra Group, a group of many important European universities.

[[Hurricane Grace (1991)]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in Bermuda, 1991 Atlantic hurricane season, Category 2 Atlantic hurricanes, 1990s in Bermuda, 1991 in North America

Hurricane Grace was a Category 2 hurricane. It lasted only four days. It became part of another cyclone known as the Perfect Storm.

Grace formed on October 26. At first, it was a subtropical cyclone. This means it was partially tropical and partially extratropical. It became a full tropical cyclone on October 27. It later reached winds of 105. The storm had a little effect on the island of Bermuda when it passed to the south. Another storm to the north made Grace turn east. The hurricane combined with the large circulation of the other low pressure system.

[[Eli Whitney]]

CATEGORIES: 1765 births, 1825 deaths, American inventors

Eli Whitney (December 8, 1765 – January 8, 1825) was an American inventor. He is known as the inventor of the cotton gin, an important invention in the Industrial Revolution. He made it in 1793 March 14. Born in Westborough, Massachusettes. 

[[Cotton gin]]

CATEGORIES: Agricultural machinery

A cotton gin, or a cotton engine is a machine that pulls cotton fibers away from the cotton seeds. The modern cotton gin was invented by the American inventor Eli Whitney.It is significant in American history because after its invention, Southerners began growing much more cotton and so they needed more slaves to work on their cotton plantations. Instead of disappearing, slavery became even more important to the Southern economy.

[[Gale warning]]

CATEGORIES: Winds

A gale warning is an advisory issued to warn people about forecast gale force winds. In the United States, warnings are issued by the National Weather Service to areas that will have winds within the range of 39 to 54 miles per hour or 63 to 69 km-h.

[[James Burton]]

CATEGORIES: American guitarists, Musicians from Louisiana, American rock musicians, Country musicians, 1939 births, Living people

James Burton (born August 21, 1939, in Minden, Louisiana) is an American musician. He is most famous as a guitar player and has played with many famous singers including: Ricky Nelson, Elvis Presley, Johnny Cash, Merle Haggard, John Denver, Jerry Lee Lewis, Elvis Costello, Roy Orbison, Joni Mitchell and the Everly Brothers.

In 2001 Burton was elected into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

The Fender Musical Instruments Corporation makes a special "Telecaster" electric guitar which is named after James Burton.

[[Jeff Burton]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, NASCAR drivers, American racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Virginia

Jeffrey Brian Burton (born June 29, 1967 in South Boston, Virginia) is a retired Nascar Sprint Cup series driver. Jeff Burton drove the #31 Caterpillar Chevrolet SS for Richard Childress Racing, and used to drive for Roush Racing in the #99 car, as well as racing part-time for Michael Waltrip at Michael Waltrip Racing. Jeff's brother Ward Burton also drove in the Sprint Cup series. In 2013, Burton decided to stop driving in NASCAR and started working for NBC Sports helping broadcast NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races.

[[LeVar Burton]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, African-American movie actors, African-American television actors, African-American voice actors, American television directors, Peabody Award winners, People from Rhineland-Palatinate, Grammy Award winners, Emmy Award winners

Levardis Robert Martyn "LeVar" Burton Jr. (born February 16, 1957) is an American actor. He first became famous for acting in the television series Roots. He is probably best known for his role in the popular television series Star Trek: The Next Generation, and as the host of the PBS show Reading Rainbow.

LeVar Burton has also written a book called The Aftermath. He has also done work as a television director.

LeVar Burton has two children, a son and a daughter. He lives with his wife and daughter in California.

[[Beach erosion]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, Beaches, Erosion

Coastal erosion is a term for the removal of beaches or dunes  by waves, tidal currents, wave currents, or drainage.  Waves, caused by storms and wind cause coastal erosion. On rocky coasts, coastal erosion results in dramatic rock formations in areas where the coastline contains rock layers. Softer areas become eroded much faster than harder ones, which can cause things like tunnels, bridges, columns, and pillars.

[[Indestructible Records]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 disestablishments, 1900s establishments in New York (state), Albany, New York, American record labels, Radio, 1907 establishments in the United States, 1920s disestablishments in New York (state)

The Indestructible Record Company was started in 1906 by William Messer, who used to work for Thomas Lambert, the inventor of plastic cylinder records. They started making 4-minute cylinders (with 200 grooves in an inch instead of 100) in 1909. In the 1910s they started dubbing cylinder masters from disc masters made by Columbia, and also from Federal Record Corporation disc masters—also done by Edison (with his blue) starting in 1915. They used Federal masters after Federal was launched in 1919 by Indestructible. In the fall of 1922, there was a large factory fire that shut down all cylinder production permanently. Production of Federal discs was stopped for a while, but masters were still recorded on and off, and Federal was bought by Emerson Records in 1925. Emerson still survives today as a radio maker.

[[Gonaïves]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Haiti

Gonaïves (Kréyòl: Gonayiv) is a port city in western Haiti. It is the capital city of the Artibonite Département.

The city is on the coast of the Gonaïve Bay, on the northeast of the Gulf of Gonâve, about 171 km north of the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. It is also the chief town of an arrondissement (a part of a department) with the same name. The arrondissement has three communes (a commune is like a municipality): Gonaïves, Ennery and Estère.

[[Britannia]]

CATEGORIES: National personifications, United Kingdom

the image of a woman representative of BritainBritannia (b) is the national personification of Britain as a woman with a trident and shield and wearing a helmet. The image of Britannia was first used in classical antiquity. The word Britannia in Latin could mean the British Isles, the island of Great Britain, or the Roman province of Britain in the time of the Roman Empire.

Images of Britannia show her sitting or lying down with a spear and shield. This image was first used on Roman coins in the 2nd century AD. After the Romans, the image of Britannia was first used again for coins of the pound sterling made for Charles II of England, Scotland, and Ireland. These were the first to show Britannia with a Union Flag on her shield. After many victories of Britain's Royal Navy, coins with Britannia show Neptune's trident from 1797. Her image wears a helmet on coins after 1825.

Britannia was the common Latin name for Great Britain starting in the 1st century BC. Britannia replaced the name Albion as the common name for the island used by the Romans. After the Romans overcame the ancient Britons in war in 43 AD, Britannia could mean just the southern two thirds of the island which was under Roman control. (Caledonia, north of the River Forth in modern Scotland, was only sometimes overcome by the Roman army.) Britannia was also a goddess. Latin text on a gritstone base for a statue from Eboracum (York) gives the goddess the name "Holy Britannia" (no).140–141 This stone was in existence in 1740, but it is now lost. A soldier in the Roman army dedicated another altar to the goddess Britannia near Castlehill Fort on the Antonine Wall. The altar is now in Glasgow.140–141 

[[Funhouse]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Pink songs

Funhouse is a song by pop singer, Pink. It is the fifth release from her latest album, entitled the same as the name of the song, "Funhouse". It tells of Pink's split with a partner. It reached 20th position in the UK Singles Chart. There is also a techno remix of the song.

[[Obsessed]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Mariah Carey songs, Hip hop songs, R&B songs

"Obsessed" is a song by singer Mariah Carey. It is on her album Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel. It is the lead single from the album. The song was released June 16, 2009.

[[Run This Town]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Rihanna songs, Jay-Z songs, Kanye West songs

Run This Town is a song by the singers Rihanna, Jay-Z and Kanye West. It is from Jay-Z's album, Blueprint 3. It is 4:27 long, and was released in 2009.

[[Nada Surf]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Musical groups from New York, Musical groups established in 1992, 1992 establishments in New York (state)

[[Robben Island]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic islands, Islands of Africa, Geography of South Africa, Prisons, Nelson Mandela

Robben Island is an island near Cape Town in South Africa. It was a high-security prison where Nelson Mandela was held captive for 18 years of his total of 27 years in jail. He and the other political prisoners were forced to work at the limestone quarries on the island. They were not allowed to talk or do anything but work. There was also a village on the island

Robben Island is both a South African National Heritage Site as well as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

[[The Taking of Pelham 123 (2009 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 crime movies, 2009 thriller movies, 2000s crime thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, American movie remakes, English-language movies, Heist movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Tony Scott, Movies set in New York City

The Taking of Pelham 123 is a 2009 American crime thriller movie. It was directed by Tony Scott and stars Denzel Washington and John Travolta. It is based on the novel of the same name written by Morton Freedgood (writing under the pseudonym John Godey) and 1974 movie The Taking of Pelham One Two Three. It is set in New York City.

[[Ethernet switch]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Computer networking

An ethernet switch is a device used to build a network connection between the attached computers using Ethernet port of computers(allows computers to talk to each other).It is an example of Packet switching.It differs from an ethernet hub: While a hub will send incoming data packets to all ports, a switch understands the packets' addressing scheme and will send any data packet only to its destination port, thus limiting the number of collisions (data sent at the same time).

A switch is used in a wired network to connect to other devices using Ethernet cables. The switch allows each connected device to talk to the others. Wireless-only networks do not use switches because devices such as wireless routers and adapters communicate directly with one another.

Although you can use the ports on the back of a router or modem to connect a few Ethernet devices together, switches offer a number of advantages:

Switches allow you to connect dozens of devices.

Switches keep traffic between two devices from getting in the way of your other devices on the same network.

Switches allow you to control who has access to various parts of the network.

Switches allow you to monitor usage.

Switches allow communication (within your network) that's even faster than the Internet.

High-end switches can be tailored to your network needs with pluggable modules.

[[Keisuke Ota]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Keisuke Ota (born 23 July 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.

[[Frédéric Antonetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, French footballers, French football managers

Frédéric Antonetti (born 19 August 1961) is a former French football player.

[[Sota Nakazawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Sota Nakazawa (born 26 October 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gamba Osaka.

[[Ryo Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Ryo Kobayashi (born 12 September 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Montedio Yamagata.

[[Naoya Kondo]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Kashiwa Reysol players, JEF United Chiba players, Tokyo Verdy players

Naoya Kondo is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Hidekazu Otani]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Hidekazu Otani (born 6 November 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashiwa Reysol.

[[Groove Armada]]

CATEGORIES: English dance musicians, Electronic music bands

Groove Armada is an English rap/techno/rock duo. The duo consists of two male members. Their recording label is Columbia Records. Their album Black Light was nominated for best electronic/dance album at the Grammy Awards.

[[Ellis Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of New York, Geography of New York City

Ellis Island is an island near New York City. It was used for immigrants coming from other countries to the United States from 1892 until 1954. Some immigrants to other countries, like Canada, also went through the island. It is located in Upper New York harbor, north of Liberty Island (Statue of Liberty) and east of Liberty state park. 

[[Headphones]]

CATEGORIES: Audio technology

A computer headphone is an output device  electronic audio devices that people wear over their ears. They let people hear sounds on a walkman, MP3 player, mobile phone or computer. Headphones come in many different sizes from big to small. They are also known as earphones, stereophones, headsets or even 'cans'. Earbuds are inserted into the ear. Headphones typically uses small plug for connection. Some use a Bluetooth connection so they don't have the cord in the way.

There is a risk of deafness if listening to headphones with a high volume for a long time.

[[Processed cheese]]

CATEGORIES: Processed cheese

Processed cheese is a dairy product. It is made from cheese. Other unfermented dairy products, emulsifiers, salts, food colorings and whey may be added to this. 

[[Paraffin]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

In chemistry, paraffin is the common name for the alkane hydrocarbons with the general formula CnH2n+2. Paraffin wax refers to the solids with n between 20 and 40, inclusive.

The simplest paraffin molecule is that of methane, CH4, a gas at room temperature. Heavier members of the series, such as that of  octane, C8H18, and mineral oil appear as liquids at room temperature. The solid forms of paraffin, called paraffin wax, are from the heaviest molecules from C20H42 to C40H82. Paraffin wax was identified by Carl Reichenbach in 1830.

Paraffin, or paraffin hydrocarbon, is also the technical name for an alkane in general, but in most cases it refers specifically to a linear, or normal alkane — whereas branched, or isoalkanes are also called isoparaffins. It is distinct from the fuel known in Ireland, Britain and South Africa as paraffin oil or just paraffin, which is called kerosene in most of the U.S., Australia and New Zealand.

The name is derived from the Latin parum (= barely) + affinis with the meaning here of "lacking affinity", or "lacking reactivity". This is because alkanes, being non-polar and lacking in functional groups, are very unreactive.

[[Bahrain Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix, Sport in Bahrain, 2004 establishments in Asia

[[Repetition]]

CATEGORIES: Literary terms, Rhetoric, Words

Repetition is a rhetorical device where words are used a number of times to emphasize something in literature or maybe even poems and rhymes. Repetition is used for many things but is mainly used in books to emphasize or to give you clues into the storyline.

[[Wende]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 in Europe, 1990 in Europe, 20th century in Germany, East Germany

Wende ("the turn-around") refers to a historical process in the German Democratic Republic (GDR) in the years 1989 and 1990, after the Soviet reforms of Mikhail Gorbachev. The communist Socialist Unity Party of Germany (Sozialistische Einheitspartei Deutschlands, shortly SED) lost their power and a democratic government was established. The policy of this new government lead finally to German reunification in October 1990.

The Wende was known to be very peaceful. The people who were against the SED and communism did not want to use violence, and so these events are also known as the Peaceful Revolution (in German: Friedliche Revolution).

[[Serbian]]

Serbian (српски) might mean:

[[Roy Jones Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Florida, American boxers, American rap musicians from Florida, Singers from Florida

Roy Jones, Jr. (born January 16, 1969) is a American professional boxer and is the current NABO and IBC light heavyweight champion and has also captured IBF championships in the middleweight, super middleweight and light heavyweight divisions. He has also started a rap career in 2001 releasing his first album entitled Round One: The Album and his debut single You all Must've Forgot. He formed a group in 2004 called Body Head Bangerz and released an album with them entitled Body Head Bangerz: Volume One which featured B.G., Juvenile, Bun B of UGK, Petey Pablo, Lil' Flip, and Mike Jones including others.

He has an upcoming fight against Mike Tyson on September 12, 2020. 

[[Bobby Labonte]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American racecar drivers, NASCAR drivers, Sportspeople from Texas, People from Corpus Christi, Texas

Robert Alan Labonte (born May 8, 1964) is a former American race car driver in the NASCAR Cup Series series. Labonte drove the #47 JTG Daugherty Racing Toyota Camry in 2011. From 1995 until 2005, Labonte drove the #18 car for Joe Gibbs Racing. In 2000 Labonte won the Sprint Cup championship with Joe Gibbs.

[[Recreo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Argentina

Recreo is a city of the Catamarca Province in Argentina.

[[Ibuprofen]]

CATEGORIES: Analgesics

Ibuprofen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) created by British chemist Stewart Adams.  It is used to stop pain, help reduce fevers, relieve arthritis pain, and acts as an inflammatory part. Ibuprofen is used to relieve pain from various conditions such as headache, dental pain, menstrual cramps, muscle aches, or arthritis. It is also used to reduce fever and to relieve minor aches and pain due to the common cold. If you are treating a chronic condition such as arthritis, ask your doctor about non-drug treatments and/or using other medications to treat your pain. See also Warning section.

Check the ingredients on the label even if you have used the product before. The manufacturer may have changed the ingredients. Also, products with similar names may contain different ingredients meant for different purposes. Taking the wrong product could harm you. If you are taking the over-the-counter product, read all directions on the product package before taking this medication. If your doctor has prescribed this medication, read the Medication Guide provided by your pharmacist before you start taking ibuprofen and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.

Take this medication by mouth, usually every 4 to 6 hours with a full glass of water (8 ounces/240 milliliters) unless your doctor directs you otherwise. Do not lie down for at least 10 minutes after taking this drug. If you have stomach upset while taking this medication, take it with food, milk, or an antacid.

The dosage is based on your medical condition and response to treatment. To reduce your risk of stomach bleeding and other side effects, take this medication at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible time. Do not increase your dose or take this drug more often than directed by your doctor or the package label. For ongoing conditions such as arthritis, continue taking this medication as directed by your doctor.

When ibuprofen is used by children, the dose is based on the child's weight. Read the package directions to find the proper dose for your child's weight. Consult the pharmacist or doctor if you have questions or if you need help choosing a nonprescription product.

For certain conditions (such as arthritis), it may take up to two weeks of taking this drug regularly until you get the full benefit.

If you are taking this drug "as needed" (not on a regular schedule), remember that pain medications work best if they are used as the first signs of pain occur. If you wait until the pain has worsened, the medication may not work as well.

If your condition persists or worsens, or if you think you may have a serious medical problem, get medical help right away. If you are using the nonprescription product to treat yourself or a child for fever or pain, consult the doctor right away if fever worsens or lasts more than 3 days, or if pain worsens or lasts more than 10 days.

[[Senate of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Romania, National upper houses

The Senate of Romania is one of the two parts of the parliament.  It has 137 seats as of November, 2004.July 2010  After the Romanian Revolution of 1989, the Senate met in the "Palatul Senatului".  That building is found in the Revolution Square.

[[Armenia, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Juneau County, Wisconsin, Towns in Wisconsin

Armenia is a town of Juneau County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 707 people were living in Armenia as of 2000.  Armenia has an area of 77.7 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.

[[Beetown, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin, Grant County, Wisconsin

Beetown is a town of Grant County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 734 people were living in Beetown as of 2000.

[[The Cranberries]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in the Republic of Ireland, 1980s Irish music groups, 1990s Irish music groups, 2000s Irish music groups, 2010s Irish music groups, County Limerick, Irish rock bands, Musical groups established in 1989, Musical groups disestablished in 2019, Musical quartets

The Cranberries were an Irish rock band from Limerick, Republic of Ireland. The band was formed in 1989 as The Cranberry Saw Us. They became famous around the world with their album Everybody Else Is Doing It, So Why Can't We?. In 2003 they broke up. In 2009 they got back together. In 2012 they released their sixth studio album, Roses. The band ended in 2019, the year after the death of their lead singer, Dolores O'Riordan. 

[[Yuji Unozawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Yuji Unozawa (born 3 May 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagano Parceiro.

[[Yuzo Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yuzo Kobayashi (born 15 November 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashiwa Reysol.

[[Masayuki Ochiai]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Masayuki Ochiai (born 11 July 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tochigi.

[[2. Bundesliga]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, 1974 establishments in Europe, 1970s establishments in Germany

The 2. Bundesliga, commonly referred to as 2. Fußball-Bundesliga, is a football league which is the second division in Germany.

[[Shinya Tanoue]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Shinya Tanoue (born 5 February 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Delio Toledo]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Paraguayan footballers

Delio Toledo (born 2 October 1976) is a Paraguayan football player. He plays for Kayserispor.

[[Makoto Sunakawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Makoto Sunakawa (born 10 August 1977) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Consadole Sapporo.

[[Wiener Sport-Club]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Vienna

Wiener S.C. (Wiener Sport-Club also WSC) is a football club which plays in Austria.

[[Wiener A.F.]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Vienna

Wiener A.F. is a football club which played in Austria. It quit with competition in 2004.

[[Wiener A.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Vienna

Wiener A.C. was a football club which played in Austria. It was founded in 1897. The football section of the club has a great past, but today the club only plays football outside the league system. Altogether the club played 38 seasons in Austrias first football league.

[[First Vienna FC]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Vienna

First Vienna F.C. 1894 is a football club that plays in Austria. The club, which was founded in 1894, is the oldest one in Austria and played an important part in Austria's football history. To an Austrian, the club is usually just called Vienna.

[[Floridsdorfer A.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Vienna

Floridsdorfer A.C. is a football club which plays in Austria. He is part of the Regionalliga Ost (3rd stage in the league system of Austria). In 2007 they merged with PSV Team für Wien and played since that time under the name FAC Team für Wien. 

[[FK Austria Wien]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Vienna

F.K. Austria Wien is a football club which plays in the Austrian Bundesliga, the highest level in Austrian football It is one of the oldest existing clubs in Austria. The club was founded  in 1911 as "SV Wiener Amateure" and is celebrating it´s 100 birthday this year. Together with SK Rapid the club is the most successful in Austrias footballhistory. The Austria reached 23 titels, 21 in the Austrianwide championship and two before the Second World War, when the championship was only played in Vienna although the title was "Austrian Champion". 

[[Eiji Takada]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Eiji Takada (born 21 October 1974) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Mert Nobre]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Mert Nobre (born 6 November 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Beşiktaş.

[[Watan Hamara Azad Kashmir]]

CATEGORIES: Azad Kashmir, National anthems

Watan hamara Kashmir is the official state anthem of Azad Kashmir. It was written in the mid-1960s by Abu-Al-Asar Hafeez Jullundhri.

[[Voice recorder]]

CATEGORIES: Audio technology

A voice recorder or a dictation machine is a device to record speech or other sounds, and then play it back. Starting in the early 20th century they were much used in business. Usually a typist played the recording and transcribed it. In the late 20th century dictation machines used microcassettes. Today, smartphones can do their job.

[[Eurytides marcellus]]

CATEGORIES: Eurytides

The Zebra Swallowtail (Eurytides marcellus) is a North American butterfly.  It is in the family Papilionidae.  Some authors place the species under the genera Iphiclides, Graphium, and Papilio.  Its obvious black and white-striped pattern is like the pattern of a zebra.  The Zebra Swallowtail is the official state butterfly of Tennessee.

[[Iphiclides]]

CATEGORIES: Papilioninae

Iphiclides is a genus of butterflies in the family Papilionidae.

[[Kagyu]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhism

The Kagyu (or Kagyupa)  school is one of the four main schools or lineages of Tibetan Buddhism. 

[[Brawn GP]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One constructors

Brawn GP Formula One Team, was a Formula One motor racing team. Brawn GP started on the 6th of March 2009 when Ross Brawn, the old team leader for Honda, Ferrari and Benetton, bought the team. On 17 March 2009 the FIA agreed to change the name from Honda Racing F1 Team to Brawn GP. Even though the team is only the Honda team with a new name, the FIA considered Brawn GP to be a new team, but agreed to let the join F1 for free instead of the usual price.

The new team first raced at the 2009 Australian Grand Prix on 28 March 2009, where they took 1st and 2nd place in qualifying. The team went on to win the top two positions in their debut Grand Prix race on 29 March 2009, with Jenson Button winning the race and Rubens Barrichello coming in second. 

The team used Mercedes-Benz engines and its cars were driven by the old Honda team of Jenson Button and Rubens Barrichello, which has lasted for 3 years. In the early part of the season, several other sponsors were signed, including Virgin, M I G Investments, Henri Lloyd and PerkinElmer.

On 18 October 2009, at the Brazilian Grand Prix, Button won the 2009 Drivers' Title on his first season for Brawn GP. He and the other driver Barrichello got points to win Brawn the Constructors Championship on its first season.

The following month Mercedes, after leaving the Vodafone McLaren Mercedes F1 Team, bought a lot of Brawn GP and changed its name to Mercedes GP for the 2010 season.

[[Cadillac Escalade]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, Cadillac automobiles, Pickup trucks, Sport utility vehicles

The Cadillac Escalade is a large luxury SUV. It is manufactured by General Motors and was released in 1999 to compete with German and Japanese competitors and to Ford's 1998 release of the Lincoln Navigator. The Escalade and Escalade EXT pickup are the two of only three Cadillac vehicles that are made outside of the United States.

[[Cordillera Septentrional]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the Dominican Republic

Cordillera Septentrional is a mountain range along the northern part of the Dominican Republic; in English, its name means simply "Northern mountain range". Sometimes it is called Sierra de Montecristi, mainly in old books.

It has a total length of about 200 km, from the coast of the Monte Cristi province to near the Samaná Bay, several kilometres to the east of San Francisco de Macorís. Its maximum width is about 40 km.

It goes along the northern coast of the Hispaniola island, from northwest to southeast. Only small valleys are between the Atlantic coast and the mountain range. It has an average of 600 metres in elevation.

[[Bjørn Skaare]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 1989 deaths, Detroit Red Wings players, Norwegian ice hockey players, Ontario Hockey League players, Road accident deaths, Sportspeople from Oslo, Swedish Hockey League players, Central Professional Hockey League players, Ice hockey centres

Bjørn Skaare (29 October 1958 – 21 June 1989) was a professional ice hockey player who played one game for the Detroit Red Wings of the NHL. He was the first Norwegian player to play in a NHL game. He made his hockey debut in the Norwegian hockey club Furuset IF when he was 15. He died on June 21, 1989 when he was involved in a car crash in his hometown of Oslo.

[[Yokozuna]]

Yokozuna may refer to:

[[Egg Harbor (town), Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin, Door County, Wisconsin

Egg Harbor is a town in Door County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. The unincorporated area of Carlsville is also within the town.

[[Carlsville, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Wisconsin, Door County, Wisconsin

Carlsville is an unincorporated community of Door County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States.  It is found inside of the town of Egg Harbor.  It is between Sturgeon Bay and the village of Egg Harbor. 

[[WWE Superstars]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 television series debuts, American television series, World Wrestling Entertainment television programs, 2016 television series endings, English-language television programs

WWE Superstars was a professional wrestling television program for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) that features wrestlers from all WWE's brands: Raw, SmackDown and, at one time, ECW competing against each other. It was aired between April 16, 2009 and November 25, 2016.

[[Verbenaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Verbenaceae

Verbenaceae is a family of variously woody or herbaceous dicotyledons in the order Lamiales. They have opposite or whorled leaves and regular or irregular flowers, usually with four or two functional stamens. 

[[Reinaldo da Cruz Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Reinaldo da Cruz Oliveira (born 14 March 1979) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Suwon Samsung Bluewings.

[[Archie Thompson]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Australian footballers

Archie Thompson (born 23 October 1978) is an Australian football player. He plays for Melbourne Victory and Australia national team.

[[Axel Rodrigues de Arruda]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian footballers, 1970 births, Living people

Axel Rodrigues de Arruda (born 9 January 1970) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[FK Partizan]]

CATEGORIES: Serbian football clubs, 1945 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Serbia

F.K. Partizan is a football club which plays in Serbia. 

[[Red Star Belgrade]]

CATEGORIES: Serbian football clubs, Belgrade, 1945 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Serbia

F.K. Red Star Belgrade is a football club which plays in Serbia.

[[F.K. Željezničar Sarajevo]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs, Sarajevo, Football in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 1921 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Bosnia and Herzegovina

F.K. Željezničar Sarajevo is a football club which plays in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

[[Fábio Alves Félix]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fábio Alves Félix (born 10 January 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Cruzeiro.

[[Patrick Zwaanswijk]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, People from Haarlem, Sportspeople from North Holland

Patrick Zwaanswijk (born 17 January 1975) is a Dutch football player. He plays for NAC Breda.

[[Gilberto Ribeiro Gonçalves]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Gilberto Ribeiro Gonçalves (born 13 September 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Flamengo.

[[FK Sarajevo]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs, Sarajevo, 1946 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Bosnia and Herzegovina

FK Sarajevo is a football club which plays in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

[[FC Admira Wacker Mödling]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs of Lower Austria

F.C. Trenkwalder Admira is a football club which plays in Austria.

Admira Wacker Mödling formed from a merger of two football clubs: Admira Wacker Wien and VfB Mödling in 1997.

Admira Wacker Wien formed from a merger of two football clubs: Admira Wien and Wacker Wien in 1971.

[[Red Bull Racing]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One constructors, Formula One current

Red Bull Racing is a Formula One racing team owned by Austrian beverage company Red Bull. Red Bull also own another F1 team: Scuderia AlphaTauri. The Red Bull team is based in Milton Keynes in the UK but holds an Austrian licence. The team is managed by Christian Horner who is also the boss of the Arden International, which participates to the GP2 Series and to the Formula Renault 3.5 Series.

[[Mihailo Petrović]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Serbian footballers, Serbian football managers

Mihailo Petrović (born 18 October 1957) is a former Serbian football player. He has played for Yugoslavia national team.

[[Yohei Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers

Yohei Suzuki (born 14 October 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Teófilo Cubillas]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, 1970 FIFA World Cup players, 1978 FIFA World Cup players, 1982 FIFA World Cup players, People from Lima, Peruvian footballers

Teófilo Juan Cubillas Arizaga (teˈofilo kuˈβiʎas; born 8 March 1949) is a Peruvian former footballer who played as an attacking midfielder. He was selected as Peru's greatest ever player in an IFFHS poll, in which he was also included in the world's Top 50. He was renowned for his technique, shooting ability and free kick ability. He was one of the best players in the world of the 1970s and the best in his position of the decade only behind the Dutch Johan Cruyff. Among his main achievements are the FIFA awards for the best young player and the bronze boot in Mexico 1970, as well as the silver boot and member of the ideal team of Argentina 1978, he was also champion and best player of the 1975 Copa América. He is one of the best attacking midfielders in the history of football.

Nicknamed El Nene (The Kid), he was part of the Peru national football team that won the 1975 Copa América. He helped Peru reach the quarter finals at the 1970 FIFA World Cup and again at the 1978 World Cup and was elected the South American Footballer of the Year in 1972.

In 2004, Pelé selected Cubillas as one of the FIFA 100, a list of 125 footballing greats. In February 2008, to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the first Brazilian World Cup victory, he was selected in the All-Star First Team of South America of the past 50 years. Cubillas is one of only three players to score five or more goals in two different World Cups, the other two being Miroslav Klose and Thomas Müller.

[[Dwarfism]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic disorders, Growth disorders

Dwarfism is used to describe a person of short stature, less than 4 feet, 10 inches (147 cm). This is often, though not always, because of a medical condition. People with this condition are called dwarves or little people. A similar term for short people is midget; however, dwarves and midgets are not the same. Midgets are perfectly proportioned humans, while dwarves have a large head and misshapen limbs and torsos.

Dwarfism is often caused by the person inheriting an  allele (a mutant gene), which produces a defect in development. Defects caused by genetics are the main kind of congenital defects, and usually cannot be cured. The most common cause of dwarfism is a defect in bone development called achondroplasia, in which the limbs are short in proportion to the body. This accounts for 70% of cases. Extreme shortness, but with body parts of normal proportions, may be caused by growth hormone deficiency, once known as pituitary dwarfism. There are more than 200 other conditions which may cause dwarfism.

In the 19th century in the United States, people with dwarfism were a major attraction of many circus sideshows. The most famous little people in the history of the American circus are General Tom Thumb and Michu.

[[Play (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums

Play is an album by Moby. "Extreme Ways" is one of his most popular songs on the album. It was released on May 17, 1992 for V2 Records. It is an hour 3 minutes and 14 seconds long. 

[[Kitchen Debate]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 in the Soviet Union, 1950s in the United States, International relations, 20th century in Moscow

The Kitchen Debate were interpreter talks between U.S. Vice President Richard Nixon and President Nikita Khrushchev at the American National Exhibit on July 24, 1959 in the Soviet capital, Moscow The talks were called the "kitchen debate" because the USA had built a model home (and kitchen) in Moscow. Nixon and Kushchev debated each others technology as both countries were still committed to the Cold War with each other. The Soviet Union had the better rockets as they had just launched the first satellite called Sputnik. However America had colour television and washing machines, although Krushchev said the Soviet Union had washing machines too.

[[Poanes zabulon]]

CATEGORIES: Hesperiidae

The Zabulon Skipper (Poanes zabulon) is a North American butterfly.  It is sometimes called the Southern Dimorphic Skipper.

[[Elmer Keiser Bolton]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1968 deaths, American chemists, Scientists from Pennsylvania

Elemer Kaiser Bolton (June 23, 1886 – July 30, 1968), was a chemist and biologist who invented Neoprene. He died of pneumonia in 1968.

[[Queen Mab]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in Shakespeare's plays

Queen Mab is a fairy referred to in Shakespeare's play Romeo and Juliet. In the play she is described by Mercutio as a tiny creature who drives a chariot across the faces of people while they are asleep, causing them to dream of their wishes coming true. She has also appeared in other books afterwards, including Moby Dick and Sense and Sensibility.

[[Moby-Dick]]

CATEGORIES: 1850s books, American novels, 1851

Moby-Dick is a novel written by Herman Melville. It was first published in 1851. The story is told by a seaman named Ishmael. He sails on a whaling ship called the Pequod. Ahab is the captain of the ship. He wants to kill a white whale called Moby Dick. The whale bit his leg off. The book received mixed reviews. Moby-Dick is now thought to be one of the greatest novels ever written. 

[[Heroes of Newerth]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, Windows games, Real-time strategy video games

Heroes of Newerth is a Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA) game based on Defense of the Ancients.  The game is created by S2 games. It is available on multiple operating systems such as Windows, Linux, and Mac OS. It is currently in free to play with over 120,000 registered users. The pre-order sales began on August 22, 2009.

The game consists of two teams that battle against each other. The teams, the Hellbourne and the Legion, offer players a wide variety of unique heroes that the player controls in the game. The heroes of each team are categorized as: Intelligence, Strength, and Agility.  

Many of the heroes and items in the initial version of the game were taken directly from Defense of the Ancients. However, there are a now lots of heroes and items that are designed and created by S2 Games. 

[[Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire]]

CATEGORIES: 1772 births, 1844 deaths, French biologists, French deists, Evolutionary biologists, Naturalists

Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire (15 April 1772 – 19 June 1844) was a French naturalist who established the principle of "unity of composition".  He was a colleague of Jean-Baptiste Lamarck and believed in the underlying unity of organismal design, and the possibility of the change of species in time. He collected evidence for his claims  in comparative anatomy, paleontology, and embryology.

[[Gateway Arch]]

CATEGORIES: St. Louis, Missouri, Buildings and structures in Missouri

The Gateway Arch is a metal structure in St. Louis, Missouri that stands 630 feet. A tram allows people to go to the top of it. Each year, about 4 million people visit the Gateway Arch. It cost about $13 million to make the arch and over $3 million to make the transportation system.

[[Morgue]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine, Death

A morgue is a place where dead human bodies are kept for a short time soon after the person died. Sometimes, the body is examined by autopsy. Most often, the body is delivered to a mortuary and buried in a grave or cremated. Morgues are found in hospitals, usually on the lowest floor or basement.

[[Donor]]

A donor in general is a person who makes a donation. "Donor" could refer to:

[[Marty Robbins]]

CATEGORIES: American singer-songwriters, American movie actors, Country musicians, NASCAR drivers, American racecar drivers, Grammy Award winners, Actors from Arizona, Singers from Arizona, Sportspeople from Arizona, 1925 births, 1982 deaths, People from Glendale, Arizona

Marty Robbins (real name Martin David Robinson) (September 26, 1925 – December 8, 1982) was an American country singer and songwriter. 

He was one of the most famous country singers during his 40 year career. Robbins had many country music hit singles and some of his songs were pop music hits on the radio. During the peak of his music career Robbins won several Grammy Awards.

In 1982 he was elected into the Country Music Hall of Fame.

In addition to his music, Marty Robbins was a race car driver. He drove in many NASCAR races. He was a driver in the 1973 Daytona 500.

Marty Robbins died of heart failure in December 1982.

[[Literacy test]]

CATEGORIES: Discrimination, Tests

A literacy test is a test of literacy. People have been tested for the power to read and write for a long time. In much of the 20th century, literacy tests were used to keep African Americans from voting. Voters had to have some kind of knowledge of the United States and the test taker would ask how many states there were and how many senators were in each state. Then the African American would have to sit and take the literacy test while the white man only had to pay $1.50. This was another way the Jim Crow laws segregated or separated whites from blacks. 

[[MJJ]]

MJJ may refer to:

[[Williamstown, Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Melbourne

Williamstown is a suburb in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, only 8 km south-west of the central business district. In 2006 there were 12,733 people living in Williamstown. It is located on Hobson's Bay, part of Port Phillip Bay, at the mouth of the Yarra River.

Williamstown is about 15 minutes by car from Melbourne using the West Gate Freeway or a 30-minute train journey from Flinders Street Station. Ferries on the Yarra River from Melbourne's Southbank take about 1 hour. There is also a ferry across the bay from St.Kilda on weekends and holidays.

[[Cowboy Jimmy Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1999 deaths, People from New Mexico

Cowboy Jimmy Moore (September 14, 1910 – November 17, 1999), born James William Moore, was a world famous American pocket billiards (pool) player. He was originally from Troup County, Georgia, and lived for much of his life in Albuquerque, New Mexico. He is best known for his skill in the game of straight pool (14.1 continuous).

Moore was an excellent athlete at other sports. He has set many records in billiards. He won the Michigan State Billiard Championship four times. He came in second at the World Championship five times while playing the best in the world such as Willie Mosconi, Irving Crane and Luther Lassiter. He won the United States National Pocket Billiards Championship in 1958, the National Invitation Pocket Billiards Championship in 1965, and the Legends of Pocket Billiards competition in 1984.

Moore was known for playing in straight pool exhibition. He was a feared road player (a player who hustled while traveling across the United States). He was also known for his unusual pool style, which included wearing cowboy clothing, and an unusual way of using his pool cue when he was hitting ball—a technique known as a "slip stroke". Moore also worked as a technical adviser for scenes in television and film that showed pool. He did so for the movie My Living Doll, and the Jerry Lewis movie The Family Jewels. He was honored by election to the Billiard Congress of America's Hall of Fame, the International Pocket Billiards Hall of Fame, and the Albuquerque Sports Hall of Fame.

[[1933 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic hurricane seasons, 1933

The 1933 Atlantic hurricane season started in the Summer of 1933 and ended near the end of Fall in 1933. 1933 was the third most active Atlantic hurricane season on record. The number of storms in tied with the number in 1995. Only 2005 and 2020 had a higher number of storms. Before 1950 storm did not get a name. This means that they were givin a number instead of a name. Also note that there could have been more than just 21 storms.

[[Tore Pedersen]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Norwegian footballers

Tore Pedersen (born 29 September 1969) is a former Norwegian football player. He has played for Norway national team.

[[Sidney Govou]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, French footballers

Sidney Govou (born 27 July 1979) is a French football player. He has played for Olympique Lyonnais and France national team.

[[Tabla]]

CATEGORIES: Drums, Indian culture, Pakistani culture

The tabla (तबला, তবলা, طبلہ}, tablā from طبل، طبلة, tabl, tabla) is an Indian drum used for North Indian Music. The tabla invention is found in India. It is also used for classical,  popular and devotional music of Pakistan. The instrument is two hand drums of different size and shape, similar to bongos. They make different sounds. The drums are treble and bass drum.

Tabla is played hitting the fingers on the drum head and sliding the palm to create a modulating sound. A lot of sounds can be created from the tabla by changing how you use your hands.

The tabla originated from the a more ancient cylindrical drum called the Pakhawaj.

Zakir Hussain is a notable tabla player. There are different Gharanas or houses of tabla. Zakir Hussain's style is of the Punjab Gharana.

[[Tony Rice]]

CATEGORIES: American country guitarists, Grammy Award winners, Singers from Virginia, Musicians from Virginia, Singers from Los Angeles, California, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, American bluegrass musicians, American folk musicians, 1951 births, 2020 deaths

David Anthony "Tony" Rice (June 8, 1951 – December 25, 2020) was an American musician and songwriter. He was born in Danville, Virginia but grew up in Los Angeles, California. He is famous for his skill at playing acoustic guitar.

His music can be bluegrass or country or folk.

He has played in music groups with J. D. Crowe, Norman Blake, and David Grisman, Jerry Garcia and Alison Krauss. His own band is called the "Tony Rice Unit." He also plays in a group with his brothers.

In 1983 Rice won a Grammy Award for "Best Country Instrumental Performance."

Rice died suddenly on December 25, 2020 at his home in Reidsville, North Carolina at the age of 69.

[[Right-hand rule]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

The right-hand rule is a convention in vector math.  It helps you remember direction when vectors get cross multiplied.

If you have two vectors that you want to cross multiply, you can figure out the direction of the vector that comes out by pointing your thumb in the direction of the first vector and your pointer in the direction of the second vector.  Your middle finger will point the direction of the cross product.

[[Gunsmoke]]

CATEGORIES: American drama television series, Western television series, CBS network shows, 1950s television series, English-language television programs

Gunsmoke was a western drama television series. John Meston created the series. It ran for twenty years from 1955 to 1975. Each episode ran for 1 hour. In 1955, CBS television network tried to hire John Wayne. They finally decided on James Arness to play the role of Matt Dillon in the Gunsmoke series. The main cast was Arness, Dennis Weaver playing Chester Goode, Milburn Stone as Doc Adams, and Amanda Blake as saloon keeper Miss Kitty Russell. Ken Curtis played Festus Haggen and Burt Reynolds played a blacksmith.

Between 1955 - 1961, the episodes were 30 minutes long. After that, they were one hour long. 635 episodes were made between 1955 to 1975. Many well known actors have been on the series. These include John Wayne  (presenter of the pilot), Bette Davis, Harrison Ford, Jon Voight, Kurt Russell and Jodie Foster. In 1987, Gunsmoke: Return to Dodge was made. Arness returned in the role of Dillon. Later television movies included Gunsmoke: The Last Apache (1990), Gunsmoke: To the Last Man (1992), Gunsmoke: The Long Ride (1993) and Gunsmoke: One Man's Justice (1994).

[[Stan Kenton]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1979 deaths, American jazz musicians, American pianists, Bandleaders, Musicians from Wichita, Kansas

Stan Kenton (December 15, 1911 – August 25, 1979) was an American jazz pianist and bandleader from Wichita, Kansas. He worked with many jazz musicians like Zoot Sims, Art Pepper and Stan Getz. He died when he was 67 years old. 

[[Haneda Airport Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Tokyo

Haneda Airport Domestic Terminal Station (羽田空港国内線ターミナル駅 Haneda-kūkō Kokunaisen Tāminaru eki) is a Railway station of Keihin Electric Express Railway (Keikyū) in Ōta, Tokyo, Japan.

[[Permeability (electromagnetism)]]

CATEGORIES: Electromagnetism

[[Hurricane Agnes]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 Atlantic hurricane season, Hurricanes in Mexico, Hurricanes in the United States, 1972 in the United States, 1970s in Mexico, 1970s in Cuba, 1970s in Florida, 20th century in Georgia (U.S. state), 20th century in North Carolina, 1970s in Virginia, 20th century in Maryland, 20th century in Pennsylvania, 1970s in New York (state)

Hurricane Agnes was a Category 1 hurricane in the 1972 Atlantic hurricane season. Agnes affected many states, but the worst was in Florida, Pennsylvania, and New York. The name "Agnes" was one of five Category 1 hurricanes to get its name retired. ("Cesar", "Klaus", "Noel", and "Stan" were the others). At the time Hurricane Agnes was the costliest hurricane in the United States and the Atlantic Ocean. Agnes killed 130 people and caused $3 billion (USD) in damage. In 2009, that would have cost $15.7 billion (USD). As Agnes moved over the United States it caused a tornado outbreak. About 28 tornadoes were seen.

[[Simo Häyhä]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 2002 deaths, Finnish military people

Simo Hayha ( December 17, 1905 – April 1, 2002) was a Finnish soldier.  He has the highest recorded number of confirmed sniper kills in any major war. He was so good that the Russian soldiers began to call him as "White Death". He had over 500 confirmed kills during Winter war, which lasted only 105 days.

Simo Häyhä spent his last years in Ruokolahti, a small village in southeastern Finland, near the Russian border. He died at the age of 96 in 2002.

Actor Steven Wiig portrayed Häyhä in the 2012 HBO docudrama Hemingway & Gellhorn.

[[Hurricane Martha (1969)]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 Atlantic hurricane season, 20th century in Costa Rica, 20th century in Panama, 1969 in North America

Hurricane Martha was the last hurricane of the active 1969 Atlantic hurricane season. Martha made landfall in Nicaragua.Martha caused minimal flooding in Nicaragua and Honduras.Hurricane Martha was rare storm to make landfall in Columbia. Martha killed about 5 people and caused 300$  Million dollars in damage. 

Because the damage was not very high the name "Martha" was not retired. But, even though it was not retired the name was not used again because the lists names changed in the 1970's.   

[[Berlin Sportpalast]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Berlin

The Berliner Sportpalast was a building in Berlin. It was built in 1910 and demolished in 1973. The Berlin Sportpalast was used for several winter sport venues and also for meetings. It was in the Schönberg section of Berlin. The Sportpalast could hold up to 14,000 people and was for some years the biggest meeting hall in Berlin. The Berlin Sportpalast is well known for speech of Joseph Goebbels in 1943 about the "Total War".

[[Steam devil]]

CATEGORIES: Weather, Winds

A steam devil is created when spinning air combines with steam or smoke. Steam devils are almost always found near power plants, but sometimes they happen in deserts or near hot springs.

Steam devils can also be caused by cold air, especially near the Great Lakes.

[[Swiss Minaret controversy]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s in Switzerland, 2009 in Europe, 21st century in Turkey

As of 2009, there is a controversy in Switzerland about the construction of minarets. A minaret is a tower-like structure belonging to a mosque. Its main use is to call the worshippers to prayer, much like a belltower of a Christian church. On 1st May 2007, the Swiss People's Party and the Federal Democratic Union launched a popular referendum. They want to ban the construction of minarets in Switzerland. The Swiss people voted in favor of the issue on November 29, 2009. 

[[Barrie Colts]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in Ontario, Ontario Hockey League

The Barrie Colts are an ice hockey team in the Ontario Hockey League (OHL). They are based in Barrie, Ontario, Canada. The Barrie Colts first became a team when they played in the junior division of the OHA from 1907 until 1910 which was prior to the creation of junior A and junior B levels. They joined the OHL on May 6, 1994 when they joined as an expansion franchise.

[[Loganiaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Gentianales

Loganiaceae is a family of flowering plants in the order Gentianales, containing about 21 genera. Earlier treatments have included up to 29 genera. The current circumscription includes 13 genera, all tropical plants.

[[School shooting]]

CATEGORIES: Educational institutions, Types of crime, School shootings

A school shooting or school massacre is when someone shoots a gun at students or teachers at a school or college. Many school shootings have happened in the United States. Very often, the person responsible for the attack is a former student or pupil., who had to leave the school. Most fo the time, school shootings are planned attaacks. When planning, the attackers either want to get a lot of media attention, or they want to kill or hurt as many people as possible. In most cases, the perpetrators will announce ("leak") the idea, either directly or indirectly.There are certin things or events that trigger such a schooting: The person will react to these trigers with anger, frustration or despair. The person doing the schhoting will often either commit uicide at the end, or they'll arrange the situation in such a way that they are killed by police, or other security forces.Research has shown that the perpetratros either want to kill or hurt fellow students, or they want to hurt teachers/professors; cases whjere both groups are targeted are rare. Most of the time, there is one attacker. Cases where two or three people act together are rare.

[[Halls (cough drop)]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Halls is a brand of cough drops that are popular in Canada and the United States. They come in multiple flavors and were first made in the Halls Brothers company in Britain.

[[Paulo Wanchope]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Costa Rican footballers

Paulo Wanchope (born 31 July 1976) is a former Costa Rican football player. He has played for Costa Rica national team.

[[Claudio Reyna]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American footballers, Sportspeople from New Jersey

Claudio Reyna (born 20 July 1973) is a former American soccer player. He has played for United States national team.

[[Ippei Watanabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Ippei Watanabe (born 28 September 1969) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Andrade Antunes Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Andrade Antunes Anderson (born 15 November 1981) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Daegu.

[[Sonny Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Sonny Anderson (born 19 September 1970) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Jared Borgetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Mexican footballers, People from Sinaloa

Jared Borgetti (born 14 August 1973) is a Mexican football player. He has played for Mexico national team. He is the 2nd top scorer for the Mexican National Team on 46 goals, behind Javier "Chicharito" Hernández. He is known for his great header goals, especially the one that he scored in the 2002 FIFA World Cup, against Italy.

[[Hakoah Vienna]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish history, Judaism in Austria, Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Vienna

 S.C. Hakoah Wien was a football club which played in Austria. The club was part of the Jewish sports club Hakoah (Hebrew-the strength)which is still existing.

[[Joshua Kennedy]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Victoria (Australia)

Joshua Kennedy (born 20 July 1982) is an Australian football player. He plays for Nagoya Grampus Eight and Australia national team.

[[Ko Ishikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Bolivian footballers, Japanese footballers

Ko Ishikawa is a former Bolivian-Japanese football player.

[[Sotaro Yasunaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Sotaro Yasunaga (born 20 April 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tomáš Galásek]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Czech footballers

Tomáš Galásek (born 15 January 1973) is a Czech football player. He has played for the Czech Republic national team.

[[Satoshi Nakayama]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyazaki Prefecture

Satoshi Nakayama (born 7 November 1981) is a Japanese football player.

[[Nikolai Khabibulin]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Edmonton Oilers players, Living people, Phoenix Coyotes players, Stanley Cup champions, Tampa Bay Lightning players, Winnipeg Jets (1979–96) players, 1973 births, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Russian ice hockey goaltenders

Nikolai Ivanovich Khabibulin (Николай Иванович Хабибулин in Russian; born January 13, 1973 in Sverdlovsk, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union) is a Russian professional ice hockey goaltender currently playing for the Chicago Blackhawks of the NHL.

He has also played with the Winnipeg Jets for 2 seasons, Phoenix Coyotes for 3 seasons, Tampa Bay Lightning for 3 seasons and Edmonton Oilers for 2 seasons. He won the Stanley Cup with the Tampa Bay Lightning in 2004 becoming the first Russian goalie to win a Stanley Cup. On July 5, 2013, Khabibulin signed a one-year, $2 million contract to return to the Chicago Blackhawks.

[[Sérgio Luís Donizetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Sérgio Luís Donizetti (born 9 July 1964) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Kim Dae-Eui]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Kim Dae-Eui (born 30 May 1974) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Arnold Scholten]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, People from 's-Hertogenbosch, Sportspeople from North Brabant

Arnold Scholten (born 5 December 1962) is a former Dutch football player.

[[A-side and B-side]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry

A-side and B-side are words used in music. They used to mean the two different side of 7 inch vinyl records. Singles were released on these from the 1950s.  The words now mean the types of song that are usually placed on each side of the record. The A-side is normally the featured song. This is the one that the record producer hopes will receive radio airplay and become a "hit". The B-side, or flipside, is a secondary song that often does not appear on the artist's LP.

[[The Blue Room (EP)]]

CATEGORIES: Coldplay, 1999 albums

The Blue Room is the third EP released by English band Coldplay. It is their first release after signing with the Parlophone label in April 1999.

[[Brothers & Sisters (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 songs, Coldplay songs

"Brothers & Sisters" is a song and EP by Coldplay. It was released as their first single in 1999 following the Safety EP, released a year earlier. 

[[Groove (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical forms

Groove is the sense of rhythmic "feel" or sense of "swing" created by music played by a band's rhythm section (drums, electric bass or double bass, guitar, and keyboards). The term is mainly used in the genres outside of Western art music, such as funk, rock music, power groove, fusion, and soul.

[[Analog]]

Analog or analogue may refer to:

[[Paul Delarue]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1956 deaths, French people

Paul Delarue (1889—1956) was a famous French collector of folk stories. His The Story of Grandmother is a version of Little Red Riding Hood, which was set down folklorist Achille Millien by as told by Louis and Francois Briffault, brothers from Nievre.

[[Constitution of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Romania, Constitutions, 1991 in Europe

The Constitution of Romania is the fundamental law that made the structure of the government of Romania.  It also defines the rights and jobs that the citizens have to abide by and how they pass laws into action.

[[Parliament of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Romania, National legislatures

The Parliament of Romania is made up of two parts: the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate.  Under 2003, they had identical powers, and after 2003, laws still have to be approved by both parts in order to be passed into law, but in some matters, one part of the Parliament is superior to the others.

[[Sergej Barbarez]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Bosnia and Herzegovina footballers

Sergej Barbarez (born 17 September 1971) is a former Bosnia and Herzegovina football player. He has played for Bosnia and Herzegovina national team.

[[Xavier Margairaz]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Swiss footballers

Xavier Margairaz (born 7 January 1984) is a Swiss football player. He plays for Zürich.

[[Satoshi Kajino]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Satoshi Kajino (born 9 November 1965) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kunio Nagayama]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Kunio Nagayama (born 16 September 1970) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Satoshi Okura]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Satoshi Okura (born 22 May 1969) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Philipp Degen]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Swiss footballers

Philipp Degen (born 15 February 1983) is a Swiss football player. He plays for FC Basel and Switzerland national team.

[[Hiroki Mihara]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture

Hiroki Mihara (born 20 April 1978) is a former Japanese football player.

[[David Degen]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Swiss footballers

David Degen (born 15 February 1983) is a Swiss football player. He plays for Young Boys and Switzerland national team.

[[Oceanside, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in San Diego County, California

Oceanside is a beach city in the state of California. It is the third largest city in San Diego County, California and the 17th largest in Southern California. The city has a population of about 183,095 as of January 2010. The cities Oceanside, Vista and Carlsbad all form the Tri-City area. Oceanside is south of the Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton.

[[Salt Lake Tabernacle]]

CATEGORIES: Mormonism, Churches in the United States, Buildings and structures in Utah, Salt Lake City, 1867 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Utah

The  Salt Lake Tabernacle is a building in Temple Square in Salt Lake City, Utah. It was built by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) in 1867.

[[John Prescott]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, British politicians, Former Labour MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Cheshire, Politicians from Yorkshire, United Kingdom Life Peers, Deputy Prime Ministers of the United Kingdom

John Leslie Prescott, Baron Prescott (born 31 May 1938) is a British Labour politician. He was born in Prestatyn, Wales. He grew up in Brinsworth, Yorkshire and Upton by Chester. He served as Deputy Prime Minister when Tony Blair was Prime Minister. He started out as a shop worker and was often considered to be the "most working class member of the Labour cabinet".July 2010 Whilst campaigning for the 2001 election, he punched a man who threw an egg at him. He has diabetes mellitus type 2 and had bulimia nervosa throughout his political career.

[[Yamanote Line]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese railways, 1909 establishments in Asia, 1900s establishments in Japan, Tokyo

The Yamanote Line is a railway line of East Japan Railway Company (JR East) in Tokyo, Japan. It is one of Tokyo's busiest and most important lines, connecting most of Tokyo's big stations and city centres, including Marunouchi, the Yūrakuchō/Ginza area, Shinagawa, Shibuya, Shinjuku, Ikebukuro and Ueno, with all but two of its 29 stations connecting to other railway or underground (subway) lines. 

As an official line name, "Yamanote Line" is usually meant as a line with tracks between Shinagawa and Tabata from Shinjuku that are used by local trains on its tracks and also the parallel Yamanote Freight Line which is used by Saikyō Line and Shōnan-Shinjuku Line trains, some limited express services, and freight trains. However, in everyday use, the "Yamanote Line" refers to the entire 34.5 km loop line served by local trains.  (This article uses the same thing meant except when it is said that it would not be the same meaning meant.)

[[Engelhard, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in North Carolina, Villages in the United States

Engelhard is a small village in North Carolina, United States. About 300 people live there. The village is found in Hyde County.

[[Luna Park, Melbourne]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Melbourne, 1912 establishments, 1910s establishments in Australia

Melbourne's Luna Park is a historic amusement park near the beach at St Kilda, Victoria Australia. It was designed and developed by Frederick Ingersoll. It opened in 1912 and has been operating ever since. It is the first of two Luna Parks still operating in Australia; the other is on Sydney Harbour.

[[Miragoâne]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Haiti

Miragoâne (Kréyòl: Miragwàn) is a port city in southwestern Haiti. It is the capital city of the Nippes Département.

The city is on the coast of the Miragoâne Bay, in the Gonâve Channel of the Gulf of Gonâve, about 100 km south of the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. It is also the chief town of an arrondissement (a part of a department) with the same name. The arrondissement has four communes (a commune is like a municipality): Miragoâne, Fonds-des-Nègres, Paillant and Petite-Rivière-de-Nippes.

[[Your Body Is a Wonderland]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 songs, Pop songs

Your Body Is a Wonderland is a 2002 song written and sung by John Mayer. It was recorded in 2001 and released in 2002. The song won John Mayer a Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance.

[[Brooke Hogan]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Actors from Tampa, Florida, Models from Florida, American movie actors, Singers from Tampa, Florida

Brooke Hogan (born May 5, 1988 in Tampa, Florida) is an American singer, actress and model who currently has her own show on VH1 and MuchMore called Brooke Knows Best it is a spin-off of the show her parents were on called Hogan Knows Best. Her father is semi-retired professional wrestler Hulk Hogan. She released her debut album in 2006 entitled Undiscovered.

[[Kim Do-Kyun]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, 2000 Summer Olympics

Kim Do-Kyun (born 13 January 1977), also known as Kim Do-Gyun,  is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korea Republic national team, including the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney.

[[Rodrigo Mendes]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Rodrigo Mendes (born 9 August 1975) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Novo Hamburgo.

[[Rodrigo Tabata]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Rodrigo Tabata (born 19 November 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Beşiktaş.

[[Karim Haggui]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Tunisian footballers, People from Tunis

Karim Haggui (born 20 January 1984) is a Tunisian football player. He plays for VfB Stuttgart and Tunisia national team.

[[Dong Fangzhuo]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Chinese footballers

Dong Fangzhuo (born 23 January 1985) is a Chinese football player. He has played for China PR national team.

[[André the Giant]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 1993 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Former WWE wrestlers, French actors, Sportspeople from Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, People from Grenoble, WWE Hall of Fame

André René Roussimoff  (May 19, 1946 – January 27, 1993) better known by his ring name, André the Giant, was a French professional wrestler and actor. He was best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Federation (WWF).

His size was caused by gigantism, that was caused by excess growth hormone and would later result in acromegaly. His size led to him being called "The Eighth Wonder of the World". During his professional wrestling career, he was a one time WWF champion and a one time WWF World Tag Team champion with Haku. In 1993, He became the first superstar to be inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame.

His best know acting role was as Fezzik in the 1987 movie The Princess Bride.

On January 27, 1993, he died of congestive heart failure while he was sleeping in his Paris hotel room. He was in Paris to go to his father's funeral.

[[Gura Humorului]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suceava County

Gura Humorului is a town in northern Romania. It is in Suceava County in the southern part of Bukovina. The population of Gura Humorului was 15,728 as of 2006. The mayor is Marius Ioan Ursaciuc of the National Liberal Party. On May 11, 1899, there was a disastrous fire which destroyed most of the town, more than 400 houses and businesses were lost in the blaze. It was a World War I battlefield between Austrian and Imperial Russian troops until the Russians were driven out in 1917.

Between 1960 and 1963 the fossils of prehistoric fish, about 1.90 metres long were discovered in rocks near the town. The fish was an unknown Palaeorhynchus, a kind of mackerel, which lived about 30 million years ago. It was named Palegrhynchus humorensis, after the city. The area was made a special reserve in 1973.

On October 10, 1941, during World War II, 2945 Jewish men, women and children were sent from Gura Humorului to Transnistria. Most of these people died in the concentration camps. Only about 100 returned to the town after the war, and most of these people then moved to Israel. The former residents have sent money to repair the Jewish cemetery, and the one surviving synagogue.

[[HaNoar HaOved VeHaLomed]]

CATEGORIES: Nationalist organizations, Youth organizations, Socialism, Israeli culture, 1924 establishments, 1920s establishments in Israel

Histadrut HaNoar HaOved VeHaLomed (הסתדרות הנוער העובד והלומד, lit. The Federation of Working and Studying Youth), sometimes abbreviated to No'al (נוע"ל) is an Israeli youth movement.  

[[Sex chromosome]]

CATEGORIES: Biological reproduction, Chromosomes

Sex chromosomes are chromosomes which determine the sex of individual organisms. In men, for example, there are 23 pairs of chromosomes, and one of these pairs are sex chromosomes. Females have two X chromosomes, males have one X and one Y. An egg always carries a single X, while sperms carry either an X or a Y. That is how sex is determined in humans.

Not all organisms have their sex determined by chromosomes. Those that do use the sex chromosome system have variations in how it happens. The account above is generally true for mammals.

[[Cytogenetics]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics, Cell biology

Cytogenetics is the branch of genetics which deals with cell structure and function. It includes the study of chromosomes, chromosome bands, karyotypes, and cell division, especially meiosis. Cytogenetic studies have also been used to study evolution in natural populations.

[[Somatic cell]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

All the cells in the body of an organism are somatic cells, except for the haploid gametes (sex cells like eggs and sperm) and other cells involved in reproduction. 

Somatic cells are usually diploid, except where there is polyploidy. Either way, somatic cells have double the number of chromosomes that gametes in the same organism have. Somatic cells divide by mitosis and make identical copies of themselves, while gametes are made when germ cells divide by meiosis.

In humans, somatic cells have 46 chromosomes. 

[[Genetic screening]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Medicine

[[Haploid]]

CATEGORIES: Chromosomes

Haploid is the term used when a cell has half the usual number of chromosomes. A normal eukaryote organism is composed of diploid cells, one set of chromosomes from each parent. However, after meiosis, the number of chromosomes in gametes is halved. That is the haploid condition.

In humans, the diploid number of chromosomes is 46 (2x23). The number in haploid cells (sperm and eggs) is 23. Some types of animals are haploid, such as male Hymenoptera (ants, bees and wasps). This is a special genetic system called haplodiploidy.

Some plants and animals are polyploid, with more than two sets of chromosomes. For example, one species of wheat is hexaploid, with six sets of chromosomes, although other species of wheat have only two sets. Because so many organisms are diploid, it can become confusing whether haploid refers to one set of chromosomes or more than one. The special term monoploid can be used; it means one set of chromosomes.

[[Malt shop]]

CATEGORIES: Shops

A malt shop or soda shop was a older type of drink store in North America. It is where kids mostly went to buy sodas and candy (confectionery).

[[Atong language (Sino-Tibetan)]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Bangladesh

A’tong (also spelled Attong) is a language spoken in Bangladesh. It is spoken by about 5,400 people in the northern Netrokona District.

The language will possibly become more mixed with the Abeng dialect of Garo and Bengali. Many children can speak Abeng before starting school, but most speakers also have good proficiency in Bengali.

They are reckoned by themselves and other Garos to be Garos, but the languages are not mutually intelligible with Garo. The speakers of A’tong are mostly Christian peasants.

[[Jaywalking]]

CATEGORIES: Traffic, Types of crime

Jaywalking is a form of crossing a street by not following the crosswalk. People crossing the street, known as pedestrians, can get a fine or time in prison for jaywalking in some states and cities. 

[[Do Ab]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Afghanistan

Do Ab is a village in Bamyan Province in central Afghanistan.

[[Do Ab (Iran)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Iran

Do Ab is the name of a rural area in the center of Savadkuh County, Mazanderan province, Iran. It contains five villages. Sevatcow station on the Mazanderan branch of the trans-Iranian railway was built there during the rule of Reza Pahlavi. It is about 7 kilometers south of Pol Sefid (Capital of township) and about 14 kilometers from Veresk Bridge.

[[Euptoieta hegesia]]

CATEGORIES: Nymphalidae

The Mexican Fritillary (Euptoieta hegesia) is a North and South American butterfly.  It is in the family Nymphalidae.

[[Kingsway tramway subway]]

CATEGORIES: Transport architecture in London, Trams in London, London Borough of Camden, Subterranean London, Grade II listed buildings in London, 1952 disestablishments, 1950s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 20th century disestablishments in England

The Kingsway tramway subway is a cut-and-cover tunnel in central London. It was built for The London County Council to join two tramway systems called the "North Side" and "South Side". Used by single-deck tramcars only, but an upgrade between 1928 and 1931 meant that double deck trams could use it. The subway was closed in 1952. Part of the subway is now the Strand underpass, but the rest has not been changed very much and still has tram tracks inside it. It is now a Grade II Listed structure.

[[University of Heidelberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1385 establishments, Colleges and universities in Germany, Heidelberg

The University of Heidelberg is one of the oldest universities of Europe and the oldest in Germany. It is in Heidelberg, Germany. It was founded on 23 October 1385. At the beginning, there were only the four traditional faculties. In 1890, the natural science got their own faculty. Later after a re-organisation, the university has 12 faculties.

The University of Heidelberg is also known as Ruprecht Karl University of Heidelberg, after the German prince Rupert I.

[[Eastbourne College]]

CATEGORIES: Eastbourne, Schools in England

Eastbourne College is a British co-educational day and boarding school for children aged 13-18. It is on the south coast of England. The headmaster is called Simon Davies. The College was started by the Duke of Devonshire in 1867 and has been growing ever since. It is a charity.

[[University of Bonn]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 establishments, Bonn, Colleges and universities in Germany, Education in North Rhine-Westphalia, 1810s establishments in Germany

The University of Bonn (Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn) is a public research university in Bonn, Germany. Started in 1818, the University of Bonn is today one of the leading universities in Germany. The University of Bonn offers many programs in different subjects. Its library has more than two million volumes. The University of Bonn has 525 professors and 27,800 students. Among its famous students and teachers are seven Nobel prize winners, two Fields Medalists, eleven Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Prize winners, Pope Benedict XVI, Karl Marx, Friedrich Nietzsche, Joseph Schumpeter and Joseph Goebbels.

[[University of Würzburg]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Germany, Würzburg

The University of Würzburg is a university in Würzburg, Germany, which first started in 1402. The university is a member of the Coimbra Group.

[[Carles Rexach]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Spanish football managers

Carles Rexach (born 13 January 1947) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Frank Lobos]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Chilean footballers, People from Santiago

Frank Lobos (born 25 September 1976) is a former Chilean football player.

[[Andriy Rusol]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Ukrainian footballers

Andriy Rusol (born 16 January 1983) is a Ukrainian retired footballer who formerly played as a defender for Dnipro Dnipropetrovsk and the Ukrainian national team.

[[Ari (footballer, born 1980)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Bahia

Arivaldo Alves dos Santos (born 19 November 1980) is a Brazilian football player.

[[MacBook Air]]

CATEGORIES: Apple hardware, Laptops

The MacBook Air is a kind of Macintosh laptop computer designed by Apple, known as the "world's thinnest notebook." It is positioned as the most portable in Apple's MacBook family and was introduced at the Macworld Conference & Expo on January 15, 2008. The MacBook Air was the first laptop to implement Apple's precision aluminum unibody enclosure.

The MacBook Air has been updated over four times since the original release. The first revision introduced better performance, a bigger hard drive, and a Mini DisplayPort for peripheral monitors. The second update, introduced with the MacBook Pro series, featured a lower price, better performance, and a longer-lasting battery.  It was revised a third time in October 2010 when the outside container was redesigned. At this time Apple began selling another model with a smaller, 11.6-inch (29 cm) screen until 2019. The fourth update was released in July 2011. There have been other revisions in between, but in October 2018, there was a fifth revision to the MacBook Air, with a fingerprint scanner, a larger Retina screen, and a backlit keyboard.

[[Darijo Srna]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Darijo Srna (born 1 May 1982) is a Croatian football player. He plays for Shakhtar Donetsk and Croatia national team. He is captain of both his club and national team.

[[Donbass Arena]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Europe, Buildings and structures in Ukraine

Donbass Arena is a football stadium in Donetsk in Ukraine. It is home to the club F.C. Shakhtar Donetsk. It can hold up to 51,504 people and it is the biggest club stadium in Ukraine.

[[Mara Manzan]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian actors, 1952 births, 2009 deaths

Mara Virgínia Manzan (28 May 1952 – 13 November 2009) was a Brazilian actress. At the age of 17, Mara, at the time living and studying in São Paulo, visited the Teatro Oficina, and, as she often jokingly said, never left it. There she made all kinds of backstage activities, until one day she had the chance to replace a sick actress in a play. In March 2008, acting as "Amara" in Duas Caras, she discovered to suffer of lung cancer, and was operated by surgeon Drauzio Varella on 16 April that year. The actress had already faced a cancer of the uterus and ovaries and had to undergo a radical hysterectomy. Her condition worsened and the actress died at the age 57. Mara Manzan died of pulmonary failure.

[[Madeline Kahn]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 1999 deaths, Actors from Boston, Massachusetts, Comedians from Massachusetts, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from ovarian cancer, Tony Award winning actors

Madeline Kahn (September 29, 1942 - December 3, 1999) was an American actress. She was known mainly for her comic roles in moviess such as Paper Moon, Young Frankenstein, Blazing Saddles, What's Up, Doc?, and Clue. She made a guest appearance on The Carol Burnett Show and the Cosby Show.

She was born in Boston, Massachusetts. She moved to New York City during her early childhood and died of ovarian cancer there. 

[[Keihin-Tōhoku Line]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese railways

The Keihin-Tōhoku Line (京浜東北線 けいひんとうほくせん) is a railway line of East Japan Railway Company (JR East) that connects the cities of Saitama, Warabi, Kawaguchi, Tokyo, Kawasaki, and Yokohama.

[[Shin-Yokohama Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Kanagawa Prefecture

Shin-Yokohama Station(新横浜駅,しんよこはまえき) is a Railway station of JR Central, JR East, and Yokohama Municipal Subway in Yokohama, Japan.

[[Hachiōji Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Tokyo

Hachiōji Station(八王子駅,はちおうじえき) is a Railway station of East Japan Railway Company (JR East) in the city of Hachiōji, Tokyo, Japan.

[[Nuclear football]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear weapons

The nuclear football is the name given to a black briefcase which is carried along with the President of the United States at all times. Inside the briefcase are instruction manuals, a radio transmitter and authentication codes for the Emergency Broadcast System. The President can use the briefcase in case of emergency, to order the use of nuclear weapons. The briefcase is carried by a military aide for the President.

[[Hizb-ul-Mujahideen]]

CATEGORIES: Kashmir

Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM) is one of the largest militant groups operating in Jammu and Kashmir from Azad Jammu and Kashmir and stands for the integration of the Disputed Territory and unification of all the Kashmir region with Pakistan. Since its formation the HuM has also wanted the Islamization of Kashmir. 

The HuM was formed in 1989 in the Kashmir Valley with Master Ahsan Dar as its chief. Dar was later arrested by the Indian all-armed forces by mid-December 1993. It was reportedly formed as the militant wing of the Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) at the behest of the Inter Services Intelligence (ISI), Pakistan’s external intelligence agency, to counter the Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF), which had advocated complete independence of the State from the nations. Many of the early Hizb cadres were former JKLF members.

[[Kalat (Pakistan)]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Pakistani princely states

Qalat or Kalat (قلات) is a historical town in Kalat District, Balochistan, Pakistan. Qalat is the capital of Qalat District and is known locally as Qalat-e Baluch.

Qalat, formerly Qilat, is roughly in the center of Pakistani Balochistan, south and slightly west of the provincial capital Quetta. It was the capital of the Qalat Khanate. The Brahui population is almost completely Muslim.

[[Makran (princely state)]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Pakistani princely states

Makran was an autonomous princely state of both British India and Pakistan, which ceased to exist in 1955. It was located in the extreme southwest of Pakistan, an area occupied by the districts of Gwadar, Kech and Panjgur. The state did not include the enclave of Gwadar which was under Omani rule until 1958.

[[Kharan (princely state)]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Pakistani princely states

The State of Kharan was an autonomous princely state in British India (later Pakistan), in the southwest of modern Pakistan. It was established about the year 1697 CE. In 1948, the state was integrated into Pakistan's West Pakistan. In 1971, East Pakistan became Bangladesh, and West Pakistan was renamed to Pakistan. Since then, the state is organised as the Kharan District of Balochistan.

[[Amb (princely state)]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Pakistani princely states

Amb was a princely state of the former British Raj. It governed itself (it had autonomy), but was under the overall suzerainty of the British monarch. Amb was ruled by a hereditary prince with the title of Nawab. The Nawab of Amb was the chieftain of the Tanoli tribe of Pashtun from Ghilji confederation in the Hazara. In the Partition of India in 1947, the Nawab of Tanolis/TanoKhel gave up the independence the state had previously enjoyed by joining the new country of Pakistan. Amb continued as a distinct state within Pakistan until 1969, when it was merged into the former North-West Frontier Province. The royal status of the Nawab was abolished by the Government of Pakistan in 1972.

The area in which Amb was located is historically known as Tanawal. This is in the Hazara region in what is now Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The part covered by Amb is called "Upper Tanawal", and is now part of Mansehra District. "Lower Tanawal" is in the Abbottabad District. The name "Tanawal" comes from the name of the tribe that lives there, the Tanoli (or Tanawali). The Tanoli are Muslims. They speak Hindko.

[[Phulra]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan

Phulra was a minor princely state of both Pakistan and British India, in the modern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. It was east of the nearby princely Amb. Both states ended in 1950 when they were merged into the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. There is some dispute as to whether Phulra ranked as a full princely state or as a minor noble estate (jagir) of the Indian Empire.

At present, Phulra is a small town and union council in Mansehra District, Hazara, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. 

[[Chitral (princely state)]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Pakistani princely states

Chitral (or Chitrāl); was a former princely state of Pakistan and British India which ceased to exist in 1969. The area of the state now forms the Chitral District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. Shahzada Ghaziuddin (Prince of Nagar) was a graduate from Aligarh university India. he was the son of Shuja ul mulk (Mehtar of Chitral) He was highly intelligent man and due to his intelligence, bravery, kind, loving nature was highly recognised. He was given the jagir of Nagar, Ursoon, patai, sweer, arandu, ziarat etc. Nagar fort was the winter resort of H.H Sir Shuja Ul Mulk.

[[Dir (princely state)]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Pakistani princely states

Dir was a small former princely state in the modern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in Pakistan. The state ceased to exist in 1969 when it was incorporated into Pakistan. The area once occupied by the state (5,282 km²) now forms two districts of Pakistan - Upper Dir and Lower Dir. The two districts were part of Malakand Division until divisions were abolished as an administrative tier.

[[Hunza (princely state)]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Pakistani princely states

Hunza (ہنزہ) was a former princely state in the northernmost part of the Northern Areas, of Pakistan, which existed until 1974. The state bordered the Gilgit Agency to the south, the former princely state of Nagar to the east, Chinese Turkistan to the north and Afghanistan to the northwest. The state capital was the town of Baltit (also known as Karimabad). The area of Hunza now forms the Aliabad Tehsil of Hunza-Nagar District.

[[Nagar (princely state)]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Pakistani princely states

Nagar (ریاست نگر) was a princely state in the northernmost part of the Northern Areas of Pakistan, which existed until 1974. The state bordered the Gilgit Agency to the south and west, and the former princely state of Hunza to the north and east. The state capital was the town of Nagar. The area of Nagar now forms three tehsils of Nagar District. Nagar along with Gilgit and Baltistan is falsely claimed by the Republic of India as so-called part of the state of Jammu and Kashmir.

[[Polyurethane]]

CATEGORIES: Polymers

Polyurethane is a polymer. Its name is often shortened to PU or PUR. Polyurethane is made of organic units, which are joined by urethane. Polyurethane polymers are formed through step-growth polymerization. In this process, a monomer containing at least two isocyanate functional groups reacts with another monomer containing at least two hydroxyl (alcohol) groups in the presence of a catalyst.

Polyurethane is available with different levels of stiffness, hardness or densities. Examples for such materials are:

Polyurethanes are widely used in high resiliency flexible foam seating, rigid foam insulation panels, microcellular foam seals and gaskets, durable elastomeric wheels and tires, automotive suspension bushings, electrical potting compounds, high performance adhesives and sealants, Spandex fibers, seals, gaskets, carpet underlay, and hard plastic parts.

Polyurethane products are often called "urethanes". They should not be confused with the specific substance urethane, also known as ethyl carbamate. Polyurethanes are neither produced from ethyl carbamate, nor do they contain it.

Petroleum products, like plastics, contain Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) like phthalates you can inhale as you sleep. These hazardous air pollutants cause a lot of horrible health effects like changes in hormone levels, obesity, and asthma. Also, if child or adult has allergies then these volatile chemicals can make it even worse. On top of that, sleeping babies inhale a lot more air than adults do per body weight. They can inhale as much as 10 times more VOCs!

[[Violetta Villas]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2011 deaths, European opera singers, People from Verviers, Polish actors, Polish singers, Pop musicians, Stage actors

Violetta Villas (born 10 June 1938  - 5 December 2011) was a Polish singer, actress, composer and songwriter. She was born in Verviers, Belgium. Her voice was a coloratura soprano which spans 4.7 octaves. In 1960s she was the star of revues in Paris, New York and Las Vegas. She died in Lewin Klodzki, Poland. 

[[Yutaka Fukufuji]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, American Hockey League players, Japanese sportspeople, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, People from Hokkaido, ECHL players, Ice hockey goaltenders

Yutaka Fukufuji (born September 17, 1982) is a Japanese professional ice hockey goaltender. He currently plays for the Nikkō Ice Bucks of the Asia League. He was drafted by the Los Angeles Kings with the 238th overall pick in the 2004 NHL Entry Draft. He made his NHL debut with the Kings on January 13, 2007 and became the first Japanese player to start in a NHL game on January 16, 2007. He returned to the Bakersfield Condors on September 10, 2007. He signed a contract with the Destil Trappers of the Eredivisie and played a full season with them before returning to Japan in 2010 to play with the Nikkō Ice Bucks.

[[XFL]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in the United States, 2001 disestablishments in the United States, American football, NBC network shows, UPN network shows, World Wrestling Entertainment television programs

XFL, LLC, operated as XFL, was a professional American football. The league was founded by Vince McMahon, owner of the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). The league was founded in 2000. The XFL was supposed to be a major professional sports league complement to the off-season of the NFL, but could not find an audience and folded after its first season. The first and only champions were the Los Angeles Xtreme. Both the WWF and NBC each lost a reported $35 million.

[[Urban Meyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Ohio, College football coaches

Urban Meyer III (born July 10, 1964) is an American college football coach. He is the current head coach of the Ohio State Buckeyes team. He has also coached the Bowling Green Falcons, the Utah Utes and Florida Gators from 2005 to 2010.

[[Rachael Yamagata]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Virginia, People from Arlington, Virginia, Living people, 1977 births

Rachael Yamagata (born September 23, 1974) is an American singer-songwriter and pianist. She is from Arlington, Virginia.

[[NCIS (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American drama television series, CBS network shows, Television spin-offs, 2003 American television series debuts, English-language television programs

NCIS (also called NCIS: Naval Criminal Investigative Service) is a crime-drama television series on CBS. It is about a team of special agents from the Naval Criminal Investigative Service in Washington, D.C. Their job is to investigate crimes involving the US Navy and Marine Corps. The series is a spin-off from JAG and has the spin-offs called NCIS: Los Angeles and NCIS: New Orleans.

[[NCIS]]

NCIS can refer to:

[[Cap-Haïtien]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Haiti, 1670 establishments, Establishments in the French colonial empire

Cap-Haïtien, also known as Le Cap, (Kréyòl: Kap Ayisyen, Okap) is a city in northern Haiti. It is the capital city of the Nord Département.

The city is on the coast of the Cap-Haïtien Bay, on the Atlantic Ocean, about 260 km north of the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. The central part of the city is between the bay to the east, and mountains to the west.

Cap-Haïtien is also the chief town of an arrondissement (a part of a department) with the same name. The arrondissement has three communes (a commune is like a municipality): Cap-Haïtien, Limonade and Quartier-Morin.

[[Torrie Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Idaho, Former WWE wrestlers, 1975 births, Living people, People from Boise, Idaho

Torrie Anne Wilson (born July 24, 1975 in Boise, Idaho) is a retired professional wrestler. She was best known for her time with World Wrestling Entertainment. She's a former WWE Women's Champion. She has also modeled for Playboy magazine.

[[Mark Driscoll]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American Christians, People from Grand Forks, North Dakota, Writers from North Dakota, Writers from Seattle, Washington

Mark Driscoll (born October 11, 1970) is an American pastor and author. He is the co-founder and pastor for preaching of Mars Hill Church in Seattle, Washington. Driscoll also co-founded the Acts 29 Network Church Building Network, and has written articles for the "Faith and Values" section of the Seattle Times newspaper. He also helped start The Resurgence, a collection of missionary theology resources.

[[Alun Michael]]

CATEGORIES: Welsh politicians, 1943 births, Living people

Alun Michael born August 22, 1943, is a Welsh politician. He graduated from Keele University. He was the First Minister of Wales. He also was the first Minister of the National Assembly for Wales.

He was a journalist for the South Wales Echo from 1966 to 1971.

[[Vatra Dornei]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Romania, Cities in Romania, Spa towns

Vatra Dornei is a city, spa, and resort in Suceava County, Romania.  It contains the city proper and three villages: Argestru, Roşu and Todireni.

[[Long-nosed bandicoot]]

CATEGORIES: Marsupials of Australia

The long-nosed bandicoot, Perameles nasuta, is a member of the bandicoot family which lives along the east coast of Australia from Victoria to Queensland. They are also found on the island of Tasmania. There are four species of long-nosed bandicoots, but Perameles nasuta is found in forests and rainforests. It has the shortest gestation and highest reproduction rate of all mammals.

They live in small hidden nests, in among shrubs, hollow logs, or old rabbit burrows. Bandicoots are protected by law, but the areas they like to live in have been cleared for farming or housing. They are also hunted by dogs, cats and foxes. Rabbits have eaten many of the plants and made it unsuitable for bandicoots. Around Sydney, they listed as an endangered species.

[[Euroa, Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Ned Kelly

Euroa is a town in north-east Victoria, Australia about 147 kilometers from Melbourne. It is close to the Strathbogie Ranges. In 2006 there were 2,776 people living in the town. The name Euroa comes from an Aboriginal word meaning "joyful". 

[[Ralph Almas]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2001 deaths, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, People from Saskatoon

Ralph Clayton "Red" Almas (January 13, 1973 - May 13, 2001) was a professional Canadian ice hockey goaltender who played for the Chicago Blackhawks and Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League. He wore the jersey number "1".

[[Craig Anderson (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, American Hockey League players, Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy winners, Chicago Blackhawks players, Colorado Avalanche players, Florida Panthers players, American ice hockey goaltenders, Living people, Ontario Hockey League players, Ottawa Senators players, People from Park Ridge, Illinois, Sportspeople from Illinois

Craig Anderson (born May 21, 1981 in Park Ridge, Illinois) is a professional American ice hockey goaltender currently playing for the Ottawa Senators of the NHL. He also played for the Chicago Blackhawks, Florida Panthers, and Colorado Avalanche.

[[Dušan Petković]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Serbian footballers, People from Belgrade

Dušan Petković (born 13 June 1974) is a former Serbian football player. He has played for Serbia national team.

[[Paulinho McLaren]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Paulo César Vieira Rosa (born 28 September 1963) is a Brazilian professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player.

[[Diego Lugano]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Uruguayan footballers

Diego Lugano (born 2 November 1980) is a Uruguayan football player. He plays for Fenerbahçe and Uruguay national team.

[[KFC Uerdingen 05]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Sport in North Rhine-Westphalia

KFC Uerdingen 05 is a football club from the Uerdingen district of Krefeld in Germany. The club plays in the NRW-Liga, which is the 5th division in Germany.

[[FC St. Pauli]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Sport in Hamburg, 1910 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in Germany

F.C. St. Pauli 1910 is a German sports club which plays in Sankt Pauli quarter of Hamburg/ Germany.  It is part of a larger sports club with different sections. 2010 they were promoted to the Bundesliga but were relegated the same season. They play in the 2. German Bundesliga.

[[Arminia Bielefeld]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Sport in North Rhine-Westphalia, Bielefeld

D.S.C. Arminia Bielefeld is a football club which plays in Germany.

[[Alemannia Aachen]]

CATEGORIES: Aachen, German football clubs, Sport in North Rhine-Westphalia, 1900 establishments in Germany

The Aachener Turn- und Sportverein Alemannia 1900 (known as Alemannia Aachen) is a football club which plays in Germany's Regionalliga. The club is based in Aachen. The name Alemannia should stress being from the west of Germany. The club was founded in 1900 by students who played football.

[[1. FC Saarbrücken]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Sport in Saarland

1. FC Saarbrücken is a football club that plays in Germany. They represened Saarland at the 1955–56 European Cup

[[Ataliba]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Carlos Eduardo Soares (born 2 March 1979) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Paulínia FC.

[[Hiroyuki Ishida]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Hiroyuki Ishida (born 31 August 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Fujieda MY.

[[Eijun Kiyokumo]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, JEF United Chiba players

Eijun Kiyokumo is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Tennis Borussia Berlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in Germany, German football clubs, Sport in Berlin

Tennis Borussia Berlin is a football club which plays in Germany. It is a local team in the sixth tier of the German football league system.

[[Bayer 04 Leverkusen]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Sport in North Rhine-Westphalia, Leverkusen, 1904 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in Germany

Bayer 04 Leverkusen Fußball GmbH is a football club which plays in Germany.

[[FC 08 Homburg]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Sport in Saarland

FC 08 Homburg is a football club which plays in Germany.

[[SV Darmstadt 98]]

CATEGORIES: Darmstadt, German football clubs, Sport in Hesse, 1898 establishments in Europe, 1890s establishments in Germany

SV Darmstadt 98 is a football club which plays in Germany.

[[Stuttgarter Kickers]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Sport in Baden-Württemberg, Stuttgart

SV Stuttgarter Kickers is a football club which plays in Germany.

[[Svealand]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Sweden

Svealand is the central region in Sweden. It consists of the historical provinces of Dalarna, Närke, Södermanland, Uppland, Värmland, Västmanland.

[[Mo Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: American football linebackers, New York Jets players, Sportspeople from Atlanta, Georgia, 1969 births, Living people

Morris "Mo" C. Lewis (born October 21, 1969 in Atlanta, Georgia) is a retired American football player. He played for the New York Jets.

[[Goro (Mortal Kombat)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1992, Mortal Kombat characters, Video game characters in movies, Video game bosses

Goro is a bad boss in the Mortal Kombat video games. He has 4 arms.He comes from the underworld and belongs to the shokan clan who are muscular.

[[Pavle, Serbian Patriarch]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2009 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Patriarchs of the Serbian Orthodox Church

Patriarch Pavle (Paul) (Патријарх Павле, Patrijarh Pavle; 11 September 1914 - 15 November 2009) was the 44th Patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church. He was the spiritual leader of Eastern Orthodox Serbs from 1990 to his death. His full title was His Holiness the Archbishop of Peć, Metropolitan of Belgrade and Karlovci, Serbian Patriarch Pavle. He was the oldest living leader of an Eastern Orthodox church. His health was bad. For this reason, he had to spend his last years in a Military Medical Academy in Belgrade. During this time, his duties were done by Metropolitan Amfilohije.

[[Eurytides]]

CATEGORIES: Eurytides

Eurytides is a genus of butterflies.  Eurytides is in the family Papilionidae.  The species in this genus are native to North America, Central America, and South America.

[[Ōshima]]

Oshima(（大島) is a Japanese word which means big island. Japan has several places called Oshima:

[[Tōkaidō Shinkansen]]

CATEGORIES: Tōkaidō Shinkansen, Shinkansen, 1972 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Japan

The Tōkaidō Shinkansen (東海道新幹線,とうかいどうしんかんせん) is a high speed railway line of Central Japan Railway Company (JR Central) in Japan. It is also the first high speed railway line in the world, and it marked the start of the Shinkansen technology.

[[Manuel Neuer]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, German association football goalkeepers, People from Gelsenkirchen, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Manuel Peter Neuer (German pronunciation: ˈnɔʏ.ɐ, -ɛl -; born 27 March 1986) is a German footballer. He is the goalkeeper for FC Bayern Munich and Germany national team.

[[Tim Wiese]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, German association football goalkeepers, People from Bergisch Gladbach, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Tim Wiese (born 17 December 1981 in Bergisch Gladbach) is a German football player. He plays for TSG 1899 Hoffenheim and has played Germany national team.

[[Andreas Beck]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, German footballers, Soviet people

Andreas Beck (born 13 March 1987 in Kemerovo, Soviet Union) is a German footballer.

[[King's Men (playing company)]]

CATEGORIES: Stage actors, William Shakespeare

The King's Men was a company of actors. William Shakespeare belonged to it through most of his career. During the rule of Queen Elizabeth I, they were known as "The Lord Chamberlain's Men". They became "The King's Men" in 1603 when King James I had the throne and became the company's patron. All acting groups had to have a licence to perform, and the licence was usually owned by an important nobleman. Another company of actors at the time was "The Admiral's Men" supported by Lord Howe, the Lord High Admiral of England.

[[Jérôme Boateng]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Berlin

Jérôme Agyenim Boateng (born 3 September 1988) is a German professional footballer who plays as a centre-back for Bayern Munich and the Germany national team.

[[Hertha BSC]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, German Bundesliga, Sport in Berlin, 1892 establishments in Europe, 1890s establishments in Germany

Hertha BSC is a German football club based in Berlin. They started in 1892.  Hertha Berlin was one of the founding clubs of the DFB (Deutscher Fußball Bund or German Football Association) in Leipzig in 1900.

[[Russell Peters]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Canadian comedians, Canadian movie actors, Living people, People from Toronto

Russell Dominic Peters (born September 29, 1970) is a Canadian comedian from Toronto. He goes around the world performing his comedy act. In 2008, he hosted the Juno Awards.

[[Miguel Magno]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2009 deaths, Brazilian actors

Miguel Magno (28 March 1951 – 17 August 2009) was a Brazilian actor, director and author.

Was known for playing female roles. Magno came to the role of 11 different women characters in the play Quem tem medo de Itália Fausta (Who's Afraid of Itália Fausta?).

The actor had consistent theatrical career as an actor, director and playwright. Was co-founder of the Teatro Orgânico Aldebarã, in the 70's.

Participated in several soap operas and plays. Its most striking character in the television soap opera was on A Lua me Disse, of Rede Globo, where he lived the crossed-dresser Dona Roma.

In 2009 Miguel Magno was invited by Miguel Falabella character to another woman: Dr. Perci of Toma Lá, Dá Cá. The actor died on 17 August 2009, as a result of a cancer at the age of 58. Was hospitalized since July in the Hospital Paulistano.

[[Eddie Hazel]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 1992 deaths, American guitarists, Musicians from New York City, American funk musicians, American rock musicians

Edward Earl "Eddie" Hazel (April 10, 1950 – December 23, 1992) was an American guitarist. He is most famous for working with Parliament-Funkadelic. 

Maggot Brain is famous song by Parliament-Funkadelic and has a ten-minute guitar solo which is one of Hazel's most famous guitar songs. In 2008 Rolling Stone Magazine listed Maggot Brain as number 60 on its list of the " 100 Greatest Guitar Songs of All Time."

In the mid 1970s Hazel was also a member of The Temptations and recorded two albums with the group.

Through his career Hazel had problems with drug and alcohol addiction. In 1974, Hazel was arrested for hitting an airplane stewardess as well as a drug charge. He spent some time in jail.

In 1977 he released his only solo album.

In 1992 Eddie Hazel died from internal bleeding and his liver failed. This was caused by stomach problems due to his alcoholism and drug abuse. The song "Maggot Brain" was played at his funeral.

In 1997, 5 years after his death, Hazel was made a member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of Parliament-Funkadelic.

Eddie Hazel is listed at 43 in Rolling Stone Magazine's "100 Greatest Guitarists Of All Time" issue.

[[Parliament (band)]]

CATEGORIES: soul bands, Funk bands, Musical groups from Detroit, Michigan

Parliament was a funk and soul group from the United States. They were started in 1968 by George Clinton.

[[Booker T (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Houston, Texas, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni, WWE Hall of Fame, WWE wrestlers

Booker Tio Huffman (born March 1, 1965 in Houston, Texas) is an American retired professional wrestler that is currently signed to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), working on their SmackDown brand as a color commentator. Huffman returned to WWE as a surprise entrant during the 2011 Royal Rumble. He has also wrestled for TNA Impact! from 2007-2009. He is a former one time WCW Champion,  two time WCW Tag Team Champion with Test, one time World Heavyweight Champion, three time World Tag Team Championship with Test (1), Goldust (1), and Rob Van Dam (1) one time WWE Intercontinental champion, three time WWE United States champion, two time WWF Hardcore Champion and was the winner of the 2006 King of the Ring.

[[Mandelbrot set]]

CATEGORIES: Fractals

The Mandelbrot set is an example of a fractal in mathematics. It is named after Benoît Mandelbrot, a Polish-French-American mathematician. The Mandelbrot set is important for chaos theory. The edging of the set shows a self-similarity, which is not perfect because it has deformations. 

The Mandelbrot set can be explained with the equation zn+1 = zn2 + c. In that equation, c and z are complex numbers and n is zero or a positive integer (natural number). Starting with z0=0, c is in the Mandelbrot set if the absolute value of zn never becomes larger than a certain number (that number depends on c), no matter how large n gets. 

Mandelbrot was one of the first to use computer graphics to create and display fractal geometric images, leading to his discovering the Mandelbrot set in 1979. That was because he had access to IBM's computers. He was able to show how visual complexity can be created from simple rules. He said that things typically considered to be "rough", a "mess" or "chaotic", like clouds or shorelines, actually had a "degree of order". The equation zn+1 = zn2 + c was known long before Benoit Mandelbrot used a computer to visualize it.

Images are created by applying the equation to each pixel in an iterative process, using the pixel's position in the image for the number 'c'. 'c' is obtained by mapping the position of the pixel in the image relative to the position of the point on the complex plane.

The shape of the Mandelbrot Set is represented in black in the image on this page.

For example, if c = 1 then the sequence is 0, 1, 2, 5, 26,…, which goes to infinity. Therefore, 1 is not an element of the Mandelbrot set, and thus is not coloured black.

On the other hand, if c is equal to the square root of -1, also known as i, then the sequence is 0, i, (−1 + i), −i, (−1 + i), −i…, which does not go to infinity and so it belongs to the Mandelbrot set.

When graphed to show the entire Set, the resultant image is striking, pretty, and quite recognizable.

There are many variations of the Mandelbrot set, such as Multibrot, Buddhabrot, and Nebulabrot.

Multibrot is a generalization that allows any exponent: zn+1 = znd + c. These sets are called Multibrot sets. The Multibrot set for d = 2 is the Mandelbrot set.

[[Gilbert Arenas]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, Golden State Warriors players, Orlando Magic players, Washington Wizards players, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, Sportspeople from Tampa, Florida, American bloggers, American basketball players

Gilbert Jay Arenas Jr. (born January 6, 1982 ) is an Cuban-American basketball player who last played for the Shanghai Sharks.  He also played for the Golden State Warriors from 2001-2002 and the Washington Wizards from 2003-2010. He went to University of Arizona for college. In 2010, he got arrested for pulling a gun on Javaris Crittendon, a teammate. Gilbert Jay Arenas, Jr. is an American professional basketball player who last played for the Shanghai Sharks of the Chinese Basketball Association.

[[Liteni]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suceava County

Liteni is a town found in Suceava County, Romania.

[[Taijutsu]]

CATEGORIES: Martial arts, Japanese culture

Taijutsu is a martial art that relies on speed and strength.

[[Wilf Cude]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1968 deaths, Boston Bruins players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Montreal Canadiens players, Philadelphia Quakers (NHL) players, Sportspeople from Glamorgan, Welsh ice hockey players, Ice hockey goaltenders

Wilf Reginald Cude (4 July 1910 – 5 May 1968) was a NHL ice hockey centre who played 10 seasons for numerous NHL teams. Cude learned to play hockey in Winnipeg. He led the Detroit Red Wings to their first Stanley Cup finals although they lost to the Chicago Black Hawks three games to one in a best-of-five series.

[[Paul Goodman]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1959 deaths, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Stanley Cup champions, Ice hockey people from Manitoba

Paul Goodman (November 8, 1908 - October 1, 1959) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played three seasons for the Chicago Black Hawks of the National Hockey League (NHL). He won the Stanley Cup in 1938 with the Chicago Black Hawks.

[[United Center]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in Chicago, Illinois, 1994 establishments in Illinois

United Center (nicknamed "The Madhouse on Madison II","The UC" and "The House That Jordan Built") is a sports arena located in Chicago, Illinois. The arena opened in 1994, and right now the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the Chicago Bulls of the National Basketball Association (NBA) play there. There is a statue of Michael Jordan on the east side of the arena.

The Bulls and Blackhawks moved to the United Center in 1994.  This was a change for both organizations as they had previously played in the older Chicago Stadium for many years.  The Blackhawks, previously also called the Chicago Stadium Corporation, rather than the Bulls, were the actual owners of both the previous Chicago Stadium and now the United Center.

[[Baqubah, Iraq]]

CATEGORIES: Iraq

Baqubah or Baquba is a village in the Middle Eastern country of Iraq.

[[Four Horsemen (professional wrestling)]]

CATEGORIES: WWE people, WWE Hall of Fame

The Four Horsemen were a very popular professional wrestling stable in the National Wrestling Alliance and World Championship Wrestling. They debuted 1986 and disbanded 1999, The original members of the stable were Ric Flair, Arn Anderson, Tully Blanchard, and Ole Anderson. The stable is named after Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.

The stable was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Dusty Rhodes in 2012.

[[NHL 10]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, Electronic Arts video games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, Sports video games

NHL 10 is a ice hockey video game developed by EA Canada and published by EA Sports. It was released on September 15, 2009 for North America and September 18, 2009 for Europe all for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. Patrick Kane is the cover athlete for the North American version of NHL 10.

[[I Love Lucy]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s American television series, 1957 disestablishments, American sitcoms, Black and white television series, Television series set in Connecticut, Television series set in New York City, 1951 establishments in the United States, 1950s disestablishments in the United States, Emmy Award winning programs, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

I Love Lucy is an American sitcom. It stars Lucille Ball, Desi Arnaz, Vivian Vance, and William Frawley. It was written by television writer Bob Schiller. The black-and-white series first ran from 15 October 1951 to 6 May 1957 on CBS. Even after the series ended in 1957, it continued for three more seasons with 13 one-hour specials. This show ran from 1957 to 1960. It was known first as The Lucille Ball-Desi Arnaz Show and later in reruns as The Lucy-Desi Comedy Hour.

The series is about two married couples living in New York City: Ricky and Lucy Ricardo, and oldsters Fred and Ethel Mertz. They all live in the same apartment building. Ricky is a nightclub band leader. Lucy is a housewife. Many episodes revolve around Lucy's attempts to get into Ricky's show. She often pulls Fred and Ethel into her schemes. In one episode, Lucy and Ethel are assembly line workers in a candy factory. They cannot keep up with packaging the candy so they eat it. In another episode, Lucy gets drunk on a health tonic while shooting a television commercial. Four or five episodes follow the couples on trips to Italy and to Hollywood. Ball and Arnaz were real-life husband and wife. They became the parents of a boy during the run of the series. This event was woven into the series. A child actor played their son "Little Ricky". Eventually they would all move to a rural area in Connecticut.

I Love Lucy was the most watched series in the United States in four of its six seasons. It was the first to end its run at the top of the Nielsen ratings. I Love Lucy is still syndicated in dozens of languages around the world. The series was the first scripted television program to be shot on 35 mm film in front of a studio audience. The show won five Emmy Awards, and received numerous nominations. In 2002, it ranked second on TV Guide's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time. In 2007, it was listed as one of Time magazine's "100 Best TV Shows of All-TIME." I Love Lucy remains very popular today. It is still seen by 40 million Americans each year.

[[Kingstown]]

CATEGORIES: National capitals in North America, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Kingstown is the capital city of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The population of Kingstown as of 2008 is 24,518. Kingstown exports bananas, coconuts, and arrowroot. Kingstown was started as a settlement by the French a little after 1722. The botanical garden in Kingstown is one of the oldest ones in the Western Hemisphere.

[[Euphoria]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions

Euphoria (from Ancient Greek εὐφορία, from εὖ (eu), "well", and φέρω (pherō), "to bear") is a mental and emotional condition which makes a person feel extremely happy, excited, and carefree.  These feelings are much stronger and more intense than what a human would normally feel.  However, some natural human behaviors can cause brief states of euphoria.  For example, people may feel euphoric for a short time after orgasm, when in love, or after a very important athletic achievement.  Sometimes, people can also feel euphoria during certain religious or spiritual rituals, or while meditating.  More often, euphoria is caused by certain psychoactive drugs, mental illnesses, or medical problems.  Euphoria is the opposite of dysphoria.

[[Shanxi]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of China

Shanxi (山西) is a province of the People's Republic China. It is in northern China. The Yellow River flows through it. The name Shanxi means "mountain's west" or "west of the mountains", as it is west of the Taihang Mountains.

Its major cities are its capital Taiyuan, Datong, Changzhi, and Yangquan.

The abbreviation of Shanxi is Jin (晋), since there is another province, Shandong (山东), that has the word "Shan" (山) in it, meaning "mountain" in Chinese.

Although in pinyin, the name of the neighboring province to the west, "Shaanxi", is spelled exactly the same as "Shanxi", the only difference in how the two words are pronounced is that the first syllable in "Shanxi" is said using the first tone in Mandarin, while the first syllable in "Shaanxi" is said with the third tone. Since tone markers are not usually used to show how to pronounce the two different names, the first word in "Shaanxi" is spelled using the Gwoyeu Romatzyh method instead, which indicates tones by adding extra letters to a syllable.

[[Mi Fei]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese poets, Chinese painters, 1051 births, 1107 deaths

Mi Fu (1051–1107), also known as Mi Fei was a Chinese painter, poet, and calligrapher born in Taiyuan, Shanxi during the Song Dynasty. His style of painting was misty landscapes. This style is the "Mi Fu" style uses large wet dots of ink. This ink is put on with a flat brush.

[[Heredity]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics

Heredity is the passing of traits (characteristics) from parents to offspring. In biology, the study of heredity is called genetics. With most living things, heredity is analysed by breeding (making crosses), often in a laboratory. But with humans, heredity is studied in other ways. Family pedigrees, identical twins and DNA genome analysis all provide clues.

A trait which may be inherited is heritable; it is inborn or innate. 

[[Variation]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Classical genetics, Ecology

Variation in biology usually refers to the heritable differences within a species. This is important in genetics, and the study of evolution in natural populations. Heritable variation is ultimately caused by mutations of genes and chromosomes, and shuffled by recombination. Outcrossing keeps, and inbreeding reduces, heritable variation.

Other variations are caused during life, and are not passed on to the next generation by heredity.

Variation is also a term used in biodiversity for the variety of life forms in a given ecosystem.

[[Taiyuan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Taiyuan is a city in China. It is the capital of Shanxi Province. Mi Fu the poet was born here in 1051.

[[Danielle Souza]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Santa Catarina

Danielle Souza (born 2 January 1981) is a Brazilian model from Santa Catarina, popularly known as Mulher Samambaia (Fern Woman).

[[Gugu Liberato]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2019 deaths, People from São Paulo, Brazilian television presenters, Roman Catholics, Brazilian businesspeople, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States

Antônio Augusto de Moraes Liberato (April 10, 1959 — November 21, 2019), better known as Gugu Liberato or just Gugu, was a Brazilian television presenter, businessman, actor and singer.

Gugu was hired by Silvio Santos after writing letters suggesting television shows to be aired. He started in television at age fourteen as a production assistant on the program Domingo no Parque, presented by Silvio Santos on SBT.

He was thought one of the most famous and successful Brazilian television hosts of all time. Shortly before his death, Gugu owned a fortune of about $1 billion built over a career started as an office boy. Gugu set up an empire that includes a television and video production company, sixteen stores that bear his name, a water park and a gas station.

On November 20, 2019, Gugu suffered an accident in his house in Orlando, Florida, when he fell from the ceiling and hit his head. He died the following day, November 21, but his family only released an official note on November 22.

[[Clog dance]]

CATEGORIES: Dance types

Clogging is a form of tap dancing. It is a type of folk dance. Clogs are shoes that cloggers wear.  Dancers hit the heel, the toe, or both against a floor or each other to make a sound. 

[[Baba Yaga]]

CATEGORIES: Folklore

The Baba Yaga is a mythical witchlike character. She is found in Slavic folklore, one of the most popular demons in slavic beliefs. She looks like an ugly and deformed woman.  She lives in a house that has giant chicken feet, so it can walk around.  Sometimes she travels in a mortar and pestle that can fly by magic.

Baba Yaga is different from most folklore characters because even though she is usually bad, sometimes she is good.  Sometimes she creates things or puts the hero of the story in a situation where he or she creates things.  Scholar Andreas Johns says that Baba Yaga is meant to be like nature itself: She can help but she can also eat you.

[[Red Buttons]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from hypertension, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Comedians from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City, Academy Award winning actors

Red Buttons (born Aaron Chwatt, February 5, 1919 - July 13, 2006) was an Academy Award-winning American comedian and actor.

Buttons won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role in the movie Sayonara.  He was also in the movie The Poseidon Adventure.

[[Karl Wilhelm von Nägeli]]

CATEGORIES: Botanists, Swiss biologists, Cell biology, 1817 births, 1891 deaths

Karl Wilhelm von Nägeli (27 March 1817 – 11 May 1891) was a Swiss botanist. He studied cell division, but became known as the man who discouraged Gregor Mendel from further work on genetics.

[[Rudolf Virchow]]

CATEGORIES: 1821 births, 1902 deaths, German doctors, German biologists

Rudolf Ludwig Karl Virchow (13 October 1821 – 5 September 1902) was a German doctor, anthropologist, pathologist, prehistorian, biologist and politician, known for his advancement of public health. Referred to as "the father of pathology," he is considered one of the founders of social medicine.

He coined the catch-phrase omnis cellula e cellula, meaning, cells only derive from other cells.

[[Robert Remak]]

CATEGORIES: 1815 births, 1865 deaths, Cell biology, Developmental biologists, German biologists, German doctors, Jewish German scientists, Neurologists, People from former German territories, People from Poznań, Physiologists

Robert Remak (26 July 1815 – 29 August 1865) was a German embryologist, physiologist, and neurologist, born in Posen, Prussia. 

Remak obtained his medical degree from Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin in 1838 specializing in neurology.  He worked on embryology, and also discovered unmyelinated nerve fibres and the nerve cells in the heart sometimes called Remak's ganglia. He studied under Johannes Muller at the University of Berlin.  

Remak discovered that the origin of cells was by the division of pre-existing cells. 

Despite his accomplishments, because of his Jewish faith he was repeatedly denied full professor status until late in life, and even then was denied the usual benefits of the position.

[[Oscar Hertwig]]

CATEGORIES: 1849 births, 1922 deaths, Anatomists, Cell biology, Developmental biologists, German academics, German zoologists, People from Hesse

Oscar Hertwig (21 April 1849, Friedberg, Hesse – 25 October 1922, Berlin) was a German zoologist, anatomist and professor, who also wrote about the theory of evolution over 55 years after Charles Darwin's The Origin of Species. 

Oscar Hertwig was a leader in the field of embryology. He discovered fertilization of sea urchins, he recognized the role of the cell nucleus during inheritance and chromosome reduction during meiosis. In 1876, he found that fertilization includes the penetration of a spermatozoon into an egg cell. He thought, correctly, that the vectors of hereditary traits resided in the nuclei of the egg and sperm.

His work on the development of sea urchin eggs was fundamental and lasting; his work on evolution was not. He was opposed to 'chance', as he thought was Charles Darwin's theory. He wrote: Das Werden der Organismen, eine Widerlegung der Darwinschen Zufallslehre (Jena, 1916) (translation: "The Origin of Organisms: a refutation of Darwin's theory of chance").

Hertwig was elected a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1903.

[[Igersheim]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Baden-Württemberg

Igersheim is a city in Germany. It is between Heilbronn and Würzburg in Baden-Württemberg.

[[Bihari languages]]

CATEGORIES: Indo-Aryan languages, Languages of Bangladesh, Languages of India

Bihari is a group of Indic languages spoken in parts of Bangladesh and Bihar.

[[Walther Flemming]]

CATEGORIES: 1843 births, 1905 deaths, Cell biology, Geneticists, German biologists

Walther Flemming (21 April 1843 – 4 August 1905) was a German biologist and a founder of cytogenetics.

Making use of dyes he was able to find a structure which he named chromatin. He identified that chromatin was correlated to threadlike structures in the cell nucleus– the chromosomes (meaning coloured body). Edouard Van Beneden (1846–1910) had also observed them, independently. 

Flemming investigated the process of cell division and the distribution of chromosomes to the daughter nuclei, a process he called mitosis from the Greek word for thread. However, he did not see the splitting into identical halves, the daughter chromatids. He studied mitosis, both in life and in stained preparations, using as the source of biological material the fins and gills of salamanders. These results were published first in 1878  and in 1882 in the seminal book Zellsubstanz, Kern und Zelltheilung (1882; Cell substance, nucleus and cell division). On the basis of his discoveries, Flemming surmised for the first time that all cell nuclei came from another predecessor nucleus (he coined the phrase omnis nucleus e nucleo, after Virchow's omnis cellula e cellula).

Flemming was unaware of Gregor Mendel's (1822–1884) work on heredity, so he did not make the connection between his observations and genetic inheritance. Two decades would pass before the significance of Flemming's work was truly realized with the rediscovery of Mendel's rules. His discovery of mitosis and chromosomes is considered one of the 100 most important scientific discoveries of all times, and one of the 10 most important discoveries in cell biology.

[[Eduard Strasburger]]

CATEGORIES: 1844 births, 1912 deaths, Cell biology, Developmental biologists, German academics, German botanists, People from Warsaw

Eduard Adolf Strasburger (1 February 1844 in Warsaw – 19 May 1912 in Bonn) was a German professor who was one of the most famous botanists of the 19th century.

In 1868 he taught at the University of Warsaw. In 1869 Strasburger was appointed professor of botany at the University of Jena. After 1881 he was head of the Botanisches Institut at the University of Bonn. 

[[Edouard van Beneden]]

CATEGORIES: 1846 births, 1910 deaths, Belgian academics, Belgian biologists, Cell biology, People from Flemish Brabant

Edouard Joseph Marie Van Beneden (Leuven, 5 March 1846 – Liège, 28 April 1910), cytologist and marine biologist. He was professor of zoology at the University of Liège. He contributed to cytology and genetics by his work on the roundworm Ascaris. In this work he discovered how chromosomes combined during meiosis, during the production of gametes.

Beneden discovered, with Walther Flemming and Eduard Strasburger, the essential facts of mitosis. In contrast to meiosis, the double (diploid) set of chromosomes in daughter cells is identical to those in the parent cells. Excepting rare accidents, there is no change in the genetic apparatus. In meiosis, only one set of chromosomes ends up in each gamete, a condition called haploid. 

[[Ascaris]]

CATEGORIES: Nematodes, Parasites

Ascaris is a genus of parasitic nematode worms known as the "giant intestinal roundworms". One species, A. suum, typically infects pigs, while another, A. lumbricoides, affects humans, typically in sub-tropical and tropical areas with poor sanitation. A. lumbricoides is the largest intestinal roundworm and is the most common worm infection of humans, an infection known as ascariasis. Infestation can cause morbidity, and sometimes death, by compromising nutritional status, affecting cognitive processes, inducing tissue reactions, such as granuloma, and provoking intestinal obstruction or rectal prolapse.

The roundworms are members of the phylum Nematoda. They are an extremely successful group; it is estimated that they represent 90% of all life on the seafloor.  

[[Free (band)]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands, English hard rock bands

Free were an English rock band. The band started in London, England in 1968. They are best known for their famous song called "All Right Now". When the band ended the singer, Paul Rodgers, went on to form the band Bad Company. The lead guitarist of Free was named Paul Kossoff. In 1976 he died from a drug-induced heart failure. He was only 25 years old.

[[Bacardi]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic spirits

Bacardi is a spirits company that was founded February 4, 1862 in Cuba. It is named after the founder Facundo Bacardí, a wine merchant. Facundo use to filter the rum through charcoal, which removed impurities. In addition to this, He aged the rum in oak barrels, which had the effect of "mellowing" the drink.

[[Mick Jagger]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Actors from Kent, English movie actors, English rock singers, English singer-songwriters, Golden Globe Award winning composers, Musicians from Kent, People from Dartford, The Rolling Stones members

Sir Michael Philip "Mick" Jagger (born 26 July 1943) is an English musician, producer and actor. He is most famous for being the singer of the Rolling Stones. In 2003 he was knighted for his services to music.

[[Burn It to the Ground]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs

Burn It to the Ground is a 2009 rock song by the Canadian rock band Nickelback off their Dark Horse album. It became the theme song for WWE Raw on November 16, 2009 and is featured on the soundtrack to the video game NHL 10.

[[Rădăuţi]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Romania, Cities in Romania, Towns in Suceava County

Rădăuţi is a municipality of Suceava County in Romania.  27,759 people live in Rădăuţi.

[[Maria Kanellis]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Female professional wrestlers, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Illinois, Former WWE wrestlers

Maria Louise Kanellis (born February 25, 1982 in Ottawa, Illinois) is an American female professional wrestler. She is best known for her time with World Wrestling Entertainment from 2004 to 2010. She joined WWE again in June 2017 and she will be with real-life husband, Mike Kanellis.

[[Jillian Hall]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, American professional wrestlers, Female professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Kentucky

Jillian Faye Hall (born Jillian Faye Fletcher; September 6, 1980 in Ashland, Kentucky) is an American retired female professional wrestler and singer. She is best known for her time with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) where she competed under the ring name Jillian Hall. 

She released a Christmas album titled A Jingle with Jillian, which was sung completely in her character of a terrible singer. The album reached #20 on the UK Holidays Top 100 shortly after its release. During her time in the WWE, She was a one-time WWE Divas Champion.

On November 19, 2010, her WWE contract expired and WWE announced that they were not going to renew it. After being released, she wrestled on the independent circuit until announcing her retirement on January 21, 2014.

[[Khufu]]

CATEGORIES: Pharaohs

Khufu was a Pharaoh (or leader) of Ancient Egypt's Old Kingdom. He was the Pharaoh of Egypt from around 2589 to 2566 B.C.E . Khufu was the second pharaoh of the Fourth dynasty.  He is also thought to be the one who built the Great Pyramid of Giza, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. Khufu's full name was "Khnum-Khufu" which means "the god Khnum protects me."

[[Ajana, Western Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Western Australia

Ajana is a small farming town in Western Australia. It is about 530 kilometres north east of Perth. The town was officially started in 1915. In 2006, there were 22 people living at Ajana. The name of the town might be from an Australian Aboriginal word, Ajano, used for the area nearby. It might also be from the word Ngajna, meaning mine, as a place where stone axes could be made.

[[Victor Posa]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Chicago Blackhawks players, Italian sportspeople, Living people, Ontario Hockey League players, People from Bari, ECHL players, Colonial Hockey League players, Ice hockey defencemen

Victor Posa (born 5 November 1966 in Bari) is an Italian ice hockey player. He played 2 games for the Chicago Black Hawks of the NHL.

[[Genetic linkage]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics

Genetic linkage occurs when alleles at different loci do not segregate at random. Mendel's second law is thus broken. 

Genes are linked when they are on the same chromosome. They then tend to stay together during meiosis. Alleles for genes on different chromosomes are usually not linked, due to independent assortment of chromosomes during meiosis.  

There is some crossing over of DNA during meiosis when the chromosomes segregate. So, alleles on the same chromosome can be separated and go to different daughter cells. There is a greater probability of this happening if the alleles are far apart on the chromosome, as it is more likely that a cross-over will occur between them. The relative distance between two genes can be calculated using the offspring of an organism showing two linked genetic traits. The percentage of offspring where the two traits do not run together is noted. The higher the percentage of offspring showing both traits, the closer on the chromosome the two genes are. 

This was the first technique used for mapping genes on chromosomes. By working out the number of recombinants it is possible to obtain a measure for the distance between the genes. This distance is called a genetic map unit (m.u.), or a centimorgan and is defined as the distance between genes for which one product of meiosis in 100 is recombinant. A recombinant frequency (RF) of 1 % is equivalent to 1 m.u. A linkage map is created by finding the map distances between a number of traits that are present on the same chromosome, ideally avoiding significant gaps between traits to avoid the possibility of multiple crossovers.

[[Barthélemy Dumortier]]

CATEGORIES: 1797 births, 1878 deaths, Belgian biologists, Belgian Christian democrats, Belgian nobility, Botanists, Cell biology, People from Hainaut (province)

Barthélemy Charles Joseph Dumortier (Tournai, 3 April 1797 – 1878) was a Belgian botanist and politician. Some consider him to be the true discoverer of cell division, although he is rarely credited as such. His 1832 paper deals with this topic.

[[Eddie Van Halen]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2020 deaths, American guitarists, American record producers, American songwriters, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from throat cancer, Dutch musicians, Keyboardists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Amsterdam

Edward Lodewijk "Eddie" Van Halen (January 26, 1955 - October 6, 2020) was a Dutch-born American guitarist, keyboardist, songwriter and producer. He is most famous as the guitarist and co-founder of the hard rock band Van Halen. He is listed as number 70 in Rolling Stone Magazine's "Top 100 Guitarists of All Time" issue.

In 2007 Eddie Van Halen was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

Van Halen died from throat cancer at Saint John's Health Center in Santa Monica, California on October 6, 2020, at the age of 65 surrounded by his wife, Janie; son and Van Halen bassist, Wolfgang; ex-wife Valerie Bertinelli; and brother, Alex; co-founder and drummer of Van Halen. Some of Van Halen's childhood landmarks in Pasadena became memorials where fans could pay their respects.

[[Eddie Cheever]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American racecar drivers, Formula One drivers, Sportspeople from Phoenix, Arizona, IndyCar Series drivers

Edward "Eddie" McKay Cheever, Jr. (born January 10, 1958 in Phoenix, Arizona) is an American racing driver. He raced for almost thirty years in Formula One, Sports cars, CART and the Indy Racing League. Cheever participated in 143 World Championship Formula One races and started 132, more than any other American, driving for nine different teams from 1978 through 1989. In 1997, he formed his own IRL team and won the Indianapolis 500 as both owner and driver in 1998. The team now competes in sports cars.

[[Eddie Irvine]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Formula One drivers

Edmund "Eddie" Irvine, Jr. (Born 10 November 1965, Newtownards, County Down) is a former racing driver from Northern Ireland. He raced under a British Driving License.

Irvine spent time in the 1980s and early 1990's in Formula Ford and F3000. He joined Formula One in 1993, scoring a point on his debut as he replaced Emanuele Naspetti. He stayed on for Jordan in 1994 and 1995, before going on to drive for Scuderia Ferrari in 1996. His results were not as successful as Michael Schumacher's, including eight straight DNF's (Did not Finish) in a row in 1996. He eventually improved, scoring more podiums as he went along with the team. 

In 1999 Michael Schumacher, the "#1 driver" for Ferrari was injured during a race at Silverstone. Irvine was made the #1 driver. The team put all their efforts towards Irvine winning a driver's championship. It wasn't successful, but Irvine did place second in the championship. Irvine left Ferrari after that season because he was frustrated with Ferrari's policy on team orders, which meant that one driver was labelled as "being #1." So, Irvine joined the new Jaguar Racing team in 2000, where he finally became the lead driver. However, the car was not competitive and reliable, so Jaguar, despite having lots of experience with Irvine, had little results. Irvine obtained the only two podiums Jaguar would ever see, and Irvine retired from Formula One after 2002.

[[Wilhelm Roux]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 births, 1924 deaths, Anatomists, Cell biology, Developmental biologists, German academics, German biologists, People from Jena, German zoologists

Wilhelm Roux (9 June 1850 in Jena – 15 September 1924 in Halle) was a German zoologist, anatomist and pioneer of experimental embryology.

For ten years he worked in Breslau (now Wroclaw), becoming director of his own Institute of Embryology in 1879. He was professor at Innsbruck, Austria from 1889–95, then accepted a professorial chair at the Anatomical Institute of the University of Halle, a post he retained until 1921.

[[Tokyo Metro Marunouchi Line]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese railways, Tokyo

The Marunouchi Line (丸の内線,まるのうちせん) is a metro line of Tokyo Metro in Tokyo, Japan.

[[Poanes]]

CATEGORIES: Hesperiidae

Poanes is a genus of butterflies.  The species are native to North America, Central America, and South America.

[[Concentric]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry

Concentric objects share the same center, axis, or origin. Circles,spheres, cylinders, tubes, and other round objects can be concentric. Concentric shapes do not normally have the same radius.

[[Andreas Hinkel]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Baden-Württemberg

Andreas Hinkel (born 26 March 1982) is a German football player. He plays for Celtic and Germany national team.

[[Nymphalidae]]

CATEGORIES: Nymphalidae

The Nymphalidae is the largest family of butterflies, with about 6,000 species.  They live on all continents except Antarctica.  They are commonly known as nymphalids, brushfoots, or brush-footed butterflies.

[[Marcel Schäfer]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Bavaria

Marcel Schäfer (born 7 June 1984 in Aschaffenburg) is a German footballer.

[[Dred Scott]]

CATEGORIES: Slaves, 1799 births, 1858 deaths

Dred Scott (1799 – September 17, 1858) was a slave in the United States of America who took legal action to get his freedom in the Dred Scott v. Sanford case. His case was rejected by the Supreme Court.  

Many people were angry at the decision, and slavery became one of the main issues in the American Civil War a few years later. Slavery was ended after the Confederate States of America surrendered. 

[[Louis Farrakhan]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Chicago, Writers from the Bronx, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts, American political activists, American political writers, American political commentators, American Muslims, Religious leaders, African-American people, Living people, 1933 births

Louis Eugene Farrakhan (born May 11, 1933) is an American religious leader, political activist and writer, black nationalist and social commentator. He is the leader of the religious group known as The Nation of Islam, which is based on an African-American interpretation of Islam. Many people say that he was involved in a plot to kill Malcolm X. He is known for his antisemitism views and anti-White views. In 2007, he retired. 

Farrakhan was born Louis Eugene Wolcott in The Bronx, New York. He started playing the violin when he was six years old. He went to the Boston Latin School.

Farrakhan now lives in Kenwood, Chicago. In 1953, he married Khadijah Farrakhan. They have nine children.

[[Synod of Dort]]

CATEGORIES: 1618, 1619, Calvinism, Dordrecht, History of the Netherlands, Protestantism in the Netherlands, Protestant Reformation

The Synod of Dort was a national council that took place in 1618-1619 in the town of Dordrecht in the Netherlands. The Dutch Reformed Church held the meeting in order to discuss a very important issue in the Dutch churches that begin with the teachings of Jacobus Arminius and the rise of Arminianism. The first meeting was on November 13, 1618, and the last meeting, which was the 154th, took place on May 9, 1619. 

Members from the Reformed churches in eight different countries were also invited to this meeting. The name Dort is the English name for the Dutch town of Dordrecht and is still used as the pronunciation of the name today. This synod, or meeting, is usually called the Synod of Dordt or the Synod of Dordrecht.

[[Jacob Arminius]]

CATEGORIES: 1560 births, 1609 deaths, Christian theologians, Dutch academics, People from Utrecht (province), Remonstrants

Jacobus Arminius (October 10, 1560 – October 19, 1609), is the Latin name of the Dutch theologian Jakob Harmenszoon. He is also known by the names of Jacob Arminius or James Arminius. Arminius was a professor of theology at the University of Leiden from 1603 until he died in 1609. He wrote many books and papers on theology, which is the study of God, and his views became the basis for the Dutch Remonstrants.

After he died, his views on theology were most widely known for being the opposite of the five points of Calvinism, though Arminius only objected to three: unconditional election, limited atonement, and irresistible grace; and he doubted the perseverance of the saints. His view on total depravity agreed with John Calvin, only changing the view held by Calvinists a little bit.

[[Valdeir Vieira]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Valdeir Vieira (born 11 July 1944) is a Brazilian football manager.

[[Richart Báez]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Paraguayan footballers, People from Asunción

Richart Báez (born 31 July 1973) is a former Paraguayan football player. He has played for Paraguay national team.

[[Mustapha Hadji]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Moroccan footballers

Mustapha Hadji (born 16 November 1971) is a Moroccan football player. He has played for Morocco national team.

[[Alexi Lalas]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American footballers

Alexi Lalas (born 1 June 1970) is a former American soccer player. He has played for United States national team.

[[Christian Wilhelmsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Swedish footballers, People from Malmo

Christian Wilhelmsson (born 8 December 1979) is a Swedish football player. He plays for Al-Hilal and Sweden national team.

[[Kei Yamaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Kei Yamaguchi is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.

[[Ivan Turgenev]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 births, 1883 deaths, Russian writers

Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev (9 November 1818 - 3 September 1883) was a Russian writer, most famous for his novel Fathers and Sons.

[[Kim Jung-woo]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Kim Jung-Woo (born 9 May 1982) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Marek Špilár]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2013 deaths, Slovak footballers, Sportspeople who committed suicide, Suicides by jumping

Marek Špilár (11 February 1975 – 7 September 2013) was a former Slovak football player. He has played for Slovakia national team.

On 7 September 2013, Špilár committed suicide by jumping out of a fifth-floor window in Prešov.

[[Andrej Panadić]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 1990 FIFA World Cup players, Croatian footballers, Croatian football managers, Living people, Sportspeople from Zagreb, Yugoslavian sportspeople

Andrej Panadić (born 9 March 1969) is a former Croatian football player. He has played for Yugoslavia's national team.

[[Franck Durix]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, French footballers

Franck Durix (born 20 October 1965) is a former French football player.

[[Kim Sang-Woo]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Kim Sang-Woo (born 18 May 1987) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player..

[[Shigeru Yokotani]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Shigeru Yokotani (born 3 May 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gamba Osaka.

[[Michihiro Yasuda]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Gamba Osaka players, Júbilo Iwata players, Sagan Tosu players, Vissel Kobe players, Nagoya Grampus players, Albirex Niigata players, JEF United Chiba players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics

Michihiro Yasuda is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His brother Kodai Yasuda is also a footballer.

[[Toshihiro Yamaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Gamba Osaka players, Kyoto Sanga FC players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players, 1995 King Fahd Cup players

Toshihiro Yamaguchi is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Takuya Kokeguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Okayama Prefecture, Kataller Toyama players

Takuya Kokeguchi (born 13 July 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kataller Toyama.

[[Hogares CREA]]

CATEGORIES: Addiction, 1968 establishments in the United States, Organizations

Hogar CREA is a group that helps drug addicts break their habits. It was started in Puerto Rico in 1968 by Javier Garcia Rios "CheJuan".  It spread to several Latin American countries and to the US in the early 80's but is on the decline in the US.  

"CREA" is based on the idea of who to better treat drug addiction than an addict. Many people believe that it is a money making scam.

[[Photorespiration]]

CATEGORIES: Plant physiology

Photorespiration, or "'photo-respiration'", is a process in plant metabolism. A sugar has oxygen added to it by the enzyme (RuBisCO), instead of carbon dioxide during normal photosynthesis. This process reduces efficiency of photosynthesis.

Photorespiration can occur when carbon dioxide levels are low, for example, when the stomata are closed to prevent water loss during drought. In most plants, photorespiration increases as temperature increases. Photorespiration produces no ATP and leads to a net loss of carbon and nitrogen (as ammonia), slowing plant growth.

[[August Weismann]]

CATEGORIES: 1834 births, 1914 deaths, Cell biology, Geneticists, German academics, German evolutionary biologists, People from Frankfurt

August Friedrich Leopold Weismann (Frankfurt am Main, 17 January 1834 – Freiburg, 5 November 1914) was a German evolutionary biologist. 

Weismann is much admired today. Ernst Mayr thought he was "one of the great biologists of all time", and ranked him "the second most notable evolutionary theorist of the 19th century", after Charles Darwin.

[[Theodor Boveri]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1915 deaths, Geneticists, Cell biology, German biologists

Theodor Heinrich Boveri (12 October 1862 – 15 October 1915) was a German biologist who made discoveries in cytology, embryology and genetics. His career was devoted to the processes whereby a new individual arises from parental reproductive materials.

His work with sea urchins showed that it was necessary to have all chromosomes present in order for proper development of the embryo to take place. This discovery was an important part of the Boveri-Sutton chromosome theory. His other significant discovery was the centrosome (1888), which he described as the especial organ of cell division. Boveri also discovered the phenomenon of chromatin diminution during embryonic development of the nematode Parascaris.

[[Fred Hoyle]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2001 deaths, English astronomers, English science writers, English science fiction writers

Sir Fred Hoyle  (24 June 1915 – 20 August 2001) was an English astronomer. He is noted mainly for being the first man to think of the idea that nuclear fusion might happen in stars, like our Sun. In addition to his work as an astronomer, Hoyle was a writer of science fiction, including a number of books co-written with his son Geoffrey Hoyle. Fred Hoyle gave the Big Bang theory its name in a radio broadcast.

Awards

[[Edmund Beecher Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1939 deaths, American academics, American geneticists, American zoologists, Cell biology, Scientists from Illinois, Yale University alumni

Edmund Beecher Wilson (Geneva, Illinois, 19 October 1856 – 3 March 1939) was a pioneering American zoologist and cell biologist. He wrote one of the most famous textbooks in the history of modern biology, The Cell.

[[Reginald Punnett]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 births, 1967 deaths, English biologists, English geneticists, English science writers

Reginald Crundall Punnett FRS (Tonbridge, Kent, 20 June 1875 – Bilbrook, Somerset, 3 January 1967) was a British geneticist. He became Professor of Biology and then Professor of Genetics at the University of Cambridge.

He co-founded, with William Bateson, the Journal of Genetics in 1910. Punnett is probably best remembered today as the creator of the Punnett square, a tool still used by biologists to predict the probability of possible genotypes of offspring. His Mendelism (1905) is sometimes said to have been the first textbook on genetics; it was probably the first popular science book to introduce genetics to the public.

[[Canons of Dort]]

CATEGORIES: 1619, Calvinism, Christian texts, Dordrecht, History of the Netherlands, Protestantism in the Netherlands, Protestant theology

The Canons of Dort, also called the Canons of Dordrecht (full name: The Decision of the Synod of Dort on the Five Main Points of Doctrine in Dispute in the Netherlands) is the ruling of the National Synod (or meeting) that took place in the Dutch city of Dordrecht from 1618-1619. Dordrecht is often called Dort in English.

Today, the Canons of Dort are part of the Three Forms of Unity, which is one of the confession standards of many of the Reformed churches around the world. The Reformed churches continued use of the Canons as a standard keeps the Reformed churches from being in full harmony with the followers of Jacob Arminius, the Remonstrants and the Dutch Reformed Churches, who disagree with the Canons.

The Canons are not supposed to be an absolute explanation of the Reformed doctrine, but only explain the five points of doctrine that were being argued over. These Canons introduced the Five Points of Calvinism.

[[Three Forms of Unity]]

CATEGORIES: Calvinism, Christian texts, Protestant theology

The Three Forms of Unity is the name that is given to the Belgic Confession, the Canons of Dort, and the Heidelberg Catechism. These three works are about the doctrinal concerns of Continental Calvinism. They are considered official statements of Church doctrine by many of the Reformed churches.

[[Total depravity]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

Total depravity (also called total inability or total corruption) is a theological teaching that comes from Augustine's teachings on original sin. It is the teaching that, since the Fall of Man, every person who has been born into the world is a slave of sin and, without the irresistible grace of God, it is not possible for man to choose to follow God or accept salvation as He freely offers it.

Total depravity is taught by many Protestant confessions of faith, including Lutheranism, and Methodism, Arminianism, and Calvinism.

[[Dordrecht Confession of Faith]]

CATEGORIES: 1632, Anabaptism, Christian creeds, Dordrecht, History of the Netherlands, Protestantism in the Netherlands, Protestant theology, 1630s in Europe

The Dordrecht Confession of Faith is a statement of faith that was created by Dutch Mennonite leaders at a meeting (also known as a Synod) in Dordrecht, Netherlands, on April 21, 1632. It has 18 articles of faith that talk about the importance of salvation through Jesus Christ, baptism, nonviolence, feet washing, and not taking oaths.

It was a very important part of the Radical Reformation and is still a very important document to many Anabaptist groups today, such as the Amish. In 1725, Jacob Gottshalk with sixteen other ministers from Pennsylvania and together they created the Dutch Mennonite Dordrecht Confession of Faith.

[[Arthur Antunes Coimbra Junior]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Arthur Antunes Coimbra Junior (born 15 October 1977) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Martin Müller]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Czech footballers

Martin Müller (born 6 November 1970) is a former Czech football player.

[[Pavel Horváth]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Czech footballers

Pavel Horváth (born 22 April 1975) is a Czech football player. He has played for Czech Republic national team.

[[Bernard Genghini]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, French footballers, French football managers

Bernard Genghini (born 18 January 1958) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Jun Yanagisawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Jun Yanagisawa (born 27 June 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagan Tosu.

[[Anders Svensson]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Swedish footballers, People from Gothenburg

Anders Svensson (born 17 July 1976) is a Swedish football player. He plays for Elfsborg and Sweden national team.

[[John Piper (broadcaster)]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, British television presenters

John Piper was the mid-morning talk show host on the BBC Radio Solent throughout the 1970s. The name of his program was called Piper's Tune. The show was a mix of music, talk guests and the regular feature called, "Give a Neighbour a Hand", in which listeners would call in and ask for advice and other listeners would call in and give advice. Piper left the BBC in 1879 to join the Two Counties Radio in Bournemouth, as the station's first Programme Controller. He stayed on the air in Bournemouth until he left radio to move to Spain with his wife, Dilys.

In the 1980s, Piper also served as the mayor of his home town, Sitio de Calahonda which is located near Málaga in Spain. Piper also served in the Special Operations during World War II as a journalist and naturalist.

[[Xerophyte]]

CATEGORIES: Botany

Xerophytes are plants which are adapted to dry/desert areas. They are a type of succulent plant. To survive these harsh conditions they have special features. For example, a cactus has white hairs which help to prevent water loss. Another example is manzanita plants, which have a thick waxy coating and keep their leaves vertical to the sun.

[[Liga MX]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Football in Mexico, 1943 establishments in North America, 1940s establishments in Mexico

Liga MX, known as the Primera División de México before the 2012–13 season, is the top football league in México.

Like most football leagues in Latin America, Liga MX divides its season into two phases—Apertura and Clausura (Spanish for "opening" and "closing"), with different champions in each phase. The Apertura is held in the Northern Hemisphere fall (autumn), and the Clausura in spring.

[[Fortuna Düsseldorf]]

CATEGORIES: Düsseldorf, German football clubs, Sport in North Rhine-Westphalia, 1895 establishments in Europe, 1890s establishments in Germany

Fortuna Düsseldorf is a football club which plays in Germany from Düsseldorf that plays in the highest league in German football, the Fußball-Bundesliga.

[[SC Freiburg]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Sport in Baden-Württemberg, Freiburg im Breisgau, 1904 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in Germany

S.C. Freiburg is a football club which plays in Germany.

[[MSV Duisburg]]

CATEGORIES: Duisburg, German football clubs, Sport in North Rhine-Westphalia, 1902 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in Germany

The Meidericher Spielverein 02 e. V. Duisburg is a football club which plays in Germany. The club was founding member of the German Bundesliga 1962/63 and is now playing in the Second Bundesliga.  Due to their striped jerseys they are also called the "Zebras".

[[Hansa Rostock]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Rostock

[[FC Red Bull Salzburg]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs owned by Red Bull, Football clubs of Salzburg

[[SK Sturm Graz]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Graz, 1909 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Austria

[[L.A.S.K. Linz]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Upper Austria, Linz

L.A.S.K. Linz is a football club which plays in Linz, the capital of Upper Austria. They are playing in the First League, the second division in Austrias league system.

[[F.C. Wacker Innsbruck (2002)]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Innsbruck

F.C. Wacker Innsbruck is a football club which plays in Austria. The club was founded in June 2002 after the insolvency of FC Tirol Innsbuck. The fans think this club is  the successor but leagaly they are a new club.

The club started in the Regionalliga West (3 stage of Austrian football, this was possible because the club played together with WSG Wattens, a 3rd league club) and promoted within 2 seasons to the Bundesliga. In the 2006/07 season they avoided relegetion only because of the insolvency of the GAK. But the following season they were relegated to the 1st league(2nd stage of Austrian football).  2009 they won the championship again and promoted again to the Bundesliga.

The second team (FC Wacker Innsbruck Amateure) is playing in the Regionalliga West (3rd level).

[[Grazer AK]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Graz

Grazer AK (or GAK) is a football club which plays in Austria. it was founded in 1902.

[[Judge Joe Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 American television series debuts, First run syndicated television programs

Judge Joe Brown is an American television show. It is a courtroom series, shown in first run syndication. The judge, Joe Brown, decides who is telling the truth and who is lying. Joe Brown is famous for being in charge of the trial of James Earl Ray, the man who assassinated, or killed, Martin Luther King.

[[Curt Stern]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1981 deaths, American geneticists, American zoologists, German biologists, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish German scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Hamburg, Refugees from Nazism

Curt Stern  (30 August 1902 – 23 October 1981) was a German-American geneticist  of Jewish descent. Born in Hamburg, Germany, he studied zoology at the University of Berlin, receiving his PhD in 1923 at the age of 21. He was selected for a fellowship to study at Columbia University, then the site of Thomas Hunt Morgan's famous drosophila fly room.

== Early career == 

Stern accepted an appointment at the University of Berlin after his fellowship ended. In 1931, he was the first to demonstrate crossover of homologous chromosomes in Drosophila melanogaster, only weeks after Barbara McClintock and Harriet Creighton had done so with maize.

Stern eventually returned to the United States in 1932. He became an American citizen in 1939. From 1933 to 1947, he taught at the University of Rochester. From 1947 until his retirement in 1970, he was a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, where he had numerous doctoral students. 

In 1936, he demonstrated that recombination can also take place in mitosis resulting in somatic mosaics, organisms that contain two or more genetically distinct types of tissues. He later demonstrated that there were multiple genes on the Drosophila Y chromosome, and described the mechanism of dosage compensation. 

During World War II, he led research for the American government on low dose radiation safety. His laboratory group concluded that there is no "safe" threshold below which radiation is not harmful. 

[[Thomas Hunt Morgan]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1945 deaths, American geneticists, American Nobel Prize winners, Cell biology, Scientists from Kentucky, People from Lexington, Kentucky, Developmental biologists, Columbia University faculty

Thomas Hunt Morgan (25 September 1866 – 4 December 1945) was an American geneticist and embryologist. Morgan took his PhD at Johns Hopkins University in 1890, and researched embryology while at Bryn Mawr College.

After the rediscovery of Mendelian inheritance in 1900, Morgan switched his research to the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. In 1904, E.B. Wilson invited Morgan to join him at Columbia University. This move freed Morgan to focus fully on experimental work.

In his famous Fly Room at Columbia,  Morgan was able to show that genes are carried on chromosomes and are the mechanical basis of heredity. These discoveries formed the basis of the modern science of genetics.

Morgan moved to California in 1928 to head the Division of Biology at the California Institute of Technology (CalTech). Research was focused on genetics and evolution; experimental embryology; physiology; biophysics and biochemistry.

He was given the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1933. It was the first one given for genetics, for his discoveries concerning the role played by the chromosome in heredity. The prize was not shared with the lab's main researcher, Alfred Sturtevant, a decision of the Nobel Committee which was certainly controversial.

Morgan's early work with Drosophila was on the associations known as 'coupling' and 'repulsion', discovered by English workers in 1909 and 1910 using the Sweet Pea. These were, in reality, the same phenomenon, which was later called linkage. Morgan's first papers dealt with the demonstration of sex linkage of the gene for white eyes in the fly, the male fly being heterogametic (XY).

During his distinguished career, Morgan wrote 22 books and 370 scientific papers, and, as a result of his work, Drosophila became the main 'model organism' in genetics. The Division of Biology he started at the California Institute of Technology produced seven Nobel Prize winners.

[[Alfred Sturtevant]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1970 deaths, American geneticists, Cell biology, Scientists from Illinois

Alfred Henry Sturtevant (21 November 1891 – 5 April 1970) was an American geneticist. Sturtevant made the first genetic map of a chromosome in 1913. In his career he worked on the fruit-fly Drosophila melanogaster with Thomas Hunt Morgan. 

Morgan was both a help and a hindrance to Sturtevant. Morgan supported him through the early part of his career, but took much of the credit for the research. Morgan's Nobel Prize in 1933 was not shared with Sturtevant, who was the lab's main researcher.

Later in his career, Sturtevant had another important relationship, this time with Theodosius Dobzhansky. The research was into the genetics of natural populations of Drosophila. This relationship, too, became uneasy, and they split up after a few years. Sturtevant was one of the most outstanding genetics researchers not to get a Nobel Prize. In 1967, Sturtevant received the National Medal of Science.

[[H. J. Muller]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1967 deaths, American geneticists, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from New York City

Hermann Joseph Muller, generally known as H. J. Muller, (21 December 1890 – 5 April 1967) was an American geneticist, educator, and Nobel Prize winner. He was best known for his work on the physiological and genetic effects of radiation, as well as his outspoken political beliefs. Muller frequently warned of the long-term dangers of radioactive fallout from nuclear explosions.

Muller's life was as extraordinary as could be imagined. Born in New York City, he got his PhD at CalTech in Morgan's Drosophila fly lab. He next worked at Rice University, and then spent twelve years at the University of Texas. Then he moved to Berlin in 1932, then to Leningrad (St Petersburg), and then to Moscow. In all these places he organised a genetics lab, and sometimes taught as well. Then arose the scientific charlatan Lysenko, who saw to it that genuine genetics scientists came under the disapproval of Stalin. Once again Muller moved, this time to Edinburgh, with 250 strains of Drosophila, then finally back to the United States in 1940, where he became an advisor to the Manhattan Project. He became Professor of Zoology at Indiana University.

Muller's Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1946 was "for the discovery that mutations can be induced by X-rays". By then the real interest lay in the same effects caused by gamma rays from nuclear testing. Muller was a wholehearted enthusiast for eugenics, socialism, atheism and other relatively unpopular ideas, but his real contribution was to genetics. One reputable source writes of him:

[[Hermann Muller]]

Several people are named Hermann Muller or Hermann Müller: 

[[Little Boy]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear weapons, World War II, Hiroshima

Little Boy is the name that was given to the first atomic bomb that was dropped in a war. The bomb was dropped on the Japanese city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945 by the American army who were trying to end World War II. Enola Gay was the name of the plane that dropped Little Boy.

[[Fat Man]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear weapons, World War II

Fat Man is the name of the second atomic bomb ever made from plutonium and the second atomic bomb to be used in nuclear warfare. It was dropped over the Japanese island of Nagasaki on August 9, 1945.

[[Geography of Haiti]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Haiti

Haiti (Haïti; Ayiti) is a country in the Caribbean. It occupies the western three-eighths of Hispaniola; the Dominican Republic occupies the eastern five-eighths (63%) of the island.

The country has a total area of 27,750, of which 27,560 km² is land and 190 km² is water. Haiti has 1,771 of coast-line and a 360 border with the Dominican Republic.

The limits of the country are the Dominican Republic to the east, the Atlantic Ocean to the north, and the Caribbean Sea to the south and west. The capital, Port-au-Prince, is a seaport located on the west coast.

Cuba is to the northwest and Jamaica to the southwest of Haiti; the Winward Passage separates Cuba from Haiti (and Hispaniola), and the Jamaica Channel separates Haiti from Jamaica.

There are two large peninsulas: the Northwestern on the Atlantic Ocean, and the Southern peninsulas on the Caribbean Sea. The Northwestern, or just Northern, Peninsula (Presqu'île du Nord-Ouest) is also known as the Saint-Nicolas Peninsula; it was the first part of the Hispaniola visited by Christopher Columbus on 1492. The historical name of the Southern Peninsula (Presqu'île du Sud) was Tiburón Peninsula.

Between those two large peninsulas there is a gulf (a very large bay): the Gulf of Gonâve. It is named so after the Gonâve Island that is in the middle of the gulf. It was called also Gulf of Léogane after the city of Léogane, one of the oldest in Haiti.

[[Mundari language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of India, Languages of Bangladesh, Nepal

The Mundari language is a Munda language of the Austro-Asiatic language family.  It is spoken by the Munda people.

[[Listed building]]

CATEGORIES: Listed buildings

A listed building, in the United Kingdom, is a building that has been placed on the Statutory List of Buildings of Special Architectural or Historic Interest. This is a list of buildings that are important in terms of architecture, history, or culture. There are many buildings on this list. In the UK, there are about 500,000 listed buildings.

In England and Wales, there are three kinds of listed buildings:

There used to be a fourth kind of listed building: Grade III. This type has not been used since 1970.

[[Holborn]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, London Borough of Camden, City of Westminster

Holborn (ˈhəʊbən HOE) is an area of Central London, England.  Holborn is also the name of the area's principal east-west street. The street runs from St Giles's High Street as High Holborn to Gray's Inn Road to Holborn Viaduct. It crosses the borders of the City of Westminster, London Borough of Camden and the City of London.

[[Poker Alice]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 births, 1930 deaths, People from Devon, People from Virginia, Poker players

Alice Ivers (February 17, 1851 – February 27, 1930), better known as Poker Alice, was a famous poker player. Her family moved from Devon, England, where she was born, to Virginia, United States, where she went to school and was raised. As an adult, Ivers moved to Leadville, Colorado where she met her husband Frank Duffield. Duffield was responsible for getting Ivers interested in poker, but he was killed a few years after they got married. Ivers made a name for herself by winning money from poker games in places like Silver City, New Mexico, and even working at a saloon that was owned by Bob Ford, the man who killed Jesse James 

[[Strand Underpass]]

CATEGORIES: Transport architecture in London

The Strand Underpass (sometimes incorrectly called the Kingsway Underpass) is a vehicle tunnel in central London. It connects Waterloo Bridge to Kingsway near Holborn. It was built by John Mowlem & Co. It opened on 21 January 1964.

[[Southampton Row]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Camden

Southampton Row is major road running northwest-southeast in Bloomsbury, Camden, central London, England. The road is part of the A4200.

[[Victoria Embankment]]

CATEGORIES: City of Westminster, City of London, River Thames, Roads in London

The Victoria Embankment is part of the Thames Embankment, a road and walkway along the north bank of the River Thames in London. Victoria Embankment extends from the City of Westminster into the City of London.

[[Charlton, London]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Greenwich, Areas of London

Charlton is an area and an electoral ward in south-east London. It is in the London Borough of Greenwich. It is located between Greenwich and Woolwich.

[[Waterloo Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in the United Kingdom, Buildings and structures in the City of Westminster, Transport in the City of Westminster, Stone bridges, Concrete bridges, Grade II* listed buildings in London

Waterloo Bridge is a road and foot traffic bridge crossing the River Thames in London, England between Blackfriars Bridge and Hungerford Bridge.

[[Westminster Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in the United Kingdom, Buildings and structures in the City of Westminster, Transport in the City of Westminster, Transport in Lambeth, Steel bridges, Grade II* listed buildings in London

Westminster Bridge is a road traffic and foot bridge over the River Thames between Westminster and Lambeth, in London. It is right next to the Houses of Parliament.

[[Bloomsbury]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, London Borough of Camden

Bloomsbury is an area of central London in the south of the London Borough of Camden.

[[Hop Exchange]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments in England, Buildings and structures in London, Grade II listed buildings in London, London Borough of Southwark

The Hop Exchange is a Grade II listed building at No. 24 Southwark Street, London SE1. It is in the Bankside area of the London Borough of Southwark.  It opened in 1867 and was designed by R.H. Moore. It served as the centre for hop trading for the brewing industry.

[[River Fleet]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of London, Rivers of England

The River Fleet is the biggest of London's subterranean rivers.

[[The Angel, Islington]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Islington, Areas of London

The Angel was originally an inn near a toll gate on the Great North Road (at what is now the corner of Islington High Street and Pentonville Road). The term now informally refers to this part of Islington in London. The corner itself is actually in Finsbury which was a separate borough until 1965 when the Metropolitan Borough of Finsbury merged with the Metropolitan Borough of Islington to form the London Borough of Islington.

[[Blackfriars, London]]

CATEGORIES: City of London, Areas of London

Blackfriars is an area of central London, which lies in the south-west corner of the City of London. It is also were Henry VIII sixth wife died and was buried

[[Kennington]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Lambeth, Areas of London

Kennington is an area of South London, England, in the London Borough of Lambeth. It is a mixed class residential area, and is the location of The Oval, the well-known cricket stadium. 

[[Elephant and Castle]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Southwark, Areas of London, Transport in London

The Elephant and Castle is a major road intersection in inner south London, England, and is also used as a name for the surrounding district.

[[Battersea]]

CATEGORIES: Battersea

Battersea is a place in the London Borough of Wandsworth. It is an inner-city district. It is 2.9 southwest of Charing Cross. In April 2001, it had 75,651 people. In Battersea there is a home for dogs and cats called Battersea Dogs & Cats Home.

[[Wandsworth]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, London Borough of Wandsworth

Wandsworth is an inner suburb of London on the south bank of the River Thames in south-west London.  Wandsworth takes its name from the River Wandle, which enters the Thames at Wandsworth. The area is identified in the London Plan as one of 35 major centres in Greater London.

[[Anti-abortion movement]]

CATEGORIES: Abortion

February 2020

The pro-life movement, also called the anti-abortion movement, is a group of people who believe that human life begins at conception and that the life of unborn children should be protected. People who believe this are sometimes called "pro-lifers". Pro-lifers believe that life begins at the moment of conception. They oppose abortion. As abortion is an important political topic, they are sometimes called anti-choice by the pro-choice movement. 

People who are pro-life believe that all humans, including the unborn, have a right to live. They believe that having a human genome is enough for a developing organism to be called a living human being. Others believe that an organism should be identified as a living human being once a heartbeat has been detected. Pro-lifers think that abortion should be illegal. Many pro-lifers think women who are pregnant and do not want to raise a child should look for alternatives to abortion such as adoption.

There are many advocacy groups that try to convince people that abortion is wrong. 

The pro-life movement is most associated with conservative politics. In one poll in the United States, 66% of conservatives called themselves pro-life. It is also associated with the Catholic Church. Pope Francis has said that "Every child that isn't born, but is unjustly condemned to be aborted, has the face of Jesus Christ, has the face of the Lord."

[[Dunning–Kruger effect]]

CATEGORIES: Cognition, Experiments

The Dunning–Kruger effect is a bias in thinking, usually where a person is unaware of how badly they grasp a subject, not understanding that they are failing at it. They mistakenly think that they are doing as well as "average" or even "above average".

It is a psychological effect in which people don't realize their level of knowledge or ability in a subject. People who know little about a subject will think that they know more than they actually know. People of low ability may not have enough intelligence to fully grasp how complicated something can be, causing them to overestimate their knowledge or ability. This can cause them to underestimate the intelligence of a high ability person who claims something is complicated when they falsely believe they understand it fully. 

This effect was shown in an experiment that was done by Justin Kruger and David Dunning at Cornell University.

The investigators said:

In the year 2000, Dunning and Kruger were awarded the Ig Nobel Prize in the field of psychology for their study.

[[Interferometer]]

CATEGORIES: Optical devices

Interferometers are for measuring the interference properties of light waves. One of their purposes is to measure things precisely, for example in the Michelson interferometer.

[[Chris Terreri]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Chicago Blackhawks players, Living people, New Jersey Devils players, New York Islanders players, Sportspeople from Rhode Island, San Jose Sharks players, Stanley Cup champions, American Hockey League players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, People from Warwick, Rhode Island, American ice hockey goaltenders

Christopher Arnold Terreri (born November 15, 1964 in Warwick, Rhode Island) is a American former professional ice hockey goaltender who played for four professional teams of the NHL. He won the Stanley Cup two times with the New Jersey Devils. He is currently the goaltending coach of the New Jersey Devils of the NHL.

[[Tic]]

CATEGORIES: Medical signs, Human behavior

A tic is a sudden body movement that a person can't control.  It might be a jerking movement of the hand, or blinking a lot, or a throat sound.  Even if the person is told that they are doing it, they usually can't stop. Sometimes if they try really hard, they can make the tic go away for a little bit, but they can't make it go away all the time. It's kind of like when you have something in your throat, eventually you just have to cough.

Tics can be either "motor tics" or "phonic tics." If they are "motor tics" it means they're movements, like blinking or shrugging shoulders. If they are "phonic tics" it means they're sounds, like clearing your throat, sniffing, or yelling.

Tics are common in childhood, four to twelve percent of all children have from tics. Very often they are transitory, they rarely last longer than six months. Boys have tics more often than girls. About three times more boys than girls have tics. Sometimes, people can have a "tic" in the family.

Some tics can be treated, usually with behaviour therapy. In cases where the tic is difficult to treat, antipsychotics are sometimes used.

[[Boards of Canada]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish musical groups, Musical groups established in 1986, 1986 establishments in the United Kingdom, 20th century establishments in Scotland

Boards of Canada (commonly abbreviated BoC) are a Scottish electronic music duo of two brothers Mike Sandison (born June 1, 1970) and Marcus Eoin (born July 21, 1971). They are signed with Warp Records and have released several works on that label with little advertising and few interviews, while also having a secret, privately-released back-catalogue of albums on their self-run Music70 label. They have also recorded four tracks under the alias Hell Interface.

[[Jon Cryer]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Emmy Award winners, Movie producers from New York City

Jonathan Niven "Jon" Cryer (born April 16, 1965 in New York City, New York) is an American actor, screenwriter and film producer. He is the son of Donald David Cryer and Gretchen Cryer (née Kiger, born 1935). He played Alan Harper in the sitcom Two and a Half Men from 2003-2015. He has won an Emmy Award and has three Emmy nominations for Two and A Half Men.

Cryer went to London to study acting at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts.

[[Owl City]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s in music

Owl City is an American pop music project by Adam Young.

He had a hit with a song called Fireflies in 2010. It was the number one song in United States of America  for two weeks.  He has written several songs, including Vanilla Twilight. In 2012 he had a hit song with Carly Rae Jepsen, called Good Time.

[[William Bateson]]

CATEGORIES: 1861 births, 1926 deaths, British zoologists, English geneticists, English science writers

William Bateson (Yorkshire, 8 August 1861 – 8 February 1926) was a British zoologist, a Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge University. He was the first person to use the term genetics to describe the study of heredity, and the chief populariser of the ideas of Gregor Mendel, after their rediscovery in 1900 by Hugo de Vries and Carl Correns.

[[Beretta 92]]

CATEGORIES: Pistols, Law enforcement equipment

A Beretta 92 is a pistol and is one of the most famous pistols of the Italian company Beretta. It fires 9x19mm cartridges and it can hold 15 of them. It is the standard side-arm of many police and military units and the United States Army. In the US Army, the pistol got the name M9.

After the US military ended its ban on foreign-made weapons, its allies in NATO pressured the US to adopt a 9mm handgun to replace the M1911 because NATO has a rule that all NATO countries must use weapons with the same kinds of ammunition.

[[Ice Climbers]]

CATEGORIES: Video game series, Nintendo video games

The Ice Climbers are a series of video games produced and developed by Nintendo. The series is about Popo and Nana, also known as the Ice Climbers. The games were first produced in 1985. The plot of the game was to get stolen vegetables back from a giant condor on 32 ice-covered mountains. Popo and Nana have also appeared in the Super Smash Bros. series.

[[Ray J]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, American R&B singers, American rap musicians from Mississippi, Living people, Singers from Mississippi, Actors from Mississippi, Singers from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

William Raymond Norwood, Jr. (born January 17, 1981), better known by his stage name Ray J, is an American singer, songwriter, rapper, record producer and actor. He is the son of gospel singer Willie Norwood and Sonja Bates-Norwood, the cousin of rapper Snoop Dogg and the younger brother of R&B singer Brandy.

[[Wat Phrasri Rattana Sasadaram]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhist temples in Thailand, Buildings and structures in Bangkok, Establishments in Thailand, 1784 establishments in Asia

Wat Phrasri Rattana Sasadaram or Wat Phra Kaew, the "Temple of the Emerald Buddha", is one of the most sacred Buddhist temples in Thailand. It is in the grounds of the Grand Palace. It is the only temple in Bangkok that does not have monks. This temple is famous for the statue of Buddha, which is really made from jade, not emerald. The king of Thailand is the only person allowed to go near the Emerald Buddha. The king changes the clothes on the Buddha three times every year. In summer the Buddha is dressed in a crown and jewelry; in winter he wears a golden shawl, and  in the rainy months he wears a gold robe and headdress. 

The temple was started in 2325 B.E. during the reign of King Rama I and finished in 2327 B.E. The temple was built to hold the Buddha statue which is believed to have been made in Thailand in the 14th century. Captured by the Cambodians in 1552, the statue was kept in Laos for 214 years until King Rama I recaptured it. He brought it with him when he moved his capital to Bangkok in 1784. The design of this temple was copied from Wat Phrasrisanphet in the Ayudhaya period. Because Wat Phrasri Rattana Sasadaram is important, it is renovated every 50 years.

[[Colossal squid]]

CATEGORIES: Cephalopods

The colossal squid, Mesonychoteuthis hamiltoni, is the biggest squid in the world, 9–10 metres (30–33 feet) long.

The colossal squid is bigger than a giant squid. Its body is reddish brown and it lives up to 2000m below the surface of the Southern Ocean. It is the main food eaten by sperm whales. The colossal squid has ammonium chloride in its body, so it tastes bad for humans.

It is believed to feed on prey such as chaetognatha, large fish like the Patagonian toothfish and other squid in the deep ocean using bioluminescence.

The colossal squid is thought to have a slow metabolic rate, requiring only around 30 g of prey daily. Estimates of its energetic demands suggest that it is a slow-moving ambush predator, using its large eyes primarily for predator detection rather than active hunting.

The eye is 27 cm (10.63 in) wide, with a lens 12 cm across. This is the largest eye of any known animal. These measurements are of the partly collapsed specimen: when living the eye was probably 30 to 40 cm (12 to 16 in) across.

The Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa is displaying this specimen in an exhibition which opened in 2008. A website on the squid specimen is also available.-

[[James Morrison]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Jazz musicians, Musicians from New South Wales, Trumpeters

James Morrison, born November 11, 1962, is famous Australian jazz musician. He has played with people such as B. B. King and Ray Charles. 

He was born Boorowa, New South Wales. He started playing trumpet at the age seven. He also plays trombone, euphonium, flugel horn, tuba, saxophones, and piano. In 1979, aged 16, he performed at the Monterey Jazz Festival, and graduated from the New South Wales Conservatorium of Music the next year. He was given the Mo Award, for the Australian Performer of the Year in 1990. In 2000 he played the opening fanfare for the Sydney Olympic Games.

[[I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 British television series debuts, 2000s television series, 2010s television series, Reality television competitions, English-language television programs

I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here! is a television show like Big Brother where a group of celebrities get together as they sky dive down to the jungle. For a few weeks, they have to cope with jungle creatures such as snakes, spiders, cockroaches and more. The UK version of the show takes place in Queensland, Australia and airs every November-December on ITV1 in the UK. The presenters are Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly.

[[Crossing over]]

CATEGORIES: Chromosomes

Crossing over is a basic concept of genetics and cell biology, often called recombination. It occurs during meiosis.

Crossing over is the exchange of chromosome segments between non-sister chromatids during the production of gametes. The effect is to assort (shuffle) the alleles on parental chromosomes, so that the gametes carry combinations of genes different from either parent. This has the overall effect of increasing the variety of phenotypes present in a population.

The process can be seen directly in stained cells, and indirectly if there are genetic markers or not on the chromosomes. The visible crossovers are called chiasma (plural: chiasmata), which is Greek for a cross. F. A. Janssens was the first to suggest what chiasmata meant.

The large-scale effect of crossing over is to spread variation through a population. This is the main result of sexual reproduction compared to non-sexual modes of reproduction.

The main advantage to the parents is the greater variety in their offspring. This, it is thought, increases the chance that some of the offspring will survive and reproduce. This has been the subject of much investigation and discussion.

[[Chromatid]]

CATEGORIES: Chromosomes

Chromatids are the daughter strands of a duplicated chromosome which are joined by a single centromere. When the centromere divides, the chromatids become separate chromosomes.

Each of the two daughter chromatids contains the same DNA and chromatin protein as its original chromosome. But in meiosis, crossing over (exchanges) take place between two of the non-sister chromatids. This has profound consequences: it produces genetic recombination, and increases the variability of gametes.

[[Wat Pho]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhist temples in Thailand, Buildings and structures in Bangkok

Wat Pho (more fully Wat Phracheatupon Vimonmungkraram) is the "Temple of the Reclining Buddha". It is the one of the most important Buddhist temples in Thailand. With 99 pagodas, this temple has the most pagodas in Thailand. It is the largest and oldest Buddhist temple in Bangkok, and home of Thailand's largest Buddha. It is the temple where the art of Thai massage was developed.

The important pagodas are the pagodas of King Rama I, King Rama II and King Rama IV. This temple was rebuilt from the old Wat Photaram from the Ayudhaya period by King Rama I in 1788. It took seven years and five months and 18 days to finish. King Rama I changed the name from “Photaram” to “Phracheatupon Vimonmungkrawat”. King Rama III (1824—1851) did a lot of repairs to the building. King Rama IV renamed this temple "Wat Phracheatupon Vimonmungkraram". Wat Phracheatupon Vimonmungkraram is a popular place for tourists.

The "Reclining Buddha" (Phra Buddhasaiyas) is 46 long and 15 high. It was made during Rama III's work on the temple. His body is covered in gold, his eyes and feet have mother-of-pearl decorations. The bottom of his feet have 108 scenes made from the shells on them in both Chinese and Indian style. 

[[Habbo]]

CATEGORIES: Online games

Habbo, or Habbo Hotel, is a virtual game on the Internet which is for teenagers. It is played by lots of people at once so is a Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game. The chain of websites is owned by the Sulake Corporation and has been online since 2000. Habbo has services in many countries and have over 10 million unique visitors every month.

[[Kay Jewelers]]

CATEGORIES: Jewelry, Companies of the United States, Akron, Ohio

Kays is an American jewelry company that is all around the world. Its slogan is, "Every kiss begins with Kay". The tag line was written in 1997 by a Senior Art Director named Randall Herrera working for an agency called Stern Advertising in Pepperpike Ohio. It was one of several lines offered up to Kay Jewlers and is still going strong to this day.

Its headquarters are in Akron, Ohio.

[[Hugh Trenchard, 1st Viscount Trenchard]]

CATEGORIES: British military people, Royal Air Force, Order of Merit, Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, Knights Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order, British aviators

Marshal of the Royal Air Force Hugh Montague Trenchard, 1st Viscount Trenchard GCB OM GCVO DSO (3 February 1873 – 10 February 1956) was a British Army officer who commanded the Royal Flying Corps (RFC) from August 1915 to January 1918. The RFC was followed by the Royal Air Force (RAF), which was founded in March 1918.

Trenchard, who learnt to fly in 1912, eventually became Chief of the Air Staff in 1919. In that position he reorganised the Air Ministry, and laid the foundations of the Royal Air Force.

Trenchard was Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police from 1931 to 1935. The Commissioner is the highest ranking police officer in the United Kingdom, despite the fact that his authority is generally confined to Greater London.

[[Danaus (genus)]]

CATEGORIES: Danaus

Danaus is a genus of butterflies.  Danaus is in the family Nymphalidae.  Species in this genus are commonly known as Tigers or Monarchs.

[[Harold Lloyd]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1971 deaths, Actors from Nebraska, American movie actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from prostate cancer

Harold Clayton Lloyd, Sr. (April 20, 1893 – March 8, 1971) was an American actor and producer. Along with Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton, Lloyd is remembered as one of the most popular and influential comedians of the silent movie years.

Harold Lloyd made nearly 200 movies. Many were without sound but later movies had sound.

His movies usually had "thrill" sections where Lloyd would be in fast chases and performed his own stunts. Lloyd did these dangerous stunts himself even though a movie accident had caused the loss of his right thumb and index finger.

Although Lloyd's movies were not as commercially successful as Chaplin's, Lloyd made a lot more money than Chaplin during their movie years. ($15.7 million to Chaplin's $10.5 million).

Lloyd died of prostate cancer.

[[Marc-Antoine Charpentier]]

CATEGORIES: 1643 births, 1704 deaths, French composers, Baroque composers

Marc-Antoine Charpentier (born near Paris,  1643; died  Sainte-Chapelle, Paris, 24 February 1704) was a French composer.  He lived in the period known as the Baroque period.  His most famous music is his  Te Deum.  This work begins with a prelude which today is extremely popular.  It was the signature tune for the European Broadcasting Union where it was used to introduce programmes such as the Vienna New Year's Concert and the Eurovision Song Contest.  It is often used as a voluntary for weddings.

[[Geneviève Bujold]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Actors from Montreal, Canadian movie actors, Living people

Geneviève Bujold (born 1 July 1942) is a Canadian actress. She is best known for her portrayal of Anne Boleyn in the 1969 movie Anne of the Thousand Days.

[[Andris Nelsons]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Conductors, Living people, People from Riga

Andris Nelsons (born November 18 1978) is a Latvian conductor.  He is particularly known as the conductor of the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra.

[[FourCC]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats

FourCC (Four Character Code, 4CC) is identifier of length of four bytes used to identify type of data format (e.g. video codec used in AVI multimedia container).

The same video format can be (in dependency to used codec) denoted by several different FourCC codes. Even there is no exception to the rule to use more FourCC codes for that format by same codec. For example, some different DivX codec versions denote MPEG-4 ASP format by DIVX and DX50 codes. Therefore, selection of this code depends on used codec and thus on used multimedia framework.

[[Fred Penner]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Canadian guitarists, Living people, People from Winnipeg

Frederick Ralph Cornelius Penner, CM (born November 6, 1946) is a Canadian TV host who is famous as a children's entertainer. Penner does concerts and lectures across North America. From 1985 to 1997 he had his own television show called "Fred Penner's Place." It was shown on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation television network. It was co-produced and shown on Nickelodeon in 1989 and 1990.

Fred Penner was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He began writing songs when he was only four years old. He taught himself how to play guitar. He learned that he could use his music to communicate and educate his sister who had Down Syndrome.

After he graduated from university he worked with mentally and physically challenged children by using music to comfort and entertain them. Penner recorded an album of the music he used to educate his mentally challenged students. The album was called "The Cat Came Back." He also recorded a song of the same name which became a very famous children's song. 

He sang The Cat Came back on the popular children's TV show "Sharon, Lois & Bram's Elephant Show" in 1984. The following year the CBC network gave Penner his own TV show.

In 1991 he was made a Member of the Order of Canada. He was given this honour for his years of "using music and song to entertain and educate his young audience".

[[Frasin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suceava County

Frasin is a town in Suceava County, Romania.  The Suceava River is 2 nautical miles to the northwest of Frasin, and Vama is 3.5 nautical miles west of Frasin.

[[Frasin (disambiguation)]]

Frasin can be any one of several places in Romania:

[[MyWikiBiz]]

CATEGORIES: Wikis

MyWikiBiz is a wiki directory that lets people write about themselves. It began as a service creating Wikipedia articles for paying corporations. The site was founded by Gregory Kohs, a market researcher.

Gregory Kohs and his sister started the MyWikiBiz venture in Pennsylvania in July 2006, first as a paid editing service, writing content for Wikipedia and other  sites.  The legitimacy of the idea was supported by the English Wikipedia’s Reward Board, where interested parties would offer cash rewards or gifts to create or improve Wikipedia articles.

[[Topiary]]

CATEGORIES: Gardening

Topiary is the art of creating sculptures by clipping trees and bushes (shrubs). The shrubs used in topiary are evergreen, have small leaves, and produce dense foliage. Common plants used in topiary include bay laurel, holly bushes, myrtle and privet hedges. Shaped wire cages are sometimes used in modern topiary but traditional topiary depends on using special scissors with patience and a steady hand. Notably, the Samban-Lei Sekpil is the tallest topiary plant in the world. 

[[Aldwych tramway station]]

CATEGORIES: Transport architecture in London, Trams in London

Aldwych tramway station was a tram stop that was underneath Kingsway. The tramway station should not to be confused with Aldwych tube station. The stop is part of the Kingsway tramway subway.

Services running from Angel Islington to Aldwych started on 24 February 1906. Services from Highbury & Islington station to Tower Bridge and Kennington Gate started on 10 April 1908.

The station closed on 6 April 1952.

The Strand Underpass, which opened in 1964, comes to surface level part way through the former location of the Aldwych tramway station. No sign of the former station is visible on the surface or from the road tunnel however.

[[1969–70 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 in North America, 1970 in North America

The 1969–70 NHL season was the 53rd season of the National Hockey League (NHL). Twelve teams each played 76 games. The Boston Bruins were the Stanley Cup winners as they swept the St. Louis Blues four games to none in the final series.

[[1970–71 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 in North America, 1971

The 1970–71 NHL season was the 54th season of the National Hockey League (NHL). Fourteen teams each played 78 games. The Montreal Canadiens were the Stanley Cup winners as they swept the Chicago Black Hawks in seven games in the final series. The Buffalo Sabres and the Vancouver Canucks made their NHL debuts this season.

[[Francis I, Holy Roman Emperor]]

CATEGORIES: Holy Roman Emperors, Habsburg Dynasty, 1708 births, 1765 deaths, House of Lorraine, House of Habsburg-Lorraine, Grand Dukes of Tuscany

Francis I  (Francis Stephen; 8 December 1708 – 18 August 1765) was Holy Roman Emperor and Grand Duke of Tuscany, though his wife effectively executed the real power of those positions. With his wife, Maria Theresa of Austria, he was the founder of the Habsburg-Lorraine dynasty. From 1728 until 1737 he was Duke of Lorraine, but lost Lorraine when he had to give it to France. He was the father of Marie Antoinette, the Queen of France.

[[Alexander Selkirk]]

CATEGORIES: 1676 births, 1721 deaths, Sailors, Scottish people

Alexander Selkirk, (1676 - 13th December 1721) also known as Alexander Selcraig, was a Scottish sailor. He became famous for his amazing story of survival and is likely to have inspired Daniel Defoe to write the book Robinson Crusoe.

He was on an expedition when the captain of the ship, Captain Stradling, left him on an island off the coast of Chile. Selkirk's job on board was the navigator. He controlled where the ship needed to go and where it was at that point in time. He had an important job. He tried to warn the captain about certain repairs that were needed but the captain ignored Selkirk and carried on sailing. Selkirk knew the ship was to drown at any given moment and tried to demand the repairs were taken care of but nobody listened. They had stopped at an island to restock fresh water and supplies. Selkirk said he would rather stay on the island than continue to ride on a dangerous, leaky ship. So there he was left. He had last minute second thoughts and tried to get back onto the ship but Stradling refused. Selkirk was marooned on that island for about four years and had to rely on himself and his skills for survival.

At the time of his rescue, he had been gone for about four years. He was very familiar with crafting things himself out of resources on the islands and having to use his survival skills. He heard noises and when he went to find out what it was, he saw ships on the horizon. He didn't know if they were on his side or enemies but he knew he had to try. He got their attention and so they sailed over to his island. Once they had beached on the shore, Selkirk came out from the bushes with his hands up. It turned out they were English and on his side. They let him aboard their ship and they were at sea for another year, stopping off at a few places, before returning to England.

When he returned, his story was written down by a person in his town and has been made into a slightly different version by Daniel Defoe who named it Robinson Crusoe. 'Robinson Crusoe' has been rewritten many times by lots of different people. There were some differences like how Crusoe was stranded for over twenty years and Selkirk, four. Even though this story was based off Selkirk, the exact island he was deserted on was renamed Robinson Crusoe Island after previously being called Juan Fernández Island.

The book is a major piece of literature which is important in the history of English and the beginning of the popularity of novels.

[[Robert Gould Shaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1837 births, 1863 deaths, Colonels, Military people killed in action, Military personnel of the American Civil War, People from Boston, Massachusetts

Robert Gould Shaw (October 10, 1837 in Boston, Massachusetts – July 18, 1863 in Morris Island, South Carolina) was a colonel during the American Civil War. He led the all African American 54th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment.

Shaw died leading his troops attacking Fort Wagner in 1863, aged 25.

[[Robinson Crusoe Island]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific islands, Islands of Chile, Biosphere reserves

Robinson Crusoe Island is the largest of three islands in the Juan Fernández archipelago, belonging to Chile. The island is also known as Isla Más a Tierra or Aguas Buenas. More than 800 people live on the island, which is 672 from the coast of South America. In 1966, Chile renamed it Robinson Crusoe Island, because Alexander Selkirk had spent about four years alone there. Selkirk may have been the person who inspired Daniel Defoe to write the book Robinson Crusoe.

[[Buster Keaton]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1966 deaths, Actors from Kansas, American movie actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, American silent movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from lung cancer

Joseph Frank "Buster" Keaton VI (October 4, 1895 – February 1, 1966) was an American actor and movie director. He is most famous for his silent films which showed his skill at physical comedy.

The magazine Entertainment Weekly listed Keaton at number seven on their list of "The Greatest Directors of All Time." And in 1999 the American Film Institute placed Keaton at 21 on their list of "The Greatest Male Actors of All Time."

Famous movie critic Roger Ebert wrote that Keaton's "extraordinary period from 1920 to 1929, he worked without interruption on a series of movies that make him, arguably, the greatest actor-director in the history of the movies."

In a 2002 worldwide poll by "Sight & Sound" Keaton's 1927 movie titled "The General" was number 15 on their "Best movies of All Time" list. Three other Keaton movies were also added to the magazine's survey.

[[Russian roulette]]

CATEGORIES: Games

Russian roulette is a deadly game played with a revolver. In the game, there is only one bullet in one of the six cylinder slots of the revolver. The person then closes the cylinder, spins it, places it against their head or sometimes inside their mouth and pulls the trigger. The person therefore has a one-in-six chance of killing themselves.

It is done either for bravado, boredom, suicide or other reasons. It sometimes used in fiction as part of interrogations, where the interrogator asks the suspect if he wants to play a game of Russian roulette and palms the bullet.

[[Nude beach]]

CATEGORIES: Beaches, Nudity

A nude beach is a place where people can swim, without having clothes on. There are many nude beaches found around the world.

For example, there is a public nude beach called Haulover Beach near Miami, Florida. There is a public nude park usually called Hippie Hollow Park (but officially called McGregor Park) on a lake near Austin, Texas. There is an admission charge and children are not allowed. There are several nude beaches in California. People are nude at one end of a public nude beach called Crystal Crescent Beach near Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. There is a public nude beach called Hanlan's Point Beach on an island near downtown Toronto, Ontario, Canada. There is a public nude beach called Wreck Beach in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.  There is a public nude beach close to New York City called Gunnison in Sandy Hook, New Jersey.

There are many nude beaches in Europe and Australia.

[[Undercroft]]

CATEGORIES: Rooms

An undercroft is traditionally a cellar or storage room, often brick-lined and vaulted, and used for storage in buildings since medieval times.

[[Buddha Bar]]

CATEGORIES: European restaurants, Buildings and structures in Paris

Buddha Bar is a Parisian bar and restaurant. It is in Boissy-d'Anglas street, in the 8th district of Paris, famous for its atmosphere. The franchise has expanded with similarly themed Buddha Bar venues in Prague, Kyiv and London, among others.

October 2012 saw the launch of Buddha-Bar London and Parisians,  Tarja Visan has brought her expertise across the channel and into the heart of Knightsbridge.

Buddha-Bar London aims to push culinary boundaries and the menu blends Far Eastern cuisine with Western tastes and influences. Chinese, Japanese, Thai and other Eastern flavours are stylishly entwined to spearhead a new-wave Pacific Rim cuisine. Dishes created especially for London include Venison Tataki, Smoked Duck and Foie Gras Gyoza, Dragon Scallop and Pan-fried Seabass with Shiso Butter.

[[Edwards syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Trisomies

Trisomy 18, also known as Edwards syndrome is a trisomy. It is a genetic disorder. People with trisomy 18 have three copies of chromosome 18. "Normal" people have two copies of the chromosome. It is named after John H. Edwards, who first described the syndrome in 1960. It is the second most common autosomal trisomy, after Down Syndrome, that carries to term.  

It is estimated that about  one in 3,000 live births are affected.  The incidence increases as the mother's age increases.  The syndrome has a very low rate of survival. People with Edwards syndrome often have heart abnormalities, kidney malformations, and other internal organ disorders.  

About 95% of the babies with Edwards syndrome die before they are born. About half of all babies born with the condition will reach two months of age, and only 5-10% will survive for a year.  The median life span is five to fifteen days. One percent of children born with this syndrome live to age ten, typically in cases of the less severe mosaic Edwards syndrome. 

[[Thames Embankment]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in London, River Thames, City of London, City of Westminster

The Thames Embankment is a major feat of 19th century civil engineering. It reclaimed marshy land next to the River Thames in central London. 

[[London Transport Executive]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 establishments in Europe, 1962 disestablishments, 1960s disestablishments in England, Defunct companies of the United Kingdom, Intermodal transport authorities, 1940s establishments in England

The London Transport Executive (LTE) was the organisation responsible for public transport in the Greater London area, England, United Kingdom, between 1948-1963. In common with all London transport authorities from 1933 to 2000, the public name and operational brand of the organization was London Transport.

[[The Strand]]

CATEGORIES: City of Westminster, Roads in London

The Strand is a street in the City of Westminster, London. It links the City of London with the centre of London at Charing Cross and Trafalgar Square. The Strand is the southern boundary of the Covent Garden district. Covent Garden is the space once occupied by a famous fruit and vegetable market, and is now a huge pedestrian precinct with many and  varied commercial outlets.

The Strand passes Aldwych, and joins directly with Fleet Street at Temple Bar. The street is just over three-quarters of a mile long. It includes many commercial premises, two theatres, and hotels. The most notable hotel is the Savoy Hotel, one of the grand London hotels.

[[Parnassiinae]]

CATEGORIES: Papilionidae

Parnassiinae is a subfamily of butterflies.  It belongs in the family Papilionidae.  They are commonly known as Apollos and Parnassians.  The butterflies in this subfamily are only found in the Holarctic Region (the Holarctic Region is the northern part of North America and Eurasia).

The caterpillars and adults are poisonous to vertebrates.  The caterpillars are thought to be Müllerian mimics with millipedes.  The adult butterflies are thought to be Müllerian mimics with adult Whites.

After mating, the male glues a structure to the end of the female's abdomen.  This keeps the female from mating again.  This structure is called a sphragis.

[[Milot]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Haiti

Milot, (Kréyòl: Milo) is a town in northern Haiti, in the  arrondissement (part of a Haitian department) Acul-du-Nord, Nord department; the town is on the northern foothills of the Massif du Nord mountain range.

The most important economic activity in Milot is farming. Some crops are sugar cane, cacao, tobacco and citrus fruits like orange.

After the Haitian independence, the country was divided in two parts and the northern part was made a kingdom by Henri Christophe and he made Milot the capital of his kingdom.

Christophe built a palace in Milot where he and his family lived; the palace was named Sans-Souci. He also built a fort,  Citadelle Laferrière, high in the mountains at about 8 km from Milot, and some smaller forts in Ramiens, on the road to the Citadelle. These buildings are now part of the Natural History Park - Citadel, Sans Souci, Ramiers, a World Heritage Site designated by the UNESCO in 1982.

[[Islam in Austria]]

CATEGORIES: Islam by country, Religion in Austria

Islam is a minority religion in Austria with 4.22% of the population in the 2001 census. Most Muslims came to Austria after 1960. They were migrant workers from Turkey, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. There are also communities of Arab and Pakistani origin.

The westernmost Bundesland Vorarlberg has the highest share of Muslims in the country with 8.36%. There is a lot of industry there. It is followed by the capital Vienna with 7.82%. The central Bundesländer Salzburg, Upper Austria, Tyrol and Lower Austria have an average Muslim population. The south-eastern states of Styria, Carinthia as well as Burgenland in the east have fewer Muslims than the average.

Austria is unique among Western European countries. It is until now the only country that has granted Muslims the status of a recognized religious community. They were first recognised after Austria-Hungary's annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1878. Austria has regulated the religious freedoms of the Muslim community with the so called "Anerkennungsgesetz" ("Act of Recognition"). This law was reactivated in 1979 when the Community of Muslim Believers in Austria (Islamische Glaubensgemeinschaft in Österreich) was founded. This organization has the right to give lessons of religious education in state schools. It could also collect "church tax", but so far it has not exercised this privilege. It does not build, finance or administer mosques in Austria.

Parallel structures exist within the Islamic religious group. The religious life takes place in mosques belonging to organisations. These organisations represent one of the currents of Turkish, Bosnian and Arab Muslims. Among the Turkish organisations, the "Federation of Turkish-Islamic Associations" is controlled by the Directorate for Religious Affairs, whereas the other groups, such as the Süleymancıs and Milli Görüş can be seen as branches of the pan-European organisation centered in Germany.

[[Clever Hans]]

CATEGORIES: Individual animals, Animal communication, Cognition, Experiments

Clever Hans (in German, der Kluge Hans) was a horse that was supposed to be able to do lots of difficult mathematical sums and solve complicated problems. Later, it was discovered that the horse was giving the right answers by watching the reactions of the people who were watching him.

[[Rick Mercer]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian comedians, LGBT broadcasters, LGBT comedians, Canadian LGBT people, 1969 births, Living people

Richard Vincent "Rick" Mercer (born October 17, 1969) is a Canadian comedian who has been on shows like This Hour Has 22 Minutes and his own show The Rick Mercer Report.

Mercer is openly gay.

[[London Passenger Transport Board]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct companies of the United Kingdom, Intermodal transport authorities, 1933 establishments, 1948 disestablishments in the United Kingdom

The London Passenger Transport Board (LPTB) was the organisation responsible for public transport in London, England, United Kingdom, and its environs from 1933 to 1948. In common with all London transport authorities from 1933 to 2000, the public name and operational brand of the organisation was London Transport.

[[County of London]]

CATEGORIES: Local government in London, 1889 establishments in England, 1965 disestablishments in England, 19th century in London, 20th century in London

The County of London was a county of England from 1889 to 1965, corresponding to the area today known as Inner London. It was created as part of the general introduction of elected county government in England, by way of the Local Government Act 1888.

[[Brockley]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, London Borough of Lewisham

Brockley is an area and electoral ward of the London Borough of Lewisham in England. It is about 5 south east of Charing Cross, it is covered by the London postcode district SE4.

[[Downham]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London

Downham is a district occupying much of the boundary between the London Borough of Lewisham and the London Borough of Bromley; it is the name of an electoral ward covering much of the area on the Lewisham side. Downham was named in honour of Lord Downham, who was chairman of the London County Council between 1919-20.

[[Archway, London]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Islington, Areas of London

Archway is an area of north London in the London Borough of Islington. 

[[Howie Morenz]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1937 deaths, Canadian ice hockey centres, Chicago Blackhawks players, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Rangers players, Stanley Cup champions

Howard William Morenz (June 21, 1902 – March 8, 1937) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player. He played centre for three National Hockey League (NHL) teams: the Montreal Canadiens (in two stints), the Chicago Black Hawks, and the New York Rangers. Before joining the NHL, Morenz was a very good player in the junior Ontario Hockey Association, where his team played for the Memorial Cup, the championship for junior ice hockey in Canada. In the NHL, he was one of the best players in the league and set several league scoring records. A strong skater, Morenz was called the "Stratford Streak" and "Mitchell Meteor" because he was very fast.

Considered one of the first stars of the NHL, Morenz played 14 seasons in the league. He was a member of a team that won the Stanley Cup three times, all of them being the Canadiens. During his NHL career he was in the top 10 leading scorers ten times. For seven seasons in a row Morenz led the Canadiens in both goals scored and points. Three times in he was named the most valuable player of the league, and he led the league once in goals scored and twice in points scored. He was named to the NHL All-Star Team three times.

Morenz died from problems with a broken leg, an injury he suffered in a game. After his death, the Canadiens stopped using his jersey number, the first time the team had done so for any player. When the Hockey Hall of Fame opened in 1945, Morenz was one of the first 12 people to be added. In 1950, the Canadian Press named him the best ice hockey player of the first half of the 20th century.

[[Norbury]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Croydon, Areas of London

Norbury is a town in the London Borough of Croydon, on the border with the London Borough of Lambeth and the London Borough of Merton. It shares the postcode London SW16 with nearby Streatham. Norbury is 6.7 south of Charing Cross.

[[Waterloo station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in London, London Travelcard zone 1, Bakerloo Line stations, Northern Line stations, Jubilee Line stations

Waterloo station, also known as 'London Waterloo', is a major railway terminus in London. It is owned and operated by Network Rail. It is near the South Bank in the London Borough of Lambeth, and in Travelcard Zone 1.

[[Highbury]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Islington, Areas of London

Highbury is an area in the London Borough of Islington.

[[Leyton]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, London Borough of Waltham Forest

Leyton is an area of East London and part of the London Borough of Waltham Forest, 6.2 northeast of Charing Cross. It borders Walthamstow and Leytonstone; Stratford in Newham; and  Homerton and Lower Clapton in the London Borough of Hackney. 

There is a professional football team based in Leyton called Leyton Orient F.C. 

[[Tooting]]

CATEGORIES: Tooting

Tooting is a suburb in the London Borough of Wandsworth in south London. It is 5 south south-west of Charing Cross. The area is identified in the London Plan as one of 35 major centres in Greater London.

[[Atomic radius]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear physics

The atomic radius of an element is the distance between the nucleus and the edge of the electron cloud. 

The atomic radius is rather hard to define, because it is impossible to know where all of the electrons are at a given time. 

In the periodic table of the elements, the atomic radius tends to increase as you move down a group because the number of electrons is greater, and so the radius of the circle of electrons in the element is bigger. As you move to the right across a period, the atomic radius tends to decrease due to the shielding effect.

[[Dale Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, Detroit Pistons players, Golden State Warriors players, Indiana Pacers players, Portland Trail Blazers players, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state)

Dale Davis (born March 25, 1969) is a retired NBA basketball player who played the positions of center and power forward. When he played in the NBA, he played with the Indiana Pacers, the Portland Trail Blazers, the Golden State Warriors, and the Detroit Pistons. He played college basketball at Clemson University.

[[Underpinning]]

CATEGORIES: Construction

In construction, underpinning is the process of strengthening and stabilizing the foundation of an existing building or other structure. Underpinning may be needed for a many of reasons: 

[[Epistasis]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics

Epistasis is the interaction between genes at different loci. It was a term invented by William Bateson in 1909.

When Gregor Mendel did his experiments on the sweet pea, he chose seven traits, such as round vs wrinkled peas, and tall vs short plants. He found the plants had pairs of 'factors' (genes) which controlled their appearance (phenotype). However, one pair of factors never affected the other pairs. But with epistasis, the action of one gene does affect another gene, even one on a different chromosome. 

Use of the term has varied somewhat. Its original meaning was quite narrow: for instance, a gene for no wings in Drosophila will obviously mask genes for any other aspect of the wings. In general, however, epistasis denotes any departure from independence of the effects of different genetic loci.

[[Holborn tramway station]]

CATEGORIES: Trams in London, Transport in Camden

Holborn tramway station (not to be confused with Holborn tube station) was a tram stop underneath Kingsway in central London. It was part of the Kingsway tramway subway route. When the station opened opened it was named Great Queen Street.

Services from Angel Islington to Aldwych started on 24 February 1906. Services rom Highbury station to Tower Bridge and from Highbury station to Kennington Gate started on 10 April 1908.

The station closed just after 12.30am on 6 April 1952. Much of the station remains in the disused tunnel but there is no public access.

[[Epigenetics]]

CATEGORIES: Epigenetics, Cell biology, Developmental biology

Epigenetics is the study of changes in gene activity which are not caused by changes in the DNA sequence. It is the study of gene expression, the way genes bring about their phenotypic effects.

These changes in gene activity may stay for the rest of the cell's life. They may last for many generations of cells, through cell divisions. However, there is no change in the underlying DNA sequence of the organism. Instead, non-hereditary factors cause the organism's genes to behave (express themselves) differently. Epigenetics works by mechanisms such as DNA methylation.

Epigenetic factors may last into adulthood.

[[Cell differentiation]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Cell biology, Developmental biology

Cellular differentiation is the process by which a less specialized cell becomes a more specialized cell type. It is part of developmental biology. Different tissues have different kinds of organelles inside the cells. 

Differentiation occurs many times during the development of a multicellular organism. The organism changes from a single zygote to a complex system of tissues and cell types. Differentiation is also a common process in adults: adult stem cells divide to make fully-differentiated daughter cells during tissue repair and during normal cell turnover.

Differentiation dramatically changes a cell's size, shape, metabolic activity, and responsiveness to signals. These changes are largely due to changes in gene expression. With a few exceptions, cellular differentiation almost never involves a change in the DNA sequence itself. It does involve switching off many genes not needed in a particular tissue. Thus, cells in different tissues may have very different physical characteristics despite having the same genome.

Cell potency is a cell's ability to differentiate into other cell types. A cell that is able to differentiate into many cell types is known as pluripotent. Such cells are called stem cells in animals and meristematic cells in higher plants.  A cell that is able to differentiate into all cell types is known as totipotent. In mammals, only the zygote and early embryonic cells are totipotent, while in plants many differentiated cells can become totipotent with simple laboratory techniques.

[[Morphogenesis]]

CATEGORIES: Developmental biology, Cell biology, Plant anatomy

Morphogenesis (meaning the "beginning of shape"), is the biological process that causes an organism to develop its shape. 

It is one of three fundamental aspects of developmental biology along with the control of cell growth and cellular differentiation. 

The process controls the organized spatial distribution of cells during the embryonic development of an organism. Morphogenetic responses may be induced in organisms by hormones, by substances produced by other organisms, or by mechanical stresses induced by spatial patterning of the cells. Morphogenesis can take place in an embyro, a mature organism, in cell culture or inside tumor cell masses.

[[Gastrulation]]

CATEGORIES: Developmental biology

Gastrulation is a phase early in the development of most animal embryos. In it the embryo is dramatically restructured by cell migration.

Gastrulation varies in different phyla. It is followed by organogenesis, when individual organs develop within the newly formed germ layers.

The gastrula is the double-walled stage of the embryo. During gastrulation, some of the cells of the blastula migrate inwards to make an inner layer, the endoderm. In some animals another cell layer forms, the mesoderm, between the endoderm and the ectoderm.

[[Wat Phra-sri Rattana Mahathat]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhist temples in Thailand

Wat Phra-sri Rattana Mahathat or Wat Yai is the most important monastery of Phitsanulok. It was built in the reign of Phra Maha Thamma Racha I in 1357 BCE. In the temple, there is a Buddha image called Phra Buddha Chinnaraj. The pearl inlaid wooden doors of the temple were built by King Borommakot in 1756 as tribute to Phra Buddha Chinnaraj. Behind the temple, there is a large pagoda 36 high with a staircase leading up to the niche containing the Buddha relics. In front of the pagoda, there is Phra Attharos, a standing Buddha image.

[[Jikji]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhist texts, Korea, 14th century books

Jikji is the oldest extant movable metal type book in the world.

Jikji is the short title of a Korean book whose full title can be translated as Anthology of the Great Priests' Zen Teachings. It is a Buddhist document, and was printed during Korea's Goryeo era in 1377.

Jikji is a book about Zen Buddhism published in Heungdeok temple. It was written by the Buddhist monk Baegun who died three years before this edition was printed. Baegun was the chief priest of the Anguk and Shingwang temples in Haeju. 

Jikji was published 78 years before Johannes Gutenberg's "42-Line Bible". Jikji consists of two volumes. Only the second volume is extant. This volume is held in the National Library of France. UNESCO confirmed Jikji as the world's oldest metalloid type book in September 2001, and includes it in the Memory of the World program.  

[[Bibliothèque nationale de France]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Paris, National libraries in Europe

The Bibliothèque nationale de France is the National Library of France in Paris. 

[[Fitness]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics, Evolutionary biology

Fitness in biology is the relative ability of an organism to survive and pass on its genes to the next generation.p160 It is a central idea in evolutionary theory. Fitness is usually equal to the proportion of the individual's genes in all the genes of the next generation.

Like all terms in evolutionary biology, fitness is defined in terms of an interbreeding population, which might or might not be a whole species. If differences in individual genotypes affect fitness, then the frequencies of the genotypes will change over generations; the genotypes with higher fitness become more common. This is the process called natural selection.

An individual's fitness is caused by its phenotype, and passed on by its genotype. The fitnesses of different individuals with the same genotype are not necessarily equal. It depends on the environment in which the individuals live, and on accidental events. However, since the fitness of the genotype is an averaged quantity, it reflects the reproductive outcomes of all individuals with that genotype.

[[Cilla Black]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2015 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Accidental deaths in Spain, Actors from Liverpool, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Spain, Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in Andalusia, English movie actors, English pop musicians, English television actors, English television presenters, Singers from Liverpool

Cilla Black (27 May 1943 – 1 August 2015) was a English television personality, singer and actress. Her birth name was Priscilla Maria Veronica White and she was born in Liverpool. She became known for her songs "Anyone Who Had A Heart" and "You're My World" as well as her long-running TV shows Blind Date (1985-2003) and Surprise Surprise (1984-2001).

In the early 1960s, young Cilla worked at the Cavern Club in Liverpool, where the Beatles often performed, as a hat check girl. She also sang onstage at the Cavern sometimes, backed by the band that was playing at the time. "Swinging Cilla" was well-liked by the Cavern's members and guests.

One day Brian Epstein visited the Cavern to meet the Beatles, and ask about a record they made, so he could sell copies at his family's music store. Stories rose later that Cilla was working, and she first met Epstein when he gave her his hat and coat. Neither one remembered this later, though, and each believed the story was not true.

Epstein's getting to know the Beatles led to his becoming their manager, and with his help, they won a recording contract. The Beatles' talent and work with music producer George Martin led to hit records. Epstein decided to manage other Liverpool musicians. Along with the bands and male singers he signed up, Epstein chose Cilla as his only female performer. He suggested her stage name (changing White to Black), so she and her family could keep their privacy. Martin also agreed to record her, helping choose songs that would showcase her voice.

Cilla became popular first in England and Europe, then in America as the Beatles' music started the "British Invasion" there in 1964. One of her first hits, "Anyone Who Had A Heart", was recorded earlier by American singer Dionne Warwick. The two records sounded similar, even though Cilla had not heard Warwick's version, and a few people believed she had copied it. Both women later also recorded the theme song for the movie Alfie, but they sounded different.

Cilla had other hit records, including "You're My World" and a television theme song, "Step Inside, Love". Epstein enjoyed working with her, even helping her choose wardrobe for performances and looking after her backstage, but personal problems later took away his attention. He died in 1967, after a drug overdose.

In time, Cilla Black stopped having hits. She remained popular in England, though, and was a welcome hostess and guest on television. She also made appearances from time to time, to sing the songs from the time she was most popular.

In later years, her health became poor. Arthritis made walking painful, and she was nearly deaf. She admitted that she did not want to live past 75 years old, because she enjoyed her life less and less as she aged.

Cilla Black died of a stroke after a fall at her holiday home near Marbella, Spain, on 1 August 2015, aged 72. Her funeral took place in Liverpool on 20 August 2015.

[[Paulista Avenue]]

CATEGORIES: São Paulo

Paulista Avenue (in Portuguese: Avenida Paulista) is the most important avenue and one of the main financial centers of the city of São Paulo, Brazil.

[[Didcot]]

CATEGORIES: South Oxfordshire, Towns in Oxfordshire, 13th century establishments in England

Didcot is a town in Oxfordshire about 10 south of Oxford. Until 1974 it was part of Berkshire.

[[Horsepower]]

CATEGORIES: Imperial units, Units of power

Horsepower is a unit of power that is approximately how much work one horse can do. It is equal to 746 watts.  The idea of horsepower was originated by James Watt, who invented the steam engine. Because people used horses to pull carts, it was an amount of energy that could be understood by most people at that time.  A human can only maintain about 0.1, but an engine can maintain much higher than that. Small motors can create 10 while a jet engine can create more than 1,000.

[[Mason Raymond]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, American Hockey League players, Anaheim Ducks players, Calgary Flames players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Living people, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vancouver Canucks players

Mason Evan Raymond (born September 17, 1985) is a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger. He currently plays for the Calgary Flames of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Vancouver Canucks and Toronto Maple Leafs. He was drafted 51st overall by the Vancouver Canucks in the 2005 NHL Entry Draft.

On June 28, 2014, Raymond was signed as a free agent by the Calgary Flames to a three-year, $9.5 million contract.

[[Pavol Demitra]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2011 deaths, Aviation deaths, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Los Angeles Kings players, Minnesota Wild players, Ottawa Senators players, Slovak ice hockey players, St. Louis Blues players, Vancouver Canucks players, American Hockey League players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Ice hockey centres

Pavol Demitra (November 29, 1974 – September 7, 2011) was a Slovak professional ice hockey centre who last played for the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl of the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL). He first played in the NHL in 1993, having previously played with the Ottawa Senators, who selected him in the 1993 NHL Entry Draft, St. Louis Blues, Los Angeles Kings and Minnesota Wild. Before he joined the NHL, Demitra played in Slovakia, as well as the American Hockey League (AHL) and International Hockey League (IHL), minor professional leagues in North America. In Demitra's NHL career spanning 16 years, he has achieved the 300-goal mark and won the Lady Byng Trophy for sportsmanship in 2000. On September 7, 2011, at 4:02 PM local time, Demitra died when a Yakovlev Yak-42 passenger aircraft, that was carrying the entire hockey team of Lokomotiv Yaroslavl crashed near Yaroslavl, Russia. The plane was on its way to Minsk, Belarus, to start the 2011-12 KHL season.

[[Kevin Bieksa]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Vancouver Canucks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, American Hockey League players

Kevin Francesco  Bieksa (born on June 16, 1981 in Grimsby, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman who currently plays for the Vancouver Canucks of the National Hockey League (NHL). After playing junior hockey in Ontario, Bieksa was awarded a scholarship to Bowling Green University, where he spent four years. While at university, Bieksa was selected by the Canucks in the 2001 NHL Entry Draft, and joined their minor league partner, the Manitoba Moose of the American Hockey League (AHL), after graduating. After spending time with the Moose, he joined the Canucks. A physical defenceman, Bieksa has increased his scoring totals in each of the full seasons he has played in the NHL.

[[1992 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 in the United States, 1992 elections, United States presidential elections

The 1992 United States presidential election happened on November 3, 1992. Bill Clinton, the Democratic candidate and Governor of Arkansas, won the election. He defeated the incumbent president, George H. W. Bush, who was a Republican, and Ross Perot, an independent candidate. 

Clinton got 370 electoral votes, Bush got 168, and Perot got 0. A person running for president needs to get 270 to win.

George H.W. Bush may have lost the election for several reasons.  He broke his promise of "Read my lips: no new taxes" by increasing taxes during his term.  Some of his most well-known accomplishments during his presidency came from his foreign policy, and because of the Cold War and Gulf War being over, foreign policy became a smaller issue, as the economy became a bigger issue, since the economy was bad.  

Prior to 2020, this was the last election where a candidate won the presidency without winning Florida.

[[Meliaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Meliaceae

Meliaceae is a family of dicotyledonous plants in order Sapindales, most of which have spirally pinnate leaves. 

The family includes about 50 genera and 550 species, with a pantropical distribution; one genus (Toona) extends north into temperate China and south into southeast Australia, and another (Melia) nearly as far north.

[[South Jakarta]]

CATEGORIES: Jakarta

South Jakarta (Jakarta Selatan) is a city in Jakarta, Indonesia. It is the second largest administrative city in Jakarta after East Jakarta. 

South Jakarta is divided into five subdistricts: Kebayoran Baru, Kebayoran Lama, Pesanggrahan, Setiabudi, Cilandak, Pasar Minggu, and Jagakarsa.

[[Alexandre Bolduc]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, American Hockey League players, Arizona Coyotes players, Canadian ice hockey centres, ECHL players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, People from Montreal, Phoenix Coyotes players, Rouyn-Noranda Huskies players, Shawinigan Cataractes players, Vancouver Canucks players

Alexandre Bolduc (born June 26, 1985 in Montreal, Quebec) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre who currently plays for the Arizona Coyotes of the National Hockey League (NHL).

Bolduc was selected by the St. Louis Blues with the 127th pick in the 2004 NHL Draft but never played for them. He has also played for the Vancouver Canucks. He signed a contract with the Coyotes on July 2, 2011.

[[Manitoba Moose]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 establishments in Canada, 2011 disestablishments in Canada, 2015 establishments in North America, American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in Canada, Sport in Manitoba, 2010s establishments in Canada

The Manitoba Moose are a professional ice hockey team that play in the American Hockey League (AHL). They play in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, at the MTS Centre. They are the farm team of the Winnipeg Jets. 

The team originally played as the Manitoba Moose from 1996 until 2011. They were relocated to St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador and became the St. John's IceCaps, which is the AHL farm team of the Winnipeg Jets. The team played in St. John's for four seasons. 

In May 2015, it was announced that the team would be returning to Winnipeg and would be once again be called the Manitoba Moose.

[[Stickleback]]

CATEGORIES: Teleosts

Sticklebacks are fish of the Gasterosteidae family. FishBase currently recognises sixteen species in the family, grouped in five genera. Several of the species have a number of recognised subspecies, and the taxonomy of the family is thought to be in need of revision. 

An unusual features of sticklebacks is that they have no scales, although some species have bony armour plates. They are related to pipefish and seahorses. Stickleback species are found in fresh water environments in Europe, Asia and North America. They feed on small crustaceans and fish larvae.

Sticklebacks have strong separated spines in the dorsal fin. All species show similar mating behaviour, with co-operation between the sexes, and protection of the eggs. The males construct a nest from vegetation held together by secretions from their kidneys. The males then attract females to the nest. The females lay their eggs inside, where the males fertilise them. The males then guards the eggs until they hatch.

[[Mikhail Bulgakov]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1940 deaths, Russian writers, People from Kiev

Mikhaíl Bulgakov  (15 May – 10 March 1940) was a Soviet Russian writer and playwright active in the first half of the 20th century.

He is best known for his novel The Master and Margarita, which has been called one of the masterpieces of the 20th century.

Much of Bulgakov's work is best described as magic realism, where fantasy intrudes into what seemed at first to be a straightforward everyday scene.

[[J.B.S. Haldane]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1964 deaths, English biologists, English geneticists

John Burdon Sanderson Haldane FRS (3 November 1892 – 1 December 1964), known as Jack (but who used 'J.B.S.' in his printed works), was a British geneticist and evolutionary biologist who emigrated to India towards the end of his life. He was one of the founders (along with Ronald Fisher and Sewall Wright) of population genetics.

Jack Haldane was a communist, atheist and a writer of popular science books, and articles for the Daily Worker. His major professional work was his contribution of mathematical papers on the theory of evolution, which assisted the modern evolutionary synthesis.

[[Lost Generation]]

CATEGORIES: American writers

The "Lost Generation" is a term used to describe a number of  American writers and artists who went to live in Europe after the First World War. People associated with the Lost Generation include Ernest Hemingway, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Sherwood Anderson and John Steinbeck.

The term has also been used more recently to describe those unable to find work after the global financial crisis of 2008-2009.

[[W.D. Hamilton]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2000 deaths, English mathematicians, English geneticists, English evolutionary biologists, Fellows of the Royal Society

William Donald Hamilton FRS (1 August 1936 – 7 March 2000) was an English evolutionary biologist whom Richard Dawkins praised as one of the greatest evolutionary theorists of the 20th century.

Hamilton became famous through his theoretical work on kin selection and altruism. He explained its genetic basis, and this was a key part of the  gene-centered view of evolution. In doing this, he became one of the forerunners of sociobiology, as popularized by E.O. Wilson. Hamilton was certainly a big influence on Dawkins. He also published important work on sex ratios and the evolution of sex. From 1984 to his death in 2000, he was the Royal Society Research Professor at Oxford University. He died of malaria contracted in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

[[John Maynard Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2004 deaths, English biologists, English geneticists, British zoologists, English science writers

John Maynard Smith, FRS (6 January 1920 – 19 April 2004) was a British theoretical evolutionary biologist and geneticist. Originally an aeronautical engineer during the Second World War, he then took a second degree in genetics under the well-known biologist J.B.S. Haldane. Maynard Smith was instrumental in the application of game theory to evolution and theorized on other problems such as the evolution of sex and signalling theory.

[[Kawasaki Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Kanagawa Prefecture

Kawasaki Station (川崎駅,かわさきえき) is a railway station of JR East,  in Kawasaki, Japan.

[[Mudvayne]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 1990s establishments in Illinois, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, 2010 disestablishments in the United States, Alternative metal bands, American heavy metal bands, Musical groups disestablished in 2010, Musical groups established in 1996, Musical groups from Illinois

Mudvayne is an American heavy metal band. They formed in Peoria, Illinois in 1996. They play for the record label Epic Records.

[[Alastair Campbell]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, British atheists, British journalists, British politicians

Alastair John Campbell (born 25 May 1957) was the Director of Communications and Strategy for the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom (Tony Blair) between 1997 and 2003.

He used to work for the Daily Mirror as their politics reporter, and was an alcoholic. Then he had a breakdown, gave up drinking, and started working for Tony Blair in 1994. He was seen as one of the main spin doctors in the Labour Party. He eventually resigned over the 45 minute claim in the dossier prepared over the Iraq War, after the Hutton report had come out and Dr. David Kelly was dead.

He currently works as a broadcaster, journalist and spokesman for Leukaemia Research. He is said to be re-joining the Labour campaign team for the 2010 election. He is an atheist.

[[Cave]]

CATEGORIES: Caves

A cave is a natural underground hollow space. They can have narrow passageways (corridors) and chambers (caverns). They are usually formed when underground acidic (sour) water wears away softer stones, such as limestone. Only the hard rock, such as granite, is left. Caves can also be formed during natural catastrophes, such as earthquakes, or by ice and glaciers.

Caves can have formations in them such as stalagmites and stalactites. These are made over thousands of years by water dripping and leaving mineral deposits.

Many creatures live in the entrance areas of caves, for example snakes, mice, spiders & porcupines. Only a few animals are found deep in caves. Bats often live in caves. Another common creature found in caves is cave crickets. 

In the past, people lived in caves. People used to live in many European caves in the Stone Age. Caves still provide shelter for trekkers. Some caves have beautiful paintings on the walls. 

People who explore caves are called cavers or speleologists. (The study of caves is called speleology.) They go into caves for fun, exercise and to see the different formations. This can be a dangerous sport because caves sometimes have deep holes. Cavers also have to climb and crawl through the passages. Cavers usually go into caves with four or more people. Each person has 2 or 3 light sources. One light is attached to each helmet. People go into caves to try and explore more about the world.

[[Automobile]]

CATEGORIES: Automobiles

An automobile (or car) is a land vehicle used to carry passengers. Automobiles usually have four wheels (round things which turn in order to lead to movement), and an engine or motor to make them move.

[[Mickey Mouse Clubhouse]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 American television series debuts, Television series by Disney, Children's television series

Mickey Mouse Clubhouse is a children's television series on Playhouse Disney and Disney Channel and produced by Disney.

It shows Mickey Mouse and his playmates in their fun journeys in different places, learning on the way.

They take help with 3, 4 or 5 items called Mouskatools given by a Mickey Head looking Toodles.

[[Indies]]

CATEGORIES: Asia

The Indies is a word used for places in South and Southeast Asia, including Indian Union, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, the Maldives and also Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Brunei, Singapore, the Philippines, East Timor, Malaysia and Indonesia. Sometimes this area has been called the East Indies, in contrast to the West Indies.

[[Asclepias amplexicaulis]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias amplexicaulis, also known as the clasping milkweed, is a species of milkweed plant.  It is also known as blunt-leaved milkweed and sand milkweed.  It is in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to eastern North America.  The blooming period is in the spring.  This species is found in prairies and open woodlands, usually in sandy soil.  It is about 0.3 to 0.9 meters in height (1-3 feet).  Clasping Milkweed has poison that is dangerous to humans and livestock.

[[Asclepias asperula]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias asperula is a species of milkweed plant. It is commonly known as antelope horns, green-flowered milkweed, spider antelope horns and spider antelopehorns.  It belongs to the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to the southwestern United States and northern Mexico.  It blooms from April to June.  This species likes to grow in moist sandy or rocky soil.  Antelope horns grows from 0.3 to 0.6 meters (1-2 feet).

[[Asclepias californica]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias californica (commonly known as the California milkweed) is a species of milkweed plant.  It is also known as Round-hooded milkweed. It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to California and Baja California.  It blooms from April to July.  This species is found on grassy or bushy hillsides.

[[Alex Burrows]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, Vancouver Canucks players, American Hockey League players

Alexandre Ménard-Burrows (born April 11, 1981) is a former Canadian professional ice hockey winger with the Vancouver Canucks of the National Hockey League (NHL). He also played for the Ottawa Senators. He is known for his ascension to the NHL from being an undrafted player in the ECHL.

[[Winger (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey positions

Winger, in hockey, is a forward position of a player who is on either side of the centre forward, often along the playing area. They usually work by going beside the centre. At first, the name was given to forward players who went up and down the sides of the rink. Now, there are different types of wingers in the game: they either are mainly goal scorers, or help stop the other team from scoring.

This position is commonly referred to by the side of the rink that the winger normally takes. Players to the left of the centre are called "left wingers," and players on the right are called "right wingers."

[[Slovakia men's national ice hockey team]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey in Europe, National ice hockey teams, Sport in Slovakia

The Slovak men's national ice hockey team is one of the best national ice hockey teams in the world.  As of 2008, the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF), the world governing body of ice hockey, ranks them as the eighth best national team. The team is operated by the Slovak Ice Hockey Federation under general manager Peter Bondra, and head coach Ján Filc. In the last six years, Slovakia has won three medals at the World Championships, including a gold medal in 2002. Slovakia has a total of 12,375 hockey players (0.23% of the population).

[[Yucca brevifolia]]

CATEGORIES: Agavaceae

Yucca brevifolia is a plant species in the genus Yucca and in the family Agavaceae. Its common names are Joshua tree and Yucca palm and Tree yucca and Palm tree yucca. They grow in the desert and do not have growth rings. The lack of grow rings makes it hard to tell the trees age.

[[1910–11 NHA season]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey Association

The 1910–11 NHA season was the second season of the former National Hockey Association. Five teams played 16 games each, starting on December 31, 1910 and ending on March 10, 1911. The Ottawa Hockey Club won the league championship and took over the Stanley Cup from the Montreal Wanderers.

[[Tim Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, American ice hockey players, Boston Bruins players, Dallas Stars players, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Florida Panthers players, Living people, Sportspeople from Michigan, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

Timothy Thomas, Jr. (born April 15, 1974), called The Tank, is a former American professional ice hockey goaltender under contract with the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League (NHL). He was raised in Flint, Michigan and played college hockey for the University of Vermont for four years from 1993–1997, during which, he was selected 217th overall by the Quebec Nordiques in the 1994 NHL Entry Draft. He played for several years in the minor leagues and Europe before becoming the Boston Bruins' starting goaltender. He, along with Manny Fernandez, is the current holder of the William M. Jennings Trophy. Thomas is a two-time NHL All-Star, and was the winner of the 2009 Vezina Trophy as the league's best goaltender. The Bruins suspended Thomas for not reporting to training camp and he was traded to the Islanders for a conditional 2nd round pick in either 2014 or 2015.

[[Quebec Nordiques]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 establishments in Canada, 1990s disestablishments in Canada, 1995 disestablishments, Defunct National Hockey League teams, Sport in Quebec City, World Hockey Association teams

The Quebec Nordiques (Nordiques de Québec, pronounced nɔʀˈd͡zɪk in Quebec French, nɔrˈdiːks in Canadian English, meaning "Northmen" or "Northerners") were a professional ice hockey team from Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. The Nordiques played in the World Hockey Association (1972–1979) and the National Hockey League (1979–1995). The team moved to Denver, Colorado in 1995 and changed their name to the Colorado Avalanche.

As the value of the Canadian dollar was failing, the Quebec Nordiques were compelled to sell their team. With the salaries of players rising and the arena in need of repairs, the ownership of the Nordiques was sold to a group of investors in Denver, Colorado. To make matters worse, during their first season in Colorado, the former Nordiques, now Colorado Avalanche, won the Stanley Cup.

[[1967 NHL expansion]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League, 1967 in ice hockey, St. Louis Blues, 1967 in North America

The National Hockey League (NHL) went through an expansion for the 1967–68 NHL season. It added six new teams, which already had six teams in it. This marked the first change in the composition of the league since 1942. It was the end of the Original Six era in the NHL, which had happened since 1942.

The expansion process began in March 1965, when NHL President Clarence Campbell announced that the league proposed to expand its operations through the formation of a second six-team division. 

Before the expansion, there were six teams:

The six teams added in 1967 were:

[[Lady Byng Memorial Trophy]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League trophies and awards

The Lady Byng Memorial Trophy, originally known as the Lady Byng Trophy, is given each year to the National Hockey League "player adjudged to have exhibited the best type of sportsmanship and gentlemanly conduct combined with a high standard of playing ability". The Lady Byng Memorial Trophy has been awarded 84 times to 50 different players since it was first awarded in 1925. The voting is done at the end of the season by the members of the Professional Hockey Writers' Association.

[[Chris Andersen]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Basketball players from California, Cleveland Cavaliers players, Denver Nuggets players, Living people, Memphis Grizzlies players, Miami Heat players, New Orleans Hornets players, People from Long Beach, California

Chris "Birdman" Andersen (born July 7, 1978  in Long Beach, California) is an American basketball player who plays the positions of center and power forward. He currently plays for the Miami Heat of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He was nicknamed "Birdman" by Junior Harrington, a former NBA player, for having wing tattoos on his inner biceps.

[[Asclepias cordifolia]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias cordifolia (also known as the heart-leaf milkweed or purple milkweed) is a species of milkweed plant. It is not the same as Asclepias purpurascens, which is also known as purple milkweed.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to western North America.  Heart-leaf Milkweed is found in woodlands, rocky slopes, and lava flows.

[[Purple milkweed]]

Purple milkweed is a common name of two plants in the genus Asclepias:

[[Asclepias curassavica]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias curassavica (also known as the scarlet milkweed, Mexican butterfly weed, or bloodflower) is a species of milkweed plant.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to Central America and South America.  It is now naturalized around the world.  It gets flowers from spring to fall.

[[Asclepias curtissii]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias curtissii (also known as Curtiss's milkweed) is a species of milkweed plant.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to Florida.

[[Assassination of Julius Caesar]]

CATEGORIES: 44 BC, Ancient Rome, Assassinations in Europe, March events

The assassination (murder) of Julius Caesar was the result of a conspiracy by forty Roman senators, the self-styled Liberatores. They were led by Cassius and Brutus.

The senators stabbed Caesar to death in the Theatre of Pompey on the Ides of March, 15 March 44 BC. Caesar was the dictator of the Roman Republic at the time. He had been declared dictator perpetuo (dictator for life) by the Senate. This declaration resulted in many senators fearing that Caesar wanted to overthrow the Senate in favour of a tyranny. 

The assassination led to civil war. The Second Triumvirate led to the ascendancy of Caesar's adopted heir Octavian to the position of emperor, and the end of the Republic leading to the Roman Empire. In the end, by murdering Caesar, the Liberators caused the end of the Republic they supported.

[[Asclepias eriocarpa]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias eriocarpa (also known as the woollypod milkweed) is a species of milkweed plant.  It is also known as Indian Milkweed and Kotolo.  It is in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to the western United States.  This species is found in dry, barren habitats.

[[Asclepias erosa]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias erosa (also known as the desert milkweed) is a species of milkweed plant.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to the southwestern United States.  It blooms from May to July.  This species is found in dry slopes.

[[Asclepias exaltata]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias exaltata (also known as the poke milkweed or tall milkweed) is a species of milkweed plant. It is in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.

The plant is found in eastern North America. It blooms from late spring to early summer. The flowers are green and white. Poke milkweed is found in moist woodland habitats. It grows well in moist soil and sunny or partly shaded places. It grows from 0.6 to 1.5 meters tall (2–5 feet).

[[Asclepias fascicularis]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias fascicularis (also known as the narrow-leaf milkweed or Mexican whorled milkweed) is a species of milkweed plant. It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to the western United States.  It blooms from June to September.  This species is found in dry areas and valleys.

[[Asclepias humistrata]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias humistrata (also known as the sandhill milkweed or pinewoods milkweed) is a species of milkweed plant.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to the southeastern United States. It blooms in early summer. The flowers are pink. It is found in sandy woodlands and sandy hills. Sandhill Milkweed grows well dry soil and sunny places. It grows from 0.3 to 0.9 meters tall (1–3 feet).

[[Asclepias incarnata]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias incarnata is a species of milkweed plant.  It is also known as the swamp milkweed, the rose milkweed, the pink milkweed, the swamp milkweed, and white Indian hemp.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to North America.  It blooms from June to August.  The flowers are pink. Swamp milkweed is found in wet meadows, prairies, swamps, and marshes.  It likes moist soil and sunny or partly shaded places.  It grows to a height of 0.3 to 1.5 meters (1–5 feet).refWilliam Cullina (2000). Wildflowers: A Guide to Growing and Propagating Native Flowers of North America. The New England Wildflower Society. 0-395-96609-4

[[Brand New Eyes]]

CATEGORIES: Paramore albums, 2009 albums

Brand New Eyes (written brand new eyes) is an album by the band Paramore. It was put out on September 29, 2009 in the United States and Canada. It has reached the top of the music charts in many countries, meaning many people bought the album.

[[Asclepias nivea]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias nivea (also known as the Caribbean milkweed) is a species of milkweed plant.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands.

[[Asclepias physocarpa]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias physocarpa (also known as the swan plant, balloonplant, or balloon cotton-bush) is a species of milkweed plant. It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It has been naturalized in Hawai'i and has also been naturalized in other parts of the world.

[[Asclepias purpurascens]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias purpurascens (also known as the purple milkweed) is a species of milkweed plant.  The species Asclepias cordifolia is also sometimes called purple milkweed.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to North America.  It blooms from June to July.  The flowers are a pink-purple color.  This species is found in savannas, prairies, and meadows.  Purple Milkweed likes to grow in clay or sandy soil and in sunny or partly shaded places.  It grows to a height of 0.6 to 1.2 meters (2–4 feet).

[[Asclepias speciosa]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias speciosa (also known as the showy milkweed or Greek milkweed) is a species of milkweed plant. It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to western North America.  It blooms from May to July.  This species is found in savannas, prairies, meadows, and fields.

[[Asclepias subverticillata]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias subverticillata (also known as the horsetail milkweed or whorled milkweed) is a species of milkweed plant. It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to the western United States.

[[Tortuga (Haiti)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Haiti

Île de la Tortue (Tortuga Island in English, Il Latòti in Kréyòl) is a Caribbean island that forms part of Haiti, off the northwest coast of Hispaniola. Its Taíno name was Baynei.

During the 17th century, the island was an important centre for Caribbean piracy where pirates traded their stolen goods from ships and towns and stayed for days before going out to try to capture other ships.

[[Seizure response dog]]

CATEGORIES: Working dogs, Service animals

A seizure response dog is a dog who is specially trained to help its owner during a seizure.  These dogs' jobs may include:

Certain kinds of dogs are able to predict that a person is about to have an epileptic seizure.  This gives the person time to get to a safe place before the seizure starts.  Usually, people say that dogs develop this behavior spontaneously (on their own), or over some time. There have been some studies where dogs were trained to alert to seizures when they were given rewards for correctly predicting seizures - but these studies were only partly successful.  Some untrained dogs may help their owners during a seizure, but there are also reports of dogs that have reacted aggressively or even died as a result of witnessing or anticipating their owner's seizure.

[[Asclepias syriaca]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias syriaca (also known as the common milkweed, butterfly flower, silkweed, silky swallow-wort, and Virginia silkweed) is a species of milkweed plant. It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to North America.  It blooms from June to August.  The flowers are green and purple.  This species is found in prairies, meadows, and fields.  Common Milkweed likes damp to dry soil and sunny or partly shaded places.  It is about 0.5 to 1.5 meters in height (1½-5 feet).

[[Butterfly flower]]

Butterfly flower is a common name for different plants:

[[Silky Swallow-wort]]

Silky Swallow-wort is a common name of two plants in the genus Asclepias:

[[Guitar chord]]

CATEGORIES: Guitars

A guitar chord is made up of two or more notes, played on a guitar at one time. Chord voicings, that is the choice of individual notes in the chord, can be changed for many different purposes and playing styles. 

The guitar is very capable and useful for playing chords; but it does have some differences with other instruments. Most guitars only have six strings. This means that for the very largest of chord-voicings it is often necessary to not use one or more tones from the chord. The layout of notes on the fretboard sometimes means that the notes in a chord are not played in tonal order, or make possible a chord that is composed of more than one note of the same pitch. Many chords can be played with the same notes in more than one place on the fretboard.

Guitars can vary both in the number of strings they have. They can also be tuned differently. Most guitars used in popular music have six-strings and are tuned : E-A-D-G-B-E. Usually the string with the highest pitch (the thinnest) is called the first string, and the string having the lowest pitch (the thickest) is called the sixth.

[[Asclepias tuberosa]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias tuberosa (also known as the butterfly flower) is a species of milkweed plant.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to North America.  It blooms from June to September.  The flowers are orange, red-orange, or yellow.  This species is found in prairies, meadows, and fields.  It likes well-drained soil and sunny or partly shaded places.  Butterfly Weed grows from 0.3 to 0.9 meters tall (1–3 feet).

It has many other names, including the butterfly weed, the Canada root, the chigger flower (or chiggerflower), the fluxroot, the Indian paintbrush, the Indian posy, the orange milkweed, the orange swallow-wort, the Pleurisy Root, the silky swallow-wort, the tuber root, the yellow milkweed, the white-root, and the windroot.

[[Indian Paintbrush]]

Indian Paintbrush is a common name for different plants:

[[Intel Core i7]]

CATEGORIES: Computer processors

Intel Core i7 is a name that the company Intel uses for the computer processors it makes for high-end desktop and laptop computers and tablets. Intel uses this name for the fastest processors that they think will be used to build the most powerful consumer devices. The 'Core' part of the name, which refers to the processor's core, has been used by Intel since 2006, but the first Core i7 processor was released 3 years later in 2009. 

There are different types of Core i7 processor. The name does not name a type. Instead, it is the name for all of the fast processors that Intel thinks should be sold to consumers. Intel uses two other "Core i-" names for its processors for consumers: "Core i5" and "Core i3." The "Core i5" processors are mostly as fast as i7 processors, but lack the Hyper Threading technology which allows each core to be used twice simultaneously giving the impression of doubling the cores. 

Intel uses a different name, Xeon, for processors that Intel makes for "server" computers for businesses (and some rare laptops). Some of the "Core i7" processors are almost the same as some of the "Xeon" processors, but each of the Xeon processors is a little bit different than the "Core i7" processor, because a "server" computer is not the same as a consumer computer. Intel also makes other "Xeon" processors that are not the same as any "Core i7" processor. Unlike the Core i7, Xeon processors support ECC (error corrected) memory, and multiple CPUs on the same motherboard.

[[Asclepias verticillata]]

CATEGORIES: Asclepias

Asclepias verticillata (Whorled Milkweed or Horsetail Milkweed) is a particular kind of milkweed used as a medicinal plant. It is native to North America. It blooms in the summer. The flowers are white or pale green. It is found in fields, open woodlands, and prairies. Whorled Milkweed likes dry soil and sunny or partly shaded places. It grows from 0.3 to 0.9 meters tall (1–3 feet).

[[Sacred dance]]

CATEGORIES: Ritual dances

Sacred dance is a kind of dance that encompasses all movements that are religious in nature.  An example of a sacred dance is the dance done by a whirling dervish.

[[Population genetics]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics, Evolutionary biology, Mathematics, Statistics

Population genetics is the branch of genetics which studies the genetic composition of populations. It brings together genetics, evolution, natural selection, breeding, statistics and mathematics. Mathematical and computer models are produced, and field research is done to test the models.

[[Calotropis gigantea]]

CATEGORIES: Gentianales

Crown flower (Calotropis gigantea) is a species of plant.  It is also known as Giant Milkweed.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadodeae.  It is native to southeast Asia.  It has been naturalized in Hawai'i.

[[Calotropis procera]]

CATEGORIES: Gentianales, Plants of Asia

Apple of Sodom (Calotropis procera) is a species of plant.  It is also known as Roostertree.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  

It is native to North Africa, Central Africa, Western Asia, South Asia, and Indochina. It has been naturalized in Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Hawai'i, and southern California.

[[Cynanchum laeve]]

CATEGORIES: Gentianales

Sand Vine (Cynanchum laeve) is a species of plant.  It is also known as Honeyvine, Honeyvine Milkweed, Bluevine Milkweed, Climbing Milkweed, and Smooth Swallow-wort.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to North America.  It blooms from June to August.  This species is found in a variety of habitats such as edges of woodlands, near stream edges, gardens, and fields.  This vine can grow to be 6 or more feet long.

[[Hardy–Weinberg law]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics, Evolutionary biology

The Hardy–Weinberg law was developed independently by an English mathematician, G.H. Hardy, and a German doctor, Wilhelm Weinberg. This concept is also known as the Hardy–Weinberg equilibrium, Hardy–Weinberg theorem or Hardy–Weinberg principle. Sometimes Weinberg's name is placed first. 

The law is a foundation of population genetics, and it is still taught to students today. It states that the proportions of alleles of all genes in any population will remain the same unless perturbed (disturbed). That applies to all loci on all chromosomes in the population. Possible perturbations are:

It follows that any systematic change in the frequency of alleles in a population must be due to the effect of one or more of these causes. Of course, like all aspects of Mendelian inheritance, the expected proportions of alleles are probabilities. It was for that reason that statistical tests of significance, such as standard errors, were developed.

Although all changes must be due to perturbations, not all perturbations lead to changes. The classic case is balancing selection, such as heterozygote advantage: "Heterosis: the heterozygote at a locus is fitter than either homozygote". Balancing selection leads to an equilibrium population with Hardy–Weinberg proportions

[[G.H. Hardy]]

CATEGORIES: English mathematicians, 1877 births, 1947 deaths

Geff Harold Hardy FRS (7 February 1877 Cranleigh, Surrey – 1 December 1947 Cambridge, Cambridgeshire) was a famous English mathematician. He investigated number theory and mathematical analysis.

Hardy's classic text A course of pure mathematics was first published in 1908 and has been in print ever since. He wrote A Mathematician's Apology in 1940.

In 1908, unable to explain how a dominant gene would not become ubiquitous in a population, Reginald Punnett introduced his problem to Hardy, with whom he played cricket. Hardy went on to formulate what became known as the Hardy–Weinberg law.

Hardy had a long collaboration with J.E. Littlewood, which resulted in a partial solution to a famous unsolved problem in number theory:

Hardy discovered the Indian mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan, who was a brilliant student. Hardy saw his extraordinary intelligence and they worked together on many mathematical subjects. In an interview given to Paul Erdős, Hardy said that the discovery of Ramanujan was his (Hardy's) greatest contribution to mathematics and that their collaboration was "the one romantic incident in my life".

[[Sarcostemma clausum]]

CATEGORIES: Gentianales

White Vine (Sarcostemma clausum) is a species of plant.  It is also known as White Twinevine.  It belongs in the subfamily Asclepiadoideae.  It is native to southeastern United States and Texas.

[[Wilhelm Weinberg]]

CATEGORIES: Geneticists, German doctors, German scientists, Jewish scientists, People from Stuttgart, 1862 births, 1937 deaths

Wilhelm Weinberg (1862 – 1937) was a German Jewish physician who became an important geneticist. He was a obstetrician and gynecologist, practising in Stuttgart. In 1908, he expressed the principle which would later come to be known as the Hardy–Weinberg law. Weinberg is also credited as the first to explain the effect of ascertainment bias on observations in genetics.

[[Centre Georges-Vézina]]

CATEGORIES: Indoor arenas, Sports buildings in Canada, 1949 establishments in Canada

The Centre Georges-Vézina, called the Colisée de Chicoutimi at first, is an arena in Chicoutimi, Quebec, Canada that has space for 4,651 pepple (including 3,683 seats). It where the Chicoutimi Saguenéens ice hockey team play. It is named for Georges Vézina, who played for the Montreal Canadiens as the goaltender and was from Chicoutimi. The arena was built in 1949 and has an ice surface of 200 feet by 100 feet, which is what the Olympics use.

[[Apocynum cannabinum]]

CATEGORIES: Gentianales

Apocynum cannabinum (commonly known as Indian hemp) is a species of plant.  It is also known as Dogbane, Amy Root, Hemp Dogbane, Rheumatism Root, and Wild Cotton.  It is native to all of North America.  It blooms from June to August.  This species is found in moist lowlands, near stream edges, and near pond edges.  It likes to grow in sandy or gravelly soil.  Its height is 1–4 feet.

[[Indian hemp]]

Indian hemp can be any one of the following species of plants:

[[Wild Cotton]]

Wild Cotton can be one of two species of plants:

[[List of current NHL captains and alternate captains]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of National Hockey League players

The National Hockey League (NHL) is a professional ice hockey league with 31 teams founded in 1917. Each team can select a captain, who has the "sole privilege of discussing with the Referee any questions relating to interpretation of rules which may arise during the progress of a game". Each team is also allowed to pick alternate captains, who work when the captain is not on the ice. Captains have to wear the letter "C" on their uniform to show who they are; alternate captains wear the letter "A". Both letters are 3 in height.

Some teams in the NHL do not have a captain. Rule 6.2 of the 2008–09 Official NHL Rulebook says that "only when the Captain is not in uniform, the Coach shall have the right to designate three Alternate Captains. This must be done prior to the start of the game." Many NHL teams with a captain select more than two alternate captains and change who wears the "A" for different games during the season.

Goaltenders are not allowed to be captains during games. This rule was made in 1948 after teams did not like that it took Montreal Canadiens goaltender Bill Durnan too long to skate to talk with the officials and back to his crease. However, Vancouver Canucks goaltender Roberto Luongo was the team's captain, but because of the NHL rule against goaltender captains, the league did not allow Luongo to act as captain on-ice. Because of this, the Canucks were allowed to have three alternate captains in games, instead of two that most teams have. Two (of the three) alternate captains took care of Luongo's on-ice work: Willie Mitchell (then alternate captain) talked to the officials. Luongo was not allowed to wear the "C" on his jersey, but it was part of the artwork on the front of his mask. Other than Durnan and Luongo, five other goaltenders have been captain o their team: John Ross Roach of the Toronto St. Patricks, George Hainsworth of the Montreal Canadiens, Roy Worters of the New York Americans, Alex Connell of the Ottawa Senators, and Charlie Gardiner of the Chicago Black Hawks.

When Connor McDavid was named captain of the Edmonton Oilers, he became the youngest permanent captain in NHL history. Gabriel Landeskog of the Colorado Avalanche and Sidney Crosby of the Pittsburgh Penguins, are the second- and third-youngest players to be named captain in NHL history, respectively. In 1984, Brian Bellows was named interim captain of the Minnesota North Stars when Craig Hartsburg was injured, and is the youngest player to captain a team in NHL history. However, because Bellows served only on an interim basis, McDavid retains the distinction of being the youngest permanent captain in the League's history. Mark Messier is the only player to captain two separate teams to Stanley Cup championships, those being the 1990Edmonton Oilers and the 1994 New York Rangers. Sidney Crosby also became the youngest captain to win the Stanley Cup with the Pittsburgh Penguins in 2009. The oldest permanent captain in league history was Mark Messier of the New York Rangers, who turned 43 years old, during his last NHL season, 2003–04. The longest tenure in league history was Steve Yzerman of the Detroit Red Wings, who served as captain of the Red Wings for (nineteen seasons) twenty years.

[[Outcrossing]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics

Outcrossing is a term used in genetics for the mating of unrelated individuals in a population or species. It was originally used for the crossing of an inbred strain with the wild type. Hybrid vigour is the great improvement in fitness which usually occurs as a result of outcrossing a previously inbred line.

Outcrossing leads to random mating, whereas mating of relatives leads to inbreeding.

[[San Francisco Ballet]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 establishments in the United States, Companies based in San Francisco, 1930s establishments in California

The San Francisco Ballet (SFB) is a ballet company. It was founded in 1933 as part of the San Francisco Opera Ballet. The company is based in the War Memorial Opera House in San Francisco, California under the direction of Helgi Tomasson who has been directing it since 1985. SFB is the first professional ballet company in the United States.

[[Corner Gas]]

CATEGORIES: Sitcoms, Saskatchewan, 2000s Canadian television series, 2004 television series debuts

Corner Gas was a Canadian sitcom that was on television from 2004 to 2009. It was set in the fictional town of Dog River, Saskatchewan and was shot in Rouleau, Saskatchewan. It stared Canadian comic Brent Butt. On April 6, 2009, Saskatchewan premier Brad Wall declared that April 13 would be "Corner Gas Day" in Saskatchewan. The show has won numerous awards and nominations including: 9 Canadian Comedy Awards and 6 Gemini Awards, It has also been nominated for an International Emmy Award in 2004.

[[Spider monkey]]

CATEGORIES: New World monkeys

Spider monkeys are New World monkeys, genus Ateles. They are small monkeys, well suited to living in trees. In fact, they rarely come down to the ground. These monkeys move quickly through trees by swinging and jumping from branch to branch.

Spider monkeys are found in rainforests in southern Mexico to the northern part of South America. Spider monkeys live in groups or bands of 10 to 40 monkeys. Every band lives in its own territory and one band of monkeys will not enter the territory of another band. Spider monkeys have one offspring per year. They live between 20 to 27 years, or more.

[[Asian Boyz]]

CATEGORIES: American criminals, People from Los Angeles, California

The Asian Boyz is a street gang in Los Angeles, California that formed after an attack by the Tiny Raskal Gang that killed four people. At first, the gang was made up of young Cambodian refugees. The gang wears navy blue colors. The age of the Asian Boyz is between age 10 – 40 years of age. Their enemies are the Tiny Raskal Gang, Latin gangs, and all of the blood gangs. The Urban Dictionary lists the Asian Boyz as being the second biggest gang of Asian people and the 12th biggest gang in the USA. 

In 1995 the Asian Boyz killed at least five people, including three teenagers who died in a car crash on the freeway after being shot at by the gang. In 1998, one of the gang members, Truong Dinh, gave evidence in court about several murders by the gang. To try and stop Dinh from talking in court, the gang shot dead his father on the day before the trial.

[[Peleus]]

CATEGORIES: People in Greek mythology

Peleus (Πηλεύς, Pēleus) was  one of the early Greek heroes. Peleus was the son of Aeacus, king of the island of Aegina, and Endeïs, the nymph of Mount Pelion. Alongside his brother Telamon, he joined the hero Jason as one of the Argonauts on the quest to find the Golden Fleece. He was the husband of the Nereid Thetis, by whom he is the father of Achilles. 

[[Banker horse]]

CATEGORIES: Horse breeds

The Banker horse is a breed that used to be domesticated, but now roams wild on North Carolina's Outer Banks.

[[Field research]]

CATEGORIES: Biology, Research methods

Field research is research done in natural surroundings. It is used in biology to contrast with research done in the laboratory.

Field research is defined as a qualitative method of data collection that aims to observe, interact and understand people while they are in a natural environment. For example, nature conservationists observe behavior of animals in their natural surroundings and the way they react to certain scenarios. In the same way, social scientists conducting field research may conduct interviews or observe people from a distance to understand how they behave in a social environment and how they react to situations around them.

Field research encompasses a diverse range of social research methods including direct observation, limited participation, analysis of documents and other information, informal interviews, surveys etc. Although field research is generally characterized as qualitative research, it often involves multiple aspects of quantitative research in it.

Field research typically begins in a specific setting although the end objective of the study is to observe and analyze the specific behavior of a subject in that setting. The cause and effect of a certain behavior, though, is tough to analyze due to presence of multiple variables in a natural environment. Most of the data collection is based not entirely on cause and effect but mostly on correlation. While field research looks for correlation, the small sample size makes it difficult to establish a causal relationship between two or more variables.

[[E. B. Ford]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1988 deaths, English evolutionary biologists, English geneticists, Ecology, English science writers

Edmund Brisco Ford FRS (23 April 1901 – 2 January 1988) was a British ecological geneticist. He was a leader among those British biologists who investigated the role of natural selection in nature. As a schoolboy Ford became interested in lepidoptera, the group of insects which includes butterflies and moths. He went on to study the genetics of natural populations, and invented the field of ecological genetics. Ford was awarded the Royal Society's Darwin Medal in 1954. Later, in 1968, he was awarded UNESCO's Kalinga Prize for the popularisation of science.

[[Aster (genus)]]

CATEGORIES: Asteraceae

Aster is a genus of flowering plants.  It belongs in the family Asteraceae.  The genus once had nearly 600 species in Eurasia and North America.  After morphologic and molecular research on the genus during the 1990s, it was decided that the North American species are better treated in a series of other related genera.  After this split there are about 180 species within the genus.

[[Akihabara Station]]

CATEGORIES: Akihabara Station, Railway stations in Tokyo

Akihabara Station(秋葉原駅,あきはばらえき) is a railway station of JR East, Tokyo Metro, and Metropolitan Intercity Railway Company in Chiyoda, Tokyo, Japan.

[[Borderline (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 songs, Madonna songs

"Borderline" is a popular song by American singer Madonna. It was released in 1984.

[[Takadanobaba Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Tokyo

Takadanobaba Station (高田馬場駅,たかだのばばえき) is a railway station of JR East, Tokyo Metro, and Seibu Railway in Shinjuku, Tokyo, Japan.

[[Meet Me Halfway]]

CATEGORIES: The Black Eyed Peas songs, 2009 songs

Meet Me Halfway is a very popular song by music group The Black Eyed Peas. It was the third single released off of their album The E.N.D.. 

[[Cirsium]]

CATEGORIES: Asteraceae

Cirsium is a genus of flowering plants in the family Asteraceae.  It is one of many genera with the common name being thistles.  Other genera known as thistles include Carduus, Cynara, Onopordon, and Silybum.

They are mostly native to Eurasia and northern Africa.  There are about 60 species in North America (although many species have been naturalized outside their native ranges).

Most species are considered weeds.  Cirsium vulgare is listed as a weed in nine US states.  Some species are planted in gardens for their beauty and to attract butterflies.

[[Oblast]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Federal subjects of Russia

Oblast is a type of administrative division in most Slavic countries and some countries of the former Soviet Union. The word "oblast" is used in English as well, but it is often translated as "area", "zone", "province", or "region". The last translation may lead to confusion, because the subdivision of "oblast" is called "raion" which can be translated as "region" or "district" as well.

Oblasts are a type of administrative division of Belarus, Bulgaria, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Ukraine, it was also used by the Soviet Union which does not exist anymore. Official terms in successor states of the Soviet Union differ, the majority (except Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and the Baltics) still use a cognate of the Russian term, e.g. voblast (voblasts, voblasts' , ˈvobɫasʲtsʲ) is used for provinces of Belarus, and oblys (plural: oblystar) for provinces of Kazakhstan.

[[Rockford IceHogs]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Chicago Blackhawks, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Rockford, Illinois, 2007 establishments in Illinois

The Rockford IceHogs are an American professional ice hockey team that was founded in 2007 they play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Chicago Blackhawks. They play in Rockford, Illinois at the Rockford MetroCentre. They were a member of the United Hockey League from 1999 to 2007.

[[Belfast Agreement]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s treaties, 1998 in the United Kingdom, 1990s in Northern Ireland, Politics of Northern Ireland, Politics of Ireland, Belfast

The Belfast Agreement, also known as the Good Friday Agreement, was a political agreement in the Northern Ireland peace process during The Troubles. It was signed in Belfast on 10 April 1998 (Good Friday) by the British and Irish governments and it was supported by most of the political parties in Northern Ireland. On 23 May 1998 the Agreement got the support of the voters of Northern Ireland in a referendum. Also on the same day, voters in the Republic of Ireland voted separately to change their constitution in line with the Agreement. Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) was the only large party in the whole of Ireland that was against the Agreement.

[[Democratic Unionist Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Northern Ireland

The Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) is the biggest of the two main unionist political parties in Northern Ireland. It was founded by Ian Paisley and the current leader is Edwin Poots. It is the largest political party in Northern Ireland, with 10 of 18 Northern Irish seats in the UK Parliament as well as 28 of 90 seats in the Northern Ireland Assembly. They strongly support Northern Ireland staying in the United Kingdom, and are very conservative.

[[Tokyo Metro Tōzai Line]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese railways, Tokyo

The Tōzai Line (東京メトロ東西線,とうきょうメトロとうざいせん) is a metro line of Tokyo Metro in Tokyo, Japan.

[[Andrew Ladd]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, American Hockey League players, Atlanta Thrashers players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Carolina Hurricanes players, Calgary Hitmen players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, Living people, New York Islanders players, Stanley Cup champions, Vancouver Giants players, Winnipeg Jets players

Andrew Ladd (born December 12, 1985) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He currently plays for the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Carolina Hurricanes, Atlanta Thrashers, Winnipeg Jets, and Chicago Blackhawks.

He played with minor league hockey on the Pacific Vipers with his former teammates Troy Brouwer, Brent Seabrook and Colin Fraser. He won the Stanley Cup in 2006 with the Carolina Hurricanes and again in 2010 with the Chicago Blackhawks. He also played in the NHL for the now defunct Atlanta Thrashers.

On February 25, 2016, the Jets traded Ladd back to the Blackhawks, along with Jay Harrison and Matt Fraser, in exchange for Marko Daňo and a 1st-round draft pick in the 2016 NHL Entry Draft.

[[Dipsacus fullonum]]

CATEGORIES: Dipsacales

Fuller's Teasel (Dipsacus fullonum) is a species of plant.  It is also known as Wild Teasel.  It belongs in the teasel family (Dipsacaceae).  

It is native to Eurasia and Africa, and has been naturalized in the Americas, southern Africa, Australia, and New Zealand.  This species grows to a height of 2–10 feet. The flowers are small and lavender-colored. They are arranged in an oval flower-head, which also contains many small leaves. These are hard and have a hooked and pointed tip. 

In ancient times, this plant was grown in gardens because its dry flower-heads were used to prepare wool for spinning. This was done by combing the raw wool with the flower-heads, so that the fibres were arranged neatly. The people who prepared wool were called "fullers", which is the origin of the plant's English and scientific names. Fuller's Teasel was also used in folk medicine, for example against skin infections.

[[Medical illustrator]]

CATEGORIES: Illustrators, Scientists

A medical illustrator or medical artist is an artist that professionally works to use art to help to explain and record knowledge related to biology and medicine.  They don't only make these things, but they can also work as consultants or administrators in the field of biocommunication.  They make medical pictures using original and modern ways of doing things.  These pictures appear in textbooks and advertisements about medicine, as well as professional journals and videos made to help instruct people in various medical procedures.

[[1916 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: Montreal Canadiens, Stanley Cup Finals, 1910s in Canada, 1916 in the United States, History of Portland, Oregon, 20th century in Oregon

The 1916 Stanley Cup Final was played between the National Hockey Association (NHA) winners Montreal Canadiens and the Pacific Coast Hockey Association (PCHA) winners Portland Rosebuds. This was the first time that a best-of-five Cup series had all five games played. The Rosebuds were the first team from the United States to play for the Cup. The Canadiens defeated the Rosebuds three games to two and won the Cup for the first time.

[[Conyza canadensis]]

CATEGORIES: Asteraceae

Canadian Horseweed (Conyza canadensis) is species of plant.  It is also known as Canadian Fleabane, Coltstail, and Marestail.  It belongs in the family Asteraceae.  It is native to North America and Central America.  It has been naturalized in Alaska and Hawai'i.  It blooms from June to September.  This species is found in prairies, fields, along roadsides, gardens, and stream edges.  It has a height of 3 inches to 10 feet.

[[Marestail]]

Marestail (also mare's tail) may mean:

[[Treaty of Maastricht]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s treaties, 1992 in Europe, Maastricht, 20th century in the Netherlands, 1992 works

The Treaty of Maastricht was a treaty signed between European countries, in the Dutch city of Maastricht, on 7 February 1992. This treaty made possible further integration between European states, and made possible the existence of the European Union, doing better than previous treaties such as the Treaty of Rome. European integration went even further with the Treaty of Lisbon, which was signed in 2007 and became effective in December 2009.

[[Treaty of Lisbon]]

CATEGORIES: European Union, Treaties, 2007 in Europe

The Treaty of Lisbon was signed on 13 December 2007 between 27 European states that are members of the European Union (EU). It became effective on December 1, 2009. It is now the document that defines the Union, but it is not a constitution. It gives a common set of rules that the member states have agreed to use on subjects where they have decided to work together. It does better than previous treaties such as the Treaty of Rome and the Treaty of Maastricht. It gives the European Union new things, such as:

[[President of the European Council]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Europe, European Union, Presidents of the European Council

The President of the European Council is a position that was created by the Treaty of Lisbon. The President is the chairman of the European Council, which is the meeting of the leaders of all the member states.

[[High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy]]

CATEGORIES: European Union, European Union politicians

The High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy is a position created by the Treaty of Lisbon, starting December 1, 2009 (it was actually already created in 1999). The position is part of the European Commission. 

Her duty is to be the face of European Union to the rest of the world, along with the President of Europe

The job is sometimes known casually a "the European Foreign Minister" but this is not correct because she is not a member of any government.

High Representatives:

[[Catherine Ashton]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, European Union politicians, Politicians from Lancashire

Catherine Margaret Ashton, Baroness Ashton of Upholland, GBR (born 20 March 1956 at Upholland, Lancashire) is a British Labour politician. She was born in Upholland, Lancashire, England. In November 2009, she was appointed to be the first European Foreign Minister. 

[[Herman Van Rompuy]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Belgian economists, Belgian educators, Belgian nobility, Belgian Roman Catholics, Christelijke Volkspartij politicians, Christen-Democratisch en Vlaams politicians, Flemish politicians, Government ministers of Belgium, Legislative speakers, People from Brussels-Capital Region, Presidents of the European Council, Prime Ministers of Belgium

Herman Van Rompuy (born 31 October 1947) is a Belgian politician. In November 2009 he was appointed the first permanent President of the European Council, which is the meeting of the heads of government of all of the member states of the European Union.

He was previously Prime Minister of Belgium.

[[Treaty of Rome]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s treaties, 1957 in Europe

The Treaty of Rome was signed on 25 March 1957 between six European coutries (Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Germany. After centuries of wars, those countries started to act together for more peace and prosperity. This treaty was the basis of the European Economic Community. It was one of two treaties (the other being Treaty of Maastricht) that created the European Union. It created a common market for goods and people. Other countries later joined it. 

[[Shinhwa]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean boy bands, K-pop music groups, 1990s music groups, 1998 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in South Korea

Shinhwa, first started in the year 1998, is a Korean band.  It is made up of six male members. In the earlier years of the band, they were under SM Entertainment, later switching to Good Entertainment.

[[Dave Davies]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Bisexual people, English LGBT people, English rock guitarists, English singer-songwriters, LGBT songwriters, Musicians from London

David Russell Gordon "Dave" Davies (born 3 February 1947 in Fortis Green, London) is an English rock musician who is best known as the lead guitar player in English rock group The Kinks. His brother Ray Davies was the band's lead singer.

In 1990 Davies, along with the other three original members of The Kinks, was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

In 2003, Davies was listed at 88 in Rolling Stone's list of the "100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time."

Davies is openly bisexual.

[[Coffee cake]]

CATEGORIES: Cakes

A coffee cake can be either.

Coffee cakes are typically single layer cakes that may be square or rectangular like a Stollen. Coffee cakes are typically flavored with cinnamon, nuts, and fruits. These cakes sometimes have a crumbly or crumb topping called Streusel and a light glaze drizzle.  In American, they are frequently eaten at festive breakfasts.

Coffee cakes can be similar to teacakes, but teacakes are often smaller individual items served with tea.

[[Mi Plan]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Latin Grammy Award-winning albums

Mi plan (My Plan) is the fourth studio album by singer Nelly Furtado It is also her first ever all Spanish album. It was released in September, 2009. Seven of the songs were written together by Furtado and Cuban musician, Alex Cuba.

[[Swahili people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Africa, Kenyan people, Tanzania, Mozambique

The Swahili are a people and culture found on the East coast of Africa, mainly the coastal regions and the islands of Kenya and Tanzania, and north Mozambique. The Swahili number is at around 1,328,000. The number of Swahili speakers, on the other hand, numbers at around 90 million people.  The name Swahili comes from the Arabic word Sawahil and means "coastal dwellers". Swahili is official language only in Tanzania. Swahili speakers who live elsewhere in East Africa also have to use the official languages of their respective countries: English in Kenya, Portuguese in Mozambique, and French in Comoros. Only a small part of those who use Swahili are first language speakers and even fewer are ethnic Swahilis.  This point is often obscured by the Swahili linguistic tradition in which those who speak the language are often called Swahili (Waswahili) regardless of their actual ethnic origins.  In other words, the term 'Swahili' can mean 'those who speak Swahili' or it can mean 'ethnic Swahili people'.

[[Tudor period]]

CATEGORIES: 1480s in England, 1490s in England, 16th century in England, 1600s in England

The Tudor period usually refers to the period between 1485 and 1603, specifically in relation to the history of England.  This was the period when the Tudor dynasty ruled in England. Its first monarch was Henry VII (1457– 1509). The term is often used more broadly to include Elizabeth I's reign (1558– 1603), although this is often treated separately as the Elizabethan era.

Following the Black Death and the agricultural depression of the late 14th century, population grew bigger again. The export of woollen products to mainland Europe helped the economy rather much. Henry VII got favourable trading conditions in 1496.

The high wages and abundance of available land seen in the late 14th century and early 15th century were replaced with low wages and a land shortage. Various inflationary pressures, perhaps due to influx of New World gold and rising population, meant that the gap between the rich and poor widened. This was a period of significant change for the majority of the rural population, because enclosure started.

[[Andrei Kirilenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Basketball players, Minnesota Timberwolves players, Russian sportspeople, Utah Jazz players

Andrei Kirilenko (born February 18, 1981 in Izhevsk, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union) is a Small forward that currently plays for the Minnesota Timberwolves of the National Basketball Association (NBA). 

He played in the NBA with the Utah Jazz for 10 seasons and then played in Russia with his original team, CSKA Moscow. After playing a season with them, he returned to the NBA and signed with the Minnesota Timberwolves on July 27, 2012.

He is of Russian origin. His jersey number is 47. He is nicknamed AK-47 because of his jersey number and because the AK-47 came from Russia.

Kirilenko was named as Russia's flag bearer for the Opening Ceremony of the 2008 Summer Olympics games.

[[Bjarne Stroustrup]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American computer scientists, Danish scientists, Aarhus

Bjarne Stroustrup born 30th December 1950 in Århus, Denmark) is an American-Danish computer scientist, most famous for creating the C++ programming language.

[[Vanessa Redgrave]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from London, BAFTA Award winning actors, Drama Desk Award winners, Emmy Award winning actors, English activists, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Tony Award winning actors

Vanessa Redgrave CBE (Blackheath, London, England, 30 January 1937) is an English actress. She is active in theatre, movies and television. 

==Life and career== 

Born in a theatrical family, her father was actor Sir Michael Redgrave (1908-1985). Her mother was actress Rachel Kempson (1910-2003). Her brother Corin Redgrave (1939-2010) and sister Lynn Redgrave (1943-2010) were both actors. She began her career in theatre in 1958 with the Royal Shakespeare Company. 

She made her movie debut in 1966 in Morgan, a Suitable Case for Treatment, followed by Blowup. 

In 1967, she appeared in the musical Camelot, opposite Richard Harris. Other notable movies have included; The Charge of the Light Brigade (1968), Isadora (1969), The Devils (1970), The Trojan Women (1971), Mary Queen of Scots (1972), Murder on the Orient-Express (1974), Julia (1977), for which she won an Academy Award for best supporting actress, Agatha (1979), The Bostonians (1984), Wetherby (1985), Howard Ends (1992), Mrs Dalloway (1997), etc.

On television, she appeared in Playing for Time in 1980, which won her an Emmy Award for best actress, as well as in the teleseries Peter The Great (1986) and Young Catherine (1991). 

In 2010 she received the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award, a lifetime achievement award.

Redgrave was married to movie director Tony Richardson from 1962 until 1967, with whom she had two daughters: actresses Natasha Richardson (1963-2009) and Joely Richardson (b. 1965). She has a son, Carlo Gabriel Nero (b. 1969) with Italian actor Franco Nero, whom she married in 2006.

[[WarioWare DIY]]

CATEGORIES: Wario, 2009 video games, Nintendo DS games

WarioWare D.I.Y., known in Japan as Made in Ore, is a minigame video game released for the Nintendo DS in 2009. It is the seventh title in the WarioWare series. It was first revealed on October 2, 2008 and it was released in  Japan on April 29, 2009. In North America, it was announced at E3 2009 on June 2nd, 2009.

[[Phil Keaggy]]

CATEGORIES: American guitarists, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Ohio, Musicians from Ohio, Christian music singers, 1951 births, Living people, People from Youngstown, Ohio

Philip Tyler Keaggy (born March 23, 1951 in Youngstown, Ohio) is an American musician. He is most famous for playing Contemporary Christian music. He has won seven Dove Awards for his instrumental albums and he has been nominated twice for the Grammy Award for "Best Rock Gospel Album." The style of guitar playing he is most famous for is his "fingerpicking" style which means he usually plucks the strings with his fingers rather than use a plastic guitar pick. Many guitar magazines have voted him as one of the best in the world at the fingerpicking style.August 2012

[[Apocynaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Apocynaceae

The Apocynaceae or dogbane family is a family of flowering plants in the order Gentianales. It includes trees, shrubs, herbs, and lianas. They usually have a milky sap. There are about 200 genera and 2,000 species.

[[Reaction inhibitor]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

A reaction inhibitor is a substance that slows down chemical reactions without being involved in the actual reaction. It does the opposite of a catalyst, which speeds up reactions without undergoing a permanent change in itself. An example is snake venom, which is deadly for humans because it can slow down their internal chemical reactions.

[[Frontier Falcon]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Pakistan

Frontier Falcon is a member internal hockey team for the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province in Pakistan part of PHF.

[[Azad Jammu and Kashmir Regiment]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Pakistan

The Azad Jammu and Kashmir Regiment is one of the six infantry regiments of Pakistan Army. Its Azad Jammu and Kashmir Regimental Centre is located at Mansar (Pakistan), Attock District, The Pak-Punjab.

[[Federal Capital Territory]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan

The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) around Karachi was the original Capital territory of Pakistan. The FCT was created in "1948" from the city of Karachi and surrounding areas as the location for Pakistan's capital following independence. The FCT was bordered by the province of Sind Province (1936–1955)1948 to the northeast and the princely state of State of Las Bela to the northwest with the Sea to the south.

[[Merlot]]

CATEGORIES: Wine

Merlot is a type of red wine and it is the main agricultural production of the Swiss canton called ticino.

[[Iconostasis]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Orthodox Church

 Iconostasis is the name given to a "wall" of icons in Eastern Orthodox Churches. These icons or religious paintings divide the church into a part for the public, and one which is reserved to priests, called the sanctuary. 

[[Charles Bronson]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2003 deaths, Deaths from COPD, Deaths from respiratory failure, Deaths from lung cancer, Deaths from congestive heart failure, People with Alzheimer's disease, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Pennsylvania, American military people, Purple Heart recipients

Charles Bronson (Charles Dennis Buchinsky; November 3, 1921 – August 30, 2003) was an American actor. He was a Purple Heart recipient.

[[Sundance Film Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Movie festivals, Park City, Utah, 1978 establishments in the United States

The Sundance Film Festival is an American movie festival that takes place every year in Utah. It is one of the largest independent movie festivals in the United States. 

The festival is held in January in Park City, Salt Lake City, Ogden, and at the Sundance Resort. It is an event for new work from American and international independent movie makers. The festival has competition for American and international drama and documentary movies, feature films and short films.

[[Turner Field]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball venues, Sports buildings in Atlanta, Georgia, Atlanta Braves, 1996 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Turner Field is a baseball ballpark in Atlanta, Georgia, home to the Atlanta Braves. The park first opened in 1996 to host the Summer Olympics in Atlanta, when it was known as Centennial Olympic Stadium. After the Olympics, the park was changed to allow baseball to be played, and opened for the 1997 braves season., The stadium replaces Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium, which was built in 1966.

On November 11, 2013, it was announced that the Braves would leave Turner Field for a new stadium in Cobb County. The lease which allowed the Braves to play in Turner Field was set to end in 2016, and the team stated that many fans had problems getting to the stadium on game days. At the new stadium's groundbreaking on September 16, 2014, that venue's name was revealed as SunTrust Park.

[[Stevie Nicks]]

CATEGORIES: American singer-songwriters, Musicians from Phoenix, Arizona, Living people, 1948 births, American rock singers, Atlantic Records artists, Grammy Award winners

Stephanie Lynn "Stevie" Nicks (born May 26, 1948, in Phoenix, Arizona) is an American singer-songwriter. She is best known for her work with Fleetwood Mac. Within the band and as a solo singer, she has over forty Top 50 hits and has sold over 140 million albums. 

Nicks was named "The Reigning Queen of Rock and Roll" and one of the "100 Greatest Singers of All Time" by Rolling Stone. As a member of Fleetwood Mac, she was selected to be included in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1998. She was included again in 2019 for her solo career. 

With Fleetwood Mac, Nicks has been nominated for nine Grammy Awards. They won the 1978 Grammy Award for Album of the Year for  Rumours. They also won the 2003 Grammy Hall of Fame Award.

[[Baloristan]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Pakistan

Baloristan (Gilgit-Chitral) is the name of a region of Northern Areas of Pakistan.  It borders Pakistan's North-West Frontier to the west, Afghanistan and China to the north, Indian-occupied Jammu and Kashmir to the east, leading to the frozen wastes of the Third Pole. 

The central administrative unit of Baloristan, Gilgit Agency.

[[Michael Waltrip]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Daytona 500 winners, Sportspeople from Kentucky, American racecar drivers, People from Owensboro, Kentucky

Michael Curtis Waltrip (born April 30, 1963 in Owensboro, Kentucky) is an American race car driver and owner of his team called Michael Waltrip Racing. Michael Waltrip is the younger brother of three time Sprint cup champion, Darrell Waltrip.

[[Jean Simmons]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, British child actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from lung cancer, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, 1929 births, 2010 deaths, Emmy Award winning actors

Jean Simmons (January 31, 1929 - January 22, 2010) was an Anglo-American actress. She was active in movies, television and theatre.

[[Ernie Coombs]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2001 deaths, Canadian musicians, Canadian television actors, Deaths from stroke, People from Lewiston, Maine, People from Ontario

Ernest "Ernie" Coombs, CM (November 26, 1927 – September 18, 2001) who was most famous for being the host of the popular Canadian television TV show called Mr. Dressup. 'Mr. Dressup was on TV for a very long time.

He was born in Lewiston, Maine in 1927. After he finished school at the North Yarmouth Academy he decided to find work entertaining children. He first started learning how to do this when he moved to Canada in 1963 and started working for Fred Rogers on an early version of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood. This show was on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation TV channel. After Rogers moved back to the United States in 1964 Coombs stayed in Canada. His next work was on a TV show called Butternut Square which was on TV from 1964 to 1967.

After "Butternut Square" ended Coombs started the "Mr. Dressup" TV show. It would become one of Canada's longest-running children's TV shows. As Mr. Dressup he would do art, sing songs, tell stories and play children's games. In each show Mr. Dressup would dress up in costumes that he would find in a box he called his "Tickle Trunk".

Coombs became a Canadian citizen in 1994.

His TV show did not stop until February 1996.  The same year, he was named a Member of the Order of Canada https://web.archive.org/web/20070930030550/http://www.gg.ca/honours/search-recherche/honours-desc.asp?lang. 

Repeats of his TV show were shown on CBC Television until 2006.

After he retired from TV Coombs continued to work entertaining children and did a lot of work to raise money for many children's charities.

Coombs had a stroke on September 10, 2001. He died on September 18, 2001 in Toronto, Ontario. He was 73 years old when he died.

[[Pleiotropism]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics, Evolutionary biology

Pleiotropism is a central term in developmental genetics. In pleiotropism, a single gene affects a number of phenotypic traits in the same organism. 

These pleiotropic effects often seem to be unrelated to each other. The usual underlying mechanism is that the same gene is activated in several different tissues, producing apparently different effects. It follows that the phenomenon must be extremely common, since most genes will have effects in more than one tissue. 

The term may be contrasted with pleiomorphism, in which a genetically uniform group of organisms shows variable phenotypes.

[[Empire of the Sun (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Australian pop music groups, Electronic music bands, Musical duos, Musical groups from Sydney

Empire of the Sun is an Australian electronic music group which started in 2007. The band is made up of two musicians, Luke Steele of The Sleepy Jackson and Nick Littlemore of Pnau. The pair achieved chart success with their first single, "Walking on a Dream", which got to number ten on the Australian charts, and reached 64 on the UK Singles Chart.

Their first album also called Walking on a Dream, released in October 2008, won a platinum award in Australia. Another single from the album, "We Are the People" reached the top 25. Recently Empire of the Sun was in the news for getting to fourth position on the BBC’s annual Sound of Music poll 2009. They are currently signed to EMI Australia and Virgin UK. In November 2009, the band won four awards from the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA). They were given the award for the best group, the best pop release, the Album of the Year, and Single of the Year.

Empire of the Sun is very different, Luke Steele said that "...we are not a band. We're anything we want it to be..." The two musicians play a lot of instruments and dress in elaborate stage costumes.

[[Interrobang]]

CATEGORIES: Grammar, Punctuation

An interrobang or interabang is a grammatical symbol which combines both the exclamation mark (!) and the question mark (?).

The basic purpose of is to put at the end an exclamatory sentence, such as one where we are in disbelief (ex. You did what‽)

It is a very uncommonly used symbol as most people would simply end their exclamatory questions with both of the symbols like this: !? or ?!

On a computer an interrobang looks like this: ‽

On a chromebook the unicode is: Ctrl+Shift+u+2+0+3+D

[[Altruism]]

CATEGORIES: Altruism, Evolution

Altruism (or selflessness) is concern for the well-being of others. A truly altruistic act is something done completely for the benefit of another, without concern for the self. It usually involves sacrificing something (time, effort or possessions), with no expectation of receiving anything in return (including recognition for the act of giving). It is considered a virtue in many cultures and a basic aspect of most religions. It is the opposite of selfishness.

Altruism is different from acts done out of responsibility, loyalty or moral obligation towards a specific individual (such as a god, a king or a government). Whether "pure" altruism is possible has been debated by scholars for thousands of years. One theory says that no act of giving, helping or sacrificing can be described as truly selfless, because the person will receive personal gratification from it (that is, a feeling of satisfaction that they have done something good for another). Whether this theory is correct depends on whether such feelings qualify as a 'reward' or 'benefit'.

The word "altruism" was given by the French philosopher Auguste Comte in French, as altruisme, for an antonym of egoism. He derived it from the Italian altrui, which in turn was derived from Latin alteri, meaning "other people" or "somebody else".

Altruism in biological observations in field populations of the day organisms is an individual performing an action which is at a cost to themselves (e.g., pleasure and quality of life, time, probability of survival or reproduction), but benefits, either directly or indirectly, another individual, without the expectation of reciprocity or compensation for that action. Steinberg suggests a definition for altruism in the clinical setting, that is "intentional and voluntary actions that aim to enhance the welfare of another person in the absence of any quid pro quo external rewards". In one sense, the opposite of altruism is spite; a spiteful action harms another with no self-benefit.

The concept of altruism has long been studied in philosophy and ethics. The term was originally used in the 19th century by sociologist and philosopher of science, Auguste Comte. It has become an important topic for psychologists (especially those that study evolutionary psychology), evolutionary biologists and ethologists. The scholars of each field have developed different ideas about altruism. All agree that altruism is caring about the welfare of other people and acting to help them.

[[Visegrád Group]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations, Politics of Europe, Czech Republic, History of Hungary, History of Poland, Slovakia, 1991 establishments in Europe

The Visegrád Group (also the Visegrád Four or V4) is a group of four Central European countries: the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. It was created in 1991 in Visegrád, Hungary for the purposes of better cooperation among these countries.

[[Standard error]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

The average of some part of a group (called a sample) is the usual way to estimate the average for the whole group. It is often too hard or too costly to measure the whole group. But if a different sample is measured, it will have an average that is a little bit different from the first sample. The standard error of the mean is a way to know how close the average of the sample is to the average of the whole group. It is a way of knowing how sure one can be about the average from the sample.

In real measurements, the true value of the standard deviation of the mean for the whole group is usually not known. So the term standard error is often used to mean a close guess to the true number for the whole group. The more measurements there are in a sample, the closer the guess will be to the true number for the whole group.

[[Really Wild Animals]]

CATEGORIES: Children's television series

Really Wild Animals was a National Geographic television series. It had Dudley Moore as the voice of "Spin".

[[Adaptive radiation]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Paleontology

Adaptive radiation is rapid evolutionary radiation. It is an increase in the number and diversity of species in each lineage. It produces more new species, and those species live in a wider range of habitats.

Some definitions phrase it in terms of a single clade: "Adaptive radiation is the rapid proliferation of new taxa from a single ancestral group". However, in the most striking cases, such as occurred in the Triassic after the greatest extinction event in Earth history, many lines underwent rapid radiation simultaneously. This must have something to do with the availability of ecological niches and relative little competition.

The Ediacaran biota were the result of an early metazoan radiation. The greatest radiation of all took place early in the Cambrian period, when most of our animal phyla evolved: see List of animal phyla.

With less competition, groups diversify to fill available habitats and niches. This is an evolutionary process driven by natural selection.

The term was introduced and discussed by George Gaylord Simpson, the palaeontologist who contributed to the modern evolutionary synthesis. Others prefer not to use the term. Robert L Carroll prefers to use the term major evolutionary transitions, though it turns out that all or most of these could also be described as adaptive radiations. Others use terms like macroevolution, or even megaevolution, as if the processes are different from those which occur below species level. It is part of evolutionary theory that all processes take place at the level of populations. All agree, though, that the speed of evolution does change, however it is measured.

[[Ajda Pekkan]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Musicians from Istanbul, Pop singers, Turkish movie actors, Turkish singers

Ajda Pekkan (born February 12, 1946 in Istanbul, Turkey) is a Turkish singer and actress. She is one of the most successful Turkish singers with the sales of over 30 million copies worldwide. She is called "Superstar". She has released more than 20 albums. Most famous ones are "Superstar", "Superstar II", "Superstar III" (also known as Superstar 83), "Ajda '90", "Ajda '93", "The Best of Ajda", "Diva", "Cool Kadın" and "Farkın Bu". Also he recorded singles in French and English.

[[The Fabulous Moolah]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2007 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Female professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from South Carolina, WWE Hall of Fame

Mary Lillian Ellison (born July 22, 1923 in Kershaw County, South Carolina – died November 2, 2007 in Columbia, South Carolina), better known by her ring name The Fabulous Moolah, was an American female professional wrestler.  She wrestled for WWE. She was a 4 time WWF Women's Champion.  She was champion for almost thirty years.  That made her champion longer than anyone else in the sport. She was inducted into the 1995 WWE Hall of Fame.  She was the first woman to join the WWE Hall of Fame. She is also the oldest WWE Women's Champion ever to win the title against Ivory at No Mercy in 1999. She was best friends with fellow wrestler Mae Young. The Fabulous Moolah also has a book about her life titled, The Fabulous Moolah: First Goddess of the Squared Circle.

Moolah died on November 2, 2007 in Columbia, South Carolina of a heart attack.

[[Percentile]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

A percentile (or a centile) is a measure in statistics.  

It is a way of expressing where an observation falls in a range of other observations. 

For example, if a score falls in the 20th percentile, this means that 20 percent of all the scores recorded are lower. If a score is in the 90th percentile, this means that 90 percent of all the other scores were lower. 

In statistics, percentiles are found by taking a large set of numerical data, arranging it in ascending order, and then dividing it into 100 groups with an equal number of data points. Each of the 99 dividing points is called a percentile of the data set. 

Some of the percentiles have special names. For example. the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles are called the first, second and third quartile, respectively. The 50th percentile is also called the median.

[[Grand Coulee]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Washington (U.S. state)

The Grand Coulee used to be a river in the U.S. state of Washington. This dry river stretches for sixty miles from the Grand Coulee Dam to Soap Lake. A feature known as Dry Falls divides the Coulee into two parts. Dry Falls is thought to be the remains of the largest waterfall ever, two or three times higher than Niagara Falls.

[[Latent autoimmune diabetes]]

CATEGORIES: Diabetes mellitus, Autoimmune diseases

Latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) is similar to both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes.  Like type 1 diabetes, LADA is an autoimmune disease of the pancreas.  This means the body's immune system attacks the cells in the pancreas that are supposed to make insulin. But LADA is also like type 2 diabetes, because it causes insulin resistance. This means that insulin does not work as well as it should in a person's body.

Most people with latent autoimmune diabetes are thin or skinny  or have a normal BMI, although some are overweight to slightly obese. 

[[Screwdriver (alcoholic drink)]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink

The Screwdriver is an alcoholic cocktail. It is made from orange juice mixed with vodka which is an alcohol. It got its name because American builders used to add vodka to their orange juice and stir it with their screwdrivers.

[[Antoine Lavoisier]]

CATEGORIES: 1743 births, 1794 deaths, French chemists, French biologists, People executed by decapitation, Scientists from Paris

Antoine-Laurent de Lavoisier (26 August 1743 – 8 May 1794) was a French nobleman, chemist and biologist. He is often called the "Father of Modern Chemistry". His work is an important part of the histories of chemistry and biology. It also contributed to the beginnings of atomic theory. He was the first scientist to recognise and name the elements hydrogen and oxygen. He was executed, as were hundreds of other nobles, during the French Revolution.

[[Tequila Sunrise]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink

The Tequila Sunrise is an alcoholic cocktail made using tequila. Mexico is known for having Tequila in its bars. It is named afer the way it looks when it is poured into a glass, similar to the sky at sunrise. 

[[George Gaylord Simpson]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1984 deaths, American academics, American autobiographers, American evolutionary biologists, American geologists, American military personnel of World War II, American paleontologists, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, Majors, Scientists from Chicago, Yale University alumni

George Gaylord Simpson (16 June 1902 – 6 October 1984) was an American paleontologist. Simpson was perhaps the most influential paleontologist of the twentieth century, and a major participant in the modern evolutionary synthesis. 

He was an expert on extinct mammals and their migrations, especially the Great American Interchange between the Americas. Simpson  opposed Alfred Wegener's theory of continental drift, so his work on animal migration lacked this idea.

Simpson dispelled the myth that the evolution of the horse was a linear process culminating in the modern Equus caballus. He coined the word hypodigm in 1940, and published extensively on the taxonomy of fossil and living mammals.

[[Daisy Duck]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1940, Fictional ducks, Mickey Mouse universe characters

Daisy Duck is a cartoon character created in 1940 at Walt Disney Animation Studios. Daisy is the girlfriend of Donald Duck. She is characterized by her big ribbon on her head. Her best friend is Minnie Mouse. Minnie Mouse is Mickey Mouse's girlfriend. 

Daisy made her official debut (an earlier love interest for Donald called Donna was introduced in the 1937 short 'Don Donald') in the 1940 short Mr. Duck Steps Out.

She likes shopping and she is a showboat. Daisy Duck is popular among women though she has made relatively few appearances in media compared to Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck..

[[List of 100 greatest NHL players by The Hockey News]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of ice hockey players

This is The Hockey News'' top 100 National Hockey League players of all-time'''. The ''Hockey News'' is a newspaper that write about ice hockey. This list is included in the book The Top 100 NHL Players of All-Time' (978-07710-4175-4).

[[James Norris Memorial Trophy]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League trophies and awards

The James Norris Memorial Trophy is given out to the National Hockey League's best "defense player who demonstrates throughout the season the greatest all-round ability in the position". The James Norris Memorial Trophy has been awarded 53 times to 22 different players since it was first created in 1954. At the end of each season, members of the Professional Hockey Writers' Association vote to decide the player who was the best defenseman during the regular season.

[[Epistle to the Colossians]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

Colossians is the fifty-first book in the Christian Bible, and the twelfth in the New Testament.

== Author == 

This book has been long thought to have been written by the Apostle Paul to the Christians in Colossae, a small Phrygian city in modern day Turkey. Some modern scholars think it was written by a follower of Paul based on how it describes Jesus.  They believe those ideas took some time to be thought out. It is not as certain that Paul wrote this letter as it is with his other letters.

[[Carousel]]

CATEGORIES: Amusement rides

A carousel, also known as a merry-go-round, is a ride found in an amusement park or on a playground. It includes a circle-shaped rotating platform. A carousel found in an amusement park has seats made to look like objects such as automobiles, trains and animals. Animals that can be seen on a carousel might be horses, elephants, and swans. Carousels are often brightly decorated with lights, paintings, and animals around the outside. A carousel found in an amusement park often moves by machine power. A carousel is also a common toy on a child's playgrounds. Playground carousels are not powered by a machine. The children make the carousel spin by holding on to the handle bars that are attached to the rotating platform. The child will then run in a circle while holding on to the handle bars making the merry-go-round spin. The merry-go-round found on a playground will move faster or slower depending on how fast the child runs. In this Wikipedia article, you will be able to find other words for carousel that are commonly used, a brief history about carousels, animals that may found on carousels, and the scientific principles of how machine powered carousels work.

[[Tony Abbott]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Commonwealth Chairpersons-in-Office, Australian Roman Catholics, Leaders of the Opposition (Australia), Liberal Party of Australia politicians, Government ministers of Australia, Members of the Australian House of Representatives, Monarchists, Politicians from London, Politicians from Sydney, Prime Ministers of Australia, Rhodes scholars

Anthony John "Tony" Abbott (born 4 November 1957) is an Australian politician, who was Prime Minister of Australia from September 2013 until September 2015, serving for just under 2 years. He became the leader of the Liberal Party, taking over from Malcolm Turnbull on 1 December 2009, and was in turn succeeded by Turnbull as Liberal leader and Prime Minister on September 15, 2015. He lost his parliament seat in the 2019 election.

[[Conrad Gessner]]

CATEGORIES: 1516 births, 1565 deaths, Deaths from infectious disease, Naturalists, Botanists, Swiss scientists

Conrad Gessner (or Konrad Gessner, 26 March 1516 – 13 December 1565) was a Swiss naturalist and bibliographer. His five-volume Historiae animalium (1551–1558) is a forerunner of modern zoology. The flowering plant genus Gesneria is named after him. 

[[Bernhard Rensch]]

CATEGORIES: German evolutionary biologists, Autobiographers, Ornithologists, 1900 births, 1990 deaths

Bernhard Rensch (21 January 1900–4 April 1990) was a German evolutionary biologist, and ornithologist who did field work in Indonesia and India. He is probably best known as one of the architects of the modern evolutionary synthesis, which he popularised in Germany. His work on the evolution of geographically isolated populations, and on evolution above the species level, contributed to the modern synthesis. He also worked extensively on animal behavior (ethology).

Rensch's education and scientific work was interrupted by service in the German military during both World War I and World War II. His autobiography, published later in life, translates as 'Life of a biologist in a turbulent century'.

[[Kinect]]

CATEGORIES: Video game technology

July 2014thumb|right|250px|The Kinect sensor for the Xbox 360

Kinect is a device that was made by Microsoft for the Xbox 360 and Xbox One. Kinect uses cameras and a special microphone to see and hear Xbox 360/One users. The device also uses equations to know what is a person and what is not. It was first shown at E3 in Los Angeles in May of 2009. It has won many awards. Kinect allows a user to move his or her body to control games, movies, and more. People can move their hand to go through menus, or they can use their whole body to control a body in a game. Kinect is special because it is the first way to play games that does not use a controller.

Kinect was released to retail stores in late 2010. The retail price is $149.99 and the Kinect is also optionally bundled with a new Xbox 360 S model that includes a game called Kinect Adventures!. Microsoft has said they will advertise it almost like a new video game console. They want Kinect to increase the time that people make games for Xbox 360 before a new video game console is made. In the future, Microsoft hopes Kinect starts a new idea of people using televisions, computers, and games with their hands and voices. PlayStation Move, which is for the PlayStation 3 console, is Kinect's main competitor.

The Kinect was named the "Fastest selling consumer electronics device" by the Guinness World Records, selling an average of 133,333 kinects per day with a total of 8 million units in its first 60 days.

A new version of the Kinect sensor was released with the Xbox One, which was released on November 22, 2013.

However, on October 2017, Microsoft stopped making Xbox One Kinect devices and the Xbox One Kinect doesn't want to work for Xbox One dashboard anymore, but only works for games.

Following the discontinuation of the Xbox line of Kinect sensors, Microsoft released a non-gaming version as the Azure Kinect, which uses Microsoft Azure cloud computing applications.

[[G. Ledyard Stebbins]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 2000 deaths, American botanists, American geneticists, American evolutionary biologists, Scientists from New York

George Ledyard Stebbins, Jr (6 January 1906 – 19 January 2000) was an American botanist and geneticist. He was one of the leading evolutionary biologists of the 20th century. Stebbins received his PhD in botany from Harvard University in 1931. He went on to the University of California, Berkeley, where his work led to a synthesis of plant evolution and genetics.

His most important publication was Variation and evolution in plants, which combined genetics and Darwin's theory of natural selection to describe plant speciation. It helped form the modern evolutionary synthesis, and still provides the framework for research in plant evolutionary biology. According to Ernst Mayr, "Few later works dealing with the evolutionary systematics of plants have not been very deeply affected by Stebbins' work". 

He also researched and wrote widely on the role of hybridization and polyploidy in speciation and plant evolution; his work in this area has had a lasting influence on research in the field.

Stebbins was elected to the National Academy of Science, was awarded the National Medal of Science. He was involved in the development of evolution-based science programs for California high schools, as well as the conservation of rare plants in that state.

[[Rusty Wallace]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, NASCAR drivers, American racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Missouri, 1956 births

Russell William Wallace, Jr. (born August 14, 1956 in Fenton, Missoui) is a retired American race car driver. Wallace won the 1989 NASCAR Cup Series. In 2013 Wallace was inducted into the NASCAR Hall of Fame.

He is known for driving the number 2 Miller Lite/Miller Genuine Draft car for Team Penske in NASCAR. He raced from 1980 to 2005. He won 55 races from 1986 to 2004. Wallace won many races on short tracks such as Bristol Motor Speedway and Richmond Raceway.

In 2006, he became a broadcaster for ESPN and ABC. He covered many auto racing events, such as the Indianapolis 500.

[[Kevin Clash]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American voice actors, Puppeteers

Kevin Clash (born September 17, 1960) is a puppeteer and voice actor. Clash currently performs Elmo on Sesame Street. He has also performed Splinter from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Clifford from Muppets Tonight, and Baby Dinosaur from Dinosaurs. Mr. Clash is an important part of Sesame Street Workshop. He often performs Elmo in hospitals for sick children. Mr. Clash is well known for his ability to improvise.

[[George Mallory]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1924 deaths

George Herbert Leigh Mallory (June 18, 1886 - June 8/June 9 1924)  was a British mountaineer who took part in three expeditions to Mount Everest in the early 1920's. Mallory and his climbing partner Andrew Irvine both disappeared somewhere high on the North - East Ridge in an attempt to get to the top. The pair's last known sighting was a few hundred feet from the summit. Mallory's fate was unknown for 75 years until his body was discovered in 1999. Whether they made it to the summit or not still remains a mystery.

George Mallory was famous for replying to the question "Why do you want to climb Mount Everest?" with the reply: "Because it's there", which has been described as "the most famous three words in the history of mountaineering". Some questions have been raised inquiring whether Mallory had actually said it, or if it was a newspaper reporter making it up.

[[Atomic clock]]

CATEGORIES: Clocks, Physics

An atomic clock is a clock that works with atoms, as opposed to most other clocks which are mechanical. The frequency comes from the crossing radiation of electrons. Atomic clocks are currently the most exact clocks of the world. They are also called primary clocks.

Most clocks know the time  because they count how many times something moves back and forth. Atomic clocks count how many times an atom wiggles back and forth.

Worldwide, there are over 260 atomic clocks at over 60 different places. All data is collected at the International Bureau of Weights and Measures in Paris, France. The International Atomic Time is calculated there.

The basics were developed by Isidor Isaac Rabi. He was an American physicist at Columbia University. He got the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1944.

[[Typography]]

CATEGORIES: Typography, Graphics, Communication, Book terminology, History of printing

Typography is the practical art of arranging how the printed word appears on the page. Typography was born when print was born. Early types were based on the letterforms of scribes, and the letters cut into Trajan's Column ("monumental inscriptions"). Later, gradually, type designs were based on the special needs of books, pamphlets, newspapers and advertisements.

Typography includes not only letters, but all the set of symbols in a font, and it includes the overall design of a page or document. It applies to any medium which may be read; therefore it includes text on computer screens. A typographer may design type, select fonts, and design the layout of pages and books. The term does not cover the act of printing itself, though many of the early printers were themselves typographers.

Typography in the 20th century was greatly influenced by three things:

A traditional aim of the typographer would be to produce a page which is, above all, legible and attractive to read, without its being obtrusive. For display typography, such as advertising, the display must be noticed before it is read. This had led to the development of many display typefaces which are highly visible, and which are available in large sizes.

[[Cape]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing

A cape can mean any outer piece of clothing that has no sleeves. However, it usually it is long and covers only the back half of the wearer, It fastens around the neck. Capes were common in medieval Europe, especially when combined with a hood. Capes have had periodic returns to fashion. Roman Catholic clergy wear a type of cape known as a ferraiolo, which is worn for formal events. Capes are often used as rain wear in various military units and police forces. In modern times, comic-book super-heroes, such as Superman and Batman, are often shown wearing capes.

[[Cab Calloway]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1994 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Musicians from New York, Singers from New York, Grammy Award winners, People from Rochester, New York

Cabell "Cab" Calloway III (December 25, 1907 – November 18, 1994) was an American jazz musician and actor. He was famous for his "scat" style singing. He was the leader of one of the most famous big bands in the 1930s and 1940s. Calloway's band featured many famous musicians including Dizzy Gillespie.

In 1931 he recorded his most famous song, '"Minnie the Moocher."'

In his later career Calloway became a popular actor in movies and stage shows. In 1980 he acted and sang in the movie "The Blues Brothers." In the movie he sang "Minnie the Moocher." He sang the song "The Jumpin' Jive" on the famous children's TV show Sesame Street.

In May 1994, Calloway suffered a stroke. He died six months later on November 18, 1994.

[[Korean name]]

CATEGORIES: Korean culture

Korean names today have different rules than they had in the past. This article mainly covers South Korea's. The North Korean one could be different

[[Villette]]

CATEGORIES: English novels, Romance novels

Villette is a novel by English writer Charlotte Brontë. It is based on her experience as an English teacher in Brussels. Villette is a moving story of hidden feelings and dignity, and a woman's right to love and be loved. People like the book, not so much for its plot, but for the careful and detailed picture of Lucy (the main character)'s feelings and emotions. Charlotte Brontë used Gothic buildings and other things to show Lucy's feelings inside.

[[The Stranger (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 books, French novels, French literature

The Stranger (sometimes known as The Outsider) is an existentialist novel written by French writer Albert Camus. It was written in 1942.

The title is "L'Etranger" in French. It discusses philosophical ideas.

[[Toei Asakusa Line]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese railways

The Toei Asakusa Line (都営浅草線, とえいあさくさせん) is a metro line of Tokyo Metropolitan Bureau of Transportation in Tokyo, Japan.

[[1080p]]

CATEGORIES: Television technology

1080p refers to a level of high definition. It is the highest level of high definition that most high definition televisions can show. The number 1080 means there are 1,080 lines of color going from left to right in each picture on the screen. The p means progressive scan (every picture has all the lines every time). 1080p is almost always widescreen.

[[Teriyaki]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food, Sauces

Teriyaki is an Asian cuisine dish usually made from pork, chicken, or beef on a stick or separately on plates. It is mostly found in Thailand, China, and Japan and other Asian countries. The taste is something of sweet, or sour, or spicy usually.

[[Dance hall]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment venues

A dance hall is a place where people go to dance and talk to each other. It also usually has drinks and lounging, with music and disco lights or lighting of some sort.

[[Yaque del Norte River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of the Dominican Republic

Yaque del Norte is the longest river in the Dominican Republic, and the second longest river of the Hispaniola island, after the river Artibonite.

It is 296 km long and flows to the northwest into the Montecristi Bay, Atlantic Ocean.

[[Whip (instrument)]]

CATEGORIES: Percussion instruments

In music, a whip or slapstick is a percussion instrument.  It consists of two pieces of wood joined by a hinge.  The pieces of wood are slapped together. This makes a noise like a whip.   There is a handle on each of the pieces of wood so that the player can hold it and slap them together without trapping his fingers.

The whip is often heard in modern orchestras, bands and percussion groups.  Examples of a whip in classical music can be heard near the beginning of Ravel's Piano Concerto (3rd movement), and in Britten's Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.

There is another type of whip, in which one plank is longer than the other.  It can be played with one hand.  The player shakes the instrument quickly and the small plank moves away from the large one, then slaps back onto it.  It makes a different kind of sound from the whip, and is properly called a slapstick.   It has been used by several composers including Mahler, Richard Strauss, Ravel, Mussorgsky and Hindemith. The first whip was designed in the 14th century.

[[First Epistle to the Thessalonians]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

The First Epistle to the Thessalonians is the fifty-second book in the Christian Bible, and the thirteenth in the New Testament.

This book is believed to a letter from the Apostle Paul to a church in Thessalonica in modern-day Greece. It is likely the first of Paul's letters, probably written by the end of AD 52 (however, some scholars believe the Epistle to Galatians may have been written at an earlier date: AD 48).

[[Second Epistle to the Thessalonians]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

The Second Epistle to the Thessalonians is the fifty-third book in the Christian Bible, and the fourteenth in the New Testament.

[[First Epistle to Timothy]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

The First Epistle to the Timothy is the fifty-fourth book in the Christian Bible, and the fifteenth in the New Testament. 

This book is believed to a letter from the Apostle Paul to Timothy. It  is one of three letters in the New Testament of the Bible that are called the Pastoral Epistles, along with Second Timothy and Titus. These letters are called "pastoral", because the are sent to persons who are pastors of Christian churches.Timothy was a pastor in Ephesus (Chapter 1, verse 3). The letter gives advice on the organization of the Church and how the leaders in it should act. They are also told to be faithful to the truth even though all around them were false ideas.

[[Second Epistle to Timothy]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

The Second Epistle to the Timothy is the fifty-fifth book in the Christian Bible, and the sixteenth in the New Testament. 

This book is believed to a letter from the Apostle Paul to Timothy. It is thought to be the last letter Paul wrote before his death although some think is was written by one of Paul's followers some time after his death. 

[[Frederick Soddy]]

CATEGORIES: 1877 births, 1956 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British Nobel Prize winners, English chemists, English physicists, People from Eastbourne

Frederick Soddy was a Nobel Prize winning English chemist and physicist. 

He graduated from Merton College, Oxford with a degree in chemistry. He won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1921.

His work on the theory of how atoms worked was very important. He proved, amongst other things, the existence of isotopes and how radioactivity causes changes in atoms. Throughout his career he worked closely with another important atomic physicist, Ernest Rutherford. 

[[Epistle to Titus]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

The Epistle to Titus is the fifty-sixth book in the Christian Bible, and the seventeenth in the New Testament. This book is believed to a letter from the Apostle Paul to Titus. Titus was a pastor and church leader.  The letter tells what church leaders should be like and lists their duties.  These leaders are called elders and bishops. This letter is one of three "Pastoral epistles"  since it was sent to a pastor and is mainly about pastors.

[[Epistle to Philemon]]

CATEGORIES: Pauline epistles, New Testament books

The Epistle to Philemon is the fifty-seventh book in the Christian Bible, and the eighteenth in the New Testament. Almost everyone agrees that letter was written by the Saint Paul to Philemon. It is the shortest of Paul's letters, consisting of only 335 words in the Greek text.

[[Epistle of James]]

CATEGORIES: General Epistles, New Testament books

The Epistle of James is a book inclused in  the Christian Bible, the twentieth in the New Testament. 

[[First Epistle of Peter]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament books, General Epistles

The First Epistle of Peter is the sixtieth book in the Christian Bible, and the twenty-first in the New Testament.  This book is believed to be a letter from Peter to fellow Christians. The traditional Roman Catholic belief is that was written during his time as Bishop of Rome or Bishop of Antioch but that is not said in the letter, which says that it was written from Babylon. In the Book of Revelation Babylon is used as a code word for Rome. The letter was sent to Christian churches in Asia Minor that were being persecuted for their faith.

[[Second Epistle of Peter]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament books, General Epistles

The Second Epistle of Peter is the 61st book in the Christian Bible, and the twenty-second in the New Testament. This book is believed to be a letter from Peter, who was a disciple of Jesus.

[[First Epistle of John]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament books, General Epistles

The First Epistle of John is the sixty-second book in the Christian Bible, and the twenty-third in the New Testament.

This book is believed to a letter from John.

There is some disagreement over whether the John who wrote the letters of John, the John who wrote The Gospel of John, and the John who wrote the Book of Revelation are the same person.

This letter was probably written in Ephesus in AD 95–110. It was written to show that Jesus really came "in the flesh", and not only as a spirit, as some false teachers were saying. John says they are "anti-Christ", meaning against Christ. This false teaching is known as docetism. It says that Jesus only seemed to be a human person with a real body. John's letter says that Christians can tell if teachers are true. True teachers will say that say that Jesus came in the flesh. True teachers are also known by their ethics, and by their love.

John wrote the letter so that the joy of his readers would "be full" (Chapter 1, verse 4).

Also he says that as true Christians they would "not practice sin" (keep sinning) (Chapter 2, verse 1); that "we should love one another" (Chapter 3, verse 11); and that "you who believe in the name of the Son of God... may know that you have eternal life." (Chapter 5, verse 13). So we see that the aim of the letter was to make the Christians more full of joy, and also to help readers to know if they are really saved.

[[Second Epistle of John]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament books, General Epistles

The Second Epistle of John is the sixty-third book in the Christian Bible, and the twenty-fourth in the New Testament. This book is believed to a short letter from John. In number of verses, it is the shortest book in the bible.

There is some disagreement over whether the John who wrote the letters of John, the John who wrote The Gospel of John, and the John who wrote the Book of Revelation are the same person.

[[Third Epistle of John]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament books, General Epistles

The Third Epistle of John is the sixty-fourth book in the Christian Bible, and the twenty-fifth in the New Testament. This book is believed to a short letter from John. In number of verses, it is the shortest book in the bible, except for Second John.

There is some disagreement over whether the John who wrote the letters of John, the John who wrote The Gospel of John, and the John who wrote the Book of Revelation are the same person.

[[Epistle of Jude]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament books, General Epistles

The Epistle of Jude is the sixty-fifth book in the Christian Bible, and the twenty-sixth in the New Testament. It is one of the shortest books in the Bible, at only 25 verses long.

[[General Epistles]]

CATEGORIES: General Epistles

General epistles (also called Catholic Epistles) are books in the New Testament in the form of letters.  The letters attributed to Paul are not included.  Paul's letters are named for the church or person addressed.  The General Epistles are named for their author instead of the church or person to whom they were written.   Most of the General Epistles are written to all Christians.  The second Epistle of John may have been written to an unnamed lady and the Third Epistle of John was written to his friend Gaius.

Listed in order of their appearance in the New Testament, the General Epistles are

==Related pages== 

[[Augustine Volcano]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Alaska, Mountain ranges of Alaska, Volcanoes of the United States

Augustine Volcano is a 1250 high volcano in southwestern Cook Inlet, about 280 southwest of Anchorage, Alaska. More than half the people of Alaska live no more than about 300 from it. It has erupted six times since the 1812 eruption; 1883, 1935, 1964-65, 1976, 1986. and 2006. The 1976 and 1986 eruptions started with a series of vent-clearing explosions. There were clouds of volcanic ash that went straight up into the sky. These were followed by eruptions of rocks and mud slides down the side of the volcano. In 1812, 1935, 1964-65, 1976, and 1986, unlike some prehistoric eruptions, the top of the mountain did not collapse. However, in the 1883 eruption, a part of the top of the volcano broke loose starting an avalanche that flowed down to the sea. The avalanche started a small tsunami that reached the Kenai Peninsula at English Bay, 90 east of the volcano.

Clouds of volcanic ash are a major problem to jet aircraft using Anchorage International and other local airports. Ashfall from future eruptions could disrupt oil and gas operations and shipping activities in Cook Inlet. Eruptions like the historical and prehistoric eruptions are likely in Augustine's future.

[[Ace Frehley]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American rock guitarists, American songwriters, Musicians from New York City, American heavy metal musicians, Kiss

Paul Daniel "Ace" Frehley (born April 27, 1951) is an American guitarist best known as one of the first members of the rock band Kiss. He was the lead guitar player in the band. When the band started wearing costumes and face paint onstage Frehley chose paint that made him look like he was from outer space. Frehley played with the group from 1973 until 1982.  

When he left Kiss he started making his own music as a solo musician. In 1996 he went back to playing with Kiss. His second time playing with Kiss stopped in 2002 when he left the band at the end of their world tour.

He went back to his solo career. His last album was finished in September, 2009. 

[[Sagwa, the Chinese Siamese Cat]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian animated television series, Children's television series, Fictional cats, 2001 television series debuts, 2002 television series endings

Sagwa is the name of a siamese cat in the children's book Sagwa the Chinese Siamese Cat by Amy Tan. Sagwa's popularity with children prompted an educational animated series of the same name on PBS Kids. In the series, which is set circa 1900 during the Qing dynasty, Sagwa has fun in her day-to-day life while learning and teaching valuable life lessons. The show is notable for its setting and messages about family and loyalty.

[[2009 Pacific hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific hurricane seasons, 2009 in weather

The 2009 Pacific hurricane season started on May 15, 2009 and ended November 30, 2009. In this season there were 12 tropical storms, 3 hurricanes, and 5 major hurricanes. This season featured Hurricane Rick, which was the second strongest hurricane recorded in the Eastern Pacific Ocean. Another storm to remember was Hurricane Jimena, which caused over $50 million in damage when it made landfall in Baja California.

[[The Bourne Identity (2002 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 movies, American action movies, American spy movies, American thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Universal Pictures movies

The Bourne Identity is an action-thriller movie released in 2002. It is based on the novel by Robert Ludlum, The Bourne Identity, which was published in 1980. The movie is directed by Doug Liman. It stars Matt Damon as the main character, Jason Bourne.

In the movie, as Jason Bourne recovers from his gunshot wound, he find that he lost his memory. As he recovered his memory, he learns he was involved with an international spy agency. The movie is set in Europe, in places such as Prague, Paris, and Italy. It shows thrilling gunfights, car chases, and action scenes. After release, the box-office profit was successful. Two sequels, The Bourne Supremacy and The Bourne Ultimatum were released in 2004 and 2007.

[[Antarctic]]

CATEGORIES: Antarctic region

The Antarctic is the area around the Earth's South Pole. It is opposite the Arctic region which is around the North Pole.  The Antarctic includes the continent of Antarctica and the ices, waters and islands in the Southern Ocean.

[[Beringia]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, Arctic

The Bering land bridge joined present-day Alaska and eastern Siberia at times during the Pleistocene ice ages. 

Its greatest extension was about 1,000 miles (1,600 km) north to south.  It was not glaciated because snowfall was extremely light as the winds from the Pacific Ocean lost their moisture over the fully glaciated nearby mountains.  

The grassland steppe, including the land bridge, that stretched for several hundred miles into the continents on either side has been called Beringia. It is believed that a small human population of at most a few thousand survived the ice age in Beringia. It was isolated from  populations in Asia for at least 5,000 years. Sometime after 16,500 years ago, it started to populate the Americas when the American glaciers that blocked the way southward melted.

[[1917–18 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 in ice hockey, 1918 in ice hockey, National Hockey League seasons, 1917 in North America, 1918

The 1917–18 NHL season was the first season of the National Hockey League (NHL). The season was split into two halves, December 19 to February 4, and February 6 to March 6. The Montreal Canadiens won the first half, and Toronto the second half. The Montreal Wanderers withdrew early in January 1918 after their rink, the Westmount Arena, burned down. Toronto won the NHL playoff and then won the Stanley Cup by defeating the PCHA's Vancouver Millionaires three games to two in a best-of-five series

[[Defenceman]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey positions

Defence (defense in the U.S.) in ice hockey is a player position whose main job is to stop the other team from scoring. They are often called defencemen, defensemen, D, or "blueliners" (a reference to the blue line in ice hockey which is boundary of the offensive zone; defencemen generally stay along the line to keep the puck in the zone).

In regular play, two defencemen play with three forwards and a goaltender on the ice. Exceptions include overtime and when a team is shorthanded (i.e. has been assessed a penalty), in which two defencemen are typically joined by only two forwards and a goaltender.

[[2010 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic hurricane seasons, 2010 in weather

The 2010 Atlantic hurricane season started on June 1, 2010 and ended on November 30, 2010. This is the time when hurricanes are likely to form. Unlike the last three years, a storm did not form in the month of May or earlier.

[[Pool (cue sports)]]

CATEGORIES: Cue sports

Pool, also known as pocket billiards, is the general term for a family of cue sports. These games are played on a pool table with six holes cut into them called pockets, into which balls are deposited as one of the main goals of play.

[[Jason Mraz]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Virginia

Jason Mraz (born June 23, 1977) is an American singer and songwriter. He has put out five albums, Waiting for My Rocket to Come (2002), Mr. A-Z (2005),  We Sing. We Dance. We Steal Things (2008),  Love Is a Four Letter Word (2012), and "Yes!"(2014). Jason Mraz became internationally famous after the release of the single "I'm Yours" from the album We Sing. We Dance. We Steal Things.

Jason Mraz was born and grew up in Mechanicsville, Virginia. His grandfather was ethnic Czech and moved to the United States from Austria-Hungary in 1915. Mraz's surname means "frost" in the Czech language. (mráz).

[[Hanbok]]

Hanbok (Hangul:한복) refers to traditional Korean clothing. In North Korea, hanbok is referred to as Choson-ot (조선옷). One of the most famous characteristics of hanbok is its vivid colors and straight and curved lines. Although its literal meaning is Korean clothing, it today indicates specifically traditional garment, especially that of Joseon dynasty.

Hanbok has been a great part of Korean culture thoughout history.  Traces of Hanbok have been found even before Three Kingdom period of Korea. The oldest form of hanbok can be seen in tomb mural paintings from the Goguryeo Kingdom (37 B.C.-668 A.D.). Korea had two kinds of clothing tradition. The rulers and noblemen usually wore clothing of different kinds of foreign styles, but subjects continued to use a distinct style of indigenous clothing that today is known as hanbok.

There are several kinds of hanbok. People wore different sorts according to their social statuses, sexes, jobs; from time to time, they chose special hanbok for ceremonies. People could figure out the wearer’s job, educational background and even whether he or she was married or not. There are hanbok for men, women, royal court, government officials and children. Because hanbok could reveal the wearer’s social status, there were some government regulations on designs, materials and shapes. For example, only royal families could use golden stripes on their hanbok.

[[Troup County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: Georgia (U.S. state) counties, 1826 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Troup County is a county in the U.S. state of Georgia.  As of 2000, 58,779 people lived there. The 2007 census estimate showed 63,535 people living there. The county seat is LaGrange.6

[[Whitespace (computer science)]]

CATEGORIES: Writing

Whitespace are "blanks", characters that represent space between other characters. The space, tab, carriage return and line feed characters are all whitespace. You can’t see white characters.

[[Carriage return]]

CATEGORIES: Control characters

A carriage return, sometimes known as a cartridge return and often shortened to CR,  or return, is a control character or mechanism used to reset a device's position to the beginning of a line of text. It is closely associated with the line feed and newline concepts, although it can be considered separately in its own right.

[[Newline]]

CATEGORIES: Control characters

Line feed is the name of a computer character that directs a printer or screen display to advance one line of text.  The word "feed" refers to its original use: causing paper to be fed through a teletype, one line at a time.  On some systems, such as the Unix family, it also returns to the beginning of the line, like the carriage return character.

[[Ardashir I]]

CATEGORIES: Persian people, Middle East

Ardashir I, founder of the Sassanid dynasty, was ruler of Istakhr (since 206?), then of an important part of Persia (since 208?), and finally "King of Kings of Persia" (since 226). The dynasty Ardashir founded would rule for four centuries until overthrown by the Rashidun Caliphate in 651.

Ardashir is also known as Ardashīr-i Pāpagān "Ardashir, son of Pāpağ", and other variants of his name include Latinized Artaxares and Artaxerxes.

Ardashir was born in the late 2nd century in Istakhr, what is present-day Fars in Iran. At that time is was a vassal kingdom of Parthia. 

In conclict with  Artabanus IV, who ordered his vassal, the ruler of Khuzestan, to confront Ardashir. It was Ardashir who emerged victorious in that battle.

In 226, Artabanus IV himself invaded Fars to defeat the rebelling Ardashir. But the Parthian army was completely defeated, and Artabanus IV was killed. According to one account, Ardashir and Artabanus fought in close combat on horseback. Ardashir pretended to flee, turned around in the saddle and shot Artabanus through the heart.

Ardashir I was crowned in 226 as the Šāhān šāh Ērān "king of kings of Iran" (his consort Adhur-Anahid took the title "Queen of Queens"), Ardashir finally brought the over 400 year-old Parthian Empire to an end and began four centuries of Sassanid rule.

[[Artabanus IV]]

CATEGORIES: History of Iran, 216 births, 224 deaths

Artabanus IV of Parthia ruled the Parthian Empire (c. 216 – 224). He was the younger son of Vologases V who died in 209. Artabanus rebelled against his brother Vologases VI, and soon gained the upper hand, although Vologases VI maintained himself in a part of Babylonia until about 228. 

The Roman emperor Caracalla, wanted to make use of this civil war for a conquest of the East and attacked the Parthians in 216. He crossed the Tigris and destroyed the towns, but when Artabanus advanced at the head of an army, he retired to Carrhae. There he was murdered by Martialis on April 8, 217. Caracalla's successor, the Praetorian Prefect of the Guard Macrinus, was defeated at Nisibis and in a peace with Artabanus he gave up all the Roman conquests and paid a heavy contribution to the Parthians. 

At about this time, the Persian Great King Ardashir had already begun his conquests in Persia. When Artabanus tried to subdue him his troops were defeated. The war lasted several years; at last Artabanus himself was killed in 226. Thus the 400-year rule of the Arsacid Dynasty came to an end.

[[Helen Mirren]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Essex, Actors from Middlesex, BAFTA Award winners, British atheists, Emmy Award winning actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Dame Helen Lydia Mirren DBE (born Helen Lydia Mironoff; 26 July 1945) is an English actor active in theatre, movie and television.  

[[Makgeolli]]

CATEGORIES: Wine

Makgeolli (Makuly, also called nongju or takju) is a Korean traditional rice wine. Made from rice, it is a milky brew with an alcohol content of 6 to 7 percent. Rice, the main ingredient of it, is not sweet in itself, so Nuruk is also used to make it. Once boiled rice and Nuruk are mixed, the enzymes in Nuruk break down carbohydrates in rice into sugar. Then the sugar meets yeasts in Nuruk and there begins fermentation. Because the fermentation keeps on going, Makgeolli should be drunk as soon as possible once it is opened.

It has a long history. Ancient people made liquor with grains such as wheat and rice after they found the way to grow them. That is the beginning of it. There are some records about it. For example, a book written in Three Kingdoms of Korea, it says many people drank ‘grain liquor.’ Moreover, in a document about the brewing of Joesun Dynasty, there says Makgeolli had had long history and been considered as liquor of the folk. Made from newly harvested rice, it was regarded as sacred gift from God. In addition, it played an important role in religious event like praying ceremony for a year of abundance.

Compared to other liquor, it is good for health. Abundant in protein and fiber, it affects to liver much less than any other alcohol. Rather it helps prevent cancer and heart disease. Similar to milk and yogurt, it has good effect on the health with its organic acids.

These days, demand on it is growing from USA and Japan, so exports are rising in Korea. Actually in Korea, most of the men who drank it were farmers or manual workers in 1970s. That’s because it was replaced not only by soju but also by Western drinks such as beer or whisky. Recently, however, even young generations are more likely to drink it than before.

[[Sadri language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Bangladesh

Sadri (also Nagpuri) is an Indo-Aryan language spoken in the Indian states of Jharkhand, Bihar,  Chhattisgarh and   Odisha. It is the native language of the Sadaan, an ethino-linguistic group of the of Chota Nagpur region. In addition to native speaker, Sadri is also used as a lingua-fraca by large number of tribal groups such as: Kharia, Munda, Bhumij, Kurukh and many of these tribal group have adopted Sadri as their first language. It spoken by many Tea-tribes of Assam, West Bengal and Bangladesh.

[[Rohingya language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Bangladesh

The Rohingya language is a language that is spoken by approximately 1 million in Arakan (which is in Burma), Half a million in Makkah, Jeddah, and Madinah of Saudi Arabia, 300,000 in Karachi and Pakistan, 200,000 in Cox's Bazaar District of Bangladesh (2006), 30,000 in Malaysia, and others in Thailand, UAE and India. It has many alternate names, including: Rohinga, Rohinja, Ruaingga, Arakani, and Arakanese. The Rohingya language is related to the Bengali language. The Rohingya language uses a lot of words from other languages, like Arabic and English. This is due to history (the Rohingya are Muslim and Arabic is an important language in their religion, Islam) and culture (they interacted with the English and many other different groups).

[[Friedrich Kurt Fiedler]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1950 deaths, Designers, German painters, Politicians from Saxony, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany

''Friedrich'' Kurt Fiedler (8 March 1894 – 11 November 1950) was a German graphic designer. During the Weimar Republic he became known for his book and poster designs. Kurt Fiedler was an active member of the Social Democratic Party of Germany.

[[Cryosphere]]

CATEGORIES: Earth

The cryosphere is the part of the Earth’s surface where water is in solid form, including sea ice, lake ice, river ice, snow cover, glaciers, ice caps and ice sheets, and frozen ground (which includes permafrost). It often overlaps with the hydrosphere, the water on, under and over the surface of the Earth. The cryosphere is an important part of the global climate system. It influences surface energy, clouds, precipitation, hydrology, and the way both air and water move about in the atmosphere and oceans. The cryosphere is important to understanding how the climate of Earth works and how it affects global climate. The word cyrosphere comes from the Greek word cryo meaning "cold" or "to cold".

[[Jute]]

CATEGORIES: Fibers

Jute is a vegetable fibre. It is very cheap to produce, and its production levels are similar to that of cotton. It is a bast fibre, like hemp, and flax. Coarse fabrics made of jute are called hessian, or burlap in America. Like all natural fibres, Jute is biodegradable."Jute" is the name of the plant or fiber that is used to make burlap, Hessian or gunny cloth. It is very rough and is very difficult to cut or tear.

The jute plant is easily grown in tropical countries like Bangladesh and India. India is the largest producer of jute in the world. Jute is less expensive than cotton, but cotton is better for quality clothes. Jute is used to make various products: packaging materials, jute bags, sacks, expensive carpets, espadrilles, sweaters etc.

It is obtained from the bark of the jute plant. Jute plants are easy to grow, have a high yield per acre and, unlike cotton, have little need for pesticides and fertilizers.

In Iran, archaeologists have found jute existing since the Bronze Age.

[[Bryan Hopkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2009 deaths, Economists, Welsh people, Civil servants

Sir Bryan Hopkin (7 December 1914 – 10 October 2009) was a Welsh economist.  He spent a lot of his career giving economic advice to the British government.  At other times he taught economics at university.  He did not agree with the economic policies of Margaret Thatcher.

[[Denis Healey]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2015 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British military personnel of World War II, Chancellors of the Exchequer, Companions of Honour, Disease-related deaths in Sussex, Former Labour MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Majors, Members of the Order of the British Empire, Politicians from Kent, People from West Yorkshire, Politicians from Yorkshire, Privy Councillors (UK), Royal Society of Literature, United Kingdom Life Peers, UK MPs 1951–1955, UK MPs 1955–1959, UK MPs 1959–1964, UK MPs 1964–1966, UK MPs 1966–1970, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992

Denis Winston Healey, Baron Healey CH, MBE, PC (30 August 1917 – 3 October 2015) was a British Labour politician.  He was Secretary of State for Defence from 1964 to 1970 and Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1974 to 1979.

[[Plessy v. Ferguson]]

CATEGORIES: United States law, United States Supreme Court cases, American civil rights, 19th century in Louisiana, Human rights abuses

Plessy v. Ferguson, 163, was a United States Supreme Court case that ruled segregation was legal, as long as equal facilities were provided for both races. The decision was handed down by a vote of 7 to 1. The majority opinion was written by Justice Henry Billings Brown, and the minority opinion was written by Justice John Marshall Harlan. 

In 1954, Brown v. Board of Education partially overturned the Plessy v. Ferguson ruling.

[[Robbinsville Township, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey

Robbinsville is a township in Mercer County, New Jersey. As of the year 2000, 10,275 people live in Robbinsville. The town was incorporated, or created as a town, on March 15, 1859.

[[Mercer County, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: New Jersey counties, 1838 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in New Jersey

Mercer County is a county in New Jersey, United States of America. Trenton, the capital of New Jersey is in Mercer County. As of the year 2006, 367,605 people lived in the county. Mercer county was founded in the year 1838.

[[Cyrillic numerals]]

CATEGORIES: Cyrillic script, Numerals

Cyrillic numerals was a numbering system using the Cyrillic alphabet.

[[Gochujang]]

CATEGORIES: Korean food

Gochujang (고추장) is a savory, fermented Korean food. It is made from red chili, glutinous rice, fermented soybeans and salt. It is used to add flavour to a variety of Korean foods such as bibmbab (비빔밥), bulgogi (불고기), and tteokbokki (떡볶이). 

[[Silliman University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the Philippines

Silliman University, sometimes simply called Silliman or SU, is a private Christian university in Dumaguete City, Philippines. The school first started in 1901 when American Presbyterian missionaries came to the Philippines after the war between America and Spain ended. Because of this, Silliman became the first Protestant and American private school in the country. It is also the oldest university founded by Americans in Asia.  At first, they started it as an elementary school for boys. But later on, it became a college, and then into a university.  The man who was first sent by the Presbyterians to start the school was David Sutherland Hibbard, a pastor from Lyndon, Kansas.  On the other hand, the one who gave the money to start it was Horace Brinsmade Silliman, a businessman from Cohoes, New York.  Thankful for what Silliman did, the Presbyterians named the school after him.

Today, Silliman has ten colleges, four schools, and two institutes. Its students come from different parts of the Philippines, as well as from other parts of the world (more than 20 different countries). Silliman offers early childhood, elementary, high school, and college education. In college, Silliman teaches many things such as Accountancy, Business Administration, Engineering, Information Technology, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Biology, Chemistry, Education, Marine Sciences, Physics, Theology, Philosophy, Psychology, and Public Administration among others. Those who want to take up masters and doctorate courses can also find these in Silliman.  Aside from teaching, Silliman is also involved in activities called "extension projects" that help people and different communities.

[[Yut]]

CATEGORIES: Board games

Yut is a traditional Korean board game played mainly during the period from Korean New Year to the first full moon. Cheok-sa and sa-hee are the other names of the game. Its origin is not clear, but it seems that the game was started from the age of ancient Korea called Three-Kingdoms. The game is played by throwing four sticks, and moving marks on the board according to shapes of the sticks that fell down. During Korean New Year, many people play the game because it can be enjoyed anywhere by players of any age.

[[Sujebi]]

CATEGORIES: Korean food, Soups

Sujebi (수제비) is a traditional Korean soup. It is a Korean-style pasta soup consisting of hand-torn dough flakes with various vegetables and has been eaten from the early Goryeo period. In ancient times, when the Korea people were poor, they didn't have much foodstuffs and so made sujebi with small quantity of dough and leftover vegetables. In addition, rice was rare after the Korean War, so many people ate sujebi instead of rice because wheat flour was cheaper at that time. However, sujebi with various kinds of ingredients was considered a special food, so it was eaten on special days like a celebration day or feast. Nowadays, there are many kinds of sujebi and many people enjoy it as a health food. It is similar to another Korean traditional food Kalguksu, but Kalsuksu is made with noodles while sujebi is made with wheat flakes. Both of them are considered as proper food for a rainy day due to its hot and rich flavored broth. It is usually eaten with kimchi.

[[Kim Gu]]

CATEGORIES: 1876 births, 1949 deaths, Anti-Communists, Korean educators, Terrorists, South Korean politicians, Murder victims, Autobiographers

Kim Gu (Hangul: 김구, July 11, 1876 – June 26, 1949) was a Korean independence activist and politician. He was the President of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea three times. Kim was the 6th, 12th, and 13th (and final) president. He was the leader of the Korean independence movement against Japanese Imperialism and a reunification activist. Kim was also called Baekbeom. It was his pen name. He is a well respected person to many Korean people. Prime Minister 1921 to 1927 and Interior Minister of Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea 1923 to 1924.

[[Southern California]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of California

Southern California is a region of California. The definitions of it vary, but it usually contains the area around Los Angeles and San Diego, as well as the "Inland Empire" of San Bernardino and Riverside Counties. Over twenty million people live in Southern California.

[[Chocolate brownie]]

CATEGORIES: Cakes

A chocolate brownie (or simply called a brownie) is an American dessert or snack made with chocolate. Its name came from its dark brown color. It tastes like a cross between a cake and a cookie. Unlike other cakes, it is baked without baking powder so it is much thicker. It is normally served cut into squares or rectangles. It can be eaten as a snack, or with ice cream or whipped cream as a dessert.

[[Military strategy]]

CATEGORIES: Military

A military strategy is a set of ideas or policy used by armed forces to get the results they want. Strategy is used to win combat, battles and wars. It involves planning, logistics (the movement and use of forces and equipment), and the deception of the enemy.

Carl von Clausewitz is considered the creator of modern military strategy.

[[Civilization IV]]

CATEGORIES: Civilization series, 2005 video games

For the series as whole, see Civilization (series)

Civilization IV is a strategy computer game released in 2005. It is build by the company Firaxis Games. It is a turn based game where the player builds an empire from the ancient era, into the modern era. In this time, the player is tasked with researching technology, managing a military, declaring war, engaging in diplomacy, spreading religions, managing governmental systems and building wonders of the world. There is an option as playing as one of 18 historical civilizations, each with at least on historical leader. Different nations and leaders have different advantages, disadvantages, and special military units to construct. It has two expansions. The first was Warlords and the second was Beyond the Sword. It was released in 7 languages: Chinese, French, German, Spanish, English, Japanese and Italian. 

[[PCB]]

PCB is an abbreviation for one of the following:

[[Trenton-Robbinsville Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in the United States, Buildings and structures in New Jersey, Transport in New Jersey

Trenton-Robbinsville Airport is a privately owned airport in Robbinsville, New Jersey. It has a 4,275 foot (1,303 meter) long asphalt runway.

[[Jhalawan]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan

Jhalawan is a former country. It was established in the 17th century. Its boundary was fixed with Sindh in 1853.

[[Sarawan County]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan

The Sarawan Country was a division of the former princely state of State of Kalat in Baluchistan, Pakistan. Its area was 4,339 square miles.

[[Swat (princely state)]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Pakistani princely states

Swat (ریاست سوات) was a princely state and is now part of Pakistan. Swat was part of the Mughal Empire ruled by local Gujar rulers known as Akhoond or Akhwand. From 1926 until 1947, Swat was a princely state in British Raj, and in 1947 it acceded to Pakistan. It lay to the north of the modern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa of Pakistan until it was dissolved in 1969. It incorporated the current states of Swat, Buner and Shangla.

[[Marri-Bugti County]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan

Marri-Bugti Country (Marri and Bugti Country) was a tribal region during the British occupation of Baluchistan.

[[Shirley Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1965 deaths, Writers from San Francisco, Writers from Vermont

Shirley Jackson (December 14, 1916, San Francisco, California - August 8, 1965, Bennington, Vermont) was an important American author. A popular writer in her time, her work has received even more attention from literary critics in recent years. She has influenced such writers as Neil Gaiman, Stephen King, Nigel Kneale and Richard Matheson.

[[Book Off]]

CATEGORIES: Books, Companies of Japan, 1990 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in Japan

Book Off (ブックオフ) is Japan’s biggest chain of second hand bookstores. It is operated by Book Off Corporation Limited. The first Book Off store opened in May, 1990. The first franchisee Book Off store opened in Nov, 1991. The success of the business expanded to 917 stores in Japan and 14 stores abroad (8 in US, 3 in France, 2 in Korea, and 1 in Canada). Book Off sells books including comic books, magazines, and novels, and also sells CDs, DVDs, and Game software. Books are grouped by genres, writers, and prices. The overseas Book Off stores sell second hand books from Japan and also from its own country. Book Off not only sells the second hand books, but also buys the books from customers. For that reason Book Off’s theme copy is “お売りください” which means “Please, sell us your book”. The company uses this copy rather than ”We buy your book” to show respect to customers.

Some Book Off chains, especially ones abroad, have various signboard designs, but still they share the symbol colors of Book Off which are yellow, blue, and red. Book Off has its mascot "Yomuyomukun (Mr. Yomu-yomu)" holding a book in his hands. "Yomu (読む)" in Japanese means "read". Another uniqueness of Book Off is the employees’ loud greeting. Employees shout “いらっしゃいませ! (irashaimase! : welcome!)” when customers enter, and "ありがとうございました! (arigatou gozaimasita! : thank you!)” when customers leave the shop. Book Off chain stores abroad also greet customers with Japanese. 

From 1999 Book Off Corporation Limited started to expand the business into other second hand stores. B-Kids, B-Sports, B-Style, B-Life and B-Select cover second hand baby goods, children wear, sports goods, ladies’ and men’s wear, interior goods, and accessories respectively. After the first B-Kid store opened in Apr, 1999, now there are 26 B-Kids, 32 B-Style, 24 B-Sports stores in Japan. Book Off charges about 81% of the business and the other type of stores charge 19% of the entire sales.

[[Françoise Hardy]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, French singers, French songwriters

Françoise Hardy is a French singer, actress and model. As a celebrity in various fields, she has been an icon in France. 

[[Baekje]]

CATEGORIES: History of Korea, Former monarchies of Asia, Former countries in Asia, 18 BC establishments, 660 disestablishments, 7th century disestablishments in Asia

Baekje was ancient kingdom on the Korean Peninsula from 18 BCE to 660 CE. Baekje was also called Nam Buyeo. According to the Samguk Sagi, a historical record published in ancient Korea, Baekje was founded by Onjo at Wirye-sung (the present-day Han River area in Seoul). Baekje was one of the three kingdoms of Korea together with Goguryeo and Silla. Beakje, Goguryeo and Silla tried to expand each of their lands by allying and making war against one another. 

In the 4th century, Beakje conquered almost every southern part of the Korean Peninsula and flourished by accepting Buddhism and reforming its system. Also, due to its advantageous natural environment, Baekje easily traded with China and Japan. Especially Baekje established goodwill relationships with Japanese rulers of the Kufun period and transmitted its advanced culture such as pottery and Buddhism to Japan.

However, in the 5th century, Baekje was defeated by Goguryeo. It suffered the loss of its capital. Baekje moved its capital to Ungjin. In 6th century, King Seong decided to move capital to Sabi to restore Baekje's glorious past. However, Baekje was ruined by Silla at 660. Although Baekje was destroyed at that time, many ill-fated attempts were existed to restore Baekje from its descendants.

[[App Store (iOS)]]

CATEGORIES: Apple software

The App Store is an online market used on Apple's iOS, managed by Apple Inc. The App Store lets users view and download applications that were made with the iOS Software Development Kit. Apps can be downloaded onto an iOS device directly, or onto a computer using iTunes (also managed by Apple).

Apps in the App Store are made mainly for iOS devices, such as iPhones and iPads. Some apps can be downloaded for free while others have a cost. Some have "in-app purchases", which are purchases made within the app. These are sometimes done to remove ads or to add features to an app. 30% of all profit made through apps goes to Apple, while 70% goes to whoever made the app.

Apple iOS 11 App Store is the current eleventh major release of the iOS mobile operating system developed by Apple Inc. It was announced and the first beta version released to developers at the company's Worldwide Developers Conference on June 5, 2017.

[[Monsters vs. Aliens]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 science fiction movies, 2009 animated movies, 2009 3D movies, American animated movies, American science fiction movies, English-language movies, Saturn Award winning movies, Movies about giants, Movies set in California

Monsters vs. Aliens  is a 2009 American computer-animated 3-D comedy-science fiction  movie from DreamWorks Animation and Paramount Pictures. It was the first computer animated movie to be directly produced in a stereoscopic 3-D format instead of being changed into 3-D after completion, which added $15 million to the film's budget. The movie was set to release in May 2009, but was pulled back to March 27, 2009. It was released on DVD and Blu-ray September 29, 2009 in North America. It stars Reese Witherspoon, Seth Rogen, Hugh Laurie, Will Arnett, Conrad Vernon, Rainn Wilson, Kiefer Sutherland, Stephen Colbert and Paul Rudd. also an animated television series of of the same name by Nickelodeon and Dreamworks Animation Television.

[[Saturday Night's Main Event]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment television programs, 1985 American television series debuts, 1992 television series endings, 1992 disestablishments in the United States

Saturday Night's Main Event was a professional wrestling television show that was aired as a special 36 times by World Wrestling Entertainment. Saturday Night's Main Event was a tremendous ratings success for NBC during its heyday, most notably on the March 14, 1987 show, which drew an 11.6 rating, which to this day remains the highest rating any show has ever done in that time slot. That show was headlined by a battle royal featuring Hulk Hogan and André the Giant, who were slated to face each other at WrestleMania III. As Hogan rarely wrestled on the WWF syndicated and cable television shows, Saturday Night's Main Event was the program on free television where most viewers were able to see him in action.

[[Generator (Bad Religion album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums, Bad Religion albums, Punk albums

Generator is the sixth album released by the American punk rock band Bad Religion. Although the album was recorded and finished in May 1991, it was not officially released until March 1992. 100,000 copies of the album were shipped.

Generator was also the band's first release with drummer Bobby Schayer, who replaced Pete Finestone during the Against the Grain tour. Today, Generator has been remembered as one of the best albums to emerge from the early 90s punk scene, and one of the most enduring works of Bad Religion's career.

A video was made for "Atomic Garden". It is available for watching here https://web.archive.org/web/20120220021606/http://www.epitaph.com/videos/search/?q. This was the first video Bad Religion ever released.

[[Niklas Hjalmarsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Arizona Coyotes players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Living people, Swedish ice hockey players, Stanley Cup champions, American Hockey League players, Swedish Hockey League players, Ice hockey defencemen

Niklas Hjalmarsson (born June 6, 1987 in Eksjö, Sweden) is a Swedish professional ice hockey player that currently plays for the Arizona Coyotes of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for their farm team the Rockford IceHogs of the AHL and the Chicago Blackhawks (NHL). Although he spent the majority of his time on the IceHogs, He earned a regular spot on the Chicago Blackhawks roster after James Wisniewski was traded to the Anaheim Ducks. Hjalmarsson won the Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks in 2010.

On July 9, 2010, He signed an offer sheet with the San Jose Sharks which was for 4 years and $14 million. The Blackhawks matched it and Hjalmarsson became the first defenceman in 13 years to receive an offer sheet as a restricted free agent. On June 24, 2013, He won his second Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals.

[[Dustin Byfuglien]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, American Hockey League players, American ice hockey players, Atlanta Thrashers players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Winnipeg Jets players, Living people, Sportspeople from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Prince George Cougars players, Sportspeople from Minnesota, Stanley Cup champions, Ice hockey defencemen

Dustin Byfuglien (pronounced Buff-lin; born March 27, 1985 in Minneapolis, Minnesota) is a American professional ice hockey player that is currently a free agent of the National Hockey League (NHL) as a defenseman. He is African American. When he was smaller he moved to Roseau, Minnesota with his mom but decided to move to Chicago to play midget hockey it was there where he was drafted by the Blackhawks in 2003. He won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Blackhawks in 2010. He played for the Chicago Blackhawks for 5 seasons and played 1 season with the Atlanta Thrashers.

[[Ash (band)]]

CATEGORIES: British rock bands, Irish rock bands, Pop punk bands

Ash is an alternative rock band from Downpatrick, Northern Ireland. They officially formed in 1992, when the frontman Tim Wheeler and the bassist Mark Hamilton were only 15. Then, Rick "Rock" McMurray joined the band as drummer and Charlotte Haterley (who left the band in 2006) as second guitar and vocalist.

[[Tomáš Kopecký]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, American Hockey League players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Lethbridge Hurricanes players, Living people, Slovak ice hockey players, Stanley Cup champions, Ice hockey centres

Tomáš Kopecký (pronounced "koh-PEHT-skee"; born February 5, 1982 in Ilava, Czechoslovakia) is a former professional Slovakian ice hockey player that played as a left winger for the Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League (NHL). He previously played four seasons with the Detroit Red Wings and played 2 seasons with the Chicago Blackhawks. He is married and has two sons named Jakub and Tobias.

In 2010, He won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Blackhawks making him a two-time Stanley Cup champion.

[[Trans woman]]

CATEGORIES: Transgender

A trans woman (sometimes spelled as trans-woman or transwoman) is a male-to-female (MTF) transsexual or transgender person. Many people in this group like the name trans woman over the many medical terms that are out there. Other non-medical names are t-girl, tg-girl, and ts-girl. Transgender woman, though, is the more common name.

Some people who are assigned male at birth later identify as women. They feel that the gender they were assigned and the gender they actually are do not match. Some trans women want to simply be called "women" rather than being called a "trans" woman, but this does not apply to all trans women.

[[Pat Sajak]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American television presenters, Television personalities from Chicago, American television talk show hosts, American bloggers

Pat Sajak (born October 26, 1946) is an American actor and game show host. He hosts Wheel of Fortune in the United States.

Sajak was on Super Password several times from 1984–1989, as well as Password Plus in 1981.  Other game shows on which Sajak guested were Dream House and Just Men!.

Sajak hosted a late-night talk show on CBS called The Pat Sajak Show from January 1989 to April 1990. More recently, he filled in for Regis Philbin on Live with Regis and Kelly. Premierie on December 28 1981 Present Born 1946 Password in September 24 1984 Live with Regis 2 Password Game Show in 1983 Present Syndicated Verison on September 4 1989-June 9 2006 the in 9/11/2006 Present NBC January 1989 Miss on Lucky Pat Sajak Show or Other Miss Chuck Woolrey in 1973 Present on January 1975

[[Magnum Crimen]]

CATEGORIES: Croatia, History, 1948 books

"Magnum crimen: pola vijeka klerikalizma u Hrvatskoj" (i.e. Major accusation: Half a century of clericalism in Croatia) is a book first published in Zagreb in 1948. The book was written by a Croatian Roman Catholic priest, Dr. Viktor Novak (1889 - 1977), who was also a professor at Belgrade and Zagreb Universities, and the member of the Yugoslav Academy Science and Arts. In this book, Novak wrote about (Roman Catholic) clericalism in Croatia from the beginning of the 20th century to the end of World War II.

The Vatican Curia placed the book on their list of banned books, the "Index librorum prohibitorum", and said that Novak was an enemy of the Catholic Church.

[[William of Orange]]

William of Orange usually refers to either:

William of Orange may also refer to:

[[Salcea]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suceava County

Salcea is a town of Suceava County in northern Romania.  9,194 people were living in Salcea as of 2000.

[[Agra]]

CATEGORIES: Agra district, Cities and towns in Uttar Pradesh

Agra is a city in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, India. The city is famous for being the capital  of the Mughal emperors from 1526 to 1658. It is a major tourist destination for its many Mughal-era buildings such as Tāj Mahal, Agra Fort and Fatehpūr Sikrī, all three of which are  UNESCO World Heritage Sites.

[[Kim Seong-Su]]

CATEGORIES: 1881 births, 1955 deaths, Anti-Communists, Korean educators, South Korean journalists, Vice Presidents of South Korea

Kim Seong-Su (김성수; Hanja 金性洙, October 11, 1881-February 18, 1955), the second vice-president of the Republic of Korea (대한민국; 大韓民國), was a politician, educationist, journalist, and founder of Kyung-Sung textile Co. (경성방직회사; 京城紡織會社) , the Dong-A Ilbo(동아일보; 東亞日報), and Korea University(고려대학교; 高麗大學校). After he died he was given the Order of Merit for National Foundation(건국훈장; 建國勳章). He is also known by his pen name Inchon (인촌; 仁村)

[[Nuneaton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Warwickshire

Nuneaton is the largest town in the English county of Warwickshire. Nuneaton is famous for the novelist, George Eliot, who was born on a farm outside Nuneaton in 1819 and lived in Nuneaton during her early life.

[[Sarrasani]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment in Germany

Sarrasani is the name of a famous German circus. It was resident in Dresden. Later it became known as national circus of Argentina.

Sarrasani was founded by the clown Hans Stosch. His stage name was Giovanni Sarrasani. He came 1901 to Radebeul. The circus had its official premiere 1902 in Meißen. In the year 1912 a stationary circus building opened in Dresden. The circus often performed abroad. It had two famous labels, the Elephants and the Sioux.

Stosch-Sarrasani sen. died 1934 in São Paulo. His son Hans Stosch-Sarrasani jun. followed him as director. He died in 1941 in Berlin. His widow took directorship. The Sarrasani theater was destroyed on 13 February 1945 during the World War II.

Trude Stosch-Sarrasani emigrated to Argentina. She re-launched the circus in Buenos Aires. Perón and Evita declared Sarrasani Circo nacional Argentino. The Argentine Sarrasani existed until 1972. 

The artist Fritz Mey re-launched the German Sarrasani in 1956. His partner, Ingrid Wimmer, was adopted by Trude Stosch-Sarrasani in 1976. André Sarrasani, son of Fritz Mey and Ingrid Wimmer, leads the circus since 2000. Sarrasani came back to Dresden in 1990 for the first time after 45 years. André Sarrasani performs today in Dresden the Dinner-Varieté-Show Trocadero.

Trude Stosch-Sarrasani died the 6 of June 2009.

[[War language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Bangladesh, Languages of India

War (also spelled Waar) or Amwi is an Austro-Asiatic language spoken by about 16,000 people in Bangladesh and 12,000 people in the Republic of India.

[[Supernova (South Korean band)]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean boy bands, J-pop bands, K-pop music groups, 2007 establishments in South Korea

Supernova (슈퍼노바; stylized as SUPERNOVA) is a six-member Korean Pop boy band. Its members are Yunhak, Sungje, Sungmo, Kwangsu, Jihyuk and Geonil. They debuted through the M.net M! PICK season 6 in 2007 and belong to Korean record company Core Contents Media. From 2007 to 2018 they were known in Korean as Choshinsung 

At first, Choshinsung was a five-member boy band but it was turned to a six-member through many times of changing their members. For this reason, they had to put their debut on after 1 year and recorded their album again. Before the debut all of members participated in commercial movies and other singer’s music videos. Then, they debuted through M.net M! PICK which is a TV program of picking up new faces for making Korean entertainers in August 2nd, 2007.

[[Temple of Castor and Pollux]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Rome, Ancient Greek and Roman temples and shrines

The Temple of Castor and Pollux is a Roman temple that worshipped the Gods, Castor and Pollux. This temple was based in the famous Roman Forum which is now in ruins.

[[Sonic the Hedgehog 3]]

CATEGORIES: Sonic the Hedgehog games, 1994 video games, Platform games, Sega Genesis games, Video games developed in Japan, Video game sequels

Sonic the Hedgehog 3 is the third video game in the Sonic the Hedgehog series. It was made by Sonic Team and published by Sega for the Sega Mega Drive in 1994. You can play as Sonic the Hedgehog or Miles "Tails" Prower, or both (Tails follows Sonic and does what Sonic does if you play this way). Dr. Eggman is called Dr. Robotnik in the North American and European version of the game.

[[Sheila Mello]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian actors, Brazilian models

Sheila Chesed de Almeida Mello (born 23 July 1978) is a Brazilian dancer, actress and model. She became famous for dancing in the band É o Tchan!

[[Seattle Sounders FC]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s establishments in Washington (state), 2007 establishments in the United States, American soccer teams, Sports in Seattle, Washington

Seattle Sounders FC is a team in Major League Soccer (MLS) that plays in Seattle, Washington. It was founded in 2007 and began playing in 2009. Their name, which comes from the name of two older teams in Seattle, was chosen by fans in 2008. The club's majority owner is Adrian Hanauer, and its minority owners are the estate of Paul Allen, Drew Carey, and a group of 11 Seattle-area families that includes Russell Wilson, his wife Ciara, and Macklemore. Many fans are in groups and also a 53-member band called Sound Wave plays at every home game. Their rivals, the Portland Timbers and Vancouver Whitecaps, play against the Seattle in the Cascadia Cup every year. Brian Schmetzer is the team's head coach.

The team was the 15th MLS team and first played in the 2009 season. At every Seattle game, all of the seats were sold and the fans set a new record for average (or middle) match attendance, while the team also sold more season tickets than anyone else in the MLS. The Seattle Sounders FC finished their first year in the MLS playoffs, but lost in the semi-finals. The team did win their first trophy, the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup, and became the second team to do so in their first year. The Sounders went on to win the U.S. Open Cup in 2010 and 2011 as well, becoming the first team in over 40 years to win that competition three straight times. They won again in 2014, also winning the Supporters' Shield. In 2016, Seattle won their first MLS Cup; they returned to the final the following year and lost.

[[Florence Ballard]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 1976 deaths, Deaths from coronary thrombosis, African American musicians, American R&B musicians, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Singers from Detroit, Michigan

Florence Glenda Ballard Chapman (June 30, 1943 – February 22, 1976) was an American rhythm and blues singer. She was one of the founders of The Supremes. She was born in Detroit, Michigan. She died in Detroit from coronary thrombosis.

[[Amanda Knox]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, American criminals, People acquitted of murder, Writers from Seattle, Washington

Amanda Marie Knox (born 9 July 1987, Seattle, Washington) is an American author who was imprisoned without bail bond in Italy for 4 years during the trial and acquittal of the 2007 murder of Meredith Kercher, her British college housemate, in Perugia, Italy. On October 3, 2011, she was cleared of murder after an appeal trial. The sentence was declared invalid in March 2013. She was sentenced to 28 years and six months in jail in late January 2014. Her murder conviction was overturned for a final appeal in March 2015. Knox wrote about her treatment by Italian authorities and her prison problems in her 2013 memoir, Waiting to Be Heard.

Knox was, at the time of the murder, a 20-year-old University of Washington language student who shared a flat with Kercher. She was in Perugia attending the University for Foreigners for one year, studying Italian, German and creative writing. Knox met her boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito at a classical music concert held on 25 October 2007, which she attended with Kercher at the University for Foreigners. When Kercher left at the intermission, Sollecito met Knox.

Knox and her boyfriend Sollecito were put on trial. At the time of the murder on 1 November 2007, Kercher's house keys, rent money of 300 euros (~$450), and 2 mobile phones had been missing, but the phones were found in the bushes by a neighbor, several blocks away, when Knox called Kercher's numbers the next morning after finding the front door ajar. The prosecution claimed a knife fight with Sollecito had begun after Knox and Kercher had argued about the stolen rent money, as stated by convicted suspect Rudy Guede (whose DNA was found on the body and purse). However, Amanda Knox had over $4,000 in her bank account at the time, and said she had no motive. Sollecito's DNA was found in the kitchen ashtray and outside Kercher's door frame, where he tried to push the door, but not inside the room nor on the body. Sollecito was sent to prison for 25 years, and Knox for 26 years.

They both appealed their sentences.

At the first appeal trial in 2011, a man claimed to have seen Knox and Sollecito by a town square near the house that night, when other people were wearing costume masks, but Halloween had been 2 nights earlier, not the night of the murder. The first appeal verdict was given on October 3, 2011, and Knox and Sollecito were freed from prison on that date.

In January 2014, Amanda Knox and her prior lover Rafael Sollecito were again found guilty by the Italian higher court, which overturned the first appeal. Sollecito was stopped by Italian Police when he tried to cross the border with Austria, after the verdict. 

In March 2015, at their fourth trial, Knox and Sollecito were acquitted of Kercher's murder by Italy's top appeal court. Despite being cleared of the murder charge, the guilty verdict against Knox for the slander of Patrick Lumumba - a bar owner she falsely accused of the crime - has been upheld.

[[Habilitation]]

CATEGORIES: Education

In some countries, Habilitation is a step toward becoming a professor that comes after people receive their Ph. D. (doctor of philosophy or "doctorate").

[[Solca]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suceava County

Solca is a town of Suceava County in Romania.  There were around 2500 people living in Solca as of 2002.

[[Raspberry (color)]]

Raspberry is a color that resembles the color of raspberries. 

The first recorded use of raspberry as a color name in English was in 1892. 

[[Bay of Campeche]]

CATEGORIES: Bays, Bodies of water of North America, Geography of Mexico, Campeche, Veracruz

The Bay of Campeche is an area in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico. In Mexico three states, Campeche, Tabasco, and Veracruz have a coastline on the Bay of Campeche.

[[Hi! Seoul Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Seoul, Festivals in Asia, 2003 establishments in South Korea

Hi! Seoul Festival is a seasonal festival sponsored by Seoul Metropolitan Government and others. 

It has been held for each season – spring, summer, fall, and winter - every year in Seoul, South Korea since 2003. 

[[Mandu (dumpling)]]

CATEGORIES: Korean food

Mandu (만두; 饅頭) are Chinese-style dumplings from Korea. Mandu were introduced in Korea in the middle of the Joseon dynasty.

They are made from flour stuffed with meat and vegetables. This filling is called so (소). Pork is the most common meat for so, but beef, chicken, or pheasant can also be ingredients of mandu. Vegetables are typically carrots, cucumbers, onions, and bean sprouts. Other additional ingredients are kimchi, tofu, or chopped noodles made from sweet potatoes. They can be fried, boiled, steamed or even baked, and each type has a different name. Mandu are usually served with soy sauce mixed with vinegar for dipping.

They were traditionally made only in the early winter or for a holiday. However, in modern times, they are an everyday food.

[[James Mason]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1984 deaths, Actors from Yorkshire, British screenwriters, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Switzerland, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English movie actors, English movie producers, English stage actors, English television actors, Golden Globe Award winners, People from Huddersfield, Writers from Yorkshire

James Neville Mason (15 May 1909 - 27 July 1984) was an English actor. He reached stardom in both British and American movies. He was born in Huddersfield, West Riding of Yorkshire. He died in Lausanne, Switzerland from a heart attack at the age of 75. He played Humbert Humbert in Lolita (1962).

[[Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 romance movies, 2004 drama movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York, American independent movies, Movies directed by Michel Gondry

Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is a 2004 American romantic drama movie set in New York. It was released on March 19, 2004. It was directed by Michel Gondry, a well-known French director of Human Nature, and the story of the movie was written by Charlie Kaufman of Being John Malkovich and Adaptation and Pierre Bismuth as well as Gondry. Jim Carrey, famous for his acting in several comedy movies such as The Mask and Bruce Almighty, and Kate Winslet, a heroine of Titanic, starred in this movie as main characters both of whom are struggling to erase their memories of love.

The story of this movie is about memory erasure of a couple who once loved each other but now, suffer from the memories of their love. Joel Barish (Jim Carrey) decides to erase his memory about his girlfriend, Clementine Kruczynski (Kate Winslet), after he discovered that she had removed all of her memories about him. He goes to see Dr. Howard Mierzwiak (Tom Wilkinson) of Lacuna Inc., a firm that helps people erase their painful, heartbreaking memories with a special brain map processing, and asks the doctor to erase his memory. However, while the memory erasure is ongoing, he faces with their earlier memories that are so passionate, sweet and precious that they should never be deleted. Although Joel tries to wake up and stop getting rid of her from his mind, Dr. Mierswiak and his employees keep going on the process. Joel eventually gets to the last memory, disappearing with the last words of Clementine saying, “Meet me in Montauk.” Other than the story of main characters, the staff members of Lacuna Inc. such as Mary (Kirsten Dunst), and Patrick (Elijah Wood) also have some related stories which will be a key for the ending of this movie.

The director tells people two quotes by Mary’s words in the movie. The first one is from Friedrich Nietzsche’s saying, “Blessed are the forgetful, for they get the better even of their blunders.” The second one is from Alexander Pope’s poem, “How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! The world forgetting, by the world forgot. Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind! Each prayer accepted, and each wish resigned.” The title of this movie, “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind” is from this quote.

[[Cecilia (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: English novels, English-language novels, 1782 books

Cecilia, subtitled "Memoirs of an Heiress", is an 18th century novel by Frances Burney. It is a comical, satirical love story. It was admired by people like Edmund Burke, Mary Wollstonecraft, and Choderlos de Laclos.

[[Go-Stop]]

CATEGORIES: Card games, Korean culture

Go-Stop (고스톱; also called Godori) is a Korean card game which uses Hanafuda. Hanafuda cards have 48 cards. 4 cards are 1 set and 12 sets mean 12 months. Normally, 3 players play Go-Stop, but it is possible to play with 2 players or among more than 4 players. 

Go-Stop is played for fun among friends or family members. But it also can be a kind of gambling. In recent years, Go-Stop became one of the most popular online board games in Korea with the development of internet.

[[Edward Scissorhands]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 drama movies, 1990 romance movies, 1990s fantasy movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, American fantasy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies about suburbia, Saturn Award winners, 20th Century Fox movies

Edward Scissorhands is a 1990 American romantic fantasy movie directed by Tim Burton. Caroline Thompson wrote the screenplay. Danny Elfman, a composer and musician from the band Oingo Boingo, wrote and performed the music in this movie. The role of Edward was played by Johnny Depp, with Winona Ryder playing Kim, his love interest. After making this movie, Ryder became much more famous. Depp and Burton were a successful combination after this movie. Many of Burton's movies after Edward Scissorhands star Depp.

[[Lippstadt]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Rhine-Westphalia, Soest Rural District

Lippstadt is a planned city in Westphalia. About 67,000 people lived there in 2008. The city is about 70 km east of Dortmund, and about 30 km west of Paderborn. 

[[Tteok]]

CATEGORIES: Korean food, Rice dishes

Tteok is a Korean traditional rice cake which is made of rice by kneading it with water. It tastes chewy and sticky. Tteok is usually only eaten on holidays or birthdays.

Koreans eat Tteok depending on the season. On the first day of the year, they make Garaetteok which is shaped like a long white cylinder because it looks like a white thin thread that represents a long life generally in Asian culture. Sliced Garaetteok is used for making a soup named Tteokguk. In March, women make small sweet Korean pancakes called Hwajeon with flowers. They use flowers such as azaleas and chrysanthemums. On Chuseok holiday, Korean Thanksgiving Day, Koreans make Songpyeon. They dough rice flour and stuff sesame, or chestnut into each. After they put it in, they shape it into a half moon.

[[Pansori]]

CATEGORIES: Korean culture, 1913 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in South Korea

Pansori is defined as a Korean traditional narrative song that one sorikkun(Korean: 소리꾼), a singer, weaves a story with chang(song), aniri(descriptive speech), and nurumsae(motion). The name of the song is also known as gapga, bonsaga, changga in Chinese, but it has been called pansori in Korean. The term pansori first appeared in 'Mae-il Shin bo' (the name of the newspaper in 1910s in Korea) in 1913. Pansori is a performing art which one sorikkun, and one gosu (a drummer playing a barrel drum called buk (Korean: 북)) sing a song of a long story to the audience. 'Pan' in pansori means 'a place where many people gather', and 'sori' means 'sound'. Pansori represents voluntariness and impromptu which are the characteristics of Korean traditional music. For example, before Heung-rok Song period it had been orally narrated without any exact scripts by extemporarily inserting songs handed down orally and witty remarks into the stories taught by a master.

[[Lord of War]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, American crime thriller movies, English-language movies, Lionsgate movies

Lord of War is a crime thriller movie released in September 2005. It is directed by Andrew Nicole and starred Nicolas Cage, Ethan Hawke, Jared Leto and Bridget Moynahan. It deals with a story of gunrunner, named Yuri, who deals in arms trafficking. It is based on a real person named Victor Bout who was a notorious arms dealer.

The movie describes a person who deals in firearms as a "Merchant of Death", since by selling guns to people, Yuri is selling and bringing them death. At the end of the movie, an additional credit title points out the irony in that the five biggest arms exporting countries, the U.S., UK, Russia, France and China, are also the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council.

[[Westphalia]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of North Rhine-Westphalia, Regions of Germany

[[Empress Myeongseong]]

CATEGORIES: 1851 births, 1895 deaths, Emperors and empresses

Empress Myeongseong (19 October 1851 – 8 October 1895), also known as Queen Min, was the official wife of King Gojong. King Gojong was the twenty-sixth king of the Joseon Dynasty of Korea. In 1902, she was given the honorary name of Hyoja Wonseong Jeonghwa Hapcheon Honggong Seongdeok Myeongseong Taehwanghu (Hangul: 효자원성정화합천홍공성덕명성태황후, Hanja: 孝慈元聖正化合天洪功誠德明成太皇后). It is usually shortened to Myeongseong Hwanghu (Hangul: 명성황후, Hanja: 明成皇后).

The Japanese felt that she was being politically unhelpful to them. After China was defeated in the First Sino-Japanese War, Queen Min tried to get help from Russia instead. She wanted to stop Japanese influence from spreading in Joseon, where it was getting stronger.

In the early morning of October 8, 1895, men who said that they were commanded by Miura Gorō went into Gyeongbok Palace. When they went into the Queen's Quarters (Okhoru), they killed three women whom they thought were Empress Myeongseong. When they proved that one of the women was Queen Min, they burned her body in a forest in front of the Okhoru.

In South Korea, people have recently begun showing interest in Queen Min. Novels and musicals have been made about her.

[[Callosamia promethea]]

CATEGORIES: Saturniidae

The Promethea Moth (Callosamia promethea) is a species of moth.  It belongs in the family Saturniidae.  It is also known as the Promethea Silkmoth or the Spicebush Silkmoth.

[[F.C. Barcelona]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Barcelona, Camp Nou, 1899 establishments in Europe, 1890s establishments in Spain

Futbol Club Barcelona, commonly known as Barcelona or simply Barça, is a Spanish professional football club from Barcelona, Catalonia. They currently compete in La Liga, the top division of Spanish football. It was founded in 1899 by Joan Gamper as FBC Barcelona. 

They are known for winning the treble (La Liga, the Copa Del Rey, and the UEFA Champions League) all in 1 season, twice, in the 2008-09 season and in the 2014-15 season. They are also the only European club to have won a treble twice. Their biggest rival is Real Madrid. Matches between F.C. Barcelona and Real Madrid are called "El Clásico", which means "The Classic" in Spanish. The team has won many tournaments, which is why Barcelona is considered one of the best teams in the world. Their home stadium, Camp Nou, is the largest stadium in Europe with a capacity of 99,354.                                                                                                                         

Barcelona have won 97 official titles. They are the most successful club in Spain, with 75 titles. Those domestic titles are 31 Copa del Rey, 26 La Liga, 13 Supercopa de España, 3 Copa Eva Duarte, and two Copa de la Liga. Internationally, the club is also one of the most successful. It has won 22 official titles, including two Latin Cup, three Inter-Cities Fairs Cup, five UEFA Champions League, four UEFA Super Cup, four UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, and three FIFA Club World Cup.  

Barcelona is one of the three clubs that have never been relegated from the first division. The other ones are Athletic Bilbao and Real Madrid.

[[Negros Oriental]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Negros Oriental, sometimes called Oriental Negros (East Negros), is a province in the Philippines. It is one of two provinces found on Negros Island.

[[Valencia, Negros Oriental]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Philippines

Valencia is a municipality in the province of Negros Oriental, Philippines.

[[Silla]]

CATEGORIES: History of Korea, 50s BC establishments, 930s disestablishments in Asia, 935 disestablishments

Silla was one of the kingdoms of ancient Korea. It existed from 57 BC to 935 and is famous as the longest sustained country in Korean history. The name, Silla, implies that the virtuous achievements of the king are renewed every day and extended all over the world. 

Silla was founded by King Park Hyeokgeose in 57 BC, around Gyeongju in the southeast part of the Korean peninsula. Although Silla was founded earlier than Goguryeo and Baekje which coexisted with Silla during that time, it took more time for Silla to build firm government structure than those kingdoms. However, around the 6th century, by accepting Buddhism, Silla made its royal power stronger. Around the 7th century, Silla acquired the Han river area, which was the most important area in Korean history. Finally, Silla conquered Baekje in 660 and Goguryeo in 668, with the Tang Dynasty of China as an ally.

In the last stage of Silla, the king and noblemen indulged in extravagance, and it provoked the people to rebellion. The later three kingdom period began as Gyeon Hwon founded a new country, later Baekje, succeeding the ancient Baekje, and Gung Ye built Taebong succeeding ancient Goguryeo. Silla could not withstand their growing force, and finally surrendered to Goryeo in 935 and collapsed.

[[Ahn Cheol-soo]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, People from Busan, South Korean businesspeople, Physicians, Computer scientists

Ahn Cheol-soo (born February 26, 1962) is a Korean businessman, doctor and professor. He is famous as the developer of the computer anti-virus software program, V3. He is the founder and CEO of the Ahn Lab. He is now a professor at Seoul National University.

Ahn was the People's Party nominee for the presidential election in 2017. He was most recently a founding co-leader of the People's Party alongside Chun Jung-bae.

[[Just-World phenomenon]]

CATEGORIES: Ethics, Logical fallacies

The Just-World phenomenon is when people think that because bad things happen to someone, they did something to deserve the bad things. The concept is a lot like Karma, except it is more like a popular superstition instead of a religious belief. The phenomenon also happens in reverse, with good things being deserved.

[[Chan Ho Park]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, South Korean baseball players, Los Angeles Dodgers players, Texas Rangers players, San Diego Padres players, New York Mets players, Philadelphia Phillies players, New York Yankees players, Pittsburgh Pirates players, National League All-Stars

Park Chan-Ho (박찬호, born June 29, 1973) is a South Korean professional sportsperson.  He is best known as a baseball player.

In 2012, Park plays for the Hanwha Eagles of Korea Baseball Organization.September 2012

He also played for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Texas Rangers, San Diego Padres, New York Mets, Philadelphia Phillies, New York Yankees, and Pittsburgh Pirates of Major League Baseball. He was the first Korean to play baseball in the MLB in the USA.September 2012

[[Metro Cammell]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct companies of the United Kingdom, Rail vehicles manufacturers, Birmingham, 1989 disestablishments in Europe, 1980s disestablishments in the United Kingdom

The Metropolitan Cammell Carriage and Wagon Company (MCCW) (often called Metro Cammell) was a manufacturer of railway carriages and wagons. They were based in Saltley - and later Washwood Heath - in Birmingham, England. They are best known for making most of the trains on the London Underground and some first generation diesel multiple units, until they were sold to French company Alstom in 1989.

[[Ewha Girls' High School]]

CATEGORIES: Education in South Korea, Schools

Ewha Girls' High School was the first school for girls in Korea, and was called Ewha Hackdang at first. It is located in Jeong-dong, Jungu, Seoul, Korea. It was founded by Mary Scranton who came to Korea as a Christian missionary in 1885. This school opened in 1886 as a mission school, and the name "Ewha"  was granted by Gojong, the 26th king of the Joseon dynasty. It literally means pear blossoms, but the internal meaning is "Be white, clear, innocent like pear blossoms". Ewha Girls' High School is one of the first private schools that are allowed to have autonomy, since 2010.

[[André Segatti]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian actors, Living people, 1972 births

André Segatti (born 15 May 1972) is a Brazilian actor and model. 

[[London Underground rolling stock]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground electric multiple units, Locomotives, British railway-related lists, United Kingdom rolling stock

A wide variety of trains have been used on the London Underground. In the early days steam locomotive and carriages were used. Nowadays electric multiple units are used.

[[Giorgi Latsabidze]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Pianists, Composers, People from Tbilisi

Giorgi Latso (გიორგი ლაცაბიძე; born 15 April 1978, Tbilisi) is a Georgian-American virtuoso pianist and movie composer.

Latso started to play the piano as a boy and was giving concerts at the age of 10. He was given a presidential scholarship from the Georgian government to study in the Tbilisi Conservatorium. When he was 24, he won a DAAD scholarship to study music at the Hannover Hochschule in Germany and later continuied study at the Mozarteum in Salzburg. He later moved to Los Angeles to study with Stewart Gordon at the USC Thornton School of Music.

In 1998 he won the first prize in the Nikolai Rubinstein Competition in Paris, third prize in the Ennio Porrino Competition in Cagliari Italy and then, in 2005, he won first prize in the Yehudi Menuhin Federation Competition in Salzburg and in 2006 Young Artist International Piano Competition in Los Angeles.

His concert career has taken him worldwide across five continents – North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Africa.

He is known for his playing of the works of Frédéric Chopin, and Franz Liszt. He recorded 24 Etudes (Op.10; Op.25) of Chopin all 12 Transcendental Etudes of Liszt, 12 Preludes (Book II) of Debussy, 24 Preludes, Op.28 of Chopin; among others.

His concerts have been broadcast on radio and television in the USA, Europe, Asia and other countries. 

Latso was listed in the 65th edition of Who's Who in America, and Who's Who in American Art 2011.

He has taught at the University of Southern California, Azusa Pacific University, at Glendale Community College. 

Latso has recorded a CD of the entire piano-violin repertoire by composer Ignatz Waghalter for Naxos Records, with the London Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, violinist Irmina Trynkos and conductor Aelxander Walker. He made his performance debut at the acclaimed Wigmore Hall, London in 2010 and at Berliner Philharmonie concert hall in Berlin in 2012. 

In 2012, Latso got an invitation to Vatican City to perform for the Pope Benedict XVI. to perform a Mozart Concerto in C major (Elvira Madigan) K. 467 with the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra in Santa Maria Maggiore Basilica in Rome.   

[[Divergent boundary]]

CATEGORIES: Geology

A divergent boundary, also known as a constructive boundary, is two or more plates that move apart from each other because of plate tectonics. When they move apart either water or magma fills the space. If it is magma, when it has cooled it then creates a new plate which then creates new land.

[[Trevor Linden]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Canadian ice hockey centres, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Living people, Medicine Hat Tigers players, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Islanders players, Vancouver Canucks players, Washington Capitals players, Memorial Cup winners

Trevor Linden, OBC (born April 11, 1970, in Medicine Hat, Alberta) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player. He played centre and right wing with four different teams: the Vancouver Canucks (two different times), New York Islanders, Montreal Canadiens, and Washington Capitals. Before he joined the NHL in 1988, Linden helped the Medicine Hat Tigers of the Western Hockey League (WHL) win the Memorial Cup, the trophy for junior hockey teams in Canada, twice in a row. Linden also played for Canada at the 1998 Winter Olympics.

From 1990 until 1997 Linden was the captain of the Canucks. He helped the team reach the Stanley Cup Finals in 1994.

[[Vincent Price]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1993 deaths, Actors from St. Louis, Missouri, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from lung cancer, Yale University alumni

Vincent Leonard Price (May 27, 1911 – October 25, 1993) was an American actor. He was well known for his  voice and serious but comic attitude in a series of horror movies made in the later part of his career. Price was also an art collector and consultant, with a degree in art history, and lectured and wrote books on the subject.  He was the founder of the Vincent Price Art Museum in California.

==Career== 

His career began in 1935. He starred in film noirs. He soon moved to star in horror movies. He would work with other known horror movie stars such as Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee. He received two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his works. Price narrated Michael Jackson's hit song "Thriller". He retired in 1993 shortly before his death.

[[Framingham, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Massachusetts, 1700 establishments, 18th-century establishments in Massachusetts, 1700s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies

Framingham is a city in the U.S. State of Massachusetts.

[[Resonance]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Mechanical vibrations, Earthquake engineering

In physics, resonance is the tendency of a system to vibrate with increasing amplitudes at some frequencies of excitation. These are known as the system's resonant frequencies (or resonance frequencies). The resonator may have a fundamental frequency and any number of harmonics.

An example of useful effect of resonant frequency is a guitar string which makes a characteristic noise when it is touched. The noise depends on how thick or slack the string is.

Another example can be seen in a playground swing. There is one specific rate at which you must push away a person on a swing to cause the swing to go high. This rate is the resonant frequency.

In earthquake engineering, on contrary, any possibility of a resonance is detrimental for the building structure.

The Kirkwood gap and other connections among orbits are caused by orbital resonance.

[[Satin bowerbird]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Australia, Passeriformes

The satin bowerbird (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus) is a small Australian bird known for its ability to build a special area for attracting females. This bower is filled with blue objects to help attract a female. There are six bird species in the bowerbird genus, of which five build a some kind of courting area. The golden bowerbird sits on a bridge he has made between sticks decorated like maypoles.

The satin bowerbird lives in rainforests and on the edge of drier forests along the east coast of Australia. They can be found from Cooktown in the north to Melbourne in the south.

[[Kokborok language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Bangladesh, Languages of India, Tripura

Kok-borok (also spelled Kok Borok) is the native language of the Borok people in the disputed territory of the Tripura Division and its neighboring areas of Bangladesh and the Republic of India. The word Kok-borok is a compound of the words kok, which means "language", and borok, which literally means "nation", but is used to denote the Borok people. Thus Kok-borok means "the language of Borok" or "the language of the Borok people".

There are more than 950.000 people speaking Kokborok. Kokporok is an official language in India, in the Tripura division.

[[Koch language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Bangladesh, Languages of India

The Koch languages are a small family of Sino-tibetan languages. There are spoken in  Bangladesh, India, Myanmar and Tibet. About 35.000 people speak Koch, about 30.000 speak Rabha.

[[Pope Gregory XIII]]

CATEGORIES: 1502 births, 1585 deaths, Italian popes

Pope Gregory XIII (Gregorius XIII; 7 January 1502 – 10 April 1585), born Ugo Boncompagni, was the head of the Catholic Church from 13 May 1572 to his death in 1585. He is best known for commissioning and being the namesake for the Gregorian calendar, which remains the internationally accepted civil calendar to this date.

[[George Augustine Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1928 deaths, Artists from New South Wales, Aviators, Inventors, People from Sydney, Australian journalists

George Augustine Taylor (August 1, 1872 – January 20, 1928) was an Australian artist, journalist, and inventor. He was the first person in Australia to fly a heavier-than-air craft.

[[Carmichael number]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory

[[Richard Burton]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1984 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British movie actors, British movie directors, British movie producers, British stage actors, British television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Switzerland, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Welsh actors, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire

Richard Walter Burton GBR (10 November 1925 – 5 August 1984) was a Welsh stage and cinema actor. 

He appeared in more than 40 movies and received 7 Academy Award nominations. He was a recipient of BAFTA, Golden Globe and Tony Awards for Best Actor. In the mid-1960s, Burton went up into the ranks of the top box office stars and by the late 1960s, was the highest-paid actor in the world. Burton received fees of $1 million or more plus a share of the gross receipts.

Burton remains closely associated in the public consciousness with his second wife, actress Elizabeth Taylor. The couple's relationship was rarely out of the news.

[[Maple Ridge, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in British Columbia

Maple Ridge is a District Municipality (area with several settlements).  It is in British Columbia, Canada.

[[C.A. Belgrano]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, Córdoba, Argentina, 1905 establishments in Argentina

Club Atlético Belgrano is a football club that plays in Argentina.

[[Michael Clarke Duncan]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Chicago, African-American movie actors, African-American television actors, African-American voice actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Saturn Award winners, 1957 births, 2012 deaths

Michael Clarke Duncan (December 10, 1957 – September 3, 2012) was an American actor who starred in movies and was a guest on television shows including: Two and a Half Men, The Suite Life of Zack and Cody, CSI: NY and Chuck.

[[Children's Hearing]]

CATEGORIES: Children, Scotland

A Children's Hearing is a legal hearing for children in Scotland. It is part of the country's justice and welfare systems. It takes into account the fact that children who commit crimes need the same sort of care as those who are victims of an offence or neglect. Only if a child has committed a serious crime will they be sent for trial in a normal court. For most cases they are sent to a children's panel. A panel is made up of three adults, with at least one member of each gender. The child's parent or guardian and their social worker will also be present at a hearing. 

The hearing or meeting usually happens around a table. The panel members are given information and reports and the child's circumstances are fully discussed before the panel reaches their decision. It’s unlike a regular hearing because the child can speak at any time during the meeting.

A child may be sent to a children's hearing because they have committed a crime, because they have been neglected or because they have not been not attending school. Often, a children's reporter will refer a child to a panel. These reporters gather information on a child from teachers, social workers, or police and decide whether or not to refer them to a panel. A children's reporter will be made aware of a vulnerable child by a referral. A referral is a notification from anyone (neighbour, teacher, police) about a child they think needs legal intervention.

Panel members are very important in a child's life as they make many important decisions for the child. They are specially trained to deal with children and their families. At the end of the hearing they can decide to put a child in foster care, to send them to a children's home, residential school or secure accommodation, to tag them, or to keep the child with their parents and put them under the supervision of a social worker. However, the panel can not punish a child in any way: they can not inflict a fine upon the child or their parents.

[[Papilioninae]]

CATEGORIES: Papilioninae

Papilioninae is a subfamily of butterflies.  It belongs in the family Papilionidae.  The species are found worldwide.

The caterpillars feed on plants in the following families: Rosaceae, Apiaceae, Aristolochiaceae, Magnoliaceae, Lauraceae, and Annonaceae.  Caterpillars that feed on Aristolochiaceae species become poisonous.  When they become adults, they are still poisonous.  Because of this, many butterflies in the families Papilionidae and Nymphalidae mimic Aristolochiaceae feeders.

Very few adult Papilioninae species migrate.  They spend the winter as chrysailds.

[[Carmit Bachar]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Los Angeles, California, Pussycat Dolls, 1974 births, Living people

Carmit Bachar (born September 4, 1974) is an American singer, dancer and showgirl. She was a member of the Pussycat Dolls.

[[Lock (water transport)]]

CATEGORIES: Waterways, Gates

A lock is a part of a navigable waterway system that makes a water "channel" deep enough for vessels to use.  The lock controls pool depths, for example in a lock and dam system across a waterway. 

The lock is a place where boats that travel up or down a river or canal can be moved to the next higher or lower level.  Locks are built in places where the level of the water in the river or canal suddenly changes.  This may be because of a waterfall there, or because a dam or a weir has been built, or because some other thing is in the way.  The lock is like a big chamber with gates at each end.  They have lock gears which empty or fill the chamber with water.  Locks help a river to be more easily navigable (easier for boats to travel up and down), or for canals to be built across country that is not level.

[[Ahl-e Haqq]]

CATEGORIES: Religions, Kurdistan

Ahl-e Haqq (Persian, translates to people of truth) is a Kurdish religious movement. It is mainly rooted in Iraqi Kurdistan, as well as Lorestan and Kermanshah in Iran. Many members also live in the diaspora. In total, the followers are estimated to be around 1 million people.

The religion itself has elements of Shi'a Islam, Yazidi, and Alevi. Followers believe that their deity will be reincarnated seven times. The religion took the practice of Dhikr from Sufism. They also share common meals, and live together in a brotherly manner. Wladimir Fjodorowich Minorski was among the first to describe this religious community.

[[Trench foot]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Trench foot or fat foot is a medical condition that is caused by keeping feet in the cold, in dirty places, or in water for a long time. Trench foot was a big problem in the trenches of World War I. Many of the soldiers fighting got this condition.

The soldiers found it difficult to cope with the swelling wearing their boots but after realised that they could not get the boot on again as the foot had swollen to twice its size. Many men who suffered from it ending up having their feet amputated because they could not deal with the pain.

This can be treated by rubbing it to cause friction and if it is kept warm it can heal itself.

[[Kutless]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, American hard rock bands, Grunge bands, Christian rock bands, Musical groups from Oregon, Musical groups established in 2000, 2000 establishments in the United States, 21st-century establishments in Oregon

Kutless is a Christian rock band formed in 2000.

[[Leah Remini]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City

Leah Marie Remini (born June 15, 1970) is an American actress, best known for her role as Carrie Heffernan on the sitcom The King Of Queens.

[[Bobby Allison]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American racecar drivers, Daytona 500 winners

Robert Arthur Allison (December 3, 1937 − September 30, 2021) is a American retired Racecar driver. He was the 1983 NASCAR Winston Cup champion. He is on the list of the 50 greatest NASCAR drivers.

[[Big Joe Turner]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1985 deaths, American blues singers, Singers from Kansas City, Missouri, American R&B singers

Joseph Vernon "Big Joe" Turner  (May 18, 1911 – November 24, 1985) was an American blues singer. His musicals styles were rhythm and blues, blues, jump blues, jazz and even early rock and roll. His strong voice was able to be heard in noisy venues.

[[James Dean]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Indiana, American movie actors, American television actors, Bisexual people, LGBT actors, LGBT people from Indiana, Road accident deaths in California, 1931 births, 1955 deaths

James Byron Dean (February 8, 1931 – September 30, 1955) was an American movie actor. He was best known for his part in a movie called Rebel Without a Cause. He was in two other movies East of Eden and Giant, both of which were huge successes. He got an Academy Award (Oscar) nomination after his death. He was the first person to get this  nomination posthumously (after they died).

[[Greg Biffle]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, NASCAR drivers, American racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Washington

Gregory Jack Biffle (born December 23, 1969) is an American racecar driver who raced in the NASCAR Camping World Truck Series, Xfinity Series and Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series. He drove for Roush Fenway Racing. He won championships in the Xfinity and Truck series and also won races in all three series.

[[List of Mario series characters]]

CATEGORIES: Mario series characters, Lists of fictional characters

This is a list of characters in the ''Mario'' series.

[[Anna Moffo]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2006 deaths, Sopranos, Italian opera singers

Anna Moffo (June 27, 1932 - March 9, 2006) was an Italian American operatic soprano particularly associated with lyric-coloratura roles in Italian and French operas, she was admired as much for her vocal gifts as her great beauty and affecting stage presence.

[[Entrepreneur]]

CATEGORIES: Business

An entrepreneur is a person who organizes a venture to benefit from an opportunity, rather than working as an employee. Entrepreneurs play a key role in any economy.  These are the people who have the skills and initiative necessary to anticipate current and future needs and bring good new ideas to market. 

Entrepreneurs who are successful in taking on the risks of a startup are rewarded with profits, fame and continued growth opportunities.  Those who fail suffer losses and become less important in the markets. Many fail, lose money, and close the business.   The entrepreneur assumes all the risks and rewards of the venture and is usually the sole proprietary, a partner or the owner of the majority of shares in an incorporated venture.  As the main decision maker the entrepreneur monitors and controls the business activities.

According to Joseph Schumpeter (1883 - 1950) entrepreneurs regard profit as a standard for measuring achievement or success.  He discovered that they:

Entrepreneurship is sometimes categorized among the factors of production, along with land/natural resources, labor and capital.  An entrepreneur combines these to manufacture goods or provide services.  He or she typically creates a business plan, hires labor, acquires resources and financing, and provides leadership and management for the business.

Entrepreneurs commonly face many obstacles when building their companies.

Given the riskiness of a new venture, the acquisition of capital funding is particularly challenging, and many entrepreneurs deal with it via bootstrapping.

While some entrepreneurs are lone players struggling to get small businesses off the ground on a shoestring, others take on partners armed with greater access to capital and other resources.

[[QBasic]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

QBasic is a programming language made by Microsoft which was included with Windows 95 and MS-DOS. QBasic is a more limited version of QuickBasic, released in 1985. While today considered almost obsolete, it is still a popular language for beginners and especially for educational purposes.

[[Scratch (programming language)]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

Scratch is a drag-and-drop programming language for children designed to create things such as games, animations, platform games, clicker games. It allows them to explore and experiment with the ideas of computer programming by using "blocks" that are put together to make simple code. There is also a discussion page with multiple forums mainly used for chatting and help with coding.

Although made for children 8-16, Scratch can be used to produce simple or complex programs so it is worth learning to use by adults as well.

Scratch is translated into 70+ languages and is used in homes, schools, and after-school clubs in every country in the world. Scratch is often used in teaching coding, computer science, and computational thinking. Teachers also use it as a tool across many other subjects including math, science, history, geography, and art. The Scratch Team (ST) is an organization that helps maintain, manage and help keep Scratch safe. They also do helpful tutorials for coding help and support.

[[Ponytail]]

CATEGORIES: Hairstyles

A ponytail is a common hairstyle. It is a tied back section of hair on the scalp.  It is held by a hair tie or clip, and hangs freely from that point. They are worn by people of any gender.

[[Volkswagen Passat]]

CATEGORIES: Front wheel drive vehicles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

Volkswagen Passat is a car produced by Volkswagen in 1973. It entered its seventh generation in 2010.

[[Volkswagen Golf Variant]]

CATEGORIES: Volkswagen Golf, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

Volkswagen Golf Variant is a car produced by Volkswagen since 1993. It entered its fourth generation in 2009.

[[Northanger Abbey]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s books, Books by Jane Austen, English novels

Northanger Abbey was the first novel by Jane Austen.

[[Lexeme]]

CATEGORIES: Language

Lexeme is a term in linguistics. They are units of meaning, independent of any inflectional endings, or whether it is one word or several. "Come in" is a lexeme; so is "raining cats and dogs". The largest English dictionaries have about half a million lexemes. "The true figure is undoubtedly a great deal higher". 

In the English language, run, runs, ran and running are forms of the same lexeme, conventionally written as RUN.

A similar concept is the lemma (or citation form). It is the form of a lexeme which is chosen to represent the lexeme, for example, RUN instead of the other forms. Lemmas are used in dictionaries as the headwords. Other forms of a lexeme are usually listed later in the entry. So all headwords in a dictionary are lexemes.

A lexicon is made of lexemes.

[[Phoneme]]

CATEGORIES: Language

Phonemes are the units of sound (speech) which distinguish one word from another in a particular language, they are discrete abstractions. In most varieties (accents and dialects) of spoken English there are about 24 consonantal phonemes and 20 vowel phonemes (altogether 44 phonemes), but only 26 letters in writing. To learn all the phonemes in English, it would be better to use the IPA, which has a unique letter for every phoneme in English, unlike the English alphabet. The development of phonological representations for words and their parts is a major step in learning a spoken language.

A good way to learn phonemes in a language is to learn minimal pairs. A minimal pair is a pair of different words that are different by only one sound. An example of this is "bit" and "bat". Even though only the vowel in each word is different, each word has a completely different meaning. Another example is "dip" and "tip", where both words have different meanings even though only the first consonant in each word is different.

[[History of the alphabet]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabet

The history of the alphabet begins in Ancient Egypt, more than a millennium into the history of writing. The first pure alphabet emerged around 2000 BCE to represent the language of Semitic workers in Egypt, and it was derived from the alphabetic principles of the Egyptian hieroglyphs. Most alphabets in the world today descend directly from this development, such as the Greek and Latin alphabets, or were inspired by its design.

[[Jerzy Buzek]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, MEPs for Poland, Presidents of the European Parliament, Prime Ministers of Poland, Polish scientists

Jerzy Karol Buzek (born 3 July 1940 in Smilovice, Poland) is a Polish politician and scientist.

He was President of the European Parliament from 2009 to 2012. Between 1997 and 2001, he was the Prime Minister of Poland and a member of the Polish parliament.

Buzek attended the grammar school in Chorzów and got his Matura there. After successful exams, he went to the Technical University of Silesia. In Silesia, Jerzy Buzek studied chemistry and got a diploma in 1963.

In the years 1971 and 1972, he researched at the University of Cambridge in Great Britain.

During his studies and time spent in research, Buzek wrote about 200 patents and other papers.

During his time as the Prime Minister of Poland, his success was that Poland joined Nato in 1998. In 2004, he got elected to be a member of the European Parliament.

Buzek got Doctorates honoris causa from the University of Dortmund, the University of Seoul, the University of Isparta and also from the Technical Universities of Opole and Silesia.

[[Honorary degree]]

CATEGORIES: Academic degrees

An honorary degree or a degree honoris causa (Latin: for the sake of the honour) is an academic degree given by a university to a person who particularly deserves such an honour.  It may be someone who has had nothing to do with that university.  The person does not have to do any examination.  It is purely an honour for whatever good work he or she has already done.  Very often the honorary degree is a doctorate.

[[President of the European Parliament]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the European Parliament, European Union

The President of the European Parliament is the head of the European Parliament. He or she also represents the Parliament within the EU and internationally. The President has to sign that EU laws and the EU budget can become valid.

Presidents serve two-and-a-half-year terms. This time is normally divided between the two major political parties of the European Parliament. There have been twenty-eight Presidents, since the Parliament was created in 1952. Thirteen of whom have served since the first Parliamentary election in 1979. Two Presidents have been women and most have come from the older member states. The current President is Antonio Tajani.

[[Luigi Cherubini]]

CATEGORIES: 1760 births, 1842 deaths, Classical era composers, Italian composers, Burials at Père Lachaise Cemetery

Luigi Cherubini (pronounce: "ke-roo-BEE-nee"), (born Florence, 8 or 14 Sep 1760; died Paris, 15 March 1842) was an Italian-born composer who spent most of his working life in France.  He is famous for his operas as well as for his religious music.  Beethoven thought that Cherubini was the greatest composer who was living at that time.

[[Mario Andretti]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, American racecar drivers, Formula One drivers, IndyCar Series drivers

Mario Gabriele Andretti (born February 28, 1940) is a retired racecar driver. He won the 1969 Indianapolis 500, the 1978 Formula One championship and won the 1967 Daytona 500. He is called the most successful American racecar driver.

[[Maria Edgeworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1767 births, 1849 deaths, English writers, English novelists

Maria Edgeworth was a novelist in the early nineteenth century.

[[Ubuntu Studio]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Ubuntu Studio is an officially recognized derivative of the Ubuntu Linux distribution that focuses on audio, video and graphics production. The original version, based on Ubuntu 7.04, was released on May 10, 2007.

[[Faisal Alam]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, American LGBT people, Gay men, LGBT rights activists, Pakistani Muslims, People from Connecticut

Faisal Alam is a gay Pakistani American who began the Al-Fatiha Foundation, a group that is committed to helping further the cause of gay, lesbian, and transgender Muslims.

Alam came to the United States from Pakistan in 1987, when he was ten, and lived in Ellington, Connecticut. In 1997, after a marriage engagement to a Muslim girl did not work out, he began a Yahoo! group for LGBT Muslims which became popular fast. He started Al-Fatiha in 1998 and was the group's President until he stepped down in 2004.

Alam is also a member of the National Religious Leadership Roundtable and the LGBT Programme of Human Rights Watch.

[[Rick Rypien]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2011 deaths, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Regina Pats players, Sportspeople who committed suicide, Suicides in Canada, Vancouver Canucks players

Rick Joseph Rypien (May 16, 1984 - August 15, 2011) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He played for the Vancouver Canucks of the National Hockey League (NHL). 

He was a very tough player and used to play for the Manitoba Moose of the American Hockey League (AHL), who were the Canucks partner in the AHL. Rypien played four seasons with the Regina Pats, a junior team in the Western Hockey League (WHL) before going to the Moose in 2005. The following season he started playing for the Canucks. He has been injured a lot in the NHL and has missed many games because of that. 

He signed a one-year, $700,000 contract with the Winnipeg Jets but he died before training camp. His body was found in his home on August 15, 2011 by police. His death was later confirmed to be a suicide Rypien had struggled with clinical depression throughout his career.

[[Centre (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey positions

Centre (center in the United States) is a position in ice hockey. A centre plays in the middle of the ice as one of three forwards. The centre is between the left wing and the right wing, and is the one who takes faceoffs. Because they are in the middle, the centre sometimes has to help the two defencemen when they need help. 

[[Glenda Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Cheshire, Drama Desk Award winners, Emmy Award winning actors, English movie actors, English politicians, English stage actors, English television actors, Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Golden Globe Award winning actors, London Borough of Camden, People from Birkenhead, Tony Award winning actors

Glenda May Jackson CBE (born on 9 May 1936) is an English actress turned politician. She is best known for her portrayal of Queen Elizabeth I in the  BBC series Elizabeth R in 1971.

[[ZTE]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of China, Technology companies of Asia, 1980s establishments in China

[[SuperCollider]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

SuperCollider is a programming language designed especially for sound and music. Artists and musicians use it to create pieces of music, or interactive sound sculptures, or other computer-based audio things.

[[Ryan Newman (racing driver)]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR drivers, 1977 births, Daytona 500 winners, American racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Indiana, People from South Bend, Indiana, Living people

Ryan Joseph Newman (born December 8, 1977) is an American racecar driver who drives the No. 31 Chevrolet Camaro for Richard Childress Racing. Newman used to drive the No. 39 Chevrolet Impala for Stewart Haas Racing, and the No. 12 Dodge for Team Penske. Newman won the 2008 Daytona 500.

[[Cuboid]]

CATEGORIES: Polyhedra

A cuboid is a 3D shape. Cuboids have six faces, which form a convex polyhedron. Broadly, the faces of the cuboid can be any quadrilateral. More narrowly, rectangular cuboids are made from 6 rectangles, which are placed at right angles. A cuboid that uses all square faces is a cube.

Properties of a Cuboid are:

The basic difference between a rectangle and a cuboid is that one is a 2D shape and the other is a 3D shape.

The basic difference between a cube and cuboid is that a cube has equal length, height and breadth whereas in cuboids these three may or may not be the same.

The cuboid can also be called a right rectangular prism.

Where l= length, b= breadth, h= height:

[[Lucas Oil Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League venues, Sports buildings in the United States, Indianapolis, Indiana, Buildings and structures in Indiana, 2008 establishments in the United States, 21st-century establishments in Indiana

Lucas Oil Stadium is in Indianapolis, Indiana and is the home of the Indianapolis Colts, an NFL team.

The stadium had its first game on August 24, 2008 when the Colts played the Buffalo Bills.

The stadium also hosted the 2015 final four between the Wisconsin Badgers and the previously unbeaten Kentucky Wildcats.

[[Lakas–CMD]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the Philippines, Political parties in Asia

Lakas–Christian–Muslim Democrats is a centrist political party in the Philippines. It is a member of Centrist Democrat International.

[[Sgt. Frog]]

CATEGORIES: Manga

Sgt. Frog, known in Japan as Sergeant Keroro (Keroro Gunso), is a manga series for the anime Keroro Gunso. It parodies htf. Keroro is having a takeover of the planet pokopen (which refers to earth), he says "de arimasu", "sir yes sir", "si senor", "shi ye", and "akene rupo keyo", and also says "whoa, that's sweet!", Gunso is black with a yellow-and-orange shoshina mark. In the anime, Fuyuki, Momaka and Chiruyo (his 2 love interests) were 11-12 years old in season 1, 13 years old in season 2, and 14 years old in seasons 3-7, Natsumi, and Mustumi (Fuyuki's other friend) were 13-14 years old in season 1, 15 years old in season 2, and 16 years old in seasons 3-7, Angol Mois was 10 years old in season 1, 11-12 years old in season 2, and 13 years old in seasons 3-7, Koyuki (who's like Fuyuki) was 12-13 years old in season 1, 14 years old in season 2, and 15 years old in seasons 3-7. Keroro (friend of Fuyuki)'s friends are Giroro, Tamama, Kururu, Dororo and Pururu. Fuyuki's other friends are Natsumi (Fuyuki's sister), Aki (Fuyuki's mother), Mutsumi, Koyuki, Chiruyo, Momoka (Momaka), and Mois. Mois's doppelganger and future daughter is Asami. In the Animax dub, Natsumi was voiced by Alexandra Levitch.

[[I Vow to Thee, My Country]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s songs, 20th-century British poems, 1921 works

I Vow to Thee, My Country is a British patriotic song created in 1921 when a poem by Sir Cecil Spring-Rice was set to music by Gustav Holst.

[[List of Toronto subway and RT stations]]

CATEGORIES: Toronto Transit Commission, Rail transport lists, Rail transport in Canada

This is a list of all stations of the Toronto Transit Commission's subway and RT system. The Toronto subway and RT was the first subway system in Canada. The first subway line was built under Yonge Street. It opened in 1954 and it had 12 stations at first. After that, the subway station grew to become Canada's largest subway system. This is because it has the most stations. It is also the second busiest transit system in North America.

The subway and RT have four lines and it has 76.9 of rail. There are 75 stations that are open and 39 more stations that are being built. Two light rail lines are being built. These are the Line 5 Eglinton and the Line 6 Finch West. They will be opening in 2021 and 2023. The two of these lines will have close to 30 of rail.

[[The Perfect Fool]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s operas, 1923 works

The Perfect Fool is an opera in one act with music written by the English composer Gustav Holst. Holst wrote the work over the time period from 1918 to 1922.  The opera was first played at the Covent Garden Theatre, London on May 14, 1923. At the beginning, Holst had asked Clifford Bax to write the libretto, but Bax did not want to do so.

In the musical score, Holst made fun of the musical works of Verdi, Wagner's work Parsifal and Debussy. In the opera, the Fool's part is only one word long. One popular way of thinking of the opera's meaning is that the Princess symbolises the world of opera and the Fool is the British people.

The opera did not do well, and audiences thought that the opera did not make any sense.  Although the opera was given a live BBC broadcast a year after it was first played, it is not often played today.

[[Comet Hale–Bopp]]

CATEGORIES: Comets, 1997

Comet Hale–Bopp (formerly called C/1995 O1) is the biggest and brightest comet that has come by Earth in the last century. It was called the Great Comet of 1997. It is probably the most-seen comet in history - even more than the famous Halley's comet.

[[Tech N9ne]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, African American musicians, American rap musicians from Missouri, Musicians from Kansas City, Missouri, Singers from Kansas City, Missouri

Aaron Dontez Yates (born November 8, 1971 in Kansas City, Missouri) is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, record producer and actor better known by his stage name Tech N9ne. 

He has been rapping since 1991 and has made 13 studio albums. He got his stage name from rapper Black Walt because of his fast rhyming style.

He is mainly a hip-hop artist but also raps in the horrorcore genre of music.

[[Alex Wojciechowicz]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1992 deaths, American football centers, Detroit Lions players, Philadelphia Eagles players, Sportspeople from New Jersey

Alexander Francis Wojciechowicz (born August 12, 1915 in South River, New Jersey - died July 13, 1992 in Forked River, New Jersey) was an American football Center who played for the Detroit Lions and the Philadelphia Eagles of the NFL. Wojciechowicz was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1968. Wojciechowicz was the Detroit Lions first pick in the 1938 NFL Draft.

[[Temerin]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Serbia

Temerin is a town and municipality in South Bačka District, Vojvodina, Serbia. The municipality of Temerin includes the towns of Temerin and Bački Jarak, and villages Sirig and Kamendin. In the 2002 census, the town of Temerin had a population of 19,143, and the municipality had a population of 28,201. Most of its inhabitants are Serbs, while the largest minority in the town and municipality are Hungarians.

[[Beetlejuice]]

Beetlejuice can mean:

[[Philotheus Boehner]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1955 deaths, Franciscans, German Roman Catholics

[[Selena Gomez]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Singers from Texas, Disney actors, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American singers, American songwriters, American dancers, American musicians

 

Selena Marie Gomez (Born: July 22, 1992) is an American singer, songwriter and actress.

[[Nudibranch]]

CATEGORIES: Gastropods

Nudibranchs are a widespread and successful group of marine Gastropod molluscs. The name means 'naked gills'. They are shelless and uncoiled Gastropods, famous for their brilliant colours. There are more than 3000 known species.

Nudibranchs are one of the groups which are informally known as sea slugs. This is a term which includes other Gastropod groups which look similar to nudibranchs. Sea slugs is an informal term; it is not a monophyletic group. 

[[Sea slug]]

CATEGORIES: Gastropods

Sea slug is an informal name for a group of gastropods which look similar, but are not monophyletic. Their similar shape and life styles is an example of convergent evolution. The group includes:

It would seem that their similar growth pattern, with the loss of torsion, bilateral symmetry, reduction of the Gastropod shell, and somewhat similar life styles, evolved a number of times in the Gastropods.

[[Anatole France]]

CATEGORIES: 1844 births, 1924 deaths, French critics, French Nobel Prize winners, French novelists, French poets, Members of the Académie française, Pen names, Writers from Paris

LiteratureAnatole France, born François-Anatole Thibault, (16 April 1844 in Paris - 12 October 1924 in Saint-Cyr-sur-Loire) was a French poet, critic, and novelist. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1921. He was a member of the Académie française.

[[Hurricane David]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 Atlantic hurricane season, Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes, Deadly storms, 20th centuy in Haiti, 20th century in the Dominican Republic, 20th century in Puerto Rico, 1970s in Cuba, 20th century in the Bahamas, 1970s in Florida, 20th century in Georgia (U.S. state), 1979 in North America, Hurricanes in the Dominican Republic

Hurricane David was the strongest and deadliest hurricane of the 1979 Atlantic hurricane season, but not the costliest. This hurricane caused a lot of damage as it slammed into Dominican Republic as a category 5 hurricane and was it struck Florida as a category 2 hurricane. Hurricane David killed 2,068 and caused over $1.5 billion in damage. 

[[Scaphopoda]]

CATEGORIES: Molluscs

Scaphopoda, which are called tusk shells in English is a class of marine molluscs. The name of the class can be translated as shovel-footed. These animals vary in size, most are small though. These animals usually do not live in the tidal zone, they dig themselves into muddy or sandy ocean floors, up to a depth of about 700m. There are about 500 recent species. Fossils of over 900 species have been described. As of 2009, it is unclear how many of these descriptions are valid species. 

These species live in an elongated tube, which is open on both ends, but which can be closed on one end. The animal lives inside the tube, and is attached to it. Scaphopoda do reproduce sexually.

[[Michael Polakovs]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2009 deaths, Clowns, People from Riga

Michael Polakovs, known in America as Coco the Clown, (born Riga, Latvia 23 February 1923; died USA, 6 December 2009) was a famous clown.  His father was known as Coco the Clown in Britain.  Michael played the part of Coco the Clown in America.  He was also known for being Ronald McDonald, the clown who publicized McDonald’s fast food chain.

[[Coco the Clown]]

CATEGORIES: Clowns

Coco the Clown (or Theo de Kovel) is a clown character who is very famous in Britain and later became famous in America. Coco was not a whiteface clown but an auguste.This type of clown is supposed to be a bit stupid, so he gets teased by another clown who is supposed to be much cleverer.  Coco always gets buckets of water thrown at him or custard pies in his face. 

Theo de Kovel (or Polakovs) (1900–74) made the character of Coco the Clown famous.  Later his son Elwin de Beer (1923-2009) made him famous in the Netherlands

After retiring from the circus, Nicolai Poliakoff toured schools in the UK as Coco promoting road safety. He had a walking stick in the shape of a Bolesha Beacon. For this work he was awarded the OBE by the Queen.

118118118118118118118

[[Pipo de Clown]]

CATEGORIES: Clowns, Dutch television programmes

Pipo de Clown (English: Pipo the Clown) is a clown who became very popular on Dutch television.  The character was created by Wim Meuldijk.  The actor who took the part of Pipo de Clown was Cor Witschge (1925-1991).  The television series started in 1958 and was shown until 1980.

In the television programmes Pipo lives with his wife Mamaloe (pronounce: "Mamaloo") and their daughter Petra in a gypsy-style caravan.  They say that they travel all over the world.

Recently new films have been made about Pipo de Clown.

Here are some of Pipo's famous sayings:

[[Coronel Fabriciano]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minas Gerais, Vale do Aço metropolitan area, 1948 establishments in South America, 1940s establishments in Brazil

Coronel Fabriciano is a Brazilian city in the Vale do Aço metropolitan area, state of Minas Gerais. It is in the region of Vale do Rio Doce and is 200 km from the state capital. The municipal population was estimated in 2020 by IBGE in 110,290 inhabitants, with an area of 221.252 km².

The city was founded in December 27, 1948. The devolviment of the municipality is due to the large companies in the region, such as Aperam South America (old Acesita) and Usiminas, whose industries were in Coronel Fabriciano at they time they were constructed. But in 1964, Fabriciano lost the industrial areas, due to the emancipation of Timóteo and Ipatinga.

It is limited with Ipatinga, Timóteo, Ferros, Joanésia, Antônio Dias and Mesquita.

[[Axillary bud]]

CATEGORIES: Plant tissues

An axillary bud is an embryonic shoot which is between the stem and petiole of a plant.

[[Robert Lang]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Boston Bruins players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Czech ice hockey players, Czechoslovak ice hockey players, Detroit Red Wings players, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, Montreal Canadiens players, Phoenix Coyotes players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Washington Capitals players

Robert Lang (born December 19, 1970 in Teplice, CS) is a Czech retired ice hockey centre. He played a career total of 18 years in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Los Angeles Kings, Boston Bruins, Pittsburgh Penguins, Washington Capitals, Detroit Red Wings, Chicago Blackhawks, Montreal Canadiens, and the Phoenix Coyotes. In 2004, Lang won a Golden Hockey Stick for being the best Czech hockey player.

[[Joel Quenneville]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey coaches, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Chicago Blackhawks players, Colorado Rockies (NHL) players, Hartford Whalers players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Jack Adams Award winners, Living people, New Jersey Devils players, Ontario Hockey League players, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Washington Capitals players

Joel Norman Quenneville (born September 15, 1958 in Windsor, Ontario) is a retired Canadian ice hockey player. He is the current head coach for the Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League (NHL). He won the Stanley Cup when he was an assistant coach for the Colorado Avalanche in 1996. He became head coach of the Blackhawks in 2008. He replaced Denis Savard.

[[Three Cups of Tea]]

CATEGORIES: Autobiographies

Three Cups of Tea is a book co-written by Greg Mortenson and David Oliver Relin. It follows Mr. Mortenson's journey to founding his organisation, the Central Asia Institute (CAI), which builds schools and other facilities for children, especially girls, in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

[[Aragonese]]

Aragonese might mean:

[[Vladimir Teplyakov]]

CATEGORIES: Russian physicists, 1925 births, 2009 deaths, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Vladimir Aleksandrovich Teplyakov (Владимир Александрович Тепляков) (November 6, 1925- December 10, 2009) was a Russian physicist who is best known for his work with particle accelerators. He, working with his friend I.M. Kapchinsky, created the Radio Frequency Quadrupole (RFQ) principle, which was very important dealing with the speed of low energy ion beams.

[[Donovan McNabb]]

CATEGORIES: Philadelphia Eagles players, Washington Redskins players, Minnesota Vikings players, American football quarterbacks, Sportspeople from Chicago, 1976 births, Living people

Donovan McNabb (born November 25, 1976 in Chicago, Illinois) is a retired American football player. He played as a quarterback in the National Football League. He played college football for Syracuse.

McNabb was picked by the Philadelphia Eagles with the second pick in the first round of the 1999 NFL Draft. With the Eagles, McNabb played fairly well. There was some controversy about his work ethic and wide receiver Terrell Owens. The Eagles made the NFC Championship game six times and the Super Bowl once. However, McNabb struggled very badly after leaving the Eagles. He later played for the Washington Redskins and the Minnesota Vikings. He retired in 2011. McNabb wore #5 throughout his career.

[[Fall to Pieces]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne songs, 2005 songs

"Fall to Pieces" is a song by Canadian singer Avril Lavigne, and was the fifth and last single from her second album, Under My Skin; it was the fourth single in the United States. The song was produced and written by Avril Lavigne and Raine Maida. It was Lavigne's least liked song in the U.S., but was very well liked in Canada. There is no music video for this single, because the shoot for the video was cancelled.

[[Moritz Wagner]]

CATEGORIES: 1813 births, 1887 deaths, Naturalists, German evolutionary biologists, Explorers

Moritz Wagner (Bayreuth, 3 October 1813 – Munich, 31 May 1887) was a German explorer, collector, geographer and naturalist.

Wagner devoted three years (1836–1839) to the exploration of Algiers. It was there that he made an important discovery in natural history, which he later developed.

His idea, first based on a study of flightless beetles, was that geographical isolation could play a key role in speciation. Although at first rejected, this idea turned out to be important in the theory of evolution.

From 1852–1855, together with a companion, Wagner travelled through North and Central America and the Caribbean. In May 1843, Wagner toured the Lake Sevan region of Armenia. In his old age he committed suicide in Munich, aged 73. His brother Rudolf was a physiologist and anatomist.

[[Africanized bee]]

CATEGORIES: Bees

Africanized honeybees are an artificial man-made hybrid of the European honeybee and African bees.  They are more dangerous and defensive than regular honeybees.  Because of this, some people call them 'killer bees'.

Africanized honeybees are much more protective of their beehive and more likely to sting.  When one of them is surprised or scared, they all attack together and sting the same animal or person with hundreds of stings.   Actually, their sting is the same as a regular honeybee's, but because they sting all together, they are much more dangerous.  They usually chase their target much farther than regular honeybees, and they stay angry and ready to fight for a longer time.  They have many more "guard" bees than regular honeybees. 

[[Ipatinga]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minas Gerais, Vale do Aço metropolitan area, 1964 establishments in Brazil

Ipatinga is a Brazilian city in the Vale do Aço metropolitan area, state of Minas Gerais. Its population in 2009 was 244.508 inhabitants. Its area is 165.509 km². The city was founded in April 29, 1964.

It's limited with Caratinga, Coronel Fabriciano, Mesquita, Santana do Paraíso and Timóteo.

[[Timóteo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minas Gerais, Vale do Aço metropolitan area, 1964 establishments in Brazil

Timóteo is a city in Brazil. It is in the Vale do Aço metropolitan area in the state of Minas Gerais. In 2009, 79,813 people lived there. The city has an area of 145.159. The city was founded in April 29, 1964.

Timóteo is ArcelorMittal Timóteo headquarters, a company of the group ArcelorMittal.

It is limited with the municipal districts of Ipatinga, Coronel Fabriciano, Antônio Dias, Jaguaraçu, Marliéria, Caratinga e Bom Jesus do Galho.

[[Mammal-like reptile]]

CATEGORIES: Paleontology, Taxonomy, Therapsids, Mammals

Mammal-like reptile is an old term for the therapsids: those synapsids which gave rise to the true mammals.

The term is both outmoded and a mistake, because mammals did not descend from reptiles. Both groups descended from early amniotes (egg-laying tetrapods), probably in the Lower or Middle Carboniferous. The precursors of reptiles are called sauropsids, and the precursors of mammals are called synapsids. The immediate ancestors of the mammals came from a group of therapsids called the cynodonts.

[[Cleidoic egg]]

CATEGORIES: Reptiles, Birds, Zoology, Developmental biology, Evolutionary biology, Biological reproduction

The cleidoic egg (from Greek kleistos = closed) is the type of egg which reptiles and birds lay. Mammalian reproduction has evolved from laying cleidoic eggs to live birth. The cleidoic egg is sometimes called the amniotic egg, because it is characteristic of amniotes.

[[Terrapin]]

CATEGORIES: Turtles

A terrapin is a turtle that lives in brackish water. They are named for the diamond pattern on their shells. They eat mollusks, crabs, and fish. Terrapins are sexually dimorphic. Females are much larger than males. Males range between 4 and 5 inches. Females average nearly 7 inches. The largest terrapin on record was a female measuring 9 inches. 

A terrapin is one of several small species of turtle living in fresh or brackish water. Terrapins do not form a taxonomic unit, and may not be related. Many belong to the families Geoemydidae and Emydidae.

The name "terrapin" is derived from torope, a word in the Native American Algonquian language that refers to the species, Malaclemys terrapin. It appears that it became part of common usage during the colonial era of North America and was carried back to Great Britain. Since then, it has been used in common names for turtles in the English language. In the UK, red-eared sliders are known as red-eared terrapins.

[[Regions of Brazil]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Brazil

Brazil is currently divided into five regions (also called macroregions) by the Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística (IBGE). These divisions are composed of states with similar cultural, economical, historical and social aspects, and, although information given by this type of division is not very accurate from the scientific point of view, this division is the most widely used in Brazil because official information given by the IBGE uses this system.

[[Vale do Aço metropolitan area]]

CATEGORIES: Vale do Aço metropolitan area

The Vale do Aço metropolitan area (Região Metropolitana do Vale do Aço, in Portuguese) is a metropolitan area in Minas Gerais, Brazil, comprising only the four municipalities of Coronel Fabriciano, Ipatinga, Santana do Paraíso and Timóteo, but have an influence area of 24 other municipalities.

The region has become internationally known due to large companies that are in the region, such as the Cenibra, Aperam South America (old Acesita) and Usiminas, all with an increasing volume of exported products.

[[Mantle (mollusc)]]

CATEGORIES: Molluscs

The mantle is a significant part of the anatomy of molluscs: it is the dorsal body wall which covers the organs of digestion, reproduction and movement. 

In many, but not all, species of molluscs, the epidermis (skin) of the mantle secretes calcium carbonate and conchiolin, and creates a shell.

The word mantle means cloak or cape, and does often resemble a cloak. The edges of the mantle may extend far beyond the main part of the body, forming flaps, double-layered structures adapted for many different uses, including for example, the siphon.

[[Carboniferous]]

CATEGORIES: Carboniferous

The Carboniferous was the geological period after the Devonian and before the Permian. It lasted from about 359 to about 299 million years ago. It is the fifth period of the Paleozoic era and the Phanerozoic eon.

In the U.S.A. the Carboniferous is divided into the Mississippian (lower part, 359–323.2 mya) and the Pennsylvanian (upper part, 323.2–299 mya). In Europe the terms lower, middle and upper are used.

[[Mesozoic]]

CATEGORIES: Mesozoic

The Mesozoic was the geological era in which dinosaurs lived, as well as the first birds and mammals. It lasted about 186 million years, starting 252.2 mya (million years ago) with the P/Tr extinction and ending 66 mya with the K/T extinction (the one that killed dinosaurs).

Dinosaurs appeared around 231 mya (21 million years after the beginning of the Mesozoic). They evolved from early reptiles called the archosaurs (a group of which modern birds and crocodiles are still part).

The Mesozoic is the middle of the three eras that make up the Phanerozoic eon.  Before the Mesozoic was the Palaeozoic era. The K/T extinction in 66 mya also marks the beginning of the Cenozoic era, the one we live in.

The three Mesozoic periods were:

[[Palaeozoic]]

CATEGORIES: Palaeozoic

The Palaeozoic (or Paleozoic) era is the earliest of the three eras of the Phanerozoic. Its name means early life. It lasted from about 541 to 252 million years ago (mya), and ended with the greatest extinction event, the Permian–Triassic extinction event.

[[Blackjack]]

CATEGORIES: Card games

Blackjack (Twenty-one, pontoon or Vingt-et-un) is a kind of card game which usually involves gambling. It is often played in casinos. There is a dealer, who deals cards from a special device called a 'dealer's shoe' or a 'shuffling machine'. The dealer has one to eight decks. When there are one or two decks, the dealer usually holds the decks instead of dealing from a shoe.

It is a 'dealer versus players game'. Each player has their own game against the dealer. Cards are dealt in succession, and bets placed for each hand. Players win if their cards add up to more than the dealer's hand to a limit of 21. Hands which add up to more than 21, called busted hands, lose. Face cards count as 10. Aces can count as one or eleven.

'Blackjack', an ace and a face card or ten, is the top scorer. Blackjack usually pays a bonus. Five cards adding to 21 or fewer is the next ranking hand. Apart from that, unbusted hands rank by total add-up. Hands below the dealer's hand lose unless the dealer goes over 21 (busts). Hands equal to the dealer's keep their chips. If both the player and dealer bust, the dealer wins.

Players have a choice whether or not to get extra cards. Stand means to get no more cards and hit means to ask for another card. To stand, wave your hand back and forth. To ask for another card, wave your hand toward you. You can ask for any number of cards unless you bust. The dealer has rules as to when he takes extra cards for himself (or herself). In the UK, the dealer must stand on 16. These rules are set by the casino and cannot change after the game has started. In some states or countries, the rules are set by the government.

There is some skill in blackjack, because the odds change as the cards are dealt. The critical information is the numbers of tens (including face cards) which have been dealt. This is because they are the common cause of 'busting' the dealer hand and because they are needed for a blackjack. Aces are also important because they are needed for a blackjack. Keeping track of the cards is called 'card counting'. It is legal if done without a device like a computer. But, many casinos tell players to leave if they think are counting the cards.

[[Phanerozoic]]

CATEGORIES: Phanerozoic

The Phanerozoic eon is the current eon on the geologic timescale. It is the one in which abundant animal life has existed. It covers about 541 million years, and goes back to the time when hard-shelled animals first appeared. It was once thought that life began in the Cambrian, the first period of this eon. 

The time before the Phanerozoic, formerly called the Precambrian, is now divided into the Hadean, Archaean and Proterozoic eons.

[[Skip-Bo]]

CATEGORIES: Card games

Skip-Bo is a children's card game. You try and match numbers, colours, etc. It is similar to the card game Uno.

[[Ordovician]]

CATEGORIES: Palaeozoic

The Ordovician is the second period of the Paleozoic era and the Phanerozoic eon. It lasted from about 485.4 million years ago (mya) to 443.4 mya. It follows the Cambrian period and is followed by the Silurian period.

The Ordovician was named after the Welsh tribe of the Ordovices. It was defined by Charles Lapworth in 1879. He recognized that the fossils in the disputed strata were different from those of the Cambrian or the Silurian. Therefore, he reasoned, they should be placed in a period of their own.

Recognition of the Ordovician period was slow in Britain, but elsewhere it was quickly accepted. In 1906 it was adopted as an official period of the Paleozoic era by the International Geological Congress.

The Ordovician ended with a series of extinction events that, together amount to the second greatest extinction of the Phanerozoic. This was the EndOrdovician extinction event.

[[Silurian]]

CATEGORIES: Palaeozoic, Silurian

The Silurian was the period from the end of the Ordovician, about 443.4 million years ago (mya) to the beginning of the Devonian period, about 419 mya. It is the third period of the Paleozoic era and the Phanerozoic eon and the shortest period in the Paleozoic.

As with other geologic periods, the rock beds that define the period's start and end are well identified, but the exact dates are uncertain by several million years. The base of the Silurian is set at a major extinction when 60% of marine species were wiped out, the End-Ordovician extinction event.

[[Devonian]]

CATEGORIES: Palaeozoic, Devonian

The Devonian is the fourth period of the Paleozoic era and the Phanerozoic eon. It lasted from about 419 million years ago (mya) to about 359 mya. It is named after Devonshire, England, where rocks from this period were first studied.

Sea levels were high, and there was a great variety of fish and other marine organisms. The Devonian fish included the Agnatha (jawless fish), the Acanthodii (spiny fish), the Placoderms (armoured fish), the Chondrichthyes (cartilaginous fish), and the early Osteichthyes (bony fish). The Devonian strata are divided into lower, middle and upper subdivisions.

During the Devonian the evolution of fish into tetrapods occurred. Various terrestrial arthropods also became established. The first seed-bearing plants spread across dry land, forming huge forests.

The supercontinent of Gondwana was to the south, and the continent of Siberia to the north. The early form of the small continent of Euramerica was in between. The supercontinent Pangaea was just starting to form.

By the late Devonian, the land had been colonized by plants and insects. In the oceans, massive reefs were built. Euramerica and Gondwana were beginning to converge into what would become Pangaea.

[[Proterozoic]]

CATEGORIES: Proterozoic

The Proterozoic eon comes before the Phanerozoic. It was a period before the first abundant complex life on Earth. The name Proterozoic comes from the Greek "earlier life". The Proterozoic Eon extended from 2500 million years ago (mya) to 541 mya. It is the most recent part of the former Precambrian.

The Proterozoic consists of 3 geologic eras, from oldest to youngest:

The well-identified events were:

Study of these rocks shows that the eon featured massive, rapid continental accretion (unique to the Proterozoic), supercontinent cycles, and mountain building.

[[Cainozoic]]

CATEGORIES: Cainozoic

The Cainozoic (Cenozoic) is the current geological era. It began 66 million years ago and continues today. Before it was the Mesozoic.

During the Cainozoic the continents moved into their present positions. The climate started warm, but cooling continued steadily. Finally ice ages occurred. 

The word Cainozoic is derived from Greek kainos = "new", and zoe = "life". 'Cainozoic' may be spelled 'Cenozoic'. It has three periods, and the periods are split into stages. 

Previously, what is now the Cainozoic was divided into two periods, the Tertiary and the Quaternary. The Tertiary corresponded to the Palaeogene+Neogene. Now, the term 'Tertiary' is not used. Officially, it is 'deprecated'. 

[[Bill Elliott]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR drivers, American racecar drivers, 1955 births, Living people

William Clyde Elliott (born October 8, 1955) is an American racecar driver. He drove in the Sprint Cup Series He won the 1988 Sprint Cup, and was inducted into the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America in 2007. In 2014, Elliot was voted into the NASCAR Hall of Fame. He was inducted into the Hall of Fame in January of 2015.

[[Dolhasca]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suceava County

Dolhasca is a town in southeastern Bukovina, in Suceava County, Romania.  11,000 people were living in Dolhasca as of 2002.  It became a town in 2004.

[[Siret]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suceava County

Siret is a town of Suceava County in northeast Romania.  The town is found on the right bank of the Siret River.  Ukraine borders Siret to the north. 9,358 people were living in Siret as of 2002.

[[Default gateway]]

CATEGORIES: Networks, Computer networking

A default gateway is the IP address used to get out of your network.

[[Token passing]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

Token passing is a communication protocol used in telecommunications. The system uses a signal called a token to limit when a device can transmit on the network. Only the device with the token can transmit. When that device is done, the token is sent to the next device. With large transmissions, the token may move to the next station before the transmission is finished. The device has to wait until it gets the token back before it can continue to send data. The most well known examples of token passing are token ring and ARCNET.

The rules of the system say how long a device may keep the token, how long it can transmit for and how to create a new token if there is not one in use.

[[Carrier sense multiple access]]

CATEGORIES: Communication

Carrier Sense Multiple Access (CSMA) is a Media Access Control (MAC) protocol.  When transmitting on a medium that is shared by many transmitters, the transmitter first checks to see that nothing else is already transmitting.  Examples of shared transmission medium include an electrical bus, or part of the electromagnetic spectrum.

"Carrier Sense" means that a transmitter uses feedback from a receiver to know if the medium is already in use before trying to send. That is, it tries to find a signal from another station before trying to transmit. If a signal is found, the station waits for that transmission to end before starting its own transmission.

"Multiple Access" means that many stations send and receive on the medium. Transmissions are usually received by all other stations using the medium.

[[Archaean]]

CATEGORIES: Archaean

The Archaean (or Archean) eon is the geological period after the Hadean and before the Proterozoic. It is one of the four main time periods (eons) of Earth history. The Archaean lasted from 4,000 million years ago (mya) to 2,500 mya. It contains the first sedimentary rocks, and the first fossil life forms, which were cyanobacteria, and acritarchs.

Most of the rocks which survive are volcanic (igneous) and metamorphic in origin. Volcanic activity was everywhere. When the Archaean began, the Earth's heat flow was nearly three times higher than it is today. It was still twice the current level when the Archaean ended, 2,500 mya. This high level of heat flow may have made plate tectonics more vigorous than today. The question of when plate tectonics began is a major research area. The large supercontinent Vaalbara formed in the Archaean. There were oceans already, before the Archaean.

The atmosphere almost entirely lacked free oxygen, and instead, it was mostly methane and CO2.

Fossil bacterial mats, called stromatolites, are found throughout the Archaean after about 3,500mya. These were formed by cyanobacteria, which used photosynthesis and gave off oxygen as a by-product. Initially, this oxygen was absorbed by combining with iron ions in solution. Not until much later did oxygen build up in the atmosphere.

Fossil raindrop marks have been found in the later Archaean, 2,700 mya. The rocks were discovered in Ventersdorp in the North West Province of South Africa in the 1980s.

[[Barcelona Metro line 1]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona Metro lines

Line 1, shortened to L1 and known as "Hospital de Bellvitge - Fondo", coloured red and often simply called Línia vermella ("Red Line"), is the second oldest metro line in Barcelona, after L3. It is operated by Transports Metropolitans de Barcelona (TMB). 

[[Hadean]]

CATEGORIES: Hadean

The Hadean is the geological eon before the Archaean. It began at the Earth's formation about 4.6 billion years ago, and ended 4 billion years ago. The name "Hadean" comes from Hades, Greek for "Underworld", due to the conditions on the Earth at the time. The geologist Preston Cloud first used the term in 1972. Meteorite bombardment, volcanism and high temperatures were very widespread on the early Earth.

There are no sedimentary rocks from the Hadean at all. The earliest geological objects on Earth are some zircons, dated to about 4,400 million years ago (mya). Oceans would probably have formed as soon as the temperature allowed. It is thought that constant bombardment kept the Earth in a molten state until about the end of the eon. 

Early in Earth history, the Moon was torn out by a massive collision with a proto-planet. The evidence for this giant impact hypothesis is: 

An explanation for the general lack of Hadean rocks (older than 3800 mya) is the large amount of rocky and icy debris present in the early Solar System. After the eight planets formed, large numbers of leftover protoplanets, asteroids, and comets pursued eccentric orbits throughout our system, bombarding the early Earth and the other planets and moons until approximately 3800 mya. This activity may have prevented any large crustal fragments from forming by literally shattering the early protocontinents. A barrage of particularly large impacts known as the Late Heavy Bombardment represents the climax of this violent era. 

No life forms are known from this eon. The early atmosphere contained carbon dioxide, methane and nitrogen, but almost no oxygen.

[[Permian]]

CATEGORIES: Palaeozoic

The Permian is a geological period which started about 299 million years ago (mya), and ended about 252 mya. It is the sixth and last period of the Paleozoic era and the sixth period in the Phanerozoic eon, and ended in the largest mass extinction known to science.

[[Circus]]

CATEGORIES: Circuses

A circus is a special kind of entertainment that can be enjoyed by children and adults. Circuses are a group of performers that may include acrobats, clowns, trained animals, trapeze acts, musicians, hoopers, tightrope walkers, jugglers and other artists who perform stunts. Circuses usually travel about to different parts of the country or to different countries. They perform in a huge tent called the “Big Top”. There may be room for hundreds of people in the audience. The seating is tiered (the seats at the back are higher than those in front). In the middle is the circular area where the artists perform. This area is called the “ring”. The person in charge of the whole show is the “ringmaster”. Not all circuses travel about. A few circuses perform in their own .

[[Markham, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Ontario

 

Markham, Ontario is a city in Regional Municipality of York, in the Greater Toronto Area of Southern Ontario, Canada. There are twice as many people there as in 1990. 261,573 people live in Markham. It is the 4th largest town in the Greater Toronto Area, after Toronto, Mississauga, and Brampton.

[[Matt Stajan]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Calgary Flames players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Toronto Maple Leafs players, American Hockey League players, Ontario Hockey League players

Matthew Stajan (s stay; born December 19, 1983) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey centre.

Before playing in the NHL, Stajan played 3 seasons with the Belleville Bulls of the Ontario Hockey League (OHL). He was drafted with the 57th overall pick by the Toronto Maple Leafs in the 2002 NHL Entry Draft. On January 31, 2010, the Maple Leafs traded Stajan along with Niklas Hagman, Ian White and Jamal Mayers in exchange for Dion Phaneuf, Fredrik Sjöström and Keith Aulie.

He is married to his wife Katie and they live in Calgary. Their first child named Emerson, died on March 3, 2014 shortly after birth.

[[Cajvana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suceava County

Cajvana is a town of Suceava County in the southern part of Bukovina in Romania.

[[Mount Athos]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Greece

Mount Athos is a mountain in the Greek province of Macedonia. It is also commonly referred to as the Self-governed Monastic State of the Holy Mountain, which is an autonomous part of Greece. There are twenty Eastern Orthodox monasteries inside this state.

Spiritually, Mount Athos comes under the direct jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople.

The peninsula is the easternmost "leg" of the larger Halkidiki peninsula. It protrudes into the Aegean Sea for some 60 at a width between 7 to 12 km and covers an area of 335.637, with the actual Mount Athos and its steep, densely forested slopes reaching up to 2033. The seas around the end of the peninsula can be dangerous.

The peninsula is only accessible by boat. There is a limit on the number of visitors. People visiting need to get a special permit. Only men are allowed to enter. Monks call Mount Athos the "Garden of the Virgin"-. Orthodox Christians take precedence in the permit issuing procedure. Only males over the age of 18 who are members of an Eastern Orthodox Church are allowed to live on Athos (?). A large number of Albanian Muslims work in the Holy Mountain. There is a small number of unarmed, religious guards (Σερδάρηδες), who are not monks, for keeping order. Police and Coast Guard presence is very discreet. Any other people not monks are required to live in the peninsula's capital, Karyes (?) Most workers live at the place where they work. Small low class hotels exist at Karyes (administrative center) and Dafni (main port). The 2001 Greek national census recorded a population of 2,262 inhabitants.

[[Barcelona Metro line 9]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona Metro lines

Line 9 (Línia 9 in Catalan) is the newest line in the Barcelona Metro network, currently under construction, with only five complete stations, all in Santa Coloma de Gramenet. These first five stations opened on 13 December 2009. The complete line is a railway project to build a subway line with two branches spanning a good deal of the metropolitan area of Barcelona through Barcelona, Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Badalona, l'Hospitalet de Llobregat and El Prat de Llobregat. TMB is the company operating the line and handled by the division line in two: Line 9 and Line 10.

[[Barcelona Metro line 10]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona Metro lines

Line 10 (Zona Franca ZAL - Gorg) is the name of one of the two branches of the Barcelona metro extension line 9, currently under construction and to be operated by TMB.

[[Barcelona Metro line 2]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona Metro lines

Line 2, also known by the names of its termini, currently Paral·lel - Pep Ventura, is a metro line in Barcelona operated by TMB, coloured purple and sometimes simply called línia lila. 

[[Sam Cooke]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American guitarists, American singer-songwriters, American soul musicians, American R&B singers, American gospel musicians, American pop musicians, American soul singers, American pop singers, Musicians from Mississippi, 1931 births, 1964 deaths, American gospel singers

Sam Cooke (January 22, 1931–December 11, 1964) was an American soul singer and songwriter. He was born Sam Cook but later changed the spelling of his name. He was very important in the beginning of soul music. He had many hit songs in America. Some of his most famous songs were "You Send Me", "A Change Is Gonna Come", "Chain Gang", "Wonderful World", and "Bring It on Home to Me".

Cooke started his own record label and publishing company. He was an important part of the Civil Rights Movement, helping African-American people to get civil rights.

Cooke died in 1964. He was shot and killed by a hotel manageress called Bertha Franklin. She told the police that she shot Cooke in self-defense. He was buried in Glendale, California.

[[Catherine Morland]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in written fiction

Catherine Morland is the principal character in Jane Austen's book Northanger Abbey. She enjoys reading the mysterious and frightening gothic novels that were popular in her time. She often has a tendency to blur the lines between fiction and reality, which causes her a great deal of trouble. She is the neighbor of Mr. Allens, a rich man, and goes with him to Bath, a city in Northeastern Somerset, England. Jane Austen used her to mock the obvious classics where the perfect heroes fall in love with the heroines, and they marry and live "happily ever after".

Jane Austen, in the beginning of Chapter Two, describes her as having a heart that "was affectionate (loving)", a "disposition (character) cheerful and open, without conceit (pride) or affectation".

[[Child abuse]]

CATEGORIES: Child abuse

Child abuse is the abuse, mistreatment or hurt done by adults to children. It often means abuse done by a child's parents or another caregiver. Injuries to the skin like bruises are one of the signs of child abuse.

Talking about these things and helping children who suffer from child abuse is very important, but some people do not believe it could happen in their country, neighbourhood or family. They like to think these crimes are far away and so they cannot see if a child nearby is in danger.

[[Revised Julian calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Orthodox Church, Calendars

The Revised Julian calendar is a variation of the Julian calendar. It is mainly used by Eastern Orthodox churches. Some Eastern Orthodox churches introduced it in 1923.

[[Hakha-Chin language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Bangladesh

Hakha Chin is a language spoken in southern Asia by 446,264 people. The total figure includes 2,000 Zokhua, and 60,100 Lai speakers. The speakers are largely concentrated in eastern India in addition to Myanmar/Burma and Bangladesh.

[[Rajbanshi language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Bangladesh

Kamtapuri/Rajbanshi,  also called Rajbanshi  is a Tibeto-Burman  cum Indo-Aryan language spoken in India, Bhutan Bangladesh, and Nepal. Rajbanshi belongs to combined language family of Tibeto-Burman cum Indo-Aryan language family. According to a 1991 census, it was spoken by 5 million people. This language is not a dialect of Bengali language or Assamese Language. It has her own identity. "Kamtapuri" language would be included soon under eighth schedule of constitution of India. 

This is the native language of people of Cooch Behar, Lower Assam, Jalpaiguri, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur, Terrai of Darjeeling, Upper Maldah, a portion of Bihar, Some parts of Bhutan, Bangladesh & Nepal.

Other names of the language are Rajbangsi, Rajbansi, Rajbanshi, Tajpuri, Surjyapuri, Kamrupi, Deshi Bhasha.

Recently "Kamtapuri Bhasha Academy" (2017) is formed by West Bengal Government.

Rajbangshi, Rangpuri or Kamatapuri, is a Bengali-Assamese language spoken by the Rajbongshi people in India and Bangladesh. Many are bilingual in either Bengali or Assamese. Together with Rajbanshi, it forms the KRNB lects.

[[Teen idol]]

CATEGORIES: Celebrities, Fandom

A teen idol is a celebrity or famous person who is very popular with teenagers. Teen idols are often young, but are not always teenagers themselves. They are often pop singers or actors. People started to call celebrities teen idols in the 20th century. Some early teen idols were Rudolph Valentino, Frank Sinatra, Judy Garland, Elvis Presley and James Dean.

In the 1960s and 1970s some pop singers became known as teen idols, like The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, The Monkees, Donny Osmond and David Cassidy. In the 1990s, bands like New Kids on the Block and Backstreet Boys were very popular with teenagers. In the 21st century, some teen idols have been Britney Spears, Miley Cyrus and the Jonas Brothers.

[[Hachinohe, Aomori]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Aomori Prefecture

Hachinohe is a Japanese city in Aomori Prefecture on the island of Honshu.  

It has been recognized as a special city since 2001.

About 240,000 people live in Hachinohe.

Hacnihone is in a part of Japan called the Tohoku region. It faces the Pacific Ocean. Two rivers run through Hachinohe. One is the Mabechi River which runs from the south to the east, and flows into the Pacific Ocean. The other is the Nida River which runs from the south to the north. 

Hachinohe means "the 8th area" in north of Tohoku region from the Middle Ages era. There was "the places of 8th" for making horses for a war in Hachinohe. 

Hachinohe has a famous industrial area in Tohoku region, and has a bigger fishing port more than most of other cities.

There is a Tohoku Shinkansen station and the Tohoku Expressway in Hachinohe.

The main industries in Hachinohe are manufacturing and services. Most of people in Hacnihohe work in manufacturing. In Hachinohe, the fishing industry is famous. Hachinohe brings in the most squid and saba in Japan.

[[Gerbstedt]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Saxony-Anhalt

Gerbstedt is a little town at the Mansfeld-Südharz rural district, Saxony-Anhalt in Germany. It is 10 north of Eisleben. The little river Lobach flows through it.

Gerbstedt is about 30 km northwest of Halle, Saxony-Anhalt. It was first mentioned in 985 as Gerbizstidi. In the area of Gerbstedt, there is copper schist. It is mined since 1730.

[[Miles Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 1991 deaths, African American musicians, American composers, American jazz musicians, Autobiographers, Bandleaders, Deaths from pneumonia, Jazz composers, Musicians from Illinois, Trumpeters, People from Alton, Illinois, People from East St. Louis, Illinois, Warner Bros. Records artists

Miles Dewey Davis III (May 26, 1926 – September 28, 1991) was an American jazz trumpeter, bandleader and composer. He was very important to 20th century music. He helped to develop several different styles of jazz, like cool jazz, hard bop, free jazz, and fusion. As a bandleader he worked with other famous musicians like John Coltrane, Herbie Hancock, Bill Evans, Wayne Shorter, Chick Corea, John McLaughlin, Cannonball Adderley, Gerry Mulligan, Tony Williams, George Coleman, J. J. Johnson, Keith Jarrett, John Scofield and Kenny Garrett.

In 1959 he released an album called Kind of Blue. That album became very famous and popular. In 2008, it had sold 4 million copies. In 2006 Davis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and described as "one of the key figures in the history of jazz".

[[Bandleader]]

CATEGORIES: Bandleaders, Entertainment occupations

A bandleader is the leader of a group of musicians. Bandleaders often lead large groups that play genres like big band, jazz, blues, rhythm and blues and rock and roll. The bandleader directs the other musicians in the group. Bandleaders often perform in their groups as well. Sometimes bands are named after their bandleaders.

[[Neglect]]

CATEGORIES: Society

Neglect is a kind of abuse where a person harms another person by not giving them the things they need to live. For example, a parent or caregiver may neglect a child by not giving them enough food, clothing, hygiene, medical care, affection or education; this is a form of child abuse. Victims of neglect are those that need looking after, like children, physically or mentally disabled adults, elderly people, medical patients, animals or plants.

[[Josef Mysliveček]]

CATEGORIES: 1737 births, 1781 deaths, Classical era composers, Czech composers

Josef Mysliveček (born Prague, 9 March 1737; died Rome, 4 February 1781) was a Czech composer in the classical music period. Although his music is not often performed these days he composed a lot of attractive music which often sounds like Mozart. During the 1770s he was a good friend of the Mozart family.

[[Ainaži]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1926 establishments in Latvia

Ainaži is a port town in Latvia. It is close to the border of Estonia. The city has had town rights since 1926.May 2018

[[Aizkraukle]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1967 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Latvia

Aizkraukle is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1967.

[[Aizpute]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1370s establishments in Europe, 14th century establishments in Latvia, 1378 establishments

Aizpute is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1378.

[[Aknīste]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1991 establishments in Latvia

Aknīste is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

[[Aloja, Latvia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1992 establishments in Latvia

Aloja is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1992.

[[Alūksne]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1920 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Latvia

Alūksne is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1920.

[[Ape, Latvia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1928 establishments in Latvia

Ape is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Auce]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1924 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Latvia

Auce is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1924.

[[Baldone]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1991 establishments in Latvia

Baldone is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

[[Baloži]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1991 establishments in Latvia

Baloži is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

[[Balvi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1928 establishments in Latvia

Balvi is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Bauska]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1600s establishments in Europe, 17th century establishments in Latvia, 1609 establishments

Bauska is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1609.

[[Broceni]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1992 establishments in Latvia

Brocēni is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1992.

[[Cēsis]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1206 establishments in Europe, Establishments in Latvia

Cēsis is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1206. Its population was 17,170 in 2016.

[[Cesvaine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1991 establishments in Latvia

Cesvaine is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

[[Dagda, Latvia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1992 establishments in Latvia

Dagda is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1992.

[[Dobele]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1917 establishments in Latvia

Dobele is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

[[Durbe]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1893 establishments in Europe, Establishments in Latvia

Durbe is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1893.

[[Grobiņa]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1695 establishments, 17th century establishments in Latvia, 1690s establishments in Europe

Grobiņa is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1695. It is approximately eleven kilometers east of Liepāja. 

[[Gulbene]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1928 establishments in Latvia

Gulbene is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Ikšķile]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1992 establishments in Latvia

Ikšķile is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1992.

[[Ilūkste]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1917 establishments in Latvia

Ilūkste is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

[[Jaunjelgava]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1647 establishments in Europe, 17th century establishments in Latvia

Jaunjelgava is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1647.

[[Jēkabpils]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1670 establishments, 17th century establishments in Latvia, 1670s establishments in Europe

Jēkabpils is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1670.

[[Kalnciems]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1991 establishments in Latvia

Kalnciems is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

[[Kandava]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1917 establishments in Latvia

Kandava is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

[[Kārsava]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1928 establishments in Latvia

Kārsava is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Krāslava]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1923 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Latvia

Krāslava is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1923.

[[Kuldīga]]

CATEGORIES: Kuldīga, Towns in Latvia, 1370s establishments in Europe, 14th century establishments in Latvia, 1378 establishments

Kuldīga (Lv-Kuldīga.ogg; Goldingen) is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1378. It is the center of the Kuldīga District. As of 2020, Kuldīga had a population of 10 352 people. River Venta travels through the city.

Kuldīga was founded by the German Livonian Order at 1242. It was called Goldingen by the Germans. It become the capital city of Courland at 1587-1617.

The old centre of the town is in the waiting list for UNESCO World Heritage Site.

[[Paul-Henri Thiry, Baron d'Holbach]]

CATEGORIES: 1723 births, 1789 deaths, Philosophers

Paul-Henri Thiry, Baron d'Holbach (8 December 1723 – 21 January 1789) was a French-German author, philosopher and encyclopedist. He was an important figure in the French Enlightenment. He was born Paul Heinrich Dietrich in Edesheim, near Landau in the Rhenish Palatinate. He spent most of his life in Paris, where he kept a salon. He is best known for his atheism. He wrote a lot. Most of his writings are against religion. His best-known book is the System of Nature.

[[Ķegums]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1993 establishments in Latvia

Ķegums is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1993.

[[Lielvārde]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1992 establishments in Latvia

Lielvārde is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1992.

[[Līgatne]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1993 establishments in Latvia

Līgatne is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1993.

[[Limbaži]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1385 establishments, 14th century establishments in Latvia

Limbaži is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1385.

[[Līvāni]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1926 establishments in Latvia

Līvāni is a town in Latvia. It has had town rights since 1926.

[[Lubāna]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1992 establishments in Latvia

Lubāna is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1992.

[[Ludza]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1777 establishments, Establishments in Latvia, 1770s establishments in Europe

Ludza is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1777.

[[Madona]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1926 establishments in Latvia

Madona is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1926.

[[Mazsalaca]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1928 establishments in Latvia

Mazsalaca is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Ogre, Latvia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1929 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Latvia

Ogre is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1929.  It is the principal town of Ogre District in Central Latvia.  It is where the Daugava and Ogre rivers come together.

[[Olaine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1967 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Latvia

Olaine is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1967.

[[Pāvilosta]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1991 establishments in Latvia

Pāvilosta is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

[[Piltene]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1550s establishments in Europe, Establishments in Latvia, 1557 establishments

Piltene is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1557.

[[Pļaviņas]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1927 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Latvia

Pļaviņas is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1927.

[[Preiļi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1928 establishments in Latvia

Preiļi is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Priekule, Latvia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1928 establishments in Latvia

Priekule is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Rūjiena]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1920 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Latvia

Rūjiena is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1920.

[[Sabile]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1917 establishments in Latvia

Sabile is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

[[Salacgrīva]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1928 establishments in Latvia

Salacgrīva is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Salaspils]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1993 establishments in Latvia

Salaspils is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1993. It is situated nearby the river Daugava and 18 kilometers from Riga.

[[Saldus]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1917 establishments in Latvia

Saldus is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

[[Saulkrasti]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1991 establishments in Latvia

Saulkrasti (Lv-Saulkrasti.ogg) is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

[[Seda, Latvia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1991 establishments in Latvia

Seda is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991. 

[[Sigulda]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1928 establishments in Latvia

Sigulda is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Skrunda]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1996 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Latvia

Skrunda is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1996.

[[Smiltene]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1920 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Latvia

Smiltene is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1920.

[[Staicele]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1992 establishments in Latvia

Staicele is a town in Latvia. It has had town rights since 1992.

[[Stende]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1991 establishments in Latvia

Stende is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

[[Strenči]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1928 establishments in Latvia

Strenči is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Subate]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1917 establishments in Latvia

Subate is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

[[Talsi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1917 establishments in Latvia

Talsi is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

[[Tukums]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1795 establishments, Establishments in Latvia, 1790s establishments in Europe

Tukums is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1795. In 2019, half of Latvia's tires were being recycled in the town. It has the second largest tire recycling plant in the Baltic country.

In 2020, Latvian president Egils Levits praised the region's leaders for its COVID-19 efforts and offering counselling to its residents. 

[[Valdemārpils]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1917 establishments in Latvia

Valdemārpils is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1917.

[[Valka]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1584 establishments, Establishments in Latvia, 1580s establishments in Europe

Valka is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1584.

[[Valmiera]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1323 establishments, 14th century establishments in Latvia, 1320s establishments in Europe

Valmiera (Lv-Valmiera.ogg; Wolmar) is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1323, it is the largest city of the historical Vidzeme region, Latvia, with a total area of 18.1. It is the center of the Valmiera District. As of 2002, Valmiera had a population of 27,323, and in 2008 – 27,569.

It lies at the crossroads of several important roads, 100 to the north-east from Riga, the capital of Latvia, and 50 south of the border with Estonia. Valmiera lies on both banks of the Gauja River.

[[Vangaži]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1991 establishments in Latvia

Vangaži is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1991.

[[Varakļāni]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia, 1928 establishments in Latvia

Varakļāni is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Viesīte]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia

Viesīte is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Viļaka]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia

Viļaka is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1945.

[[Viļāni]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia

Viļāni is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1928.

[[Zilupe]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Latvia

Zilupe is a town in Latvia with town rights since 1931.

[[Frederick Sanger]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2013 deaths, British Nobel Prize winners, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, Companions of Honour, English biochemists, Fellows of the Royal Society, English molecular biologists, Order of Merit, People from Gloucestershire

Frederick Sanger AUS (ˈ; 13 August 1918 – 19 November 2013) was an English biochemist. 

Sanger is a two-time Nobel laureate in chemistry, the only person to have been so. Sanger is the fourth person to have been given two Nobel Prizes, either individually or in tandem with others.

In 1958 he was given a Nobel prize in chemistry "for his work on the structure of proteins, especially that of insulin". 

In 1980, Walter Gilbert and Sanger shared half of the chemistry prize "for their contributions concerning the determination of base sequences in nucleic acids". The other half was given to Paul Berg "for his fundamental studies of the biochemistry of nucleic acids, with particular regard to recombinant-DNA".

[[List of settlements in Latvia]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Latvia, Lists of settlements in Europe

There are 9 cities and 67 towns in Latvia. This is a list of the cities and towns.

[[Mats Sundin]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Living people, Olympic gold medalists, Sportspeople from Stockholm, Quebec Nordiques players, Swedish ice hockey players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vancouver Canucks players, Swedish Hockey League players, Ice hockey centres

Mats Johan Sundin (born February 13, 1971) is a Swedish retired professional ice hockey player. Sundin played a career total of 18 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Quebec Nordiques, Toronto Maple Leafs, and Vancouver Canucks. Sundin served as the team captain of the Toronto Maple Leafs for 11 seasons. When the 2007–08 NHL season ended, Sundin became the longest serving non-North American born captain in NHL history. He last played 41 games with the Vancouver Canucks in the 2008–09 NHL season before he announced his retirement on September 30, 2009.

On November 12, 2012, Sundin along with Joe Sakic, Adam Oates, and Pavel Bure was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame.

[[Khorasan Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Iran, 2014 disestablishments

Khorasan (Persian: خراسان) was the largest province of Iran until it was divided into three provinces on September 29, 2004: 

Khorasan is famous worldwide for its saffron and zereshk which are produced in the southern cities of the province. It is also known for its famous rugs. 

Khorasan is the birthplace of Ferdowsi, the famous Iranian poet who wrote the Shahnameh (Shāhnāme), the national epic of Persian people and of the Iranian World. 

Imam Reza Shrine (the shrine of the 8th shi'a Imam), the center of Razavi Khorasan Province.

[[Geoffrey Prior]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1972 deaths, People of British India

Sir Geoffrey Prior (1896-1972) was the first Chief commissioner of Balochistan (Pakistan) from 15 August 1947 to 3 October 1947.

[[Ambrose Dundas Flux Dundas]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1973 deaths, People of British India, Isle of Man, Knights Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire, Order of the Star of India

Sir Ambrose Dundas Flux Dundas KCIE, CSI (b.1899-d.1973) was the second chief commissioner of Balochistan (Pakistan) from 4 October 1947 - 8 April 1948, and the second governor of the North West Frontier Province from 9 April 1948 - 16 July 1949.

Dundas was Lieutenant Governor of the Isle of Man from 1952 to 1959.

[[Frederick Chalmers Bourne]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1977 deaths, People of British India, Order of the Star of India, People from Kent

Sir Frederick Chalmers Bourne (12 August 1891 – 1977) was an English colonial administrator. He served in British India. He began his service in the Royal Army. He then served in the civil service from 1920. He worked in Lahore for several years, and held several high positions for the government of Punjab. Bourne was appointed acting Governor of the Central Provinces and Berar from May to October 1945, and as the acting Governor of Assam in 1946. He then served as the last Governor of the Central Provinces and Berar, from 1946 until independence of India in 1947. Bourne was then appointed the first governor of East Bengal, United Pakistan. He was governor from 15 August 1947 to 5 April 1950.

[[Francis Mudie]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1976 deaths, People of British India, Governors of Bihar

Sir Francis Mudie (1890–1976) was the first governor of the Punjab in Pakistan from 15 August 1947 to 2 August 1949.

[[George Cunningham (governor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1964 deaths, People of British India

Sir George Cunningham (1888 - 1964) was the first governor of the North-West Frontier Province province in Pakistan. He was governor from 15 August 1947 to 8 April 1948.

[[1899 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: 1899, Atlantic hurricane seasons

The 1899 Atlantic hurricane season was during the summer and fall of 1899. Nine storms were seen during this time, five of them were hurricane and the other four were tropical storms. Hurricane Three or the Hurricane San Ciriaco was the longest lived Atlantic hurricane. It also killed about 3433 people, making it the tenth deadliest Atlantic hurricane. 

[[1890 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: 1890, Atlantic hurricane seasons

The 1890 Atlantic hurricane season was one of the least active hurricane seasons, with only 4 storms. This season got an early start, as Tropical Storm One started in May. There were also only 9 deaths in 1890.

[[Paul Cézanne]]

CATEGORIES: 1839 births, 1906 deaths, Aix-en-Provence, Deaths from pneumonia, French painters, Infectious disease deaths in France

Mr. Paul Cézanne (19 January 1839 - 22 October 1906) was a French painter. He was born in Aix-en-Provence, in the south of France, and died of pneumonia there.

The artistic career of Paul Cézanne lasted more than forty years, from roughly 1860 to 1906. A busy artist, he produced more than 900 oil paintings and 400 watercolours, including many incomplete works. 

Cézanne's work is broadly post-impressionist. His work helped change the 19th century idea of art to the very different world of art in the 20th century. Cézanne's work is the bridge between late 19th century Impressionism and the early 20th century Cubism. The line attributed to both Matisse and Picasso that "Cézanne is the father of us all" is significant.

Cézanne's work shows a mastery of design, colour and composition. His brushstrokes are clearly recognizable. He used planes of colour and small brushstrokes that build up to form complex fields. The paintings reveal Cézanne's intense study of his subjects, a searching gaze, and a struggle to deal with the complexity of human visual perception.

Cézanne's The Card Players (1882) is at present the world's most expensive painting. It was sold for more than $250 million in 2011 to the royal family of Qatar. What makes this all the more remarkable is that there are four other Cézanne 'Card Players'. They are in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Musée d’Orsay, the Courtauld, and the Barnes Foundation.His best friend was Emile Zola.

[[Alice DeeJay]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s Dutch music groups, 2000s Dutch music groups, Electronic music bands, Musical groups established in 1999, 1999 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in the Netherlands, Musical groups disestablished in 2002, 2002 disestablishments in Europe, Amsterdam

Alice DeeJay was a Dutch electronic music group, who achieved success from 1999 to 2002. The group consisted of record producers Pronti (born Sebastiaan Molijn), Kalmani (born Eelke Kalberg) and DJ Jurgen, with lead singer Judith Anna Pronk. The groups best known song is "Better Off Alone" from their 2000 album, Who Needs Guitars Anyway?.

[[Myriapoda]]

CATEGORIES: Myriapods

The Myriapoda is a subphylum of arthropods. It contains the millipedes, centipedes, and others. The group has 13,000 species, all of which are terrestrial. Their name suggests they have many legs. In fact one has over 750 legs (Illacme plenipes), but some have fewer than ten legs. 

The fossil record of myriapods goes back into the late Silurian, though molecular evidence suggests they diversified in the Cambrian period. Cambrian fossils do exist which look like myriapods.

[[Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation]]

CATEGORIES: Medical procedures

Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, more commonly referred to as TENS (or sometimes TeNS), is defined by the American Physical Therapy Association as application of electrical current through the skin for pain control.

[[Fenwick Island, Delaware]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Delaware

Fenwick Island is a town in Sussex County, which is in the state of Delaware in the United States. There were about 357 people in the town in 2006. Fenwick Island is part of the Seaford, Delaware Micropolitan Statistical Area. Fenwick Island is on the Atlantic Ocean north of Ocean City, Maryland.

[[General American]]

CATEGORIES: Language

General American (GA) is a major accent of American English. Within American English, General American and accents approximating it are contrasted with Southern American English, several Northeastern accents, and other distinct regional accents and social group accents like African American Vernacular English.

[[Thomas Linley the younger]]

CATEGORIES: 1756 births, 1778 deaths, English composers, British violinists

Thomas Linley (born Bath, England,  5 May 1756; died Grimsthorpe, Lincs 5 Aug 1778) was an English composer and violinist.  He was born in the same year as Mozart and, like Mozart, he was an astonishing child prodigy.  He would almost certainly have been one of England’s greatest composers if he had not died at the age of 22.

[[Kaiane Aldorino]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, British models, Gibraltar, Miss World winners

Kaiane Aldorino won Miss World 2009 on December 12, 2009. She was born July 8, 1986 in Gibraltar.

[[Thomas Linley the elder]]

CATEGORIES: 1733 births, 1795 deaths, English composers, Musicians from Gloucestershire

Thomas Linley (born Badminton, Gloucestershire, England, 17 January 1733; died London 19 November 1795), was an English composer, harpsichordist and singing teacher.  He studied with Thomas Chilcot, organist of Bath Abbey, and later with William Boyce and possibly also with Paradies, the Italian harpsichordist who had come to live in England.

He soon became well known as a singing teacher and composed a lot of music for the Drury Lane theatre, London.

He married a girl called Mary Johnson and the couple had twelve children.  Several of them were gifted musicians, especially Thomas who died at the age of 22 in a boating accident.

Thomas Linley was chosen to be a member of the Royal Society of Musicians in 1777.  He is buried in Wells Cathedral.

[[Hypothetical imperative]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy

A hypothetical imperative is a rule of the form If you want x, then do y. Moral theories may generally have this structure. This means that only those who want x, must do y. Another view is that moral values are not relative to some objective, but are the same for all, that is they are unconditional, or categorical.

The term was coined by Immanuel Kant. Kant said that moral values had to be unconditional, categorical; he wrote a categorical imperative. 

[[William Boyce]]

CATEGORIES: 1711 births, 1779 deaths, Baroque composers, Classical era composers, English composers

William Boyce (born London, 11 September 1711; died Kensington,  7 February 1779) is one of the most important English composers of the 18th century.  He was composing during the last years of the Baroque period and the early years of the Classical Period.  He is famous for his church music as well as music for the theatre and orchestral music.

[[The Starry Night]]

CATEGORIES: 1880s paintings, Dutch paintings, Paintings by Vincent van Gogh

The Starry Night is a famous painting of a moonlit sky with stars in it by Vincent van Gogh. It was painted in 1889. It was one of the last paintings he made.

[[Money Talks]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 movies, American comedy movies, American action movies, English-language movies

Money Talks is a 1997  action/comedy movie directed by Brett Ratner and starring Chris Tucker and Charlie Sheen. It was released to theaters by New Line Cinema

[[Kalgan River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Western Australia

The Kalgan River is in Western Australia near Albany. It is one of the oldest rivers in the world and has seen dinosaurs on its banks. It is about 140 in length.

[[Gas mask]]

CATEGORIES: Protective clothing, Headgear

A gas mask is a kind of mask that fits over the face area and nose. It protects from poison gases and many other hazards in the air.   During World War II gas masks were sent all over England.  They were worn everywhere, even to sleep, in case of surprise attack.  However, the Germans didn't attack with gas bombs.  Gas masks have a filter, a type of material which lets good air in.

[[George Whipple]]

CATEGORIES: 1878 births, 1976 deaths, American academics, American Nobel Prize winners, American physicians, Scientists from New Hampshire, Yale University alumni

George Hoyt Whipple (August 26, 1878 - February 1, 1976) was an American Medical doctor and scientist. He won the 1934 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, along with George Minot and William P. Murphy, for their discoveries about how eating liver could cure anaemia.

==References== 

[[Milişăuţi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suceava County

Milişăuţi is a town in Suceava County, Romania. In 2011, 4,958 people lived there according to the census.

[[Fălticeni]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Romania, Cities in Romania

Fălticeni (fəltiˈt͡ʃenʲ; Foltischeni; פלטיצ'ן פאלטישאן) is a city in Suceava County, Romania, capital of the former Baia County (1929-1950). As of 2003 the population is 28,899, and the city covers an area of 28,76 km², of which 25% are orchards and lakes. The city is 25 away from Suceava, the capital of the county.

[[Vicovu de Sus]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suceava County

Vicovu de Sus (Oberwikow) is a town in northern Suceava County, Romania. It is on the border with the Ukraine.

[[George Minot]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1950 deaths, American physicians, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Boston, Massachusetts

George Richards Minot (December 2, 1885 - February 25, 1950) was an American doctor. He won the 1934 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, along with George Whipple and William P. Murphy, for their discoveries how eating liver could cure anaemia.

==References== 

[[Tertiary]]

CATEGORIES: Cainozoic

The Tertiary was an official geological period, but it is no longer used. It included the first part of the Cainozoic. This is now divided into the Palaeogene and the Neogene.

The previous use of the term "Tertiary" explains why the last period of the Cainozoic is called the Quarternary. There was a big debate about that. These decisions are made by the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS). This organisation runs an International Commission on Stratigraphy, which decides how we should name geological strata and stages. 

In 19th and 20th century scientific literature, Tertiary is used where geologists now use Palaeogene and Neogene.

[[Quaternary]]

CATEGORIES: Cainozoic

The Quaternary is the current geological period. It is the most recent of the three periods of the Cainozoic era and the most recent of the twelve periods of the current eon, the Phanerozoic. The Quaternary follows the Neogene, which is the second period of the Cainozoic.

The Quaternary began about 2.6 million years ago, and continues today. A great deal of information is considered when geologists discuss the timing of periods. The status of the Quaternary as a period is confirmed by the International Commission on Stratigraphy (ICS). 

In the Quarternary were the glaciations known as the Ice Age. Also, anatomically modern humans evolved. During the Quaternary,  many large mammalian species became extinct. This was due to climate change and hunting by humans.

The Quaternary includes two geologic epochs: 

[[ICal]]

CATEGORIES: Apple software, MacOS

iCal is a personal calendar application made by Apple Inc. that runs on the Mac OS X operating system. iCal was the first calendar application for Mac OS X to offer support for multiple calendars and the ability to publish/subscribe calendars to WebDAV server.

Originally released as a free download for Mac OS X v10.2 on September 10 2002, with the release of Mac OS X v10.3 it was bundled with the operating system as iCal 1.5.  Version 2 of iCal was released as part of Mac OS X v10.4, Version 3 with Mac OS X v10.5 and Version 4 as part of Mac OS X v10.6.

Apple licensed the iCal name from Brown Bear Software, who have used it for their iCal application https://web.archive.org/web/20100106132025/http://www.brownbearsw.com/ical/ since 1997.

iCal development is quite different from other Apple software because it was designed independently by a small French team working "secretly" in Paris, led by Jean-Marie Hullot, a friend of Steve Jobs. iCal's development has since been transferred to Apple US headquarters in Cupertino.

[[Palaeogene]]

CATEGORIES: Cainozoic

The Palaeogene (meaning “old generation” in Greek) is the first geological period of the Cainozoic and the tenth period in the Phanerozoic eon. It began 65 million years ago, and ended 23 million years ago. Before it was the Cretaceous. The Palaeogene was followed by the Neogene.

The Palaeogene had three stages: Palaeocene, Eocene and Oligocene.

The Palaeogene and the succeeding Neogene were originally considered to be one period, the Tertiary, until it was split recently .

[[Neogene]]

CATEGORIES: Cainozoic, Miocene

The Neogene (meaning “new generation” in Greek) is the second geological period of the Cainozoic and the eleventh period in the Phanerozoic eon. It began 23 million years ago, and ended about 2.6 million years ago.

Before the Neogene was the Palaeogene. The Neogene has two stages: Miocene, and Pliocene. It is followed by the Quaternary.

The Neogene, along with the preceding Palaeogene were originally together considered one period, the Tertiary until recently, when it was split.

[[Palaeocene]]

CATEGORIES: Cainozoic

The Palaeocene is the first geological epoch in the Palaeogene. It started after the end of the Cretaceous, and lasted for about 10 million years. It was followed by the Eocene epoch.

The Palaeocene began and ended with an extinction event, each of quite a different character. The epoch began with the K/T extinction event, caused by a combination of a meteorite strike (Chicxulub crater) and a huge volcanic flood basalt eruption which produced the Deccan Traps in what is now India. This caused the extinction of many groups, including the dinosaurs and many other reptiles. The epoch ended with the Palaeocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum, a deep ocean anoxic event (DOAE). This means that the ocean depths were lacking oxygen, so no higher forms of life could survive. This produced a mass extinction of between 35–50% of deep water forms such as benthic foraminifera, and coincided with a major change of mammalian types on land.

[[Byron Moreno]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, People from Quito, Ecuadorian footballers

Byron Moreno (born 23 November 1969) is a former Ecuadorian football referee. He has been suspended for his job, because he showed illegal red cards. He was also arrested in New York for the possession of the illegal drug heroin and was fined for drunk driving.

[[Eocene]]

CATEGORIES: Eocene, Cainozoic

The Eocene was the second geological epoch in the Palaeogene. It began 56 million years ago, and ended 33.9 million years ago. Before it was the Palaeocene and, after it was the Oligocene.

The Eocene, like the Palaeocene before it, had a climate much warmer than today. At the start of the Eocene the Palaeocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum was reached. This lasted for 100,000 years, and caused a large extinction event. The land was heavily forested, with temperate forests into arctic and antarctic regions, and the many herbivorous mammals were browsers, not grazers.

The end of the Eocene was the beginning of the Oligocene (33.9 million years ago).  Many plant and animal species went extinct.  This was the Eocene–Oligocene extinction event.  The extinction event was probably caused by meteorite strikes in Siberia and Chesapeake Bay. 

[[Islam in Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Islam by country, Religion in Pakistan

Islam is the official religion of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. In 2007, 97% of the population were Muslims, with 75% being Sunni and 20% Shi'a. There are about 175,376,000 Muslims in Pakistan which is the second largest Muslim population in the world after Indonesia. The Shi'a Muslim population is the second largest in the world after Iran, more than 50 million.

[[Kashmir Smast]]

CATEGORIES: Kashmir

The Kashmir Smast caves are a series of natural limestone caves, artificially expanded from the Kushan Empire to the Shahi periods, in the Babozai mountains in the Mardan Valley in Northern Pakistan. 

[[Lower Cretaceous]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous

The Lower Cretaceous is the first geological epoch in the Cretaceous. It began 145 million years ago, and ended 100.5 million years ago.

Lasting for about 46 million years, this is the longest stage in the Phanerozoic eon. It is longer than some of the geological periods in the Phanerozoic. 

The Lower Cretaceous is best displayed in England, where it is composed of two series of rocks. Between the two is a major rise in sea level. 

The two parts of the Cretaceous represent the sea level where the divisions were first defined. In the Lower Cretaceous, the sea level was much lower than in the Upper Cretaceous. In the Wealden, Southern England was a huge tropical river delta; in the Greensand the same areas were just offshore. However, in the Upper Cretaceous the deposits were made in deeper water, on what was then the continental shelf. Sea level then stood at its highest level in the Mesozoic.

[[Trio sonata]]

CATEGORIES: Musical forms

A trio sonata is a type of music for four instruments which was very popular during the 17th century and early 18th century: the period known as the Baroque period.

A trio sonata is written for three voices (three parts), in other words, it can be played by three different instruments.  The two upper voices share the same musical themes.  They often imitate one another.  They are of equal importance.  The third part, the lowest part, is played by basso continuo, which means the accompaniment.  This continuo is usually played by two instruments:  typically a cello or bass viol and a keyboard instrument such as the harpsichord.  That makes four players, of course.  However, the harpsichord player’s left hand notes are the same as the cello’s notes.  This is the “third” part of the trio.

Some of the best trio sonatas are those by Arcangelo Corelli.  His collection of trio sonatas numbered opus 1 and 3 are sonata da chiesa: four movements (slow-fast-slow-fast) finishing with a fugue.  His op 2 and 4 sonatas are sonata da camera type: each movement is a kind of dance.  Corelli’s trio sonatas are for two violins and continuo. 

Johann Sebastian Bach wrote a trio sonata in The Musical Offering for violin, flute and continuo. 

Bach also wrote six trio sonatas for organ.  These are played by one player.  The organist’s two hands each play on different manuals (keyboards) so that they sound like two different instruments.  The organist’s feet play the third part on the pedals.  Each part is strictly a single line (no chords, never more than three notes at a time) so that these works can also be played by other instruments (e.g. two violins and cello with harpsichord).

Bach also wrote sonatas for one melodic instrument and harpsichord.  These pieces are really trio sonatas, although he does not call them trio sonatas.  The melodic instrument (normally violin or flute) plays the top part, the harpsichordist plays the second part with his right hand, and the third part is the lowest part of his left hand notes.

Some other composers who wrote trio sonatas are Tomaso Albinoni,  Henry Purcell, Dieterich Buxtehude, George Frideric Handel,  Georg Philipp Telemann,  Johann Pachelbel and Antonio Vivaldi. 

[[K/T extinction event]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, Dinosaurs, Meteorites, Extinction events, Mesozoic

The Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event, now called the Cretaceous–Palaeogene extinction event, was about 65.5 million years ago. It may be called the K/T extinction event or K/Pg event for short. This is the famous event which killed most of the dinosaurs at the end of the Cretaceous period.

It was a large-scale mass extinction of  animal and plant species. The event marks the end of the Mesozoic era and the beginning of the Cainozoic era.

[[John Rutter]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, English composers

John Rutter (born London 24 September 1945) is an English composer and choral conductor.  He has composed a lot of church music.  Many of his anthems and songs are very popular indeed with church choirs as well as choral societies.  He writes in a style that can be enjoyed easily, and at the same time it is excellent music.

[[Danny Bonaduce]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Actors from Pennsylvania, Comedians from Pennsylvania, American radio personalities, American television personalities, American movie actors, American television actors, American radio actors, American child actors

Dante Daniel "Danny" Bonaduce (born August 13, 1959) is an American radio and TV host, and he was a child actor.

He is famous for being on the 1970s sitcom/television series The Partridge Family.

[[Permian–Triassic extinction event]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, Meteorites, Extinction events

The Permian/Triassic extinction event (P/Tr for short and also popularly referred to as the Great Dying) was the largest extinction event in the Phanerozoic eon. 57% of all biological families, 83% of all genera, 96% of all marine species (including many kinds of fish and the last surviving trilobites) and 70% of all terrestrial vertebrates (including many of the large amphibians, primitive reptiles and synapsids) became extinct. It is the only known extinction event of insects. It ended the Palaeozoic era, and began the Mesozoic era.

The event forms the boundary between the Permian and Triassic periods, at about 252 million years ago. Because so much biodiversity was lost, the recovery of life on earth took much longer than after other extinction events.  This event has been described as the "mother of all mass extinctions".

The pattern of extinction is still unclear, as different studies suggest one to three different pulses.

There are several proposed mechanisms for the extinctions. These include: large or multiple meteorite impacts, increased volcanism, sudden release of methane hydrates from the sea floor. Gradual changes include sea level change, oceanic anoxic events, increasing aridity, and a shift in ocean circulation driven by climate change.

One thing is probably significant. One of the largest ever flood basalt eruptions took place across the P/Tr junction. These eruptions, from 251 to 250 million years ago, produced the Siberian Traps, a huge volcanic province in Siberia. This would certainly have made the world's climate much worse, and is now thought to be the main cause of this great extinction.

Another factor is that global sea levels were at an historic low point at the time.

[[Camille Pissarro]]

CATEGORIES: French painters, 1830 births, 1903 deaths

Camille Pissarro (10 July 1830 – 12 November 1903) was a French Impressionist painter. He was born on Saint Tomas in the Virgin Islands. Pissarro died in Paris.

He was the only artist to exhibit in both Impressionism and Post-impressionism forms. Pissarro learnt from great forerunners, including Gustave Courbet and Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. He later studied and worked alongside Georges Seurat and Paul Signac when he took on the Neo-Impressionist style at the age of 54.

In 1873 he helped establish a society of fifteen aspiring artists, holding the group together and encouraging the other members. Art historian John Rewald called Pissarro the “dean of the Impressionist painters", not only because he was the oldest of the group, but also "by virtue of his wisdom and his balanced, kind, and warmhearted personality”. Cézanne said "he was a father for me. A man to consult and a little like the good Lord". He was also one of Gauguin's mentors. Renoir referred to his work as “revolutionary”, through his artistic portrayals of the common man. Pissarro insisted on painting individuals in natural settings without "artifice or grandeur".

Pissarro is the only artist to have shown his work at all eight Paris Impressionist exhibitions, from 1874 to 1886. He acted as a father figure to the Impressionists and, in varying degress, to all four of the major Post-impressionists including Georges Seurat, Paul Cézanne, Vincent van Gogh and Paul Gauguin.

[[Snowball Earth]]

CATEGORIES: Earth sciences, Climate, Proterozoic, Climate change

Snowball Earth or Icehouse Earth refers to times when the Earth's surface was nearly or entirely frozen. The occurrence of Snowball (or Slushball) Earths is still controversial, but it is now probable that widespread glaciation occurred in periods of the Proterozoic. What is still debatable is how widespread those glaciations were. Proponents claim the theory explains sedimentary deposits of glacial origin at tropical latitudes and other enigmatic features of the geological record. Opponents do not draw the same inferences from the geological evidence, and doubt the geophysical feasibility of an ice or slush-covered ocean.

[[Rivallo]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United Kingdom

Rivallo (Rhiwallon) was a legendary king of the Britons as told by Geoffrey of Monmouth. He was the son of King Cunedagius. 

During the time he ruled he was troubled by disasters: a rain of blood which lasted three days, a terrible plague, and a great swarm of flies. After he died his son Gurgustius became king.

[[Pat Fenlon]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Irish footballers, Irish football managers, Sportspeople from Dublin

Pat Fenlon (born 15 March 1969) is an Irish football manager who is currently managing Bohemians F.C..

His first job as a manager was at Shelbourne where he won the league in 2003, 2004 and 2006. In that time they also made history by managing the first Irish club to reach the third qualifying round of the Champions League, where they were knocked out by Deportivo de La Coruña from Spain. He left Shelbourne at the end of 2006.

He was made the Derry City manager at the end of 2006 but left halfway through the 2007 season after making a poor start with his new club.

He was made manager of Bohemians in early 2008 and so far has won back-to-back titles, an FAI Cup and a League Cup. He has stated that his desire is to get Bohemians into the Champions League group stages in 2010.

[[Victoria Wood]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Lancashire, British stand-up comedians, Cancer deaths in London, Comedians from Lancashire, English television actors, English television presenters, English television producers, English television writers, Television personalities from Lancashire, Writers from Lancashire

Victoria Wood CBE (19 May 1953, Prestwich, Lancashire – 20 April 2016, Highgate, North London) was an English comedienne, actress, singer, writer and television presenter.

[[Niccolò Piccinni]]

CATEGORIES: 1728 births, 1800 deaths, Italian composers, Classical era composers, People from Bari

Niccolò Piccinni (born Bari, Italy, 16 January 1728; died near Paris, 7 May 1800) was an Italian composer. He wrote over 80 operas. During his life, he worked with the greatest librettists of his age, including Metastasio. 

Piccinni’s music is hardly ever played today, but in his day many of his operas were extremely popular. He is mainly remembered today because he was invited to Paris where people wanted him to be a rival of Gluck. There were lots of arguments between the people who supported Piccinni and those who supported Gluck.

[[William P. Murphy]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1987 deaths, American physicians, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Wisconsin

William Parry Murphy (February 6, 1892 – October 9, 1987) was an American doctor. He won the 1934 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, along with George Whipple and George Minot, for discovering how eating liver could cure anaemia.

[[Silent Night]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century songs, Christmas music

"Silent Night" (no) is a very popular Christmas carol and song. It was first performed in 1818, by Franz Xaver Gruber and Joseph Mohr. Gruber was an organist and headmaster of a primary school. Mohr was a priest. Mohr had written the poem in 1816; Gruber wrote the melody for it before Christmas 1818. Little else is known on how the song came to be.

One of the theses is that at the time it was not possible to play the organ in the church. For this reason Gruber and Mohr created a song that could be accompanied by a guitar. There are many other stories about how the song came to be.

The audience liked the performance very much. Gruber sang, and Mohr played the guitar. It is because of an organ-maker called Mauracher that the song became known to a wider audience. Mauracher could capture the attention of the crowd at a performance in Leipzig in 1832. From there it spread, first to the German-speaking countries, then to the world. Today there are translations into more than 300 languages and dialects.

The song was first published on a leaflet in 1833, with other "authentic Tyrolean songs". Frederick William IV of Prussia wanted to know the authors of the song, and asked St. Peter's Archabbey, Salzburg, in 1854. The abbey found Gruber, who was still alive. In the meantime, the song had been attributed to Michael Haydn.

The author Hertha Pauli, who was born in Austria had to flee from the persecutions during the Second World War. In 1943, she found that many Americans thought that "Silent Night" was an American popular tune. She then wrote the children's book, "Silent Night. The Story of a Song", where she explained where the song was from.

[[Indonesian Rupiah]]

CATEGORIES: Currency of Asia, 20th century establishments in Indonesia, 1946 establishments in Asia

The Indonesian Rupiah (IDR) is the money used in Indonesia. Rupiah started to be used in 1946. 

The coins that are used now are 25 rupiah, 50 rupiah, 100 rupiah, 200 rupiah, 500 rupiah and 1000 rupiah.

The banknotes that are used are 1000 rupiah, 2000 rupiah, 5000 rupiah, 10 000 rupiah, 20 000 rupiah, 50 000 rupiah and 100 000 rupiah.

[[Horseshoes]]

CATEGORIES: Games

Horseshoes is a game played outside. This game is played using four horseshoes and two stakes.

[[Hans Spemann]]

CATEGORIES: 1869 births, 1941 deaths, German doctors, German Nobel Prize winners

Hans Spemann (27 June 1869 – 9 September 1941) was a German doctor. He won the 1935 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, for his discovery of the 'organizer effect' in embryonic development 

[[Henry Hallett Dale]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 births, 1968 deaths, English chemists, Pharmacologists, Order of Merit, Knights and Dames Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire, Fellows of the Royal Society, Presidents of the Royal Society, British Nobel Prize winners

Sir Henry Hallett Dale, OM, GBE, PRS, (9 June 1875 - 23 July 1968) was an English pharmacologist. He won the 1936 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, along with Otto Loewi, for their discoveries about the chemical transmission of nerve impulses.

[[Paul Dukas]]

CATEGORIES: 1865 births, 1935 deaths, French composers, Burials at Père Lachaise Cemetery

Paul Abraham Dukas (October 1, 1865 – May 17, 1935) was a French composer and teacher of classical music.

[[List of extinction events]]

CATEGORIES: Extinction events, Science-related lists

An extinction event is a relatively fast drop in the number of species living on Earth. It occurs when the rate of extinction increases more than the rate of speciation. This is a list of the largest. Major extinction events are important to both geology and evolution.

[[Blaise Compaoré]]

CATEGORIES: People from Ouagadougou, Presidents of Burkina Faso, 1951 births, Living people

Blaise Compaoré (born February 3, 1951) is a former President of Burkina Faso. He served from 1987 until his resignation in 2014. He started a political party called the Congress for Democracy and Progress (CDP). This is the ruling party of Burkina Faso. Compaoré became president in 1987 after a military coup and the assassination of Thomas Sankara, who was president then.

His attempt to change the constitution to extend his 27-year term caused the 2014 Burkinabé uprising. The uprising began due to attempts at changing the constitution to allow him to run again and extend his rule. He resigned on 31 October 2014 after ruling for 27 years.

In August 2021, the prosecutor of the High Court of Justice announces that the trial of members of the government suspected of having played a role in the suppression of the insurgency of 2014 will begin. Blaise Compaoré could again be summoned to answer the judges' questions.

[[Mossi]]

CATEGORIES: Burkina Faso, Ethnic groups in Africa

The Mossi are an ethnic group of people who live mostly in Burkina Faso in Africa, and also in Ivory Coast and Ghana. They make up 40% of all the people in Burkina Faso. They speak a language called Mòoré or More.

[[Cassiopeia (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Cassiopeia is a constellation in the northern sky. It was named after a queen in Greek mythology called Cassiopeia. It looks like a letter W or M, with five bright stars that make the W or the M shape. It has two very bright stars called ρ Cas and V509 Cas.

In 1572, a supernova called Tycho's Star, or SN 1572, was seen in Cassiopeia by many people.

[[Vikash Dhorasoo]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, French footballers

Vikash Dhorasoo (born 10 October 1973) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Park Kun-Ha]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers

Park Kun-Ha (born 25 July 1971) is a former South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an football player. He was a member of Korean national team.

[[Willy Sagnol]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, French footballers

Willy Sagnol (born 18 March 1977) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Ediacara]]

Ediacara can refer to several things:

[[Jathera]]

CATEGORIES: Religious buildings, Punjab, India

A Jathera is a shrine constructed to commemorate common clan ancestors. Each village in the Punjab has a Jathera which can be visited by members of different surnames. Many villages have a Jathera for each clan/surname.

When members of a clan form a new village, they continue to visit the Jathera in the ancestral village. If this is not possible, a link is brought from the old Jathera to construct a new Jathera in the new village.

People visit the Jathera when getting married, on the 15th day of the Indian month, and sometimes on the first Sunday of an Indian month.

[[Ediacaran]]

CATEGORIES: Ediacaran

The Ediacaran period (about 635–541 million years ago), was named after the Ediacara Hills of South Australia. It is the last geological period of the Proterozoic eon. The Edicaran is followed by the Cambrian, the first period of the Palaeozoic. 

The period is famous for the first larger-bodied fossils, which are probably the first recorded metazoans. These were impressions or trace fossils, first found in England's Charnwood Forest, Leicestershire. Geologists did not know what they had found. It was over 60 years later before fossils from the same period were found in South Australia.

The status of the Ediacaran as an official geological period was confirmed in 2004 by the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS). This made it the first new geological period declared in 120 years.

[[Ediacaran biota]]

CATEGORIES: Invertebrates, Lagerstätten, Ediacaran

The Ediacaran biota are the fauna of the Ediacaran period. This geological period was from 635–542 million years ago, but the fossil biota was only from  575–542 million years ago. This was after a series of ice ages and just before the Cambrian period. The biota consists of soft-bodied multicellular organisms, probably animals, which left trace fossils in rocks of Ediacaran age.

The biota is quite unusual, and there is no sign of it in the preceding Marinoan glaciation. The biota appears to suffer a fairly severe extinction event at the boundary with the Cambrian. Some of the biota may have survived into the early Cambrian.

[[Antonio de Trueba]]

CATEGORIES: 1821 births, 1889 deaths, Spanish writers

Antonio de Trueba (24 December 1821-10 March 1889) was a Spanish poet, novelist, and folklorist born at Montellana, Biscay, in 1821 (some sources say 1819), where he was privately educated. 

[[Arrangement (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical terminology

An arrangement of a musical composition is a reworking of a piece of music so that it can be played by a different instrument or combination of instruments from the original.  For example, a song written for one voice with piano accompaniment might be arranged so that it can be sung in parts by a choir, or a piece for violin might be arranged so that it can be played on a clarinet instead.  The person who does the arrangement may be the composer themself, or it may be someone else.

In music history, composers often published their compositions, saying that the music could be played or sung by various instruments.  For example, when English composers published madrigals in the late 16th century they often stated that they could be sung by singers or played on viols (“apt for voices as for viols”).  In the Classical music period a composer might publish a sonata, stating that it could be played on the violin or flute or recorder.  This helped to sell more copies, because violinists, flautists and recorder players might all want to buy the music.  In a sense this is not really an arrangement, because no changes have been made to the music.

However, when violin or cello music is arranged so that it can be played on a viola, some changes may be necessary as the viola may be playing in a different key, or some chords may be more awkward the way they were originally written.  This is an arrangement.

A popular piece such as The Flight of the Bumble Bee by Rimsky-Korsakov can be played by almost any melodic instrument: violin, xylophone, tuba etc.  These are all arrangements.

When a piece for choir and orchestra is printed for choir members to use, the orchestral part is printed on two staves so that it can be played on a piano for rehearsals.  This is another kind of arrangement.

In music history, many composers have made arrangements of music composed by others.  They did this in order to learn about musical composition, as well as in order to be able to play it on another instrument.  For example, Johann Sebastian Bach made arrangements of four concertos by Vivaldi so that they could be played on the organ.

Arrangements are often made by people who play instruments that have not had much music written for them.  People who play the viola, guitar, tuba etc. often arrange other music so that they have a larger repertoire (more music to play).

Sometimes composers have made changes to the orchestration of works for orchestra written by others.  They may have done this because instruments had changed since the music was written, or simply because they thought they could do it better.  For example, Mozart made an arrangement of Handels  Messiah , adding instruments such as clarinets which Handel would not have known.  Rimsky-Korsakov made arrangements of the operas by Musorgsky thinking that he was improving them.

Arrangements are sometimes made because a player has some disability.  Cyril Smith, a pianist who only had one arm, played piano duets with his wife Phyllis Sellick.  They arranged piano duets so that they could be played by three hands.

Sometimes arrangements are made of well-known classical pieces in which the music is “jazzed up” or made to sound more popular for movie or theatre performances.  Sometimes  musicians think this is not a good thing.  Sometimes small vocal groups such as the Swingle Singers make lighthearted versions of works by Bach and others.

[[Fernando Botero]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Colombian people, Painters, Sculptors

Fernando Botero Angulo (born 19th April 1932) is a Colombian painter and sculptor. Botero is one of the best-known artists of Latin America. Since 1976, he has done figure-sculpting. His figures are special because they are all thick, which makes them look different from others.

[[Abelian group]]

CATEGORIES: Algebra

In group theory, an abelian group is a group with operation that is commutative. Because of that, an abelian group is sometimes called a ‘commutative group’.

A group in which the group operation is not commutative is called a ‘non-abelian group’ or ‘non-commutative group’.

[[Homing pigeon]]

CATEGORIES: Domesticated animals

A Homing pigeon is a special breed of pigeons. These pigeons have been domesticated. They have been selectively bred to find their way home. They can do this over very long distances. The wild rock pigeon from which these birds are bred also has this homing ability. This means  that it will generally return to its own nest and its own mate. This made it relatively easy to breed from the birds that repeatedly found their way home over long distances. Flights as long as 1800 kilometers have been recorded by birds in competition pigeon racing. Speeds of up to 95 km/h (59 mph) have been observed.

Homing pigeons are called carrier pigeons when they are used to carry messages. This is possible where a message is written on thin light paper (such as cigarette paper) and rolled into a small tube attached to the bird's leg; this is called pigeon post. Pigeons can only go back to one "mentally marked" point that they have identified as their home. So "pigeon mail" can only work when the sender is actually holding the receiver's pigeons. White homing pigeons are used in Release Dove ceremonies at weddings, funerals, and some sporting events. 

[[Roberto de Assis Moreira]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Porto Alegre

Roberto de Assis Moreira (born 10 January 1971) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Rafael Scheidt]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Porto Alegre

Rafael Scheidt (born 10 February 1976) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazil national team.

[[Alex Sandro Santana de Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Salvador, Bahia

Alex Sandro Santana de Oliveira (born 30 October 1973) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Bahia.

[[David Soria Yoshinari]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Peruvian footballers, People from Lima

David Soria Yoshinari (born 18 September 1977) is a Peruvian football player. He has played for Peru national team.

[[Mikaël Silvestre]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, French footballers

Mikaël Silvestre (born 9 August 1977) is a French football player. He plays for Arsenal.

[[Éric Abidal]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, 2006 FIFA World Cup players, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, French footballers, Sportspeople from Lyon

Éric Abidal (born 11 September 1979) is a French football player. He plays for Barcelona and France national team.

[[Pavel Badea]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Romanian footballers, Romanian football managers

Pavel Badea (born 10 June 1967) is a former Romanian football player. He has played for Romania national team.

[[Julio Hernán Rossi]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

Julio Hernán Rossi (born 22 February 1977) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Neuchâtel Xamax.

[[Regis Pitbull]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Regis Fernandes Silva (born 22 September 1976), also known by the nickname Regis or Regis Pitbull, is a Brazilian professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player.

[[Otto Loewi]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1961 deaths, Austrian scientists, German doctors, Neuroscientists

Otto Loewi (June 3, 1873 - December 25, 1961) was a German doctor. He won the 1936 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, along with Henry Hallett Dale, for their discoveries about chemical transmission of nerve impulses 

In his most famous experiment, Loewi took fluid from a frog heart with a slowed beat and applied it to another. That slowed the second heart. This showed that synaptic signalling used chemical messengers.

It is now known that there are two different kinds of nerve synapses. One kind releases chemicals, and is a neurotransmitter synapse. The other is an electrical synapse which transmits voltage charges over gap junctions between nerve cells.

[[Heinrich Lübke]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1972 deaths, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia, Presidents of Germany

Heinrich Lübke (October 14, 1894 – April 6, 1972) was the second President of the Federal Republic of Germany. He was President from 1959 to 1969.

[[Elisha Levy]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Israeli football managers, Israeli footballers, Jewish Israeli sportspeople, People from Jerusalem

Elisha Levy (אלישע לוי; born on 18 November 1957 in Jerusalem) is a former professional football player and he is currently manager of Israeli side Maccabi Haifa.

[[List of WWE Raw guest hosts]]

CATEGORIES: WWE Raw, Sports lists

The WWE Raw Guest Host was started on June 29, 2009 by WWE Chairman Vince McMahon, with the first host being injured WWE superstar Batista. The requirements for a guest host is a WWE Hall of Famer, a retired superstar, celebrity or injured wrestler. The guest host was responsible for the running of the show and had authority of a general manager for the evening. Below is the list of other WWE guest hosts.

[[Transcription (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical notation

A musical transcription is musical notation for an existing piece of music that had been previously unnotated. Musicians often disagree about what should be called a “transcription” and what is an “arrangement”. Usually transcriptions are a direct notation of the source, whereas a musician who makes an arrangement may insert new interpretations into the music (i.e. changing the instrumentation, reharmonization, or even new sectionalization of the piece as with cover songs). A transcription, as Klapuri writes, would require that the pitch, timing, and instrumentation of all sound events to be resolved; difficult as this may be for some cases, this goal is usually redefined such that a transcription constitutes the notation of as many of the constituent sounds as possible or some well-defined part of the music signal (i.e. the dominant melody or the most prominent drum sounds).

Transcriptions can be created for all kinds of music in order to help the performer to learn the piece. Transcriptions are common for music such as jazz (which usually consists of improvisation) and folk, which traditionally is taught from one generation to another by listening and imitating. In the early 20th century, some composers became interested in writing down the traditional folk songs of their countries. Béla Bartók and Zoltan Kodaly in Hungary as well as Cecil Sharpe and Ralph Vaughan Williams in England notably transcribed various folk songs they heard being sung in the villages of their respective countries.

[[VY Canis Majoris]]

CATEGORIES: Red giants, Variable stars, Hypergiants

VY Canis Majoris (VY CMa) is a red hypergiant star in the constellation Canis Major.  It is about 1.2 distant from Earth. It is one of the Largest known Stars in the universe, and one of the most luminous of its type. 

VY Canis Majoris is 1,420 times wider than the Sun. If placed at the center of the Solar System, VY Canis Majoris's surface would extend beyond Jupiter's orbit. However, there is still some variation in the size estimates as other estimates of the radius make it larger than the orbit of Saturn.

VY CMa is a single star, a "semiregular" variable with a period of about 2,001 days. It has an average density of 5 to 10 mg/m3.

When it dies it is expected to explode to a Supernova and then turn into a Black hole.

[[Sydney (disambiguation)]]

Sydney can be any of the following:

[[Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century establishments in Sweden, 1730s establishments in Europe, 1739 establishments, Sweden, Nobel Prize

The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences or Kungliga Vetenskapsakademin ("KVA") is one of the Royal Academies of Sweden. The Academy is an independent, scientific, non-governmental organization, set up to support the sciences, mainly the natural sciences and mathematics.

The Academy was started on 2 June 1739 by naturalist Carl Linnaeus, economist Jonas Alströmer, mechanical engineer Mårten Triewald, civil servants Sten Carl Bielke and Carl Wilhelm Cederhielm, and politician Anders Johan von Höpken.

The academy was set up to find useful knowledge, and to write about it in Swedish. The academy was meant to be different from the Royal Society of Sciences in Uppsala, which had been started in 1719 and published in Latin. It was built near the main business centre in Stockholm, (which unlike Uppsala did not have a university at this time). The Swedish scientists wanted it to be like the Royal Society in London and Academie Royale des Sciences in Paris, France.

Groups of the Academy meet to give out international prizes:

and national prizes:

[[Karolinska Institutet]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Sweden, Nobel Prize, Stockholm

Karolinska Institutet (in English Karolinska Institute), and before 1968, the Royal Caroline Institute is one of Europe's biggest medical universities.

It was started in 1810 on Kungsholmen island on the west side of Stockholm. It later moved to Solna, just outside Stockholm, and a second campus has been built in Flemingsberg/Huddinge, south of Stockholm.

A committee of the institute decides on the winners of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.

The Karolinska University Hospital, in Solna and Huddinge, is the university's research and teaching hospital. It is one of Sweden's largest centres for training and research, with 30 percent of the medical training and 40 percent of the medical academic research. While most of the medical programs are taught in Swedish, most of the Ph.D. programs are taught in English.

The institute is a member of the League of European Research Universities. In the 2009 Academic Ranking of World Universities, the institute is the best university for medicine and pharmacy  in Europe, 8th in the world. It is listed as the best university in Sweden.

[[Florent Malouda]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, French footballers

Florent Malouda (born 13 June 1980) is a French football player. He plays for Chelsea and France national team.

[[Wim Jonk]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from North Holland

Wim Jonk (born 12 October 1966) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Ramon Menezes Hubner]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Ramon Menezes Hubner (born 30 June 1972) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Reinhard Stumpf]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Hesse

Reinhard Stumpf (born 26 November 1961) is a former German football player.

[[Fumagalli]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

José Fernando Fumagalli (born 5 October 1977) is a Brazilian professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player.

[[Osmar Donizete Cândido]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Osmar Donizete Cândido (born 24 October 1968) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Jan Veenhof]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, People from Leeuwarden, Sportspeople from Friesland

Jan Veenhof (born 28 January 1969) is a former Dutch football player.

[[Leonard Henriques da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Leonard Henriques da Silva (born 22 July 1982) is a Brazilian football player.

[[List of Scottish football stadiums by capacity]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Scotland, Sports lists

This is a list of Scottish football stadia, ranked in descending order of capacity.

[[Swedish Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Language regulators, Nobel Prize, Stockholm, 1786 establishments in Europe, 18th century establishments in Sweden

The Swedish Academy (Svenska Akademien) was started in 1786 by the Swedish King Gustav III.  It was copied from the Académie française, the first Academy ever. The Swedish Academy has 18 members. The motto of the Academy is "Talent and Taste" ("Snille och Smak" in Swedish).

Since 1901 the Academy has decided who will win the Nobel Prize in Literature The prize is given in memory of Alfred Nobel.

The other thing the Academy does is to help to keep the Swedish language clean. They work for the "purity, strength, and greatness of the Swedish language" ("Svenska folkets renhet, styrka och höghet"). To help do this, the Academy publishes two dictionaries.

The first is a dictionary in only one big book, called Svenska Akademiens ordlista (or SAOL). In 2015, it was up to its 14th edition. The second dictionary has many volumes. It is called Svenska Akademiens ordbok (or SAOB). The content it is so big that it needs many books, like the Oxford English Dictionary. The first book in the set was printed in 1898 and in 2015 work had got as far as words beginning with the letter "V".

The Academy uses a building now known as the Stockholm Stock Exchange Building. The bottom floor was used as a trading exchange (which became the stock exchange) and the upper floor was used for dances, New Years Eve parties, etc. In 1786, the ballroom was the biggest room in Stockholm that could be heated and be used in the winter. The king asked if he could use it. The Academy has met there every year since. In 1914 the Academy gained the right to use the upper floor as their own forever. This is where they meet and, amongst other business, choose the Nobel Prize winners. Because of this, the Academy is one of the most important literary groups in the world. The Swedish Academy is one of the Royal Academies of Sweden.

[[Norwegian Nobel Committee]]

CATEGORIES: Norwegian Nobel Committee

The Norwegian Nobel Committee is the group which gives the Nobel Peace Prize every year. It has five members who are elected by the Norwegian Parliament and has the same political makeup as the parliament.

[[Andaz Apna Apna]]

CATEGORIES: Indian movies, 1994 movies, Salman Khan

Andaz Apna Apna is a Hindi language comedy movie directed by Rajkumar Santoshi. Main actors in this movie are Aamir Khan, Salman Khan, Raveena Tandon, Karisma Kapoor, Paresh Rawal and Shakti Kapoor. The movie was released on 11 April 1994. This movie was nominated for Filmfare Awards 1995 in four categories: Best Film, Best Director (Rajkumar Santoshi), Best Actor (Aamir Khan) and Best Comedian (Shakti Kapoor for the role of 'Crime Master Gogo').

[[Karisma Kapoor]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Indian actors, People from Mumbai

Karisma Kapoor (also spelled as Karishma Kapoor), is an Indian actress. She was born on 25 June 1974 in Mumbai, Maharashtra, India. Karishma Kapoor acts in Hindi language movies. She has won a Filmfare Best Actress Award. She also won a Filmfare Best Supporting Actress Award and a National Film Award for Best Supporting Actress.

[[Parides erithalion]]

CATEGORIES: Parides

The Variable Cattleheart (Parides erithalion) is a species of butterfly.  It belongs in the family Papilionidae.  It is found in North America and South America.

[[Ava Gardner]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from North Carolina, American movie actors, American television actors, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in England, 1922 births, 1990 deaths

Ava Lavinia Gardner (December 24, 1922 – January 25, 1990) was an American actress. She was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress for acting in Mogambo (1953). She was in several popular movies during the 1950s, and got BAFTA Award nominations for her performances in Bhowani Junction (1956), On the Beach (1959) and The Night of the Iguana (1964). 

She is listed as one of the American Film Institute's greatest stars of all time.

[[Oswaldo Sánchez]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Mexican footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Oswaldo Sánchez (born 21 September 1973) is a Mexican football player. He plays for Santos Laguna and Mexico national team.

[[Costinha]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, Sportspeople from Lisbon

Costinha (born 1 December 1974) is a former Portuguese football player. He has played for Portugal national team.

[[Shigeru Morioka]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture, J1 League players, Gamba Osaka players, Kyoto Sanga FC players, Vissel Kobe players, Footballers at the 1996 Summer Olympics

Shigeru Morioka is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yoann Gourcuff]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, French footballers

Yoann Miguel Gourcuff (born 11 July 1986) is a French football player. He plays for the France national team and Olympique Lyonnais in Ligue 1. Gourcuff plays as a midfielder and sometimes as a striker.

[[Daniel Sanabria]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Paraguayan footballers, People from Asunción

Daniel Sanabria (born 2 February 1977) is a former Paraguayan football player. He has played for Paraguay national team.

[[Gláucio de Jesus Carvalho]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Gláucio de Jesus Carvalho (born 11 November 1975) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Ali Boumnijel]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Tunisian footballers, Association football goalkeepers, People from Tunis

Ali Boumnijel (born 13 April 1966) is a former Tunisian football player. He has played for Tunisia national team.

[[Takafumi Yoshimoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Kōchi Prefecture

Takafumi Yoshimoto (born 13 May 1978) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Daishi Hiramatsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture

Daishi Hiramatsu (born 3 July 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo.

[[Oligocene]]

CATEGORIES: Cainozoic

The Oligocene is the last geological epoch in the Palaeogene. It lasted for about 11 million years, from 34 million years ago to 23 million years ago. It was preceded by the Eocene and followed by the Miocene. During the Oligocene, the world continued to get cooler from its peak in the mid-Eocene. The world was still largely forested, but grasslands began to spread. Ice formed in Antarctica. The period is seen as one of transition, both in climate and in the biota.

[[Sidney Poitier]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Miami, Florida, African American actors, Ambassadors to Japan, American autobiographers, American diplomats, American movie actors, American movie directors, American screenwriters, American television actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Bahamian politicians, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Grammy Award winners, Kennedy Center honorees, Military people from Florida, Politicians from Florida, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Writers from Florida, Honorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire

 

 Sir Sidney Poitier, KBE (born February 20, 1927) is an American-born Bahamian actor, movie director, author, and diplomat. He became a star in American movies and plays which went against racial stereotypes, and made black actors more respected in mainstream roles.

From 1997 through 2007, he was the Bahamian ambassador to Japan.

[[Pliocene]]

CATEGORIES: Cainozoic

The Pliocene (Pleiocene in older texts) was a short geological epoch at the end of the Neogene. It is also the fifth and final epoch of the former Tertiary period and the fifth epoch of the Cainozoic. It began 5.3 million years ago and ended 2.6 million years ago. The Pliocene follows the Miocene and is followed by the Pleistocene. 

The world continued to get cooler and drier in the Pliocene. Tropical rain forests and deciduous forests shrank. Grasslands grew, and many herbivorous mammals became grazers instead of browsers. A new land bridge at Panama brought a Great American Interchange. Hominid evolution took a new turn as some apes started to live on the savannah instead of the forests (Australopithecines). Late in the Pliocene the Greenland ice cap grew and became permanent, and the ice sheet of Antarctica grew to cover most of Antarctica.

[[Grazer]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology, Zoology

A grazer is an animal, usually a herbivorous mammal, which eats grass.  It is contrasted with browsers, which eat trees & shrubs. 

The life-style, dentition (teeth), and digestive system of grazers is different from browsers, to handle the problems of eating and digesting grass. This is well illustrated in the evolution of such groups as horses. Ruminants are the largest group of grazers, though many other animals such as giant pandas also graze.

When grazers keep eating grass in an area without giving the plants time to grow back, that is called overgrazing.

[[Fauna]]

CATEGORIES: Zoology, Ecology, Reference works

Fauna means animal life. It is a group term; it means the animal life typical of the time or place. It is a similar term to flora in Botany.

So one might speak of the Eocene fauna as being different from the Miocene fauna. Or say, the fauna of a particular habitat. The flora and fauna of a savannah differ from those of a rain forest.

Another use of the word is for published lists of animals, such as:

[[Butterscotch]]

CATEGORIES: Candy

Butterscotch is a confection (like candy) made from brown sugar, butter and cream. It is a bit like toffee but is made differently. Butterscotch is made by boiling sugar until it is at the "soft crack" stage, which is a slightly lower temperature than for toffee. Butterscotch can be used as a sauce for desserts like ice cream.

[[Jiffy Lube]]

CATEGORIES: Companies based in Houston, American automobile companies, 1971 establishments in the United States

Jiffy Lube is a chain of businesses that services automobiles. It is most well known for quick oil changes. The one-way design of the building allows for fast service.

In addition to oil changes, Jiffy Lube mechanics are trained to inspect cars and suggest service when needed. They can do many services themselves.

Jiffy Lube is owned by Pennzoil-Quaker State, part of SOPUS (Shell Oil Products United States), part of Royal Dutch Shell Group.

[[National Endowment for the Arts]]

CATEGORIES: United States government agencies, 1965 establishments in the United States

The National Endowment for the Arts is a branch of the United States government that gives money for art, music, television, and film projects. It is supposed to promote enjoyment and participation in the arts.

[[Art Blakey]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1990 deaths, African American musicians, American bandleaders, American drummers, American jazz musicians, Cancer deaths in New York City, Deaths from lung cancer, Musicians from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Arthur "Art" Blakey (October 11, 1919 – October 16, 1990), also known as Abdullah Ibn Buhaina, was an American jazz drummer and bandleader. With Kenny Clarke and Max Roach, he was one of the inventors of the modern bebop style of drumming. His band, the Jazz Messengers, was made up of many jazz musicians became famous and important in jazz.

[[Jethro Tull (agriculturist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1674 births, 1741 deaths, English scientists

Jethro Tull (1674-1741) was an agricultural engineer from England who helped start the British Agricultural Revolution. He helped improve the seed drill, which is a tool that put seeds in the ground to plant them faster. This seed drill was normally pulled by a horse or strong cattle. Jethro was one of the most influential engineers of this century. He began these inventions and soon after the economy thrived. The seed drill spaced out the seeds as well to keep the plants growing. In 1703 he perfected the seed drill, and the farmers in England began to use it. A short while after, Welsh farmers were introduced to this new machinery.

[[Carrier sense multiple access with collision detection]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

Carrier sense multiple access with collision detection or CSMA/CD is a protocol (or rule) used by computer ethernet networks. It stops computers from sending information on the same ethernet wire at the same time. With this rule, a computer will check that the wire is not being used before it sends information. This ability to check is called "carrier sense." This rule is used when many computers can use the same connection. This is called "multiple access." If computers do send information at exactly the same time, the computers can tell a mistake has been made and stop sending. This is called "collision detection." When this collision occurs, the computers stop sending information, wait for a random amount of time, and then check before resending the information.

[[Crash Test Dummy]]

CATEGORIES: Robots

A crash test dummy is a test device ( commonly abbreviated 'ATD') that is made to be close to the same shape, size, heaviness, proportions and articulation of the human body. They sometimes have equipment embedded in them that measures data about how hard things are hitting it and how fast the ATD is moving around. ATDs have many applications but are commonly used in simulated (test) car crashes to see how safe the cars are for people when they crash.

[[Parides montezuma]]

CATEGORIES: Parides

Montezuma's Cattleheart (Parides montezuma) is a species of butterfly.  It belongs in the family Papilionidae.  It is found in North America and South America.

[[Parides alopius]]

CATEGORIES: Parides

The white-dotted cattleheart (Parides alopius) a species of butterfly.  It is in the family Papilionidae.

It is endemic to Mexican.  It has also been found once in the United States in southeastern Arizona.

[[Innocence (Avril Lavigne song)]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne songs

Innocence is a song by written by Avril Lavigne with Evan Taubenfeld, featured on her third studio album The Best Damn Thing.

[[Unwanted (Avril Lavigne song)]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne songs, 2004 songs

Unwanted is a song by Avril Lavigne and was released on her first studio album Let Go. It was released as a radio single. The song is known for its very heavy guitar. It was one of the four songs released on her 2003 EP The Angus Drive EP.

[[Angus Drive]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne albums, 2003 albums, Pop albums, Punk albums, Rock albums

The Angus Drive EP is an EP that was released in 2003 by Canadian singer Avril Lavigne and it contains songs that were already released on her 2002 album Let Go.

[[Keisuke Mori]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture

Keisuke Mori (born 17 April 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Silva Jose Reinaldo Fernandes]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Silva Jose Reinaldo Fernandes (born 28 December 1976) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Thomas Bickel]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Swiss footballers

Thomas Bickel (born 6 October 1963) is a former Swiss football player. He played for Switzerland national team.

[[Chris Birchall]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Trinidad and Tobago footballers

Chris Birchall (born 5 May 1984) is a Trinidad and Tobago football player. He plays for Los Angeles Galaxy and Trinidad and Tobago national team.

[[Sami Al-Jaber]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Saudi Arabian footballers, People from Riyadh

Sami Al-Jaber (born 11 December 1972) is a former Saudi Arabian football player. He has played for Saudi Arabia national team.

[[Tobias Linderoth]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Tobias Linderoth (born 21 April 1979) is a Swedish football player. He has played for Sweden national team.

[[Marcus Allbäck]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Swedish footballers, People from Gothenburg

Marcus Allbäck (born 5 July 1973) is a Swedish football player. He has played for Sweden national team.

[[Markus Rosenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Swedish footballers, People from Malmo

Markus Rosenberg (born 27 September 1982) is a Swedish football player. He plays for Werder Bremen and Sweden national team.

[[Marcelo Miguel Pelissari]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Marcelo Miguel Pelissari (born 20 August 1975) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Richard Dutruel]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, French footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Richard Dutruel (born 24 December 1972) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Masahiko Nakagawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers, People from Osaka

Masahiko Nakagawa (born 26 August 1969) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Masao Kiba]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Masao Kiba (born 6 September 1974) is a retired Japanese football player.

[[Foraminifera]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Protista

Foraminifera or forams, as they are called, are an important group of tiny single-celled rhizarian eukaryotes. They are mostly marine, though a few live in fresh-water, and even on damp land areas. In the sea, they live both in the plankton (pelagic), and in the deeper water (the benthos). They have tests (like shells) made of calcium carbonate (CaCO3).

The organism has pseudopodia like an amoeba. It uses these to capture and eat bacteria and small diatoms. Also, many of them keep algal endosymbionts. Some are idioplastic, which means they eat the algae, but keep the algal chloroplasts for their own benefit.

Forams are often used to date strata in palaeontology. The detailed record of forams from deep sea drilling projects are the basis of a fossil index for geological periods or stages. This is called biostratigraphy.

Deep sea forams from the Mariana Trench are below the carbonate compensation depth, below which all CaCO3 dissolves. They have evolved organic tests, instead of calcium carbonate ones. This suggests that the tests are a vital part of their life-style, perhaps protecting them from other micro-predators.

[[Take Me Away (Avril Lavigne song)]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne songs, 2004 songs

Take Me Away is a song by Canadian singer Avril Lavigne from her second album, Under My Skin. Like the single before it (Losing Grip), Take Me Away has an edgy, post-grunge sound and started playing on Canadian rock radio in March of 2004. At around the same time that Don't Tell Me was being promoted, as the lead single from Under My Skin, Take Me Away was being released as the B-side on some copies of the "Don't Tell Me" single. 

Take Me Away was released to radio only in Australia in 2005.

[[Strata]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, Earth sciences

Strata are layers of rock, or sometimes soil. In nature, strata come in many layers. It is a term in sedimentary and historical geology; the singular is stratum.  The study of strata is called stratigraphy.

These layers are laid down as sediment, often in the sea, and are slowly changed by pressure, heat and chemical action into rocks. 

The strata are often typical of a particular time and place, and allow geologists to relate rocks in different places. For instance, chalk was laid down in the Upper Cretaceous period, and consists mainly of the remains of microscopic algae called coccoliths.

In normal strata, the later strata are laid down on earlier strata in horizontal layers. In the long passage of time, sedimentary rocks may get deformed by huge forces in the Earth: volcanism, orogeny (mountain building) or other causes. Then it requires research to work out what has happened to the strata.

When strata rise above sea level they get worn down by erosion, such as weather. This causes gaps in the sequence of strata, which may have risen and sunk many times in Earth history. These gaps are called unconformities in geological jargon.

[[Live Acoustic (Avril Lavigne EP)]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne songs

Live Acoustic EP is an EP that was released in 2004 by Canadian singer Avril Lavigne. It was made up of songs from her 2004 album, Under My Skin, and her hit single "Sk8er Boi" from her 2002 album Let Go.

It is an acoustic album that was only released in United States Target stores. All the songs were recorded live during Avril's North American mall tour.

[[Sarah Vaughan]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1990 deaths, American jazz singers, Singers from New Jersey

Sarah Lois Vaughan (March 27, 1924  – April 3, 1990) was an American jazz singer. She was described by jazz writer Scott Yanow as having "one of the most wondrous voices of the 20th century". She had a contralto (alto) vocal range.

Vaghan had the nicknames "Sassy" and "The Divine One", and she was a Grammy Award winner. The National Endowment for the Arts gave her its "highest honor in jazz," the NEA Jazz Masters Award, in 1989.

[[Gish]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 albums, Debut albums, Rock albums

Gish is the first album of the alternative rock group The Smashing Pumpkins. It was released on May 28, 1991.

[[Maureen Tucker]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, American drummers, American rock musicians, Musicians from New York, Living people

Maureen ("Mo" or "Moe") Tucker (born August 26, 1944 in Levittown, New York) is an American musician, best known as the drummer for the Velvet Underground, a band from the 1960s and early 1970s.

Tucker worked in a factory during the day, but played drums as a hobby. Two of her brother Jim's friends were college classmates, Lou Reed and Sterling Morrison, who had started a band. (Jim gave the band its name, after he brought them a copy of a book titled The Velvet Underground.) When their drummer suddenly quit, she was asked to fill in for him. She did so, and ended up staying with the band full-time. She left her factory job.

Early on she was asked to "do something different" with her drums. Tucker turned her bass drum on its side, and began playing with mallet instead of drumsticks, standing up. This became her signature style. (She also played trash can a few times, after her drums were stolen.) She played on all the band's recordings for Verve Records and MGM's record label, and their concerts through the 1960s. She also sang lead vocals on "After Hours" and "I'm Sticking With You".

Tucker had to take a break from drumming in 1970, when she became pregnant. Billy Yule, teenage brother of Doug Yule, filled in for her on drums until after her baby Kerry was born. Tucker returned to the band, staying on even when Reed and Morrison left. She quit later, when the band thought about changing names. Instead of a solo career, she went back to factory work, and family life.

Later Tucker began drumming with other bands, including her own projects. She joined the Velvet Underground's 1990s reunions, and was present when the band was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

[[Avatar (2009 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 movies, 2009 science fiction movies, 2009 3D movies, 2000s adventure movies, Academy Award winning movies, American adventure movies, American science fiction movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies composed by James Horner, Movies directed by James Cameron, Movies set in the future, Movies set on fictional planets, Jungle movies, Movies that won the Best Visual Effects Academy Award, Saturn Award winning movies, 20th Century Fox movies

Avatar is a 2009 American science fiction adventure movie. The two main characters are played by Sam Worthington (Jake) and Zoë Saldaña (Neytiri). Avatar was directed by James Cameron. In 1994, Cameron wrote an 80-page story about Pandora. He did not start to develop the movie until 12 years later, in early 2006. He did this because the level of technology at the time was not good enough. The cost of the movie was high. It cost $280–310 million to make it and $150 million for marketing. The movie  was released in traditional 2-D and 3-D. Only three weeks after it was released (December 18, 2009 in the United States), Avatar has earned more money worldwide than any movie other than Cameron's previous movie, Titanic. In 2014, they announced that there will be a sequel  in the 2020s. The Dates are December 2022, 2024, 2026 and 2028.

It has been nominated for 11 Academy Awards and eight BAFTA awards.

[[Paramecium]]

CATEGORIES: Ciliates

Paramecium is one of the best-known protists, often taught in school biology courses. It is a ciliate genus. Ciliates are a clade of protists which move by synchronous waves of tiny projections from their cuticle. These projections are called cilia (singular: cilium). The species range from 50 to 350 μm in length. They live in freshwater ponds, and eat bacteria, and other protists such as single-celled algae.

Paramecium species usually have bacterial symbionts, and some species have green algal symbionts.

[[Kingston, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wisconsin, Green Lake County, Wisconsin

Kingston is a village of Green Lake County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States.  288 people were living in Kingston as of 2000.  Kingston has a total area of 1.5 square miles.

[[Canonic Variations on "Vom Himmel hoch da komm' ich her"]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach, Christmas music, Solo organ pieces

The Canonic Variations on "Vom Himmel hoch da komm' ich her" (From Heaven above to Earth I come), BWV 769 is a well-known piece of music for organ by Johann Sebastian Bach.  An organ with two manuals (keyboards) and pedals is needed to play this work.  There are five “variations”.  All the music is based on a Christmas hymn called “Von Himmel hoch” which was very well known to the people who went to the Lutheran church where Bach was organist.

Bach composed the piece when he became a member of Mizler's Music Society in Leipzig in 1747.  It was printed in 1747.  Another version was published later.  This was an autograph manuscript which also included other organ music: the six trio sonatas  and the Great Eighteen Chorale Preludes.  The most important difference Bach made in this version is that the fifth variation was moved to the middle.

[[Voice (polyphony)]]

CATEGORIES: Music theory

In music, voice refers to several melodic lines being sung or played at the same time.  These lines are called "voices", even if they are not being sung but being played on instruments.  Another word for the same thing is "part", but the word "part" can also mean a "section" of a piece, so it can be confusing.

The word "part" meaning "voice" is often used when describing polyphonic music.  For example: a 3-part fugue would have three "voices".  It might be sung by three people, or it might be played by three instruments, or just by one keyboard instrument playing all three parts.

[[Elf]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas

An elf is a creature of various origins that is usually regarded as a good being that helps to make trees and nature good. It is therefore commonly associated with paganism and witchcraft (many modern witches today believe that elves are real creatures).

Elves are usually described as a taller human, but with more firmer touch to them. However, in The Lord of the Rings, elves were described as human sized (and if anything taller), hence changing the description of elves. They are sometimes known to have long, pointy ears.

In most modern fantasy scenarios, elves are one of the 3 main races (elves, dwarves, and humans), although if these 3 are described as the good races, they then become one of 6 races, including orcs, goblins, trolls, and / or giants.

The word elf is found throughout the Germanic languages and seems originally to have meant "white being". Reconstructing the early concept of an elf depends largely on texts, written by Christians, in Old and Middle English, medieval German, and Old Norse. These associate elves variously with the gods of Norse mythology, with causing illness, with magic, and with beauty and seduction.

The elves of Norse mythology have survived into folklore mainly as females, living in hills and mounds of stones. The Swedish älvor were stunningly beautiful girls who lived in the forest with an elven king. 

The elves could be seen dancing over meadows, particularly at night and on misty mornings. They left a circle where they had danced, which were called älvdanser (elf dances) or älvringar (elf circles), and to urinate in one was thought to cause venereal diseases. Typically, elf circles were fairy rings consisting of a ring of small mushrooms, but there was also another kind of elf circle. In the words of the local historian Anne Marie Hellström:

If a human watched the dance of the elves, he would discover that even though only a few hours seemed to have passed, many years had passed in the real world. Humans being invited or lured to the elf dance is a common motif transferred from older Scandinavian ballads.

Elves were not exclusively young and beautiful. In the Swedish folktale Little Rosa and Long Leda, an elvish woman (älvakvinna) arrives in the end and saves the heroine, Little Rose, on condition that the king's cattle no longer graze on her hill. She is described as a beautiful old woman and by her aspect people saw that she belonged to the subterraneans.

[[Sterling Morrison]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 1995 deaths, American rock guitarists, Musicians from New York, American punk musicians

Holmes Sterling Morrison Jr. (born August 28, 1942, died August 30, 1995) was an American musician (guitar), known as a founding member of the Velvet Underground.

Morrison met Lou Reed, who also played guitar, at college. They met again later in New York City, where Reed was collaborate with John Cale. Morrison joined Reed and Cale in jam session, and the three formed a band. The band gained the name "The Velvet Underground" when another college friend, Jim Tucker, brought them a book with that title. Tucker's sister Maureen became the band's drummer.

Morrison played lead guitar, and also rhythm and bass guitars, and sang backing vocals. When Doug Yule replaced John Cale, Morrison played lead guitar full-time. Yule sometimes pushed for the lead guitar role, and Morrison and Yule did not get along well.

Even though the Velvets were well known, their financial success was limited, and Morrison became unsure about the band's future. He quit college before the Velvets formed, with only a few credits to go, but went back to City College of New York during 1970. He completed his Bachelor's degree in English, while the band played Max's Kansas City, a restaurant and bar in New York.

After Lou Reed left the band late in 1970, Morrison continued to tour with them. He had sent his resumé to different schools, hoping to get a job as a teacher or professor. When the band visited Texas, he phoned Texas A&M University, and learned they wanted him for a teaching job. He quit the band, and taught college through the 1970s and 1980s.

Morrison later returned to New York, and became a tugboat captain. He reunited with the Velvets during the 1990s, playing shows with them in Europe and America. He became ill in 1995, saw a doctor, and found out he had lymphoma, a kind of cancer. He died only a few weeks later, and not long before the Velvet Underground were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

[[Vanilla Twilight]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs

"Vanilla Twilight" is the second single on the album Ocean Eyes by electronica project Owl City. It was made into a music video that had several people, including Shaq, look at a sunrise after a snow fall.

[[Feather Falls]]

CATEGORIES: Waterfalls, Landforms of California, Butte County, California

Feather Falls is a waterfall found on the Fall River.  It is a tributary of the Middle Fork Feather River, in Plumas National Forest of Butte County, California.  The falls were often said to be over 640 feet tall, however, they recently measured to stand 410 feet tall, which is what the USGS Brush Creek 7 1/2" quadrangle says.  A town found nearby, Feather Falls, California, is named after this waterfall.

[[Feather Falls, California]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in California, Settlements in Butte County, California

Feather Falls is an unincorporated community in Butte County, California.  It is found in the countryside.  It lies at an elevation of 2982 feet (909 m).

[[Salween River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of China, Rivers of Myanmar, Rivers of Thailand

Salween River is a major river in Southeast Asia. It flows through parts of China, Thailand, and Burma for 2,815 km (1,749 mi). The river originates in the Qinghai Mountains and flows west. But then it turns east and south, flowing into the Andaman Sea at Mawlamyaing, Burma.

[[Tal Ben Haim]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Israeli footballers, Jewish Israeli sportspeople, Rishon LeZion

Tal Ben Haim (טל בן חיים; born 31 March 1982) is an Israeli football player. He plays for Portsmouth and Israel national team.

[[Hugo Viana]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers

Hugo Viana (born 15 January 1983) is a Portuguese football player. He has played for the Portuguese national team.

[[Bruno Vale]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Bruno Vale (born 8 April 1983), is a Portuguese football player. He has played for Portugal national team.

[[Fábio Santos Romeu]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fábio Santos Romeu (born 16 September 1985) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Corinthians.

[[Haminu Draman]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Ghanaian footballers, People from Accra

Haminu Draman (born 1 April 1986) is a Ghanaian football player. He plays for Lokomotiv Moscow and Ghana national team.

[[Saša Drakulić]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Serbian footballers

Saša Drakulić (born 28 August 1972) is a Serbian football player. He plays for Proleter Novi Sad.

[[Alen Avdić]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Bosnia and Herzegovina footballers, People from Sarajevo

Alen Avdić (born 3 April 1977) is a Bosnia and Herzegovinan football player. He has played for the Bosnia and Herzegovina national team.

[[Mickaël Landreau]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, French footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Mickaël Landreau (born 14 May 1979) is a French football player. He plays for Lille.

[[Oleg Pashinin]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Uzbekistani people, Asian footballers

Oleg Pashinin (born 12 September 1974) is a former Uzbekistani football player. He has played for Uzbekistan national team.

[[Škoda Fabia]]

CATEGORIES: Škoda automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Škoda Fabia is a car produced by Škoda Auto in two generations since 1999. It is currently in its third generation which launched in late 2014. 

[[Škoda Superb]]

CATEGORIES: Škoda automobiles, 2000s automobiles

Škoda Superb is a car produced by Škoda Auto from 2001 to the present day. The first generation was made from 2001 to 2008 and got a facelift in 2006. The second generation was made from 2008 to 2015 with a facelift in 2013. It entered its third generation in 2015. It comes as a hatchback or an estate. 

[[Škoda Octavia]]

CATEGORIES: Škoda automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Škoda Octavia is a car produced by Škoda Auto in three generations since 1996. The first generation arrived in 1996 and launched in the UK in 1998 with a facelift in 2000. The second generation was launched in 2004 with a facelift in early 2009 but the first generation still continues until 2010. It entered its third generation in 2013 with a facelift in early 2017, it received some criticism for being a bit too big for some buyers. The fourth generation launched in June 2020.  

[[Volkswagen Vento]]

CATEGORIES: Volkswagen automobiles, 1990s automobiles

Volkswagen Vento was a car made by Volkswagen from 1992 through 1998. It is the European version of the Third Generation Volkswagen Jetta.

[[Akmal Shaikh]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2009 deaths, British people convicted of drug offences, Drug dealers, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Pakistani Muslims, People executed by lethal injection

Akmal Shaikh (5 April 1956 – 29 December 2009) was a British citizen, originally from Pakistan, who was executed in Urumqi, China, by lethal injection. Shaikh was the first EU national to be executed in China in 50 years. The father of five smuggled heroin to China in a suitcase on a plane. China defended its decision to put Shaikh to death and stated it had acted according to Chinese law.

[[John Coltrane]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 1967 deaths, African American musicians, American bandleaders, American jazz musicians, American saxophonists, Cancer deaths in New York, Deaths from liver cancer, Musicians from North Carolina

John William "Trane" Coltrane (September 23, 1926 – July 17, 1967) was an American jazz saxophonist and composer.

Coltrane played the bebop and hard bop styles of jazz early in his career, and helped start the use of modes in jazz and later was a very important part of free jazz. He made about fifty recordings as a bandleader, and appeared on many other albums, for example with trumpeter Miles Davis and pianist Thelonious Monk. As his career progressed, Coltrane's music became more spiritual. he died of liver cancer. His second wife was pianist Alice Coltrane, and their son Ravi Coltrane is also a saxophonist. 

He influenced many musicians, and is one of the most important tenor saxophonists in jazz history. He got many awards, including Special Citation from the Pulitzer Prize Board in 2007 (many years after his death) for his "masterful improvisation, supreme musicianship and iconic centrality to the history of jazz."

[[Fela Kuti]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 1997 deaths, Deaths from AIDS, Disease-related deaths in Nigeria, Drummers, Guitarists, Deaths from sarcoma, Nigerian singers, Saxophonists, Nigerian musicians, Trumpeters

Fela Anikulapo Kuti (15 October 1938 – 2 August 1997), or just Fela, was a Nigerian musician and composer who was very important in a genre called afrobeat. He played the saxophone, guitar, drums, keyboards and trumpet, and he sang. He was also a human rights activist. The American singer James Brown said that Kuti was one of the originators (starters) of the funk genre.

Kuti died in 1997 of Kaposi's sarcoma, an illness caused by AIDS. In 2008 a musical production called Fela! was created, about Kuti's life and career.

[[Requiem for a Dream]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 drama movies, 2000s psychological movies, American drama movies, American psychological movies, English-language movies, Movies about drugs, Movies about dysfunctional families, Movies directed by Darren Aronofsky, Movies set in Brooklyn, Movies set in New York City, American independent movies

Requiem for a Dream is a 2000 American psychological drama movie. It was directed by Darren Aronofsky. It stars Ellen Burstyn, Jared Leto, Jennifer Connelly, and Marlon Wayans. The movie is about people with different drug addictions in Brooklyn, New York City.

[[Home Alone 3]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 comedy movies, 1997 crime movies, 1990s criminal comedy movies, American criminal comedy movies, American family movies, American sequel movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Raja Gosnell, Movies produced by John Hughes, Movies set in Chicago, Illinois, Screenplays by John Hughes, 20th Century Fox movies

Home Alone 3 was the third movie in the Home Alone movie series. It is an American criminal comedy movie. Macaulay Culkin, who was in the last two movies, as Kevin McCallister, was too old for this movie. The movie instead features a different household and villains. The director was Raja Gosnell, who was the editor of both original movies and the star actor was Alex D. Linz as Alex D. Pruitt. John Hughes returns as the producer. It was released on December 12, 1997 by 20th Century Fox. The movie grossed $79,082,515 worldwide.

In this movie, Alex is sick at home with the chickenpox. He recovers and must defend his home from four burglars.

A made-for-television sequel, Home Alone 4: Taking Back the House, followed in 2002 and Home Alone: The Holiday Heist followed in 2012.

[[Stripes (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s buddy movies, 1981 comedy movies, 1980s war movies, American buddy movies, American comedy movies, American war movies, Buddy comedy movies, English-language movies, Louisville, Kentucky, Movies directed by Ivan Reitman, Movies set in Germany

Stripes is a 1981 American comedy movie starring actor Bill Murray. His character is in the military.

[[Justin.tv]]

CATEGORIES: Websites, Companies based in Los Angeles

JustinTv or JTV was a free account broadcasting website. It was founded by Justin Kan in Los Angeles, California. A spin-off based on JTV called Twitch was created in June 2011.

[[Harvey Milk]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 1978 deaths, American LGBT rights activists, American murder victims, Gay Jews, Jewish activists, Jewish American LGBT people, Jewish American politicians, LGBT people from California, LGBT politicians, Murders by firearm in the United States, Politicians from New York, Politicians from San Francisco, US Democratic Party politicians, Victims of anti-LGBT hate crimes

Harvey Bernard Milk (May 22, 1930 – November 27, 1978) was an American politician and a member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors. He was the first openly gay man to be elected to public office in California. He did not focus on homosexuality or gay activism at first, but did later on in his career. Milk moved from New York City to live in San Francisco in 1972. This was a time when lots of gay men moved to live in the Castro District of San Francisco. Milk became a city supervisor in 1977.

[[John Blow]]

CATEGORIES: Baroque composers, English composers, English organists, Musicians from Nottinghamshire, 1649 births, 1708 deaths

John Blow (born Newark-on-Trent, Nottinghamshire, baptised 23 February 1649; died Westminster, London, 1 October 1708) was an English composer and organist. He had a great deal of influence on English music. His best pupil was Henry Purcell who was the greatest English composer of his time.

Blow was born in Newark-on-Trent. As a boy he sang in the choir the Chapel Royal (the king’s church choir). He was still very young when he started composing anthems. One of these anthems, known as the “Club Anthem” was written by Blow together with three other choirboys: Pelham Humfrey, Michael Wise and William Turner, all of whom were to become well-known composers when they grew up. The diarist Samuel Pepys heard him sing once, but Blow’s voice was breaking by then, and Pepys wrote in his diary that he made an “unpleasant sound”. 

In 1668 he became organist of Westminster Abbey. In 1674 he was made a gentleman of the Chapel Royal. When Pelham Humfrey died, Blow took over two of his jobs. He was in charge of a small choir at the king’s court (he was called “composer-in-ordinary”). He also became Master of the Children of the Chapel Royal. He stayed in that job for the rest of his life. Many of the boy choristers he taught later became great composers. They include William Croft, Jeremiah Clark and Daniel Purcell. Henry Purcell’s voice had already broken by this time, and he became an apprentice to Blow.

In September 1673 he married Elizabeth Braddock. Ten years later she died when giving birth to a child.

In 1676 Blow became one of three organists at Westminster Abbey. In 1677 he was given the title of “Doctor of Music”. In 1680 he seems to have resigned from his job as organist at Westminster Abbey so that his young pupil Henry Purcell could take his place. By 1685 he was one of the private musicians of James II. He composed a long anthem God spake sometime in visions for King James’s coronation.

In 1687 he became choirmaster at St Paul's Cathedral. The choir was just being reformed after the rebuilding of the cathedral following the Great Fire of London. Michael Wise had been appointed as choirmaster, but then he died, so Blow was given the job. In 1695 he became organist of St Margaret's, Westminster, and he also took his old job at Westminster Abbey again when Henry Purcell died.

In 1699 he became Composer to the Chapel Royal. This was the first time anyone had been given this title. However, he does not seem to have composed much after 1700.

Blow died on 1 October 1708 and was buried in the north aisle of Westminster Abbey, close to Henry Purcell.

[[Diary]]

CATEGORIES: Diaries

Public records produced from federal, state, local and international governments or intergovernmental organizations (NGOs) provide primary source material beneficial to nearly all research interests. Milner Library has been a federal depository since 1858 and offers its users a broad array of historic and current sources including: 

=hearings and debates of legislative bodies; =official text of laws, regulations and treaties; =records of government expenditures and finances;  

=statistical compilations such as census data; =investigative reports; and scientific data.

Milner Library houses an extensive collection of information by and about the United States Congress. Primary sources include full text of congressional bills/resolutions both passed and not passed, congressional committee hearings, prints, documents and reports, floor debates, proceedings, journals, directories, manuals, voting data, and publications that support agencies of congress. These official documents are issued by the full congress, either of the houses jointly or individually, or by the committees. Official congressional documents do not include materials issued by the political parties, groups of legislators, or by one individual congress member.

Milner Library is also a depository for State of Illinois resources and we acquire important resources from selected NGOs, such as United Nations, European Union, World Bank, and NATO. These resources are cataloged, classified in Library of Congress system, and integrated by subject areas.

diary.

[[Classical economics]]

CATEGORIES: Economic theories

Classical economics is the first modern school of economic thought. Its main developers include Adam Smith, Jean-Baptiste Say, David Ricardo, Thomas Malthus and John Stuart Mill.

[[Jeff Probst]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, American movie directors, Living people, American television presenters, American television talk show hosts, American game show hosts, Businesspeople from Wichita, Kansas, Emmy Award winners

Jeffrey Lee "Jeff" Probst (born November 4, 1962) is an American game show host, executive producer and reporter. He was born in Wichita, Kansas, but mostly grew up in Bellevue, Washington. He is  best known for being the host of the American version of the reality show Survivor. 

On September 21, 2008 Probst won the first Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Host for a Reality or Reality-Competition Program. On September 20, 2009 he won the same award again.

Probst currently hosts the talk show The Jeff Probst Show, which started on September 10, 2012.

[[Survivor (American TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: Survivor (U.S. TV series), English-language television programs

Survivor is an American reality television game show. It came from the Swedish show Expedition Robinson, made in 1997 by Charlie Parsons, and first shown in May 2000.  Mark Burnett produces the American show. It is hosted by Jeff Probst. So far, there have been 34 seasons, with a 35th season on its way.

Each season has a group of people who have never met each other, living in a far away place. They are divided into two to four groups called "tribes". Each tribe must find food and water, make fire, and make homes for themselves, while taking part in challenges to get a reward, or immune (where they become safe from getting voted off). Sometimes a player will have to be removed from the game due to an injury or infection. The last two or three players face a jury, the last seven or more players voted off. The jury asks the final few questions, and then votes for the winner of the title of "Sole Survivor" and a million dollar prize.

An idol may be used up until 4 players are left in the game, once there is 3 an idol can’t be used.

[[Kris Allen]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Singers from Arkansas, American songwriters, American Idol winners

Kristopher Neil "Kris" Allen (born June 21, 1985) is an American singer-songwriter. He was the winner of season 8 of American Idol.

[[PGA Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Golf tournaments

The PGA Championship is a golf tournament, which is the last out of the men's golf Major Championships.

[[Invisible ink]]

CATEGORIES: Writing tools

Invisible ink is a type of liquid that cannot be seen or read unless it is first activated. Chemical reactions, heat, ultraviolet light or special glasses are used to make invisible ink visible. 

It is used to send secret messages or for entertainment. Invisible ink pens are sometimes sold or used for prizes, usually with an ultraviolet light.

[[Pee-Wee's Big Adventure]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 comedy movies, American comedy movies, English-language movies

Pee Wee's Big Adventure is a movie starring Pee Wee Herman. He travels across the US to get back his stolen bicycle.  The 1985 movie was directed by Tim Burton from a screen play by  Paul Reubens, Phil Hartman and Michael Varhol. The music was composed by Danny Elfman.

[[Bad Kreuznach]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Rhineland-Palatinate, Spa towns in Germany

Bad Kreuznach is a town in Germany, in Rhineland-Palatinate. It has about 40,000 inhabitants.

[[Asamoah Gyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Ghanaian footballers, People from Accra

Asamoah Gyan (born 22 November 1985) is a Ghanaian football player. He plays for Stade Rennais and Ghana national team.

[[Dean Ashton]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Swindon, Premier League players

Dean Ashton (born 24 November 1983) is a former English football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Tadanari Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, FC Tokyo players, Kashiwa Reysol players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Yokohama F. Marinos players, Kyoto Sanga FC players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics

Tadanari Lee is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. He used his name Lee Chung-sung until February 2007, when he obtained Japanese citizenship.

[[Takahiro Shimotaira]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Aomori Prefecture

Takahiro Shimotaira (born 18 December 1971) is a former Japanese football player. He has now retired.

[[Sandro Cardoso dos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Sandro Cardoso dos Santos (born 22 March 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Changsha Ginde.

[[Raymond Domenech]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, French footballers, French football managers, Living people, Sportspeople from Lyon

Raymond Domenech (born 24 January 1952) is a French football player and manager. He played for France national team.

[[Acritarch]]

CATEGORIES: Protista, Fossils

Acritarchs are early microfossils, the remains, probably, of eukaryote cells. It is the resistant single-layered cell walls, or perhaps a cover secreted by cell walls, that we see in early rocks of the Proterozoic era. These structures are organic in their chemical composition, not calcium carbonate. Their precise nature is not known, but they look like the resting stages of modern dinoflagellates (the 'red tide' organisms).

Acritarchs appear in quantity in organic-rich shales and siltstone strata 1.4 to 1.6 billion years old.p57 They include a wide range of forms, so it is not clear whether or not they are monophyletic. At about 1 billion years ago they started to increase in abundance, diversity, and especially size and number of spines. Their populations crashed during the Cryogenian period 860 million years ago (the Snowball Earth episodes). They proliferated in the Cambrian explosion and reached their highest diversity in the Palaeozoic. They survived at least until the Ordovician period.p256

The increased spininess possibly resulted from the need for defence against predators large enough to swallow them or tear them apart. Other groups of small organisms from the Neoproterozoic era also show signs of anti-predator defences.

[[Issey Nakajima-Farran]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Canadian footballers, Living people, Sportspeople from Calgary

Issey Morgan Nakajima-Farran  (born 16 May 1984) is a Canadian soccer player who plays as a winger for Toronto FC in Major League Soccer.

[[Toshimitsu Asai]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers

Toshimitsu Asai is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Sediment]]

CATEGORIES: Sedimentology

Sediment is made of small particles deposited in water or on land. After deposition, sediments may stay in their new place a long time and be covered by newer sediments. Pressure may slowly transform sediment into sedimentary rocks. 

The word sediment is also used for material transported by wind or water, and deposited on the surface. Sediments are often eroded again and deposited in a new place. The study of how sedimentary rocks are formed is called sedimentology.

In more general use, sediment is any matter which falls to the bottom of a liquid, such as beer.

[[Barcelona Metro line 3]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona Metro lines

Line 3, (L3) currently known as Zona Universitària - Trinitat Nova, coloured green and often simply referred to as Línia verda ("Green line"), is a metro line in Barcelona operated by TMB.

[[Albert Szent-Györgyi]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1986 deaths, Hungarian people, Pharmacologists, Hungarian Nobel Prize winners

Albert Szent-Györgyi (Albert Szent-Györgyi de Nagyrápolt, 16 September 1893  22 October 1986) was an Hungarian scientist. He won the 1937 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, for his discoveries about Vitamin C.

He was commonly known for discovering a vitamin that our bodies cannot make, vitamin C

[[Barcelona Metro line 4]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona Metro lines

Line 4, currently known as Trinitat Nova – La Pau, usually called "línia groga" (yellow line), is a line in the Barcelona Metro network operated by TMB.

[[Barcelona Metro line 5]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona Metro lines

Line 5 (L5), currently known as Cornellà Centre - Horta, its termini, and often simply called "Línia Blava" (Blue line) is line belonging to the Barcelona Metro network operated by TMB, and part of the ATM fare-integrated transport network.

[[Barcelona Metro line 6]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona Metro lines

Line 6, coloured navy blue, (currently known as Plaça Catalunya - Reina Elisenda) is the name of a metro-like commuter train service in Barcelona operated by FGC, and part of the ATM fare-integrated transport system. It links Plaça Catalunya, the city centre, with Sarrià-Sant Gervasi. This Barcelona Metro and Metro del Vallès line shares three stations with FGC L7. 

[[Coccolith]]

CATEGORIES: Protista, Algae

Coccoliths are the microscopic algae which form chalk. They are made by one of the most important eukaryote phytoplankton. These are single celled protists whose full name is coccolithophorids or coccolithophores. The spherical skeleton of coccoliths is a coccosphere.

Chalk makes up much of the marine strata in the Upper Cretaceous period, and is 95% to 99% made up of coccoliths, the calcium carbonate (CaCO3) plates which coccolithophorids produce.

Coccoliths were first examined by Cristian Gottfried Ehrenberg (1795–1875), who thought they were inorganic products. They were named, and identified as made by living organisms by Thomas Henry Huxley, who realised they were a major part of the rock we call chalk. The story of how the tiny cell produces its coccosphere is told by Westbroek:

Coccolithophores are a major contributor to the carbonate in deep sea sediments. In the Northeast Atlantic during the last glacial-interglacial cycle (ice age), coccoliths make up 70-80% of the total carbonate during the warm periods, and less during glacial times.

Coccoliths are first seen at the end of the Triassic period, 200 million years ago. It is interesting that another group of tiny algae, the diatoms, make their entry into the fossil record at almost the same time. The coccolith all-time peak was in the warm inland and continental shelf seas of the Cretaceous period. They are still of huge ecological and geological importance.

[[Haptophyte]]

CATEGORIES: Algae, Protista

Haptophytes are a phylum of algae, sometimes called the Prymnesiophyta. All or most of them are single-celled photosynthetic phytoplankton.

The cells typically have two slightly unequal flagella and a unique organelle called a haptonema. This is superficially similar to a flagellum, but differs in its arrangement of microtubules, and in its use. The name comes from the Greek hapsis = touch, and nema = thread. 

[[Crush 40]]

CATEGORIES: American hard rock bands, American heavy metal bands, Japanese rock bands

Crush 40, formerly known as Sons of Angels, is a Japanese-American hard rock band formed in 1997.  The primary lineup from 1998 to 2009 consisted of guitarist Jun Senoue and vocalist Johnny Gioeli. They became known for game soundtracks for Wave Master Entertainment, including the Sonic the Hedgehog series.

[[Macedonia (Greece)]]

CATEGORIES: Subdivisions of Greece

Macedonia is a historical and geographical region in northern Greece. It is the second most populous region of Greece and usually it is referred as Northern Greece along with Thrace. It is situated between the Pindus Mountains and river Nestos and it borders west with Epirus and Thessaly, northwestern with Albania, north with North Macedonia, northeastern with Bulgaria and east with Thrace. Its south coasts are washed by the Aegean Sea. Macedonia is separated in three smaller peripheries: West Macedonia, Central Macedonia and East Macedonia and Thrace. It has a total population of 2,424,765 inhabitants according to the 2001 census and its total area is 34,177 km². The capital of Macedonia is Thessaloniki and has a population of about 1,000,000 inhabitants. Macedonia's national anthem is Μακεδονία Ξακουστή which means Famous Macedonia.

[[Holocene]]

CATEGORIES: Cainozoic, Ancient history, Climate change

The Holocene is the present geological epoch. It is the second epoch of the Quaternary and the seventh of the Cainozoic. It started around 11,000 years ago after the last ice age. We are currently going through a non-ice age warm stage in Earth's history.

[[Benthos]]

CATEGORIES: Oceanography, Biomes

Benthos: the flora and fauna found at the bottom of the sea or lake. Covers quite a wide range of uses, for instance, animals in rock pools are benthic, though only a few inches below the surface. In the ocean, used to contrast organisms in the sea depths (though not actually on the bottom), with plankton, living in the upper pelagic zone. The problem is addressed by extending the pelagic zone down below the light to the bathypelagic and abyssopelagic zones. These terms, however, are mostly not used.

[[Cleidopus gloriamaris]]

CATEGORIES: Cleidopus gloriamaris, Ray-finned fish, Fish of Australia

The Pineapplefish, Cleidopus gloriamaris, is a species of fish. It is also known as the knightfish or the coat-of-mail fish, due to the scales on its body. Some people call it the port-and-starboard light fish, as it has a pair of bright spots that are like a ship's lights. "Gloriamaris" is from the Latin language gloria and maris, means "glory of the sea".

[[Naousa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Naousa, former Naoussa, is a city in the region of Macedonia in Greece. It is in the west part of Imathia prefecture. Its population is 22.288 inhabitants and its area is 300,89 km². Naousa is surrounded by orchards, producing peaches, apples, cherries and other fruits. It has a long and rich history because there are many archaeological places there. There is also the site of the ancient School of Aristotle where Alexander The Great studied moral philosophy, philosophy and politics.

[[Polygyros]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Polygyros is a city in the area of Macedonia in Greece. It is the capital of the Chalkidiki prefecture and of the homonym municipality. It is found on the foothill of mountain Cholomon. It has a  population of 6,232 people and it has a total area is 470.933 square kilometers.

[[Broşteni, Suceava]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suceava County

Broşteni is a town that is found in Suceava County in the country of Romania.  It has a population of about 11,900 people that live within a seven kilometer area of the city.

[[Jack Benny]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1974 deaths, Actors from Chicago, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television producers, Cancer deaths in the United States, Comedians from Chicago, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Television personalities from Chicago

Jack Benny (born Benjamin Kubelsky; February 14, 1894 - December 26, 1974) was an American comedian and actor. He was born in Chicago and grew up in Waukegan, Illinois. His mother was a Lithuanian immigrant; his father was a Jewish immigrant from Poland. From 1932 to 1955, Benny had a radio show. The first title of the show was The Canada Dry Ginger Ale Program, but it was later called "The Jack Benny Program". His television program was broadcast from 1950 to 1965.

[[Southam]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Warwickshire

Southam is a small town in Warwickshire, England. It is often mistaken for a village, but has been a town since medieval times.

There is an ancient stone wall, called "The Holy Well".

The first battle in the English Civil War was in Southam. In August 1642, small groups of soldiers from the opposing sides accidentally met at Southam, and in the fight some were killed. They were on their way to Edge Hill, where the first big battle took place. History books usually say Edge Hill was the first fight. Later, King Charles I rode through the town and fined the people because they did not ring the church bells for him. Later still, Oliver Cromwell, who slept in the Manor House (now a pharmacy).

In the 1600s, Southam was an important resting place for horse-drawn carriages, and even in recent times had an unusually large number of inns and public houses. (Several have close in the past 20 years.) A main road that Welsh sheep farmers ('drovers') used to travel to London passed through Southam. The town was also at an important junction between Birmingham, Coventry, Daventry, Northampton, Banbury, Oxford, Leamington Spa and Warwick.

Southam never had a canal or railway built through it. This meant that it remained a small town, while other places with canals and railways grew rapidly in the 1800s. In recent years, a lot of new houses have been built, increasing the population from 2000 in 1950 to 8000+ in 2010.

There is a fine church, which dates from 1200. It was extensively restored in Victorian times, but still has lots of medieval stone work. The Manor House (now a pharmacy) is in the centre of the town. In 2008, during routine maintenance, fine wood carvings were discovered under the plaster. The carvings are of hearts and arrows, and are at least 300 years old. The company that owns the building paid for the beautify work to be fully restored.

There are small industrial estates around the town, some with important businesses, including the computer games company Media:Codemasters. There are plans for a large supermarket (Tesco or Sainsburys) to be built in the town. While this would change the character of the town even more, it could benefit people who find the current small shops and supermarkets too expensive, and provide more people with work. Some people do not want a supermarket, saying that other shops would close.

[[Rob Reiner]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Actors from the Bronx, People from New Rochelle, New York, American movie actors, American screenwriters, American television actors, American television producers, American television writers, American voice actors, Democrats (United States), Emmy Award winners, Jewish American actors, Movie directors from New York, Movie producers from New York, Writers from the Bronx, American bloggers

Rob Reiner (born March 6, 1947) is an American actor, director, producer, and activist.

He acted in the All in the Family television series. He directed movies, such as This Is Spinal Tap, The Princess Bride, When Harry Met Sally and The Bucket List.

[[Vermont, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin, Dane County, Wisconsin

Vermont is a town of Dane County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States.  839 people were living in Vermont as of 2000.  Vermont has a total area of 35.8 square miles, according to the United States Census Bureau.

[[Rastacap]]

CATEGORIES: Headgear

The rastacap (also called a rastafar or toppa) is a tall, knitted, round cap, which is often brightly coloured. It comes from Jamaica and Barbados and is commonly thought of as a Rastafarian hat.

[[Amphicoelias]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropods

Amphicoelias was a genus of sauropod dinosaur, which may have included the largest dinosaur ever discovered (A. fragillimus). If it truly existed, A. fragillimus would be the longest vertebrate by a considerable margin, and it would have a mass that rivals the heaviest animal known, the blue whale. However, because the only fossil evidence for its existence was lost shortly after being discovered in the 1870s, evidence survives only in drawings, and doubt has been expressed about their accuracy.

The fossil was found in the Morrison Formation.

[[Corneille Heymans]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1968 deaths, Belgian Nobel Prize winners, Belgian physicians, People from Ghent, Pharmacologists

Corneille Jean François Heymans (March 28, 1892 - July 18, 1968) was an Belgian doctor. He won the 1938 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, for his discoveries about how breathing is regulated.

[[Christina Applegate]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Actors from Hollywood, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television producers, American voice actors, Breast cancer survivors, Emmy Award winners

Christina Applegate (born November 25, 1971) is an American actress. She was born in Hollywood, California, the daughter of record producer Robert Applegate and singer-actress Nancy Priddy (born 1941). Many people know her from playing the role of Kelly Bundy in the television series Married... with Children between 1987 and 1997. She has appeared in the television series, Samantha Who?, and in the movie Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy. 

In summer 2008, Applegate was diagnosed with breast cancer and a BRCA1 gene mutation, for which she had a double mastectomy.

[[Hayato Yano]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Hayato Yano (born 29 October 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Osmar Aparecido de Azevedo]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Osmar Aparecido de Azevedo (born 23 July 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Ipatinga.

[[Kim Dong-Hyun]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Kim Dong-Hyun (born 20 May 1984) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Fábio José dos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fábio José dos Santos (born 26 June 1973) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Erikson Noguchipinto]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian-Japanese footballers

Erikson Noguchipinto (born 27 January 1981) is a Brazilian-Japanese football player. He plays for Samut Songkhram.

[[Toshiaki Haji]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture

Toshiaki Haji (born 28 August 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.

[[Shinichi Muto]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyagi Prefecture

Shinichi Muto is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tatsuya Yazawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Tatsuya Yazawa (born 3 October 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.

[[Kenji Kikawada]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Kenji Kikawada (born 28 October 1974) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tomoaki Seino]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Niigata Prefecture

Tomoaki Seino (born 29 September 1981) is a Japanese football player.

[[Mitsunori Yabuta]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Mitsunori Yabuta is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hiroshi Miyazawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Hiroshi Miyazawa (born 22 November 1970) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kunihiko Takizawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Kunihiko Takizawa (born 20 April 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Bangkok Glass.

[[Aleksandar Živković]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Serbian footballers

Aleksandar Živković (born 28 July 1977) is a Serbian football player. He has played for Serbia national team.

[[Barcelona Metro line 8]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona Metro lines

Line 8 or L8, coloured pink (termini: Plaça Espanya - Molí Nou-Ciutat Cooperativa) and ran by FGC, is part of the Barcelona Metro network. It joins Plaça Espanya, in the Sants-Montjuïc district of Barcelona with the metropolitan area cities of L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Cornellà de Llobregat and Sant Boi.

[[Barcelona Metro line 7]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona Metro lines

Line 7 or L7 coloured brown (currently known as Plaça Catalunya - Avinguda Tibidabo), is a metro in the Barcelona Metro network that is ran by FGC. It is also called Línia de Balmes, because it climbs Carrer de Balmes uphill into Tibidabo. It shares three stations with L6. 

[[Nea Moudania]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Nea Moudania (sometimes referred simply as Moudania) is a Greek city in the region of Macedonia located in Chalcidice and it is also the capital of Nea Moudania Municipality. The city's population is 6.475 inhabitants and the municipality's population is 17.032 inhabitants according to the 2001 census. It is a very important city because it is one of the most powerful cities in fishing with Nea Michaniona in Central Macedonia. 

[[Whyte notation]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport

The Whyte notation for classifying steam locomotives by wheel arrangement was devised by Frederick Methvan Whyte, and came into use in the early twentieth century encouraged by an editorial in American Engineer and Railroad Journal. 

[[Alexandria (disambiguation)]]

Alexandria is a city in Egypt.

Alexander The Great built many cities with his name while he had a whole empire.

The name Alexandria may also refer to:

[[List of Chicago Blackhawks players]]

CATEGORIES: Chicago Blackhawks players, Lists of National Hockey League players

The Chicago Blackhawks are a professional ice hockey team based in Chicago, Illinois. They are members of the Central Division of the Western Conference in the National Hockey League (NHL). The club was founded in 1926 as one of the league's first American franchises, joining in the same year as the New York Rangers and the Detroit Red Wings (then known as the Detroit Cougars). Owing to the Blackhawks' long history, they are considered one of the NHL's "Original Six" teams—a term reserved for the six teams that comprised the NHL from the 1942–43 season until the league expanded in 1967. As of June 13, 2011, 831 players have played at least one game for the franchise, either in the NHL regular season or in the playoffs.

The Blackhawks, known as the Black Hawks from their inception until 1986, have won the Stanley Cup six times in their 83-year history. Charlie Gardiner, the team's goaltender for its first Stanley Cup win in 1934, became the first European-born captain—and still the only goaltender captain—to win the Stanley Cup. Johnny Gottselig became the second European-born captain to do so when the team won its second championship in 1938. Stan Mikita is the franchise leader in assists (926) and points (1467), and Bobby Hull is the leader in goals (604). Chris Chelios is the franchise leader in penalty minutes (1495). Goaltender Tony Esposito is the club's all-time leader in wins (873) and shutouts (74).

The franchise has had 34 players selected as captains. Each NHL team may select a captain, who has the "sole privilege of discussing with the referee any questions relating to interpretation of rules which may arise during the progress of a game". Captains are required to wear the letter "C" on their uniform for identification, which is 3 in height. Dick Irvin was named the first captain in 1926. The current captain, Jonathan Toews, was the third-youngest captain in NHL history at the time of his selection.

[[Alexandreia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Greece

Alexandreia, or Alexandria, is a historical Greek town in the Imathia Prefecture in the region of Macedonia. There were 19,283 people living there according to the 2001 census. 

[[Ptolemaida]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Greece

Ptolemaida, former Kailaria, is a Greek town in the Kozani prefecture in the region of Macedonia. The city is best known for its coal mines of lignite and power station. It has been also called by Greek people The Socket of Greece because it has very strong power stations. Its population is 28.679 inhabitants according to the 2001 census. Ptolemaida is the biggest industrial, trade, and rural city of the prefecture and one of the most developed cities in industry in Greece.

[[Aridaia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Greece

Aridaia is a Greek town in Pella Prefecture in the region of Macedonia. It is found in the middle of a valley north of Edessa. It has a population of 5,600 inhabitants according to the 2001 census. During Byzantine era, its name used to be Moglena and during the Ottoman Empire its name used to be Subotsko. It was first founded by the emigres of Asia Minor (Anatolia) in 1923. 

[[Soft palate]]

CATEGORIES: Mouth

The soft palate is a part of the mouth, at the roof of the back of the throat, above the uvula (also called Palatine uvula). When something touches there, it creates a gag reflex.

[[Squirrel monkey]]

CATEGORIES: New World monkeys

Squirrel monkeys live in Central and South America. They grow to 25 to 35 cm, and their long tail is 35 to 42 cm. long. Squirrel monkeys are small enough to go on the smallest branches to get food. They eat fruits and insects. When fruit is scarce, they will drink nectar. Large falcons and snakes eat them so they have lots of different warning calls.

[[Pelham Humfrey]]

CATEGORIES: English composers, Baroque composers, 1647 births, 1674 deaths

Pelham Humfrey (also: Humphrey) (born London 1647;  died Windsor 14 July 1674) was an English composer in the Baroque period.  Although he died at the age of 26 he had an important influence on English composers such as William Turner and Henry Purcell.  He lived at the time of the Restoration, when England was ruled by a king once more after two decades of republican rule, during which music had not been allowed in churches.

==Life== 

We do not know much detail about his early life.  He seems to have been a choirboy in the Chapel Royal by 1660.  During this time he was obviously becoming a very gifted composer.  Other boys in the choir included John Blow and William Turner.  As a young man he travelled to France where he heard music by French composers such as Lully and Italians such as Carissimi.  This helped him to form his own style.  He became a Gentleman of the Chapel Royal.  He wrote some fine anthems, although the diarist Samuel Pepys thought that he was showing off.  This may be because Pepys did not like the new kind of music.  He married the daughter of his old choir master Henry Cooke.  He became Master of the Children of the Chapel Royal.  This meant that he was in charge of the children in the king's chapel choir.  He was also a court composer.

He became ill and died at the age of 26.  He was buried in the cloisters of Westminster Abbey.

[[William Turner]]

William Turner may refer to:

In fiction:

[[Dolla]]

Dolla can mean:

[[William Turner (composer)]]

CATEGORIES: Countertenors, English composers, Baroque composers, 1641 births, 1740 deaths

This page is about the composer William Turner.  For other people called William Turner see William Turner (disambiguation page).

William Turner (born Oxford 1651; died London 13 January 1740) was a composer and singer in the Baroque period.  He lived at the same time as English composers such as Pelham Humfrey and Henry Purcell, although he lived a lot longer than they did.  He is remembered today as a composer of about 40 verse anthems.  As a singer, he was a Gentleman of the Chapel Royal from 1669 until his death.

[[Montehermoso]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Extremadura

Montehermoso (Montelmosu in Extremaduran language) is a municipality in the province of Cáceres, Extremadura, Spain.

[[Jediism]]

CATEGORIES: Star Wars, New religious movements

Jediism is a religious movement based on the Star Wars franchise of movies.

[[Sangerhausen]]

Sangerhausen is the capital of the Mansfeld-Südharz rural district in Germany. It is between Magdeburg and Erfurt. The river Gonna flows through it.

[[Miley Cyrus]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Actors from Tennessee, American child actors, American child singers, American feminists, American movie actors, American pop singers, American television actors, American voice actors, Disney actors, Disney singers, Miley Cyrus, Pansexual people, Singers from Nashville, Tennessee

Miley Ray Cyrus (formerly Hemsworth; born Destiny Hope Cyrus; November 23, 1992) is an American singer and musician. She has starred in a television series (Hannah Montana) and in four movies. She has released five albums and has written an autobiography.

Cyrus played minor roles in television series Doc and movie Big Daddy and Big Fish. She then appeared in Hannah Montana in 2006. Her debut studio album Meet Miley Cyrus was released in 2007. As of 2020, Cyrus has released seven albums: Meet Miley Cyrus (2007), Breakout (2008), Can't be Tamed (2010), Bangerz (2013), Miley Cyrus and Her Dead Petz (2015), Younger Now (2017), and Plastic Hearts (2020).

[[Cryptoclidus]]

CATEGORIES: Plesiosaurs

Cryptoclidus was a plesiosaur, an aquatic reptile up to 13 feet (4 m) long. It had curved, interlocking teeth, a wide skull, and large, flexible, paddle-like flippers. The fragile head and teeth could not deal with large prey. That suggests a diet of small, soft-bodied animals such as squid and small shoaling fish.

Cryptoclidus fossils have been found in England, France, Russia and possibly South America.

Cryptoclidus was named by Seeley in 1892. The type species is C. eurymerus.

[[Goomba]]

CATEGORIES: Mario series characters

Goombas are an enemy in the Mario series. They are short brown mushroom shaped enemies that are easily killed by jumping on their head. They appear in almost every Mario game.

[[Thalassomedon]]

CATEGORIES: Plesiosaurs

Thalassomedon |the-lass-a-med-in| (meaning "lord of the seas") was a plesiosaur (not a dinosaur, but an extinct marine reptile from the Mesozoic Era that lived in the open oceans and breathed air). Fossils have been found in the USA. The type species, Thalassomedon haningtoni (named by Welles in 1943).

[[Thomas Kahlenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Danish footballers

Thomas Kahlenberg (born 20 March 1983) is a Danish football player. He plays for Wolfsburg and Denmark national team.

In March 2020, Kahlenberg tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during the current pandemic of the disease, after having been infected at a birthday party in Amsterdam.

[[Ricardo Alexandre dos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Ricardo Alexandre dos Santos (born 24 June 1976) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Antonio Bezerra Brandão]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Antonio Bezerra Brandão (born 21 December 1977) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Fernando Rech]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fernando Rech (born 13 March 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Alberto Acosta]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Argentine football managers

Alberto Acosta (born 23 August 1966) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.

[[Gérald Passi]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, French footballers

Gérald Passi (born January 24, 1964) is a former French football player. He has played for the French national team.

[[Kenichiro Meta]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Kenichiro Meta (born 2 July 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.

[[Hiromasa Suguri]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Hiromasa Suguri (born 29 July 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yosuke Kataoka]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Yosuke Kataoka is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football or soccer player.

[[Dirty Harry]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s crime movies, 1971 thriller movies, 1970s serial killer movies, American serial killer movies, Antisocial personality disorder in fiction, Movies about extortion, Movies about police officers, Movies set in San Francisco, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Don Siegel

Dirty Harry is a 1971 American crime thriller movie. It was produced and directed by Don Siegel. It was the first in the Dirty Harry series. Clint Eastwood plays the main role. Eastwood acts as a San Francisco Police Department Inspector "Dirty" Harry Callaghan, trying to catch a serial killer. The character is based on real life cop Dave Toschi hunting for the Zodiac Killer.

Dirty Harry was followed by four sequels: Magnum Force in 1973, The Enforcer in 1976, Sudden Impact in 1983 (directed by Eastwood), and The Dead Pool in 1988.

[[Lindi Ortega]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Canadian songwriters, Living people, Singers from Toronto

Lindi Ortega (born May 28, 1980) is a Canadian singer-songwriter and musician, known for her voice that has been described as a blend of Dolly Parton, Johnny Cash and Emmylou Harris. She spent nearly a decade as an independent artist in the Toronto music scene, self-releasing two albums and an EP in that time. In 2008 she was signed to Cherrytree Records / Interscope Records and released a second EP. Lindi performed at the 2009 South by Southwest festival in Austin, Texas. In July 2009 Lindi was the opening act for Kevin Costner & Modern West's tour. In September 2009 Lindi performed on a cross-Canada tour as opening act for Keane's North American tour.

[[Ofra Haza]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2000 deaths, Deaths from AIDS, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, Israeli pop singers, Israeli singers, Jewish Israeli musicians, People from Tel Aviv

Ofra Haza, Hebrew: עפרה חזה , full name: Bat-Sheva Ofra Haza-Ashkenazi , (19 November 1957 in Tel Aviv – 23 February 2000 in Ramat Gan) was an Israeli (pop) singer. She has received much attention for hit songs. She died of AIDS and was buried in the Yarkon Cemetery in Petah Tikva.

[[Nestos]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Bulgaria, Rivers of Greece

Nestos, or Mesta, is a river in the Balkans that crosses two countries. Particularly, it starts from Bulgaria, then goes to Greece and at the end it drains into the Aegean Sea. Its length is 230 km.

[[Monocentridae]]

CATEGORIES: Ray-finned fish

Pinecone fishes are small and unusual fish of the family Monocentridae. The family contains just four species.  They live in tropical and subtropical waters of the Indo-Pacific. Pinecone fishes are popular in aquariums, but are expensive and a challenge for the hobbyist.

The pineapplefish, Cleidopus gloriamaris, is the largest species, reaching up to 30 in length. 

[[Pineapplefish]]

CATEGORIES: Fish of Australia

[[Ultra Series]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese television series

The Ultra Series is the name for all the shows produced by Tsuburaya Productions featuring Ultraman, his many Kyodai (Brothers), and the countless number of ultra beings and the Ultra Monsters. The Ultra Series is one of the tokusatsu superhero productions from Japan, along with Kamen Rider, Super Sentai, and the Metal Hero Series.

[[Macedonia (region)]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Europe

Macedonia (Μακεδονία, Makedonίa) (Macedonian: Македонија, Makedonija) (Bulgarian: Македония, Makedoniya) is a region in the southeastern Europe, in Balkans. In ancient times it was the Kingdom of Macedon and its greatest and most well known leader was Alexander The Great. In Roman times it was part of the Roman province of Macedonia. Today, its borders have changed and after the Treaty of Bucharest it was separated in three countries: Greece with the region of Macedonia (Greek Macedonia or Aegean Macedonia), the country North Macedonia (Vardar Macedonia), and Bulgaria (Pirin Macedonia (Blagoevgrad province)).

[[Patrick Lalime]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, American Hockey League players, Buffalo Sabres players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, ECHL players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Living people, Ottawa Senators players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Shawinigan Cataractes players, St. Louis Blues players

Patrick Lalime (born July 7, 1974) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender and current analyst on Ottawa Senators television broadcasts. Lalime played a career total of 12 seasons in the NHL. He was drafted 156th overall by the Pittsburgh Penguins in the 1993 NHL Entry Draft. He retired from playing ice hockey on July 20, 2011 so he could become an analyst on Ottawa Senators television broadcasts on RDS.

[[Giannitsa]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Greece

Giannitsa, former Genitsa, is a Greek town in the southeastern part of Pella Prefecture in the region of Macedonia. It has a total population of 26,296 inhabitants according to the 2001 census. It is located between Mount Paiko and the plain of Giannitsa, north of the area of the drain lake of Giannitsa at a high of 40 meters. It is also the most important and developed town in Pella and one the most important towns in Macedonia.

[[Clone]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Cell biology, Developmental biology, Biological reproduction

A clone is any cell or individual which is identical to another.

In biology, cloning is the process of producing one or more genetically identical individuals. With whole individuals, it usually means the deliberate production of an identical copy. This was first achieved in mammals with the famous Dolly the sheep. Human identical twins are natural clones. So are the offspring of asexual reproduction, and any parthenogenetic reproduction which does not involve meiosis.

Cloning is natural to some animals, but rare in mammals. An exception is the nine-banded armadillo, which normally gives birth to identical quadruplets.

In genetics and cell biology, cloning refers especially to the DNA sequence, and by implication all the other macromolecules.

Clones in cell lines occur, but there are some obvious provisos. Changes to the DNA in any shape or form means the daughter cells are not identical with the mother cells. Typically during development genes are switched on and off, and the daughter cells gradually become differentiated into mature tissue cells. These are not identical with the original stem cells, so they are clones only in the sense of being derived from the same mother cell.

The laboratory copying of a molecule to produce exact copies is also called cloning.

[[Scoutcraft]]

CATEGORIES: Scouting

Scoutcraft is a form of woodcraft skills used in the woods and the "backcountry."  Though it has been practiced for hundreds of years, it was first called "scoutcraft" by Robert Baden-Powell and Ernest Thompson Seton, who wrote books about it about a hundred years ago.   What scoutcraft is has varied throughout the years and from country to country.  For example, in England, scoutcraft once included citizenship, while in America, it once included indian lore and signaling.  At present, scoutcraft includes camping, hiking (walking through the woods or backcountry), backpacking (a combination of camping and hiking), orienteering (use of a map and compass to find ones way through the backcountry), pioneering (building structures out of logs using knots), first aid, and wilderness survival.

[[Mirante do Vale]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in Brazil, São Paulo, 1960 establishments, 1960s establishments in Brazil

Mirante do Vale  is a skyscraper in São Paulo, Brazil. It is 170 meters (558 feet) tall and has 51 floors. It was built in 1960.

[[Jean-Baptiste Lully]]

CATEGORIES: 1632 births, 1687 deaths, Deaths from gangrene, Baroque composers, Bisexual people, French composers, French dancers, French LGBT people, Italian composers, Italian LGBT people, LGBT composers, LGBT dancers, People from Florence

Jean-Baptiste Lully (pronounce: "Loo-lee"), (born Florence, 28 November 1632; died Paris, 22 March 1687), was an Italian composer, violinist and dancer who spent most of his life working in the court of Louis XIV of France. He took on French nationality in 1661. He was the most important French composer of his time. Lully realized that music in the Italian style was not suitable for the French language, so he composed his operas in a special way. He created the tradition of French opera. He also wrote a lot of ballet music and some church music.

[[Herrerasaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Theropods, Triassic dinosaurs, Dinosaurs of South America

Herrerasaurus was one of the earliest dinosaurs. All known fossils of this carnivore have been discovered in Upper Triassic strata dated to 231.4 million years ago (mya) in northwestern Argentina.

It is a member of the Herrerasauridae, a family of similar genera that were among the earliest dinosaurs.

[[Jason Earles]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from San Diego, California, Living people, 1977 births

Jason Earles (born April 26, 1977), is an American actor who is best known for playing the role of Jackson Stewart in Hannah Montana.

[[Hayato Hashimoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukui Prefecture

Hayato Hashimoto (born 15 September 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Omiya Ardija.

[[Kazuhisa Iijima]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Kazuhisa Iijima (born 6 January 1970) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Mikio Manaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Mikio Manaka is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yasuo Manaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Yasuo Manaka is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jean-Alain Boumsong]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, French footballers

Jean-Alain Boumsong (born 14 December 1979) is a French football player. He plays for Olympique Lyonnais and France national team.

[[Pascal Chimbonda]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Guadeloupe, French footballers

Pascal Chimbonda (born 21 February 1979) is a Guadeloupean-French football player. He has played for Guadeloupe national team and France national team.

[[Yuji Ito]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers

Yuji Ito (born 20 May 1965) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hogan Ephraim]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Hogan Ephraim (born 31 March 1988) is an English football player. He plays for Leeds United.

[[Nicky Hofs]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, People from Arnhem, Sportspeople from Gelderland

Nicky Hofs (born 17 May 1983) is a Dutch football player. He plays for Vitesse.

[[Jasenovac i Gradiška Stara]]

CATEGORIES: Songs, Croatia

Jasenovac i Gradiška Stara (Jasenovac and Stara Gradiška) is a Croatian song promoting the Ustaše. The lyrics celebrate the World War II crimes against the Serbs. The lyrics include words in the typical dialect of Herzegovina, where some of the worst atrocities against Serbs during WWII happened.http://www.index.hr/vijesti/clanak.aspx?id=178032

In 2007, Efraim Zuroff reported in the Jerusalem Post that during a performance by Marko Perković of the Croatian band Thompson at Maksimir Stadium, there were a large number of Ustaše symbols and fascist salutes among the crowd (which included politicians, government officials and celebrities), helping to create an air of discomfort among Croatia's minorities in the region at the time.  Zuroff claimed that Perković gained notoriety two years earlier for having performed a modified version of the song, which "expressed nostalgia for those two infamous Croatian concentration camps in which at least 300,000 innocent Serbs, Jews, Gypsies and anti-fascist Croatians were murdered by the Ustashe with nary a Nazi in sight."

Perkovic himself denies writing or even performing the song, stating that he is a musician, not a politician. An organizer for a Thompson tour of New York City also defended Perkovic, saying he did not write the song nor is a copy available on any of his albums.

[[Motoo Kimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1994 deaths, Japanese mathematicians, Geneticists, Evolutionary biologists, People from Aichi Prefecture

Motoo Kimura (13 November 1924 – 13 November 1994) was a Japanese mathematician and biologist. He was known for introducing the neutral theory of molecular evolution in 1968. "Calculating the rate of evolution in terms of nucleotide substitutions seems to give a value so high that many of the mutations involved must be neutral ones".

He became one of the most influential theoretical population geneticists:

Kimura was heavily influenced by Sewall Wright; the main distinction being that Wright was mainly interested in populations, whereas the core of Motoo's work was in changes at the molecular level. Modified versions of Kimura's ideas are still in use today.

In 1992, Kimura received the Darwin Medal from the Royal Society, and the following year he was made a Foreign Member of the Royal Society.

[[Mahmoud Ahmadinejad]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Iranian Muslims, Mayors, Presidents of Iran

Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, also written Ahmadinezhad (محمود احمدی‌نژاد; born October 28, 1956) is an Iranian politician who was the sixth President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. He was president from August 3, 2005 to August 3, 2013.

Ahmadinejad became the mayor of Tehran, the capital of Iran, on May 3, 2003. He was chosen to be the president in elections on June 24, 2005. Many people think he is very religious. Because of that, the religious leadership in Iran supported him in many ways when he was elected.

Ahmadinajad's political power comes from the Alliance of Builders of Islamic Iran, also known as "Abadgaran". This is an alliance between Islamic parties and organizations.

Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has a Master of Science in Civil engineering from the Iran University of Science and Techology. He also has a PhD in  transportation engineering from the same university. Hassan Rouhani was elected on June 15, 2013 as Ahmadinejad's successor and took office on August 3, 2013.

His brother was failed presidential candidate and staff member Davoud Ahmadinejad (1950–2017).

[[Jesus]]

CATEGORIES: 0s BC births, 30s deaths, Ancient Israeli people, Carpenters, Christian religious leaders, Executed people, Jesus Christ, New Testament people, People from Bethlehem, People from Nazareth

Bart Ehrman states that the crucifixion of Jesus on the orders of Pontius Pilate is the most certain element about him. 

John Dominic Crossan and Richard G. Watts state that the crucifixion of Jesus is as certain as any historical fact can be. 

Paul R. Eddy and Gregory A. Boyd say that non-Christian confirmation of the crucifixion of Jesus is now "firmly established". 

Jesus, (Greek: Ἰησοῦς, romanized: Iēsoûs, likely from Hebrew/Aramaic: יֵשׁוּעַ‎, romanized: Yēšūa) also known as Jesus Christ, was a Jewish teacher and reformer of religion who has become the main and central figure of Christianity. Christians follow the example of Jesus, accept his words to be true, and worship him as the Jewish messiah and incarnation of God. He is one of the most famous, most recognized, and most influential persons in the world's history.

Most historians agree that he was a Jew from a place called Judea, in a town called Nazareth, in what is now Israel. They also agree that he was thought of as a teacher and a healer, and that he was baptized by John the Baptist.  He was crucified in Jerusalem on the orders of Pontius Pilate, and Christians believe that he came back to life - "rose again" - three days later.

Jesus taught mostly love and forgiveness for others, as well as being humble about one's religion. He talked many times about the kingdom of God, and told others, "The kingdom of God has come near." He said that one must be mild, like a child, and never boast. He taught that people who ignore God and other people do not deserve his blessing, but God would still forgive them if they repented. Jesus opposed the other Jewish priests because they used religion to boast. Jesus was put on trial and convicted to death by the Jewish leaders, then sent to his execution on a cross by Roman authorities.

There are stories about the life of Jesus by different writers. The best known are the four Christian books called the Gospels. They form the beginning of the New Testament, a part of the Bible. The word "gospel" means "good news". They tell a little about his birth and hidden early life, but mostly about his public life: his teachings, miracles, ministry, death, and resurrection (return from death).

Several Jewish and Roman historians, such as Flavius Josephus, Tacitus, Pliny the Younger, and Suetonius include Jesus in their writings. They usually only tell of his execution or problems between the Roman government and his followers; they do not talk about his life.

Manichaeans, Gnostics, Muslims, Bahá'ís, and others have found prominent places for Jesus in their religions. In Islam, Jesus was a Muslim. Bahá'í teachings consider Jesus to be a "manifestation of God", a Bahá'í concept for prophets. Some Hindus consider Jesus to be an avatar or a sadhu. Some Buddhists, including Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama, regard Jesus as a bodhisattva who dedicated his life to the welfare of people.

[[United States]]

CATEGORIES: United States, English-speaking countries, G8 nations, G7 nations, Federations, 1776 establishments in North America

The United States of America (USA) is a sovereign country in North America. It is commonly called the United States (U.S. or US) or America. There are forty-eight states that border each other and Washington, D.C., the capital district. These states are between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. They are bordered by Canada to the north and Mexico to the south. The state of Alaska is in the northwest of the continent, with Canada to its east and Russia to the west across the Bering Strait. The state of Hawaii is an archipelago in the mid-Pacific. The country also possesses some territories, or insular areas, in the Caribbean and Pacific. The city  with the highest population is New York City. At 3.79 million square miles (9.83 million km2) and with about 331 million people, the United States is the fourth-largest country by total area and third by population.

The United States was first settled by Native Americans. The United States is one of the world's most ethnically mixed and multicultural nations, the product of large-scale immigration from many countries. The U.S. economy is the largest national economy in the world, with an estimated 2016 gross domestic product (GDP) of US$20.4 trillion (about a quarter of worldwide GDP).

The nation was founded by thirteen colonies of Great Britain along the Atlantic seaboard. On July 4, 1776, they issued the Declaration of Independence, which announced their independence from Great Britain and their creation of a cooperative union. The disobedient states defeated Great Britain in the American Revolutionary War, the first successful colonial war of independence. The Philadelphia Convention adopted the current United States Constitution on September 17, 1787; its approval the following year made the states part of a single republic with a strong central government. The Bill of Rights, making up ten constitutional amendments guaranteeing many basic civil rights and freedoms, was approved in 1791.

In the 19th century, the United States got land from France, Spain, the United Kingdom, Mexico, and Russia, and took over the Republic of Texas and the Republic of Hawaii. Arguments between the farming-based South and industrial North over the growth of the institution of slavery and states' rights began the American Civil War of the 1860s. The North's victory prevented a permanent split of the country and led to the end of legal slavery in the United States. By the 1870s, the national wealth was the world's largest. The Spanish–American War and World War I confirmed the country's status as a military power. In 1945, the United States came out from World War II as the first country with nuclear weapons, a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, and a founding member of NATO. The end of the Cold War and the breaking up of the Soviet Union left the United States as the only superpower. The United States participated in the Space Race that produced rapid advances in rocketry, materials science with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Apollo 11 was the first flight to send people to the moon. It was done by NASA, the American space group. It went up to space on July 16, 1969, carrying three astronauts: Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins. On July 20, 1969, Armstrong and Aldrin became the first humans to land on the moon, while Collins stayed in orbit around the Moon.

[[Canada]]

CATEGORIES: Canada, Current monarchies, English-speaking countries, French-speaking countries, Commonwealth realms, G8 nations, G7 nations, Federations, 1867 establishments in North America

Canada is a country in North America. It is north of the United States. Its land reaches from the Atlantic Ocean in the east to the Pacific Ocean in the west and the Arctic Ocean to the north. Canada's area is 9.98, so it is the world's second largest country by total area but only the fourth largest country by land area. It has the world's longest coastline which touches three oceans. Canada has ten provinces and three territories. Most parts of the country have a cold or severely cold winter climate, but areas to the south are warm in summer. Much of the land is forests or tundra, with the Rocky Mountains towards the west. About four fifths of Canada's 38 million people live in urban areas near the southern border with the US, the longest between any two countries in the world. The national capital is Ottawa, and the largest city is Toronto. Other large cities include Montreal, Vancouver, Calgary, Edmonton, Quebec City, Winnipeg and Hamilton.

Aboriginal people lived in the places that are now Canada for a long time. In 1537 the French started a colony and the British Empire soon followed. The two empires fought several wars and in the late 18th century only British North America remained with what is more or less Canada today. The country was formed with the British North America Act on July 1, 1867, from several colonies. Over time, more provinces and territories became part of Canada. In 1931, Canada achieved near total independence with the Statute of Westminster 1931, and became completely independent when the Canada Act 1982 removed the last remaining ties of legal dependence on the Parliament of the United Kingdom.

Canada is a federal parliamentary democracy and a constitutional monarchy, with Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom as its head of state. The country is officially bilingual at the federal level, meaning that citizens have the right to communicate with the government in either English or French. Immigration to Canada has made it one of the world's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations. Its economy is the eleventh largest in the world, and relies mainly on natural resources and well-developed international trade networks. Canada's relationship with its neighbor and biggest trading partner, the U.S., has a big impact on its economy and culture.

Canada is a developed country and has the tenth highest nominal per capita income globally as well as the tenth highest ranking in the Human Development Index. It ranks among the highest in international measurements of government transparency, civil liberties, quality of life, economic freedom, and education. Canada is a Commonwealth realm member of the Commonwealth of Nations, a member of the Francophonie, and part of several major international and intergovernmental institutions or groupings including the United Nations, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the G8, the G20, the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.

[[Islam]]

CATEGORIES: Islam, Arabic words and phrases

Islam (ˈ; al-Islām, alʔɪsˈlaːm) is an Abrahamic  monotheistic religion. All of its teachings and beliefs are written out in the Quran (also spelled Qur'an or Koran), the holy scripture of Islam. Believers of Islam are called Muslims which means "submitter to God". They believe that the Quran was spoken to Muhammad by the angel Gabriel, and that it is the word of God (or Allah). They view Muhammad as a prophet and messenger of God. Other beliefs and rules about what Muslims should do come from reports of what Muhammad taught or hadith. 

Linguistically, Islam is defined as surrender to the command of God without objection, without submission, rebellion, and stubbornness. As for its idiomatic meaning, it is the religion that was brought by “Muhammad bin Abdullah,” sent by Almighty God, and which Muslims believe is the law with which God sealed the heavenly messages. In a hadith on the authority of Abu Hurairah that the Prophet Muhammad defined Islam: “By worshiping God and not associating anything with Him, performing the prayer, paying the obligatory zakat, fasting Ramadan and performing the pilgrimage to the house of God.”  

Muslims believe that there were many other prophets before Muhammad since dawn of humanity, beginning with the Prophet Adam and including the Prophet Noah (Nuh), the Prophet Abraham (Ibrahim), the Prophet Moses (Musa), and the Prophet Jesus (Isa). They believe that all these prophets were given messages by God of the oneness of God to their communities at different times in history of mankind, but Satan (referred to as 'Shaytan' in Arabic) made the past communities deviate from the message of oneness and other social codes. Muslims believe that the content of the Quran (written in Arabic) is protected by Allah as mentioned in the Quran and is the final message of God for all of mankind until the day of judgment.

Most Muslims belong to one of two groups.  The most common is Sunni Islam (75–90% of all Muslims are Sunni Muslims). The second is Shia Islam (10–20% of all Muslims are Shias – also called Shiites). But there are many more groups like the Alevis in Turkey.

With about 1.75 billion followers (24% of the world's population), Islam is the second-largest religion in the world. Islam is also the fastest-growing religion in the world. Islam is also the second-largest and fastest-growing religion in Europe.

[[Judaism]]

CATEGORIES: Judaism

This article is about the Jewish religion. For more information about the Jewish people, see Jew.

Judaism (Hebrew: יהדות) is the world's oldest Abrahamic religion. It is almost 4,000 years old. There are about 15 million followers. They are called Jews.  It is the oldest monotheistic religion. The Torah is the most important holy book of Judaism. The laws and teachings of Judaism come from the Torah, the first five books of the Hebrew Bible and oral traditions. Some of these were first oral traditions and later written in the Mishnah, the Talmud, and other works.

Both Christianity and Islam are similar to Judaism. These religions accept the belief in one God and the moral teachings of the Hebrew Bible (Old Testament), which includes the Torah or "תורה."

[[Christianity]]

CATEGORIES: Christianity

Christianity is the largest world religion by number of followers (around 2.4 billion). Members of the religion are called Christians. Christians generally believe Jesus to be the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity. It is a Abrahamic monotheistic religion, meaning it has only one God. It emerges from the root of Judaism. It is based on the life and teachings of Jesus.

To most of the people of his time Jesus was a preacher, teacher, healer, and prophet from ancient Judea. However, his disciples believed him to be much more than that: they believed that Jesus was God's one and only son who was sent down to earth to die on a cross for their sins. The man said to be his father, Joseph, was a carpenter. Jesus was executed by being nailed to a cross (or crucified) under Pontius Pilate, the local Roman governor at the time. His life and followers are written about in the New Testament, part of the Bible.  Christians consider the Bible, both the Old Testament and New Testament, as sacred. The Gospels or "The Good News" are the first four books of the New Testament and are about the life of Jesus, his death, and him rising from the dead.

God created the world. Jesus is the name of God the Son. Christians believe Him to be the Son of God. They believe that He was the human son of the Virgin Mary and the divine Son of God. They believe he suffered and died to free humans from their sin and was later raised from the dead. He then went up into Heaven. At the end of time, Jesus will come back to Earth to judge all mankind, both alive and dead, giving everlasting life to those who believe in him.  The Holy Spirit is the spirit of God on the Earth that spoke through prophets.

The prophets foretold in the Old Testament of Jesus as the Savior. Christians think of Jesus Christ as a teacher, a role model, and someone who revealed who the Christian God was. 

Just like Judaism and Islam, Christianity is an Abrahamic religion. Christianity started out as a Jewish sect in the eastern Mediterranean. It quickly grew in number of believers and influence over a few decades, and by the 4th Century it had become the dominant religion in the Roman Empire. Armenia was the First Nation in the world to adopt Christianity as its official religion, under the rule of King Tiridates III of the Arsacid dynasty in the early 4th century. The Kingdom of Aksum became the first empire to adopt Christianity. During the Middle Ages, the rest of Europe mostly was Christianized. At that time, Christians were mostly a religious minority in the Middle East, North Africa, and parts of India. Following the Age of Discovery, through missionary work and colonization, Christianity spread to Africa, the Americas, and the rest of the world.

Christianity has been an important part of the shaping of the world. As of the early 21st century, Christianity has approximately 2.2 billion followers.

[[Espoo shopping mall shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 crimes, 2009 in Europe, 2000s murders in Europe, 21st century in Finland, Attacks on buildings and structures in Europe, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 2000s, Attacks on shops, December events, Espoo, Mass murder in Europe, Mass murder in the 2000s, Mass shootings in Europe, Mass shootings in the 2000s, Murder-suicides in Europe, Murders by firearm in Europe, Suicide in the 2000s

Espoo shopping mall shooting was a mass shooting in the Sello shopping mall, in Espoo, near Helsinki, Finland on 31 December 2009. 

The shooter killed five people, including his ex-wife, and then killed himself. 

[[Aquatic]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology

Aquatic is a term often used in biology and ecology. Literally, it means watery, and refers to both fresh and salt-water. So aquatic plants or animals are those that live in water: ponds, rivers, oceans. Aquatic mammals include whales, dolphins, seals, walrus, and also otters, beavers, and other river forms. Aquatic birds are even more numerous: ducks, herons, waders, kingfishers, penguins. 

[[Lagoon]]

CATEGORIES: Lagoons

A lagoon is a body of salt water partly separated from the sea. There is usually some sort of barrier which separates and protects the lagoon. This may be a pebble or shingle beach, sand bank, or perhaps a coral reef surrounding an atoll. An atoll is an oceanic island formed by a volcano. 

Lagoon refers both to coastal lagoons, and the lagoons in atolls, formed by the growth of coral reefs on slowly eroding central islands.

[[Cryogenian]]

CATEGORIES: Neoproterozoic

The Cryogenian is a geological period, from ~720 million years ago (mya) to 635 mya. It lies in the middle Proterozoic eon before the Ediacaran period.

The period is important to both Earth science and biology because it contains the two longest and most severe ice ages of all time: 

These two snowball earth events were previously put together as the Varangian glaciation. They covered much, possible all, the Earth with ice. The root cause of the temperature drop may have been the removal of CO2 from the atmosphere by photosynthesising bacteria and eukaryotes in the previous periods. Much else happened: the supercontinent Rodinia broke up and another, Pannotia, began to form. Fossil steroids suggest the presence of early sponges, and amoeboid cells with tests (coverings) appear in the fossil record.

[[Humphrey Appleby]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional British people, Television characters

Sir Humphrey Appleby, GCB, KBE, MVO, MA (Oxon), is a character in the British television series Yes, Minister and Yes, Prime Minister.  He was played by Sir Nigel Hawthorne. In Yes Minister, he is the Permanent Secretary for the Department of Administrative Affairs (a fictional department of the British government). In the last episode of Yes, Minister, "Party Games", he becomes Cabinet Secretary, the position he retains during Yes, Prime Minister. Nigel Hawthorne that portrays this character won the BAFTA Award for Best Light Entertainment Performance four times: 1981, 1982, 1986 and 1987.

[[Ararat, Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Victoria, 1857 establishments, 1850s establishments in Australia

Ararat is a city in south-west Victoria, Australia. It is about 205 west of Melbourne, on the Western Highway. It is the only town in Australia to have started by Chinese people. It is the biggest town, and the centre of the local government area called the Rural City of Ararat. The town is built between mountains with good farming lands all around it. There are about 8220 people living in Ararat.

[[Alan Ball]]

Alan Ball may refer to:

[[Clunes, Victoria]]

Clunes is a town in Victoria, Australia, about 36 kilometres north of Ballarat, in the Shire of Hepburn. In 2006 there were 1605 people living in the town. Clunes was the site of the first gold rush in Victoria.

[[Great Eastern Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Pre-grouping British railway companies, London and North Eastern Railway, Transport in Epping Forest, 1862 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1860s establishments in England, 1923 disestablishments, 1920s disestablishments in England

The Great Eastern Railway (GER) was a pre-grouping British railway company. The company's main line linked London Liverpool Street to Norwich and had other lines through East Anglia.  The company was grouped into the London and North Eastern Railway in 1923.

[[Ongar railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Disused London Underground stations, Transport in Epping Forest, Epping Ongar Railway, Former single platform tube stations, 1865 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1994 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s disestablishments in England

Ongar tube station is a former London Underground station in the town of Chipping Ongar, Essex. Until its closure in 1994, it was the easternmost point of the Central line, and from 1961 until its closure in 1994 it held the distinction of being the London Underground station farthest from Central London.

[[North Weald railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Disused London Underground stations, 1865 establishments in England, 1994 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, Epping Ongar Railway, Former single platform tube stations, 1990s disestablishments in England

North Weald tube station is a former London Underground station in Essex, England. It is between Epping and Blake Hall on the Central Line, serving North Weald.

[[Chipping Ongar]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex, Epping Forest

Chipping Ongar is a small market town in the civil parish of Ongar, in the Epping Forest district of the County of Essex, England. In 2001 there were 6,069 people living in Ongar civil parish. There are 3 Primary Schools; High Ongar, Shelley and Chipping Ongar Primary School.Theres lots of local shops there like sainsbrys.

http://www.chippingongar.essex.sch.uk/

Ongar is also famous for the Epping Ongar Railway which celebrated its 150th anniversary this year.

[[Eastern Counties Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Pre-grouping British railway companies, Rail transport in London, 1839 establishments in Europe, 1830s establishments in England, 1862 disestablishments, 19th century disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1860s disestablishments in Europe

The Eastern Counties Railway (ECR) was an English railway company which began operating on 20 June 1839. It ran a train service from a temporary terminus at Mile End to Romford. This is now part of the Great Eastern Main Line. The line was extended the following year to a new London terminus at Shoreditch (later renamed Bishopsgate) and the line was subsequently extended to cover the 51 miles between London and Colchester. 

[[Passing loop]]

CATEGORIES: Railway track layouts

A passing loop (also called a "passing siding", "crossing loop", "crossing place" or, colloquially, "a hole") is a place on a single line railway/tramway, often located at a station, where trains/trams in opposing directions can pass each other.

[[Epping, Essex]]

CATEGORIES: Epping Forest, Towns in Essex, Market towns in England

Epping is a small market town and civil parish in the Epping Forest district of the County of Essex, England.

[[Loughton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex, Epping Forest

Loughton (ˈlaʊtən) is a town and civil parish in the Epping Forest district of Essex. Loughton Brooke Runs through Lougton and Epping Forest (near Loughton) is what is known as a SSSI (a Site of Specific Scientific Interest). 

[[Pascal Zuberbühler]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Swiss footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Pascal Zuberbühler (born 8 January 1971) is a Swiss football player. He has played for Switzerland national team.

[[Shin Asahina]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Shin Asahina (born 20 August 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Manabu Ikeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Manabu Ikeda (born 3 July 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tim Cahill]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Sydney

Tim Cahill (born 6 December 1979) is an Australian football player. He plays for Everton and Australia national team.

[[Suguru Ito]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Akita Prefecture

Suguru Ito (born 7 September 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[John van Loen]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Utrecht (city)

John van Loen (born 4 February 1965) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Andrea Orlandi]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Barcelona

Andrea Orlandi (born 3 August 1984) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Swansea City.

[[Ludovic Sylvestre]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, French footballers

Ludovic Sylvestre (born 5 February 1984) is a French football player. He plays for Mladá Boleslav.

[[Satoshi Nagano]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Satoshi Nagano is a Japanese football player.

[[Railway electrification system]]

CATEGORIES: Rail infrastructure, Rail technologies, Electric railways

A railway electrification system supplies electrical energy to railway locomotives and multiple units so that they can operate without having an on-board prime mover. Their main advantages are high energy efficiency and low operating cost. Building their wires and other infrastructure is expensive, however. 

[[Single track (rail)]]

CATEGORIES: Railway track layouts

A single track railway is one where traffic in both directions shares the same track.  In the early days of railways, especially before the telegraph, operation of significant numbers of trains on a single track railway was fraught with difficulties, including delays and accidents, particularly head-on collisions.

[[English National Opera]]

CATEGORIES: 1900s establishments in England, Gilbert and Sullivan, Opera companies, London

English National Opera (ENO) is an opera company based in London, England.  The opera house where it performs is called the London Coliseum.  It is in St. Martin's Lane, very near Trafalgar Square.  It is one of the two big opera companies in London.  The other big one is the Royal Opera (ROH), Covent Garden.  The English National Opera is different because the operas there are always sung in English.  The ticket prices are not quite as high as at the ROH.

[[Air show]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation

An air show is an event at which aviators display their flying skills and the capabilities of their aircraft to spectators in aerobatics. Air shows without aerobatic displays, having only aircraft displayed parked on the ground, are called "static air shows".

[[Green belt]]

CATEGORIES: Real estate, Urban planning, Local government

A green belt or greenbelt is a policy and land use designation used in land use planning to retain areas of largely undeveloped, wild, or agricultural land surrounding or neighbouring urban areas. Similar concepts are greenways or green wedges which have a linear character and may run through an urban area instead of around it.  A green belt is basically an invisible line that goes around a certain area, stopping people from building there so that some of the wild and agricultural land can be saved.

[[Florence and the Machine]]

CATEGORIES: Brit Award winners, English pop music groups, English rock bands

Florence and the Machine (also written as Florence + the Machine), is an English rock band that is a recording name of Florence Welch and a collaboration of other artists who provide backing music for her voice. Musically, Florence and the Machine's sound is generally referred to as soul-inspired indie rock. Florence and the Machine's music has received praise across the music media, especially from the BBC. This is because the BBC played a large part in Florence and the Machine's rise to prominence by promoting her as part of BBC Introducing. This led to the band playing at a number of music festivals in 2008, including Glastonbury as well as Reading and Leeds and T in the Park. The band's debut album, Lungs was released on 6 July 2009. It held the number 2 position for its first five weeks in the charts, behind Michael Jackson. The album has now been in the top 40 UK charts for 22 consecutive weeks.

[[Jacopo Peri]]

CATEGORIES: 1561 births, 1633 deaths, Baroque composers, Italian composers, Musicians from Rome, Renaissance composers

Jacopo Peri (born Rome, 20 August 1561; died Florence, 12 August 1633) was an Italian composer and singer. He composed the first opera ever written.

[[Blake Hall tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Disused London Underground stations, 1865 establishments in the United Kingdom, Epping Ongar Railway, Former single platform tube stations, 1981 disestablishments

Blake Hall station is a disused station in Essex, formerly on the Central Line of the London Underground  between North Weald and Ongar.

[[M11 motorway]]

CATEGORIES: Motorways in England, Transport in Epping Forest

The M11 is a motorway in South East England. It goes from London to Cambridge. It is 55 long. It opened between 1975 and 1980.

[[Coopersale Halt railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Epping Ongar Railway, Epping Forest

Coopersale Halt is the current terminus of the Epping Ongar Railway in the hamlet of Coopersale in Epping, Essex, England. It is located between Epping and North Weald. Future plans could see a platform and access to the railway from the Coopersale Street in the form of a halt.May 2008

[[London Underground 1960 Stock]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground electric multiple units

The London Underground 1960 Stock was a small, prototype class of electric multiple unit designed for the London Underground Central Line.

[[Martin Bell]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Alumni of King's College, Cambridge, British war correspondents, British television presenters, Independent politicians, Politicians from Suffolk

Martin Bell, OBE, (born 31 August 1938) is a British UNICEF (UNICEF UK) Ambassador, a former broadcast war reporter and former independent politician.

[[Urban75]]

CATEGORIES: Websites, Activism, Protests

Urban75 (also sometimes referred to as u75 or urban) is a website and messageboard based in Brixton, England. It was founded in 1995 and includes various content e-zine content, as well as bulletin boards. The site was founded and is currently run by Mike Slocombe.

[[Francesco Cavalli]]

CATEGORIES: 1602 births, 1676 deaths, Italian composers, Baroque composers, People from Lombardy

Francesco Cavalli (born Crema, Lombardy, 14 February 1602; died 14 January 1676) was an Italian composer.  He lived in the early part of the Baroque music period. His real name was Pietro Francesco Caletti-Bruni, but he is better known as Cavalli, which was the name of his patron, a Venetian nobleman.  He is remembered for his operas.

[[Santana do Paraíso]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minas Gerais, Vale do Aço metropolitan area, 1992 establishments, 1990s establishments in Brazil

Santana do Paraíso is a Brazilian city in the Vale do Aço metropolitan area, state of Minas Gerais. Its population in 2009 was 24.695 inhabitants. Its area is 275,529 km². The city was founded in April 28, 1992.

It is limited with the municipal districts of Belo Oriente, Mesquita, Ipatinga, Caratinga e Ipaba

[[Ruston (engine builder)]]

CATEGORIES: Rail vehicles manufacturers, Ruston & Hornsby locomotives, Lincolnshire, Defunct companies of the United Kingdom, Manufacturing, 1857 establishments in Europe, 1918 disestablishments in Europe, 1850s establishments in the United Kingdom, 20th century disestablishments in the United Kingdom, Locomotive manufacturers

Ruston was an industrial equipment manufacturer in Lincoln, England, the company's history going back to 1840. The company is best known as a manufacturer of narrow and standard gauge diesel locomotives and also of steam shovels.

[[Harsco Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 establishments in the United States, Companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange

Harsco Corporation (HSC) is a diversified, worldwide industrial company based in the United States.  Harsco operates in 45 countries and employs approximately 21,000 people worldwide. The company provides industrial services and engineered products that serve some of the world’s largest and most essential industries, including steel, construction, railways, and energy.  The 2005 revenues totaled $2.8 billion, nearly 60% of which were generated internationally.

[[Brake van]]

CATEGORIES: United Kingdom rolling stock, Transport in Australia

Brake van and guard's van are terms used mainly in the UK and Australia for a railway vehicle that has a hand brake which can be applied by the guard.  The equivalent North American term is caboose but a British brake van and a caboose are very different in appearance because the former usually has only four wheels while the latter usually has bogies.

[[Track ballast]]

CATEGORIES: Rail infrastructure

Track ballast forms the trackbed upon which railway sleepers (UK) or railroad ties (US) are laid. It is packed between, below, and around the ties. It is used to facilitate drainage of water, to distribute the load from the railroad ties, and also to keep down vegetation that might interfere with the track structure. This also serves to hold the track in place as the trains roll by. It is typically made of crushed stone, although ballast has sometimes consisted of other, less suitable materials.

[[Karmapa]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhist lamas

Karmapa is Tibetan buddhist teacher or lama. He is the first one from Tibetan lamas, who consciously incarnates in subsequent order of Buddhist masters. Karmapa is the head of Karma Kagyu- the biggest subschool or lineage of Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism. The first Karmapa Dusum Khyenpa (1204—1283) is student of Gampopa(1079-1153) .

[[Permanent way]]

CATEGORIES: Rail infrastructure

The permanent way is the elements of railway lines: generally the pairs of rails typically laid on ties ("sleepers" in British parlance) embedded in ballast, intended to carry the ordinary trains of a railway. It is described as permanent way because in the earlier days of railway construction, contractors often laid a temporary track to transport spoil and materials about the site; when this work was substantially completed, the temporary track was taken up and the permanent way installed.

[[London Underground 1962 Stock]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground electric multiple units

The 1962 Tube Stock was a type of London Underground tube train built for use on the Central line. They were used on the Central line between 1962 and 1995. These tube trains were very similar to the 1938 stocks used on Piccadilly line.

[[Scrap]]

CATEGORIES: Recycling, Waste management

Scrap is a term used to describe recyclable materials left over from manufacturing and product consumption. It includes parts of vehicles, building supplies, and surplus materials. Often confused with waste, scrap in fact has significant monetary value.  

Overall, the scrap industry processes more than 145000000 of recyclable material each year into raw material feedstock for industrial manufacturing around the world. One example is scrap steel.

[[Verismo]]

CATEGORIES: Opera genres, Opera terminology, Literature

Verismo is a word which refers to a type of literature and a type of opera that was popular towards the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century. The Italian word "verismo" means "realism".

In literature the main verismo writers were the Frenchman Émile Zola, the Norwegian dramatist Henrik Ibsen and the Italian writer Giovanni Verga. The composer Pietro Mascagni used a story by Verga for his opera Cavalleria rusticana. This was a short, one-act opera which became extremely popular. Several composers were inspired by it and wrote similar works. The only one of these which is still regularly performed is Pagliacci by Ruggero Leoncavallo. These two short operas are often performed on the same evening. They are known together as "Cav and Pag".

Verismo operas are generally based on stories about ordinary people from the working classes rather than about kings or gods or aristocrats. There is often a lot of violence in the stories as people love one another with great passions, which often leads to murder. Bizet's opera Carmen is typical of that kind of story, although it was composed before the verismo tradition was really popular.

[[BBC Introducing]]

CATEGORIES: BBC

BBC Music Introducing is the brand for new music programmes across the BBC showcasing unsigned, self signed and other emerging musical talent primarily from the UK.

[[Eats, Shoots & Leaves]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 books, Non-fiction books

Eats, Shoots & Leaves is a book written by Lynne Truss. It explains  how careful writing and punctuation helps writers communicate clearly. One example is the difference between the statements "eats, shoots and leaves" and "eats shoots and leaves." It explains by the example of a panda who walks into a restaurant, eats, draws a gun and shoots at the other patrons, and then leaves, blaming the incident on the instruction of a badly punctuated wildlife manual. The purpose of the book is to explain the importance of proper punctuation.

The book was interesting to read and a great commercial success  it was a best-seller. However, it had its own punctuation errors and inconsistencies, as a review in the New Yorker magazine pointed out.

[[Germany]]

CATEGORIES: Germany, G7 nations, European Union member states, German-speaking countries, G8 nations, Federations

Germany (Deutschland, ˈdɔʏtʃlant), officially the Federal Republic of Germany (Bundesrepublik Deutschland), is a country in Central Europe. The country's full name is sometimes shortened to the FRG (or the BRD, in German).

To the north of Germany are the North and Baltic Seas, and the kingdom of Denmark. To the east of Germany are the countries of Poland and the Czech Republic. To the south of Germany are the countries of Austria and Switzerland. To the west of Germany are the countries of France, Luxembourg, Belgium, and the Netherlands. The total area of Germany is 357,021 square kilometres (137,847 square miles). The large majority of Germany has warm summers and cold winters. In March 2021, Germany had a population of 83.1 million people, the largest in Europe (excluding Russia). After the United States, Germany is the second most popular country for migration in the world.

Before it was called Germany, it was called Germania. In the years A.D. 900 – 1806, Germany was part of the Holy Roman Empire. From 1949 to 1990, Germany was made up of two countries called the Federal Republic of Germany (inf. West Germany) and the German Democratic Republic (inf. East Germany). During this time, the capital city of Berlin was divided into a west and an east part. On 13 August 1961, East Germany started building the Berlin Wall between the two parts of Berlin. West Germany was one of the countries that started the European Union.

[[Harry Potter]]

CATEGORIES: Harry Potter

Harry Potter is a series of seven fantasy novels and eight movies by J. K. Rowling, a British author. It is named for its protagonist and hero, Harry Potter. Seven books in the series have sold over 500 million copies across the world in over 70 languages including Latin, Welsh and Ancient Greek, and is the best-selling book series of all time. They were adapted into movies by the Warner Bros. The first one was released in 2001. The second, third, fourth, and fifth were released respectively in 2002, 2004, 2005 and 2007. The sixth movie, Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince, was released in 2009. The final movie was divided into two parts. The first part, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1, was released in 2010. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 was released in 2011.

[[Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Spain, European Union member states, Current monarchies, Spanish-speaking countries

Spain is a country in Southern Europe. It is in the Iberian Peninsula. Spain has borders with France, Portugal, Andorra and Morocco. In Spain's northeast side are the Pyrenees mountains.

The people of Spain are called Spaniards. They speak Castilian or Spanish (in Spanish, "Castellano", from Castilla, or "Español").  They speak other languages in some parts of the country.  They are Catalan, Basque, and Asturian, Galician, Leonese, Aragonese, Aranese Occitan  and even Portuguese. The religion of about 56% of the population in Spain is Roman Catholic.

Since 1975, Spain has had a constitutional monarchy. The King of Spain is Felipe VI; he only does what the constitution allows him to.  The parliament is called "Las Cortes Generales," and has two bodies: "El Congreso" (The Congress) and "El Senado" (The Senate) and it is chosen by the Spanish people by voting.  The Prime minister is Pedro Sánchez.  The government and the king's palace are in Madrid, the capital of Spain.

Spain has more than five hundred thousand square kilometres of land.  It is smaller than France, but it is bigger than Germany. Almost fifty million people live in Spain. Spain is divided into 17 autonomous communities (this means that they can decide upon some affairs themselves). Each community has its own government.

Spain is known for flamenco which is usually performed by Roma gypsies.

[[World War I]]

CATEGORIES: Wars involving Australia, Wars involving Belgium, Wars involving the British Empire, Wars involving France, Wars involving Germany, Wars involving Greece, Wars involving Italy, Wars involving Japan, Wars involving New Zealand, Wars involving Portugal, Wars involving Russia, Wars involving South Africa, Wars involving the United States, Wars involving the United Kingdom, World War I

(1914-1918)

(1914-1918)

(1914–1917)

(1914-1918)

(1914-1918)

(1914-1918)

(1914-1918)

(1915–1918)

(1916–1918)

(1916–1918)

(1917–1918)

(1917–1918)

(1917–1918)

(1914-1918)

(1914-1918)

(1914-1918)

(1915–1918)

Military deaths by country

Military deaths by country

World War I (WWI or WW1), also called the First World War, began on July 28, 1914 and lasted until November 11, 1918. It was a global war and lasted exactly 1914. Most of the fighting was in Europe, but soldiers from many other countries took part, and it changed the colonial empires of the European powers. Before World War II began in 1939, World War I was called the Great War, or the World War. There were 135 countries that took part in World War I, and nearly 10 million people died while fighting.

Before the war, European countries had formed alliances to protect themselves. However, that made them divide themselves into two groups. When Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria was assassinated on 28 June 1914, Austria-Hungary blamed  Serbia and declared war on it. Russia then declared war on Austria-Hungary, which set off a chain of events in which members both groups of countries declared war on each other. The two sides were the Allied Powers (mainly Russia, France and the British Empire) and the Central Powers (mainly Germany, Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman Empire).

There was fighting in many different areas (fronts). The French and the British fought the Germans on the Western Front in France and Belgium. Germany had tried to defeat France quickly but was stopped in the First Battle of the Marne. Most of the fighting was then trench warfare. The Russians fought the Germans and Austro-Hungarians on the Eastern Front in Central and Eastern Europe. Fighting was there not trench warfare but mobile warfare. The other main areas of fighting were in the Middle East, in the Gallipoli region of the Ottoman Empire and between Italy and Austria-Hungary. Fighting also took place in Africa and China and at sea and in the air. World War I was the first major war in which tanks, airplanes and submarines (or U-boats) were important weapons.

In 1917, the Russian Revolutions led to Russia leaving the war in March 1918. Also in 1917, the United States entered the war, but it took a year for most of the army to arrive. From the Russian departure to the American arrival, the Germans launched a huge attack in March 1918 to try to win the war, but it failed. In August to November 1918, the Allied Powers won a large victory against the Germans during the Hundred Days Offensive. Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman Empire then agreed to stop fighting. The German government collapsed, and a new government was forced to agree to stop the fighting on 11 November.

The war was ended by the signing of many different treaties, the most important being the Treaty of Versailles. It also led to the creation of the League of Nations, which was meant to prevent wars. People were shocked by the size of the war, how many people it killed and how much damage it caused. They hoped it would be the war "to end all wars". Instead, it led to another, larger world war 21 years later.

[[World War II]]

CATEGORIES: 1939, 1940, 1941, 1942, 1943, 1944, 1945, Wars involving Australia, Wars involving Belgium, Wars involving Canada, Wars involving China, Wars involving France, Wars involving Germany, Wars involving Greece, Wars involving Italy, Wars involving Japan, Wars involving the Netherlands, Wars involving South Africa, Wars involving the Soviet Union, Wars involving the United Kingdom, Wars involving the United States, World War II

World War II (WWII or WW2), called the Great Patriotic War in the Soviet Union, was a global war involving fighting in most of the world and most countries.  Most countries fought from 1939 to 1945, but some started fighting in 1937. Most of the world's countries, including all of the great powers, fought as part of two military alliances: the Allies and the Axis Powers. It was the largest and deadliest conflict in all of history. It involved more countries, cost more money, involved more people, and killed more people than any other war in history. Between 50 to 85 million people died, most of whom were civilians. The war included massacres, the genocide of the Holocaust, strategic bombing, starvation, disease, and the only use of nuclear weapons against civilians in history.

The two sides were the Allies (at first China, France and the United Kingdom, joined by the Soviet Union, United States and others) and the Axis (Germany, Italy and Japan). The war in Asia began when Japan invaded China on July 7, 1937. The war began in Europe when Germany invaded Poland on September 1, 1939. France and the United Kingdom reacted by declaring war on Germany. By 1941, much of Europe was under German control, including France. Only the British remained fighting against the Axis in North Africa, the Mediterranean, and the Atlantic. Germany gave up plans to invade Britain after losing an airplane battle. In June 1941, Germany invaded the Soviet Union, starting the largest area of war in history. On December 7, 1941, Japan attacked the United States at Pearl Harbor and invaded British and French colonies in Asia, and the two wars became one.

The Japanese victories were stopped in 1942, and that same year, the Soviets won the huge Battle of Stalingrad. Then, the Allies started to win in all areas. The Axis were forced back into the Soviet Union, lost North Africa, and, starting in 1943, were forced to defend Italy. In 1944, the Allies invaded France, and they came into Germany itself from the west while the Soviets came in from the east. Germany surrendered on 8 May 1945. Japan formally surrendered on September 2, 1945, and the war had ended with an Allied victory.

After the war, the United Nations was set up to develop support between countries and to prevent future wars.  The Cold War by the major winners soon started, but they did not fight each other in an actual war. The decolonization of Asia and Africa, where those countries controlled by European countries, were given their independence, happened as well since Europe had been weakened by the war. Economic recovery and the political integration (the process of uniting countries) were among other results of the war.

[[Rubeus Hagrid]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1997, Harry Potter characters

Rubeus Hagrid is a character in the J.K. Rowling Harry Potter book series. A teacher and groundskeeper at Hogwarts, the school that Harry Potter attends, Hagrid is a friend of Harry, Ron, and Hermione. Hagrid is also a "half-giant." His father was not a giant, whereas his mother, Fridwulfa, who abandoned him when he was just an infant, was a giantess. He has a half-brother named Grawp. In the Harry Potter movies, Hagrid is played by Robbie Coltrane. Martin Playfield appears as a young Hagrid in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.

Over the course of the Harry Potter books, Hagrid is expelled from Hogwarts after The Ministry of Magic thought he had opened the Chamber of Secrets.  But the truth that he had been framed by Tom Riddle is exposed and Hagrid is allowed to remain at the school as gamekeeper. The government broke his wand and banned him from doing magic when he was expelled, but he keeps pieces of the wand in his pink umbrella. 

Hagrid, who keeps several pets, is also a friend of Madame Olympe Maxime, headmistress of Beauxbatons Academy of Magic, although it is not known if they were together in a romantic way.

[[Rodney Stuckey]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, American basketball players, Living people, Sportspeople from Seattle, Washington, Detroit Pistons players

Rodney "Norvell" Stuckey is a professional National Basketball Association player for the, Detroit Pistons. He went to Eastern Washington University. He went to Kentwood High School, in Kent, Washington. He was born on, April 21, 1986 in Seattle, Washington. He was drafted by the Detroit Pistons in the 1st round (15th pick, 15th overall) of the 2007 NBA draft. His jersey number is 3. He is 6'5", and is 205 pounds. He was the 2007-08 NBA All-Rookie (2nd). He plays the guard position.

On March 5, 2010, Stuckey had a seizure on the bench during a game and collapsed in his trainer's arms, and was taken to the hospital. However, he was reported to be doing well not long after going to the hospital, and returned to next play in a game on March 19.

[[Alou Diarra]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, French footballers

Alou Diarra (a.lu dja.ʁa ; born 15 July 1981) is a French football player. He plays for Girondins Bordeaux and France national team.

[[Gaël Givet]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, French footballers, Arles

Gaël Givet (born 9 October 1981) is a French football player. He plays for Blackburn Rovers.

[[Brad Jones (soccer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Association football goalkeepers, Sportspeople from Western Australia, People from Perth, Western Australia

Bradley Scott Jones (born 19 March, 1982) is an Australian football player. He plays for Middlesbrough.

[[Sebastián Viera]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Uruguayan footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Sebastián Viera (born 7 March 1983 in Florida, Uruguay) is an Uruguayan football player. He plays for Larissas and Uruguay national team.

[[Christian Bolaños]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Costa Rican footballers

Christian Bolaños (born 17 May 1984) is a Costa Rican football player. He has played for Start and Costa Rica national team.

[[Mido]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Egyptian footballers, People from Cairo, Egypt international footballers

Mido (born 23 February 1983) is an Egyptian football player. He plays for West Ham United and Egypt national team.

[[Angelo Carlos Pretti]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Angelo Carlos Pretti (born August 10, 1965) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Rudi Vata]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Albanian footballers

Rudi Vata (born 13 February 1969) is a former Albanian football player. He has played for Albania national team.

[[Zamalek Sporting Club]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs, Cairo, Sport in Egypt, 1911 establishments, 1910s establishments in Africa, 20th-century establishments in Egypt

Zamalek Sporting Club is a sport club in Egypt. It is located in Cairo.

[[IK Start]]

CATEGORIES: Norwegian football clubs, 1905 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Norway

IK Start is a Norwegian football club. It was founded on 19 September 1905.

[[The Ladykillers (2004 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 comedy movies, 2000s criminal comedy movies, American criminal comedy movies, English-language movies, Movie remakes, Movies set in Mississippi

The Ladykillers is a 2004 American crime comedy movie. It is set in Mississippi and stars Tom Hanks. It was directed by the Coen brothers. It is a remake of the original 1955 movie of the same name.

[[Bill Paxton]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Fort Worth, Texas, American movie actors, American movie directors, American Roman Catholics, American television actors, American voice actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from stroke, Deaths from surgical complications, Saturn Award winners

William "Bill" Paxton (May 17, 1955 – February 25, 2017) was an American actor and movie director.  Notably, he was the protagonist of the movie Twister, as "Bill Harding", with co-star Helen Hunt. Alan Ruck and Philip Seymour Hoffman also co-starred. He is also known for his roles in The Terminator (1984), Weird Science (1985), Aliens (1986), Predator 2 (1990), True Lies (1994), Apollo 13 (1995), and Titanic (1997). 

Paxton starred in the HBO series Big Love (2006–2011) and was nominated for an Emmy Award for the miniseries Hatfields & McCoys. He is the father of actor John Paxton. In 1987, he won a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role in Aliens.

Paxton was born on May 17, 1955 in Fort Worth, Texas. He was raised as a Roman Catholic.

Paxton was in the crowd waving when President John F. Kennedy emerged from the Hotel Texas in Fort Worth, on the morning of his assassination, November 22, 1963. There are pictures at the Sixth Floor Museum in Dallas where 8-year-old Paxton can be seen lifted above the crowd.

Paxton died on February 25, 2017 at a hospital in Los Angeles, California from a post-surgical stroke complicated by heart surgery, aged 61.

[[Alias (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 American television series debuts, Spy television series, Television series by Buena Vista Television, 2006 American television series endings, English-language television programs

Alias was an American action television series that was made in five seasons from 2001 to 2006. The main actress was Jennifer Garner. A co-starring actor was Mike Vartan.

[[Fred Willard]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Comedians from Ohio, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Writers from Cleveland, Ohio, Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, People from Shaker Heights, Ohio

Frederick Charles "Fred" Willard (September 18, 1933 – May 15, 2020) was an American actor, comedian and writer.

He starred in movies, including This Is Spinal Tap (1984), Waiting for Guffman (1997), American Wedding (2003), Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy (2004), Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle (2004), WALL-E (2008), Youth in Revolt (2009), Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues (2013). He also appeared in television series such as Everybody Loves Raymond, The Simpsons and Modern Family. In 2020, his last role was as Fred Naird in the Netflix comedy Space Force.

Willard was born in Cleveland, Ohio. His wife, Mary Lovell, died in July 2018. They had a daughter together, Hope.

In July 2012, he was arrested for masturbation in an adult movie theater. However, no charges were filed because the police had no evidence.

Willard died at his home in Los Angeles on May 15, 2020 of cardiac arrest, aged 86.

[[Oslofjord]]

CATEGORIES: Gulfs, Geography of Norway

The Oslofjord (Oslofjorden)  is one of Norway’s most popular recreation area. It is 100 kilometres in length. It is a short distance from Oslo by ferry.

The fjord carries shipping to and from Oslo. The northern part of Oslofjord splits into several smaller fjords, including Sande Bay and Bunne Fjord.

[[Bo Outlaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, African-American basketball players, Living people, Los Angeles Clippers players, Memphis Grizzlies players, Orlando Magic players, Phoenix Suns players, Sportspeople from San Antonio, Texas, American basketball players

Charles "Bo" Outlaw (born April 13, 1971; also known as Bo Outlaw) is a retired basketball player who played in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played for the Los Angeles Clippers, Orlando Magic, Phoenix Suns, and Memphis Grizzlies. He played in his last NBA game in 2007. Before playing in the NBA, he played college basketball at South Plains College and the University of Houston.

[[Bill Murray]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, 1950 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from Chicago, Television personalities from Chicago, Movie producers from Chicago, Screenwriters from Chicago, Comedians from Chicago

Williams James "Bill" Murray (born September 21, 1950) is an American Comedian, Writer and Actor. He  has played in some drama roles but he usually does comedy. He was in the movies Groundhog Day, Ghostbusters, Stripes, Lost in Translation, and The Jungle Book. Murray is known for his work on Saturday Night Live and Ghostbusters. He also plays charity golf with professional golf players.

Murray was born in Wilmette, Illinois. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at Loyola Academy and Regis University (dropped out).

Murray was married to Margaret Kelly from 1981 until they divorced in 1996. Then he married Jennifer Butler from 1997 until they divorced in 2008. Murray has six children.

[[Artificial pacemaker]]

CATEGORIES: Heart, Medical equipment

A pacemaker is a device created by Earl Bakken that helps to regulate your heart. It uses electrical pulses. If your heart is beating too fast, the pacemaker slows it down. If your heart slows down, the pacemaker will slightly speed it up, so that it goes back to a normal heart beat.

[[West Macedonia]]

CATEGORIES: Peripheries of Greece

West Macedonia is one of the thirteen peripheries of Greece. It is also one of the 3 parts of the region of Macedonia and particularly the western. It contains 4 perfectures: Florina, Kozani, Kastoria and Grevena. It borders with Thessaly and Epirus to the west and Central Macedonia to the east. It also borders with two countries in the north: Albania and North Macedonia. It has a total population of 303,857 inhabitants according to the 2001 census. Its capital and biggest city is Kozani.

[[Skydra]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Greece

Skydra (Σκύδρα) is a town and municipality of Pella Prefecture in the region of Macedonia in Greece. It has a total population of 5,081 inhabitants in the town and 15,654 inhabitants in the municipality.

[[Listen to Your Heart]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 songs

Listen to Your Heart is a popular electronica/female vocals song. Roxette, sang this song. Different musical artists have made cover versions of this song.

[[Gary Jules]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American rock guitarists, American rock singers, Singer-songwriters from California, Musicians from San Diego, California, People from Fresno, California, Singers from San Diego, California, Writers from San Diego, California, American folk singers

Gary Jules (born March 19, 1969) is an American singer-songwriter. He is best known for his cover of the Tears for Fears song, "Mad World" that was used in the movie, Donnie Darko.

[[Brass band]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups, Brass instruments

A brass band is a musical group that is made up of only brass instruments (such as the trumpet, tuba, and trombone) and a drum section.

There are several different types of brass bands. One of the more popular types of brass band is the British brass band. A British brass band usually has 25 or 26 players that play: cornets, flugelhorns, tenor horns, euphoniums, tenor trombone, bass trombone and tuba.

[[1st millennium BC]]

CATEGORIES: 1st millennium BC

The 1st millennium BC was the last millennium before the Common Era. It started on January 1, 1000 BC, and ended on December 31, 1 BC. There was no year 0 and no year 0 BC.

[[Bird nest]]

CATEGORIES: Birds

A bird nest is a place where a bird lays its eggs. There are all kinds of nests, including cup nests, holes in the ground, and piles of twigs and leaves. The word can be used as a noun or a verb, as in – a bird nests in a nest. They are in all kinds of sizes: some can be as big and heavy as a car, like an old eagle's nest, while some can be tiny as a thimble, like the nest of a Bee Hummingbird.

[[Car bomb]]

CATEGORIES: Car and truck bombings

A car bomb is a bomb device that is hidden within a vehicle. It is usually driven into places where there will be many people. Terrorists use car bombs more than any other type of organization. The car with the bomb attached to it will explode. This will usually cause fires and small pieces of metal which cause most of the damage.

[[Mancini]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Mancini (born 1 August 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Milan.

[[Darren Ambrose]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Essex, Premier League players, Crystal Palace F.C. players

Darren Ambrose (born 29 February 1984) was an English football player. He played for Ipswich Town, Newcastle United, Charlton Athletic, Crystal Palace, Birmingham City, Apollon Smyrnis, and Colchester United.

[[Mazinho Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Rio de Janeiro

Mazinho Oliveira (born 26 December 1965) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Charles N'Zogbia]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, French footballers

Charles N'Zogbia (born 28 May 1986) is a French football player. He plays for Wigan Athletic.

[[Karim Benzema]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, French footballers, Sportspeople from Lyon

[[Lim You-hwan]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Lim You-Hwan (born 2 December 1983 ) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.  He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Regillio Simons]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Regillio Simons (born 28 June 1973) is a former Dutch football player.

[[Alemão (born in 1984)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2007 deaths, Brazilian footballers

Carlos Adriano de Jesus Soares, better known as Alemão (10 April 1984 – 8 July 2007), was a Brazilian football player.

[[Paulo Antônio de Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Mato Grosso

Paulo Antônio de Oliveira (born 16 July 1982) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.

[[Akhrik Tsveiba]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Ukrainian footballers, Russian footballers

Akhrik Tsveiba (born 10 September 1966) is a former Ukrainian-Russian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team, Ukraine national team and Russia national team.

[[Dmitri Radchenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Russian footballers

Dmitri Radchenko (born 2 December 1970) is a former Russian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team and Russia national team.

[[Javier Irureta]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Spanish football managers

Javier Irureta (born 1 April 1948) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Kasper Schmeichel]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Danish footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Kasper Schmeichel (born 5 November 1986) is a Danish professional association football player.

[[Carlton Cole]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Sportspeople from London, Black British sportspeople, English footballers, Premier League players

Carlton Cole (born 12 November 1983) is an English footballer. He plays for West Ham United and England national team.

[[Ko Jeong-woon]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Ko Jeong-Woon (born 27 June 1966) is a South Korean professinal athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Edin Mujčin]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Bosnia and Herzegovina footballers

Edin Mujčin (born 14 January 1970) is a Bosnia and Herzegovina football player. He has played for Bosnia and Herzegovina national team.

[[Néstor Gorosito]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Argentine football managers

Néstor Gorosito (born 14 April 1964) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.

[[Marcelo Lipatín]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Uruguayan footballers, Sportspeople from Montevideo

Marcelo Lipatín (born 28 January 1977) is an Uruguayan football player.

[[Hennie Meijer]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, People from Paramaribo

Henny Meijer (born February 17, 1962) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for the Dutch national team.

[[Shaka Hislop]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Trinidad and Tobago footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Shaka Hislop (born 22 February 1969) is a former Trinidad and Tobago football player. He has played for Trinidad and Tobago national team.

[[Hélder Postiga]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers

Hélder Postiga (born 2 August 1982) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Sporting Portugal.

[[Tetsuya Abe]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Tetsuya Abe (born 24 June 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Víctor Fernández]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, People from Zaragoza

Víctor Fernández (born 28 November 1960) is a Spanish football manager.  He has managed a number of teams including Porto of Portugal.

[[Miguel Ángel Lotina]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Miguel Ángel Lotina (born 18 June 1957) is a Spanish football manager. During his career he has managed several Spanish teams, including currently Deportivo La Coruña.

[[NHL Winter Classic]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League

The NHL Winter Classic is an annual event held by the National Hockey League where regular-season games are played outdoors.

[[List of Stanley Cup Finals appearances]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League lists

This is a list of Stanley Cup Final appearances, which lists those teams that have played in the Stanley Cup Final series since the current play-off format was adopted in 1915. Before this, from 1894 to 1914, the Cup was won by challenge or league championship. Since 1927, the Stanley Cup Final series also determines the National Hockey League (NHL) championship.

[[Denzel Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York, African American actors, American movie actors, African American movie directors, African American movie producers, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Best Actor Academy Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors, 1954 births, Living people, People from Mount Vernon, New York

Denzel Washington (born December 28, 1954) is an American actor, director, and producer. He has won many awards during his acting career. In 2001 he became only the second African American man to win the Academy Award for "Best Actor". He has been in 43 feature films. He has won two Oscars. 

Washington played Malcolm X in the 1992 movie Malcolm X. He played Whip Whitaker in the 2012 film Flight. His son, John David, is also an actor. He also made his film debut in the 1974 film Death Wish.

[[Filip Vandewal]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Belgian filmmakers, Cinematographers

Filip Vandewal (born 31 May 1981) is a Belgian cinematographer.

Filip graduated from the Brussels movie school RITS in 2003. Movies he has worked on have been screened at several international movie festivals including Cannes Film Festival and Clermont-Ferrand. He was the cinematographer on De laatste zomer (Last Summer), a movie directed by Joost Wijnant. Filip now lives in Los Angeles.

[[Doddinghurst]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Essex

Doddinghurst is a village and civil parish in south Essex. It is 3 miles (5 km) to the north of Brentwood. It has a population of 2832 people. There are three rivers in as attractions.

[[Railway semaphore signal]]

CATEGORIES: Rail technologies

One of the earliest forms of fixed railway signal is the semaphore. These signals display their different indications to train drivers by changing the angle of inclination of a pivoted 'arm'.

[[Thecodontosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropodomorphs

Thecodontosaurus (meaning "socket-toothed lizard") was a very early dinosaur that lived during the  Upper Triassic, a time when the Earth was relatively warm and much of the land was dry and desert-like. This was around the time that the dinosaurs were just starting to appear.

[[Eric Holder]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, United States Attorneys General, Politicians from New York City, Columbia University alumni, US Democratic Party politicians, African American lawyers, United States Deputy Attorneys General

Eric Holder (born January 21, 1951) is an American attorney. He served as the Attorney General of the United States, under President Barack Obama from 2009 to 2015. He is the first African-American to hold that post. Before being named as Attorney General, he was the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia under President Clinton and help pick Joe Biden as Obama's running mate. Holder was born in the Bronx.

On September 25, 2014, the Justice Department said Holder would resign as soon as his successor is confirmed. He was succeeded by Loretta Lynch on April 27, 2015.

[[The Brothers Karamazov]]

CATEGORIES: Books by Fyodor Dostoevsky, 1879 books, Russian novels, 1880 books, Crime fiction books, Epic poems, Fictional families, Suicide in fiction, Works about families

The Brothers Karamazov (yes) is a Russian novel written by Fyodor Dostoevsky. Dostoevsky said, "I'd die happy if I could finish this final last novel, for I would have expressed myself completely."

The Brothers Karamazov is the story of the lives of three Russian brothers who are very different in body, mind, and spirit, and are often thought of as representing those three parts of mankind. It was written in 1879 to 1880 in Russia, mostly in St. Petersburg. It was published in 1879 to 1880 in a series. It is his most complicated and deep novel, and most people think it is Dostoevsky’s greatest.

There are four brothers in the Karamazov family: Ivan, the atheist intellect; Dmitry, the emotional lover of women; Alyosha, the "hero" and Christian; and twisted, cunning Smerdyakov, the illegitimate child, who is treated as the family servant. Fyodor Pavlovich Karamazov is a very careless father and woman-lover. Dmitry comes to hate him because his father loves the same woman as he does, Grushenka, and because of this, he often threatens that he will kill his father. When Fyodor Pavlovich is killed by Smerdyakov, he is accused of killing his father.

Throughout the book there is a search for truth: about man, about life, and about God. After it was published, all kinds of people such as Sigmund Freud, Albert Einstein, and Pope Benedict XVI thought it was the greatest book in all literature.

[[Georgetown, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Ontario

Georgetown is a community in Ontario, Canada. It is part of the town of Halton Hills, Ontario. A neighbouring community is Acton, Ontario.

[[July Revolution]]

CATEGORIES: Revolutions, 19th century in France, 1830

The French Revolution of 1830, also known as the July Revolution, was the throwing off of Charles X of France from power. His cousin Louis-Philippe, the Duc d'Orléans became king. However, after 18 hard years on the throne, he, also, would be taken off the position of king. It showed the change from one kind of monarchy to another. This change was from the Bourbon Restoration to the July Monarchy. This also marked the change of power from the House of Bourbon to the House of Orléans. People who supported Bourbon would be called Legitimists. Supporters of Louis-Phillipe were called Orleanists. Louis-Philippe was king of the French (not King of France) until the French Revolution of 1848.

[[Baja Bug]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s automobiles, Volkswagen automobiles

A Baja Bug is an original Volkswagen Beetle changed so that it can operate in open desert, sand dunes and beaches.  Other kinds of air-cooled Volkswagens are sometimes changed this way.

[[Nuno Valente]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, Sportspeople from Lisbon

Nuno Valente (born 12 September 1974) is a former Portuguese football player. He has played for Portugal national team.

[[Stefano Okaka Chuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Stefano Okaka Chuka (born 9 August 1989) is an Italian football player. He plays for Fulham.

[[Chris James]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Oceanic footballers, People from Wellington, Sportspeople from North Island

Chris James (born 4 July 1987) is a New Zealand football player. He plays for New Zealand national team.

[[Junnosuke Schneider]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers

Junnosuke Schneider (born 22 May 1977) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama.

[[Liam Rosenior]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Liam Rosenior (born 9 July 1984) is an English football player. He plays for Ipswich Town.

[[Hiroshi Ochiai]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo players, Urawa Red Diamonds players

Hiroshi Ochiai is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Yoshiyuki Matsuyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, JEF United Chiba players, Gamba Osaka players, Kyoto Sanga FC players, 1988 AFC Asian Cup players

Yoshiyuki Matsuyama is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His brother Hiroaki Matsuyama is also former footballer.

[[Quim]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Quim (born 13 November 1975) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Benfica.

[[Fernando Meira]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers

Fernando Meira (born 5 June 1978) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Zenit Saint Petersburg.

[[Mantorras]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, African footballers, Angolan people

Pedro Manuel Torres (born 18 March 1982) known mononymously as Mantorras is an Angolan football player. He plays for Benfica and Angola national team.

[[Nuno Gomes]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers

Nuno Gomes (born 5 July 1976) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Benfica and Portugal national team.

He started his career from Boavista in 1994. In 1997, he changed team and he went to Benfica. In 2000/01 season, he went to Fiorentina and in 2002/03 season he returned to Benfica.

[[Nino Bule]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Nino Bule (born 19 March 1976) is a Croatian football player. He has played for Croatia national team.

[[Vjekoslav Škrinjar]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Vjekoslav Škrinjar (born 2 June 1969) is a former Croatian football player.

[[José Carlos Garcia Leal]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

José Carlos Garcia Leal (born 15 July 1980) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Tiago Mendes]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, Portuguese football managers

Tiago Mendes (born 2 May 1981) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Atlético Madrid and Portugal national team.

[[Comparative anatomy]]

CATEGORIES: Animal anatomy, Branches of zoology, Taxonomy

Comparative anatomy is the scientific comparison of animal bodies. The purpose of comparative anatomy is to see their working structure, and to decide upon the phylogenetic relationships between different groups of animals. The separation of animals into phyla is done mainly by comparative anatomy: see List of animal phyla.

The main techniques used are dissection and microscopy. Dissection is an ancient method used to find out the inside structure of a living thing (usually done after it is dead). It is still used by medical students to learn about the details of the human body. Simple microscopes were first invented in the 17th century, and the compound microscope (still used today) became available in the 19th century. The purpose of microscopy is to let us see the small details of structure. Also, the careful comparison of large collections of animals (usually in museums) is often done.

The great era of comparative anatomy was from about 1800 to about 1950. It was used by those who did not believe in evolution, such as Georges Cuvier, and by those who did, such as Thomas Henry Huxley. Charles Darwin himself used comparative anatomy as the main tool in his work on barnacles. Nowadays, the main method used to find out relationships is molecular evolution, which uses DNA sequence analysis. However, for many research purposes, zoologists still dissect animals. To get a degree in biology, you need to know about the structure of animals (and plants).

[[Dissection]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy, Zoology

Dissection is a standard laboratory technique in biology and pathology. To dissect is to cut up a body so as to reveal its structure. The body could be that of a human, an animal, or a plant. Dissections are regularly done in autopsies to help determine the cause of death. They are done by zoologists to find out the internal structure of animal bodies. The comparative anatomy of animals, revealed by dissections, gives clues as to their evolutionary relationships.

[[List of animal phyla]]

CATEGORIES: Animal phyla, Invertebrates, Lists of animals, Taxonomy, Groups of phyla, Glossaries

List of animal phyla is a list of the major groups of animals usually classified as a phylum. Modern sources have been used: the list is different from that of Linnaeus or Cuvier. A list of this type may be arranged alphabetically; equally it might be arranged according to evolutionary relationships. No list will be completely satisfactory. Authorities differ in what they consider a phylum, and in the actual name of the phylum. Despite this, there is agreement on most phyla. Most modern surveys include groups above the phylum, based on evidence of common descent.

Differences of opinion about evolutionary relationships have been reduced by the use of molecular evolution and molecular clock research. These make use of protein amino acid sequences, and whole genome DNA sequence analysis. These modern techniques have led to changes and renaming of many higher categories. Classification based on traditional comparative anatomy had errors which needed to be corrected. For example, the old phylum Coelenterata, which had stood for almost two hundred years, was split down into two separate phyla, the Cnidaria and the Ctenophora. 

The following list is based on evolutionary relationships:

[[Orthoptera]]

CATEGORIES: Orthoptera

Orthoptera are an order of insects. The order contains grasshoppers, katydids, and crickets. "Ortho" means "straight", so "Orthoptera" means "straight wings".

This means the front wings, called tegmina, are stiff, straight, and not used for flying. The back wings are membranous and are folded like a fan under the front wings when the insect is not flying. Many species use their wings to make sounds, which we usually call "chirping" noises.

[[Chios]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Greece

Chios is the fifth largest Greek island. Its total area is 842 Km2. It is in the northeast of Aegean Sea, near Asia Minor coast. The biggest town of the island is Chios city. 51,936 people lived there according to the 2001 Greek census.

[[Corfu]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Greece

Corfu (or Kerkyra) is the seventh-largest Greek island. It is in the Ionian Sea northwest of Greece. The island has a total area of 1540. In 2001, 109,537 people lived on the island. Corfu city is the largest city on Corfu. 

[[Adoram Keisi]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Israeli footballers, Jewish Israeli sportspeople

Adoram Keisi (אדורם קייסי; born June 17, 1972) is a retired Israeli professional football (soccer) player. Keisi was playing as a Left Back (defender), and he was known as a great header and as a winner that scores crucial goals when needed (such as the equalizer to Hapoel Tel Aviv or the goal that he scored against Sturm Graz, a goal that gave Maccabi Haifa F.C. the way to the UEFA Champions League group table.

[[Alfa Romeo]]

CATEGORIES: Italian automobile companies, Alfa Romeo automobiles, 1910 establishments in Italy

Alfa Romeo Automobiles S.p.A. is an Italian car manufacturer created on June 24, 1910 in Milan. Alfa Romeo has been a part of the Fiat Group since 1986, and since February 2007 a part of Fiat Group Automobiles S.p.A. The company was originally known as A.L.F.A., which stands for Anonima Lombarda Fabbrica Automobili (English: Lombard Automobile Factory, Public Company).

[[Gangster]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations

A gangster, mobster, or gangsta is a criminal who is a member of a crime organization, such as a gang. The terms are widely used in reference to members of gangs associated with American prohibition and the American offshoot of the Mafia, such as the Chicago Outfit or the Five Families. The related word "mobster" is a term derived from Latin and Aramaic. A gang is a group of people who, through the organization, formation, and establishment of an assemblage, share a common identity.

In early usage, the word gang referred to a group of workmen. In the United Kingdom the word is still often used in this sense.

[[Peter Buck]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American guitarists, American songwriters, American rock musicians, Musicians from Berkeley, California, Writers from Berkeley, California

Peter Lawrence Buck (born December 6, 1956 in Berkeley, California) is an American guitarist and songwriter. He is best known for being a member of the alternative rock band  R.E.M..

In 2007 Peter Buck, along with the other three members of R.E.M., was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

His main instrument that he has used for his entire music career is a back Rickenbacker 360 electric guitar. On September 9, 2008, after a concert in Helsinki, his famous black guitar was stolen. On September 18, 2008 it was given back to him. The name of the person who returned it is not known.

[[Interstate 15]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways, 1957 establishments in the United States

Interstate 15 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from San Diego, California north to Sweetgrass, Montana at the Canada border. It also connects the cities of Las Vegas, Nevada and Salt Lake City, Utah. The route is 1433.52 long and passes through the states of California, Nevada, Arizona, Utah, Idaho, and Montana.

[[Interstate 16]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 16 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Georgia in the United States. It goes from Macon east to Savannah. The route is 166.81 long.

[[Interstate 17]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 17 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Arizona in the United States. It goes from Phoenix north to Flagstaff. The route is 145.76 long.

[[Interstate 19]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 19 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Arizona in the United States. It goes from Nogales at the Mexico border north to Tucson. The route is 63.35 long.

[[Interstate 20]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 20 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Kent, Texas east to Florence, South Carolina. The route is 1539.38 long.

[[Interstate 22]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways, Memphis, Tennessee

Interstate 22 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Memphis, Tennessee, east to Birmingham, Alabama, on U.S. Route 78.

[[Interstate 24]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 24 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Goreville, Illinois southeast to East Ridge, Tennessee. The route is 316.36 long.

[[Interstate 25]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 25 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Las Cruces, New Mexico north to Buffalo, Wyoming. Cities in between include Albuquerque, New Mexico; Santa Fe, New Mexico; Pueblo, Colorado; Colorado Springs, Colorado; Denver, Colorado; Cheyenne, Wyoming; and Casper, Wyoming. The route is 1062.77 long.

[[Interstate 26]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 26 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Kingsport, Tennessee southeast to Charleston, South Carolina. The route is 349 long.

[[Interstate 27]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 27 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Texas in the United States. It goes from Lubbock north to Amarillo. The route is 124.132 long.

[[Interstate 29]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 29 (I-29) is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Kansas City, Missouri, north to Pembina, North Dakota, at the Canada border. The route is 755.51 long.

[[Interstate 30]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 30 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from the Fort Worth, Texas area east to Little Rock, Arkansas. The route is 366.76 long.

[[Interstate 35]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 35 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Laredo, Texas at the Mexico border north to Duluth, Minnesota. The route is 1568.38 long.

In June 2015, the highway was closed because of high water and a rock slide caused by Tropical Storm Bill. On June 18, the southbound lanes opened. It was not known when the northbound lanes would open.

[[Interstate 37]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 37 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Texas in the United States. It goes from Corpus Christi north to San Antonio. The route is 143.00 long.

[[Interstate 39]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 39 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Normal, Illinois north to Rothschild, Wisconsin. The route is 306.14 long.

[[Interstate 40]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 40, or I-40 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It runs from Barstow, California in the west to Wilmington, North Carolina in the east. The route is 2555.10 long. From west to east, it goes throughout the states of California, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Tennessee, and North Carolina. Some big cities it goes through are Albuquerque, New Mexico; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Little Rock, Arkansas; Memphis, Tennessee; Nashville, Tennessee; Winston-Salem, North Carolina; Greensboro, North Carolina; Durham, North Carolina; and Raleigh, North Carolina.

[[Interstate 43]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 43 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. It goes from Beloit north to Green Bay. The route is 191.55 long.

[[Interstate 44]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 44 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Wichita Falls, Texas northeast to St. Louis, Missouri. The route is 633.79 long.

[[Interstate 45]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 45 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Texas in the United States. It goes from Galveston north to Dallas. The route is 284.913 long.

[[Interstate 49]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 49 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Louisiana in the United States. It goes from Lafayette north to Kansas City. The route is 208.25 long.

[[Interstate 55]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 55 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Laplace, Louisiana north to Chicago, Illinois. The route is 964.25 long.

[[Interstate 57]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

IL: Alexander, Pulaski, Union, Johnson, Williamson, Franklin, Jefferson, Marion, Fayette, Clay, Effingham, Shelby, Cumberland, Coles, Douglas, Champaign, Ford, Iroquois, Kankakee, Will, Cook

Interstate 57 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Miner, Missouri north to Chicago, Illinois. The route is 386.12 long.

[[Interstate 59]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 59 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Slidell, Louisiana northeast to Wildwood, Georgia. The route is 445.23 long.

[[Interstate 64]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 64 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Wentzville, Missouri east to Chesapeake, Virginia. The route is 953.74 long.

[[Interstate 65]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 65 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Mobile, Alabama north to Gary, Indiana. The route is 887.30 long.

[[Interstate 66]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 66 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Middletown, Virginia east to Washington, D.C.. The route is 76.28 long. The freeway is to be extended to Kansas.

[[Interstate 68]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 68 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Morgantown, West Virginia east to Hancock, Maryland. The route is 112.9 long.

[[Interstate 69]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 69 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. The main part of it goes from Indianapolis, Indiana north to Port Huron, Michigan at the Canada border. This part of the route is 355.81 long. There are also parts of Interstate 69 in Mississippi and near Evansville, Indiana that are not currently connected to the other part. They will be connected when Interstate 69 is built from Indianapolis southwest to Texas.

[[Interstate 70]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 70 is an interstate highway in the United States. It begins in Cove Fort, Utah, and it goes east to Baltimore, Maryland. The route is 2153.13 long and travels through 10 states. It also goes through some major cities in the heart of America including Denver, Kansas City, St. Louis, Indianapolis, and Columbus.

[[Interstate 71]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 71 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Louisville, Kentucky northeast to Cleveland, Ohio. The route is 343.78 long.

[[Interstate 72]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 72 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Hannibal, Missouri east to Champaign, Illinois. The route is 179.29 long.

[[Interstate 73]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 73 is an Interstate Highway in the state of North Carolina in the United States. The route goes from Myrtle Beach north to Roanoke. This road is to be a part of a longer Interstate 73 going from South Carolina to Michigan.

[[Interstate 74]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 74 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. The main part of it goes from Davenport, Iowa east to Cincinnati, Ohio and will be extended to Georgetown, South Carolina. There are three parts of Interstate 74 that are in North Carolina, with no part being connected. All four parts of Interstate 74 will become part of one road. Interstate 74 was 428.81 long as of October 31, 2018.

[[Interstate 76 (west)]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 76 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Arvada, Colorado northeast to Big Springs, Nebraska. The route is 188.10 long.

[[Interstate 76 (Ohio–New Jersey)]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 76 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Westfield Center, Ohio east to Bellmawr, New Jersey. The route is 434.36 long.

Just west of Youngstown, I-76 joins the Ohio Turnpike and heads around the south side of Youngstown. In Pennsylvania, I-76 runs across most of the state on the Pennsylvania Turnpike. It passes near Pittsburgh and Harrisburg before leaving the Turnpike to enter Philadelphia. It is called the Schuylkill Expressway in Philadelphia. It crossing the Walt Whitman Bridge into New Jersey. After Interstate 76 reaches its eastern terminus,  the freeway continues as Route 42 and the Atlantic City Expressway to Atlantic City.

[[Interstate 77]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 77 is an Interstate Highway in the eastern United States. It goes from Columbia, South Carolina north to Cleveland, Ohio. The route is 610.10 long. It traverses diverse terrain, from the mountainous state of West Virginia to the rolling farmlands of North Carolina and Ohio. It largely supplants the old U.S. Route 21 between Cleveland, Ohio, and Columbia, South Carolina, as an important north–south corridor through the middle Appalachians. The southern terminus of Interstate 77 is in Columbia at the junction with Interstate 26. The northern terminus is in Cleveland at the junction with Interstate 90.

The East River Mountain Tunnel, connecting Virginia and West Virginia, is one of only two instances in the United States where a mountain road tunnel crosses a state line. The other is the Cumberland Gap Tunnel, connecting Tennessee and Kentucky.

[[Interstate 78]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 78 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Union Township, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania east to New York City. The route is 143.56 long.

On the west, it starts at Interstate 81 northeast of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. It passes through Allentown, Pennsylvania, and western and northern New Jersey. It goes in the Holland Tunnel to end in Lower Manhattan in New York City.

I-78 is a major road linking ports in the New York City and New Jersey area to points west. Over 4 million trucks use it annually. Trucks are 24% of all traffic. Truck traffic on the road is projected to rise once the widening of the Panama Canal is completed in 2015. With a wider canal, more Asian ships are expected to use East Coast ports.

[[Interstate 79]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 79 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Charleston, West Virginia north to Erie, Pennsylvania. The route is 343.24 long. It is a primary thoroughfare through western Pennsylvania and West Virginia. It is also an important corridor to Buffalo, New York, and the Canadian border. From Sutton north, Interstate 79 generally parallels the path of U.S. Route 19.  With the exception of the area between Washington and Cranberry Township, Pennsylvania, I-79 functionally replaces U.S. Route 19.

In West Virginia, Interstate 79 is called the Jennings Randolph Expressway. In the three most northern counties it is part of the "High Tech Corridor". Through most of Pennsylvania, it is called the Raymond P. Shafer Highway.

[[Interstate 80]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 80 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from San Francisco, California east to Teaneck, New Jersey (just outside of New York City). The route is 2919.596 long, making it the second longest Interstate Highway in the United States behind I-90. It goes through 11 states: California, Nevada, Utah, Wyoming, Nebraska, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey. 

I-80 is the Interstate Highway that most closely follows the route of the historic Lincoln Highway, the first road across America. The highway roughly traces other historically significant routes in the Western United States: the Oregon Trail across Wyoming and Nebraska, the California Trail across most of Nevada and California, and except in the Great Salt Lake area, the entire route of the First Transcontinental Railroad.

From near Chicago, Illinois, east to near Youngstown, Ohio, Interstate 80 is a toll road, containing the majority of both the Indiana Toll Road and the Ohio Turnpike. It also has a small part of the Illinois Tollway. I-80 and Interstate 90 share the same road from near Portage, Indiana to Elyria, Ohio. I-80 becomes the Keystone Shortway (a freeway built across rural northern Pennsylvania.) The eastern end of I-80 is its junction with the New Jersey Turnpike and Interstate 95 just west of the George Washington Bridge entering New York City.

[[Interstate 83]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 83 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Baltimore, Maryland north to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. The route is 85.30 long.  Most of the route south of Lemoyne, Pennsylvania is a direct replacement of US 111, a former spur of US 11.

The Jones Falls Expressway, known to local residents as the JFX, is a 10.2 long freeway. It is the part of Interstate 83 from downtown Baltimore to the northern suburbs. I-83 then joins I-695 (Baltimore Beltway) for 1.4 miles. After separating from the Beltway, I-83 is now known as the Baltimore-Harrisburg Expressway.  Running due north away from the Beltway, I-83 goes next to Maryland Route 45 York Road, the former route of US 111.  I-83 goes to the west of Timonium and Cockeysville.

I-83 enters Pennsylvania southeast of New Freedom, passing to the east of Shrewsbury and goes due north towards York.  The route goes around the boroughs of Loganville and Jacobus before entering the city of York. North of Pennsylvania Route 295, I-83 is known as the Susquehanna Expressway. I-83 has this name as it passes to the south and west of Valley Green. I-83 then goes north towards Harrisburg.  South of Harrisburg, I-83 interchanges with Interstate 76, the Pennsylvania Turnpike.  North of I-76, I-83 continues due north, passing through New Cumberland, before merging with Pennsylvania Route 581 in Lemoyne.

After merging with PA 581, I-83 is known as the Harrisburg Expressway.  The highway turns due east within the merge and crosses the Susquehanna River over the John Harris Bridge, south of Harrisburg's central business district. It ends at an interchange with Interstate 81.

[[Interstate 84 (east)]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 84 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Dunmore, Pennsylvania east to Sturbridge, Massachusetts. The route is 232.39 long.

[[Interstate 85]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 85 is an Interstate Highway in the Southeastern United States. It goes from Montgomery, Alabama northeast to Petersburg, Virginia. The route is 668.75 long.

[[Interstate 86 (west)]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 86 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Idaho in the United States. It goes from Declo east to Chubbock. The route is 62.85 long.

[[Interstate 86 (east)]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 86 is an Interstate Highway in the United States in two parts. The west part goes from Erie, Pennsylvania east to Elmira, New York. The east part goes from Binghamton, New York east to Windsor. The two parts of the route add up to 206.85.

[[Interstate 87 (New York)]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 87 is an Interstate Highway in the state of New York in the United States. It goes from New York City north to Champlain at the Canada border where it connects to Autoroute 15. The route is 333.49 long. The southern half of the interstate (between NYC and Albany) is part of the New York State Thruway (tollway). North of Albany, the highway is called the Adirondack Northway. It also clashes with I-287 in Westchester County. from exits 8-15. Its short length through the NYC borough of the Bronx is called the Major Deegan Expressway.

[[Interstate 88 (west)]]

CATEGORIES: Things named after Ronald Reagan, Interstate Highways

Interstate 88 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Illinois in the United States. It goes from Silvis east to Hillside. The route is 140.60 long. It is named after American president Ronald Reagan.

[[Interstate 88 (east)]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 88 is an Interstate Highway in the state of New York in the United States. It goes from Chenango northeast to Rotterdam. The route is 117.75 long.

[[Interstate 89]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 89 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Concord, New Hampshire north to Highgate Springs, Vermont at the Canada border. The route is 191.12 long.

[[Interstate 93]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 93 is an Interstate Highway in the New England region of the United States. It goes from Canton, Massachusetts north to St. Johnsbury, Vermont. The route is 189.95 long.

[[Interstate 94]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 94 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Billings, Montana east to Port Huron, Michigan at the Canada border. The route is 1585.20 long.

[[Interstate 96]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 96 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Michigan in the United States. It goes from Muskegon east to Detroit. The route is 192.032 long.

[[2030]]

CATEGORIES: 2030, Years in the future

2030 (MMXXX) will be 2030.

[[Interstate 97]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 97 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Maryland in the United States. It goes from Annapolis north to Baltimore. The route is 17.62 long and is the shortest 2-digit Interstate.

[[Norman Jay Coleman]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Agriculture, 1827 births, 1911 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Politicians from New York, State legislators of the United States, Lieutenant Governors of Missouri

Norman Jay Coleman (May 16, 1827 – November 3, 1911) was a newspaper publisher and the first United States Secretary of Agriculture.

Coleman was born in Richfield Springs, New York in 1827 to Hamilton and Nancy Coleman. He received a law degree from the University of Louisville Law School in 1849. Coleman then moved to Missouri and went into farming. In 1855 he started the Valley Farmer newspaper. As a result of the newspaper, Coleman became an important person in the Missouri farming community, which helped him become a member of the Missouri House of Representatives. Coleman’s newspaper stopped due to the American Civil War, but three years after the war he started the Coleman’s Rural World. His career in politics continued when he was made the Lieutenant Governor of Missouri from 1875 to 1877. During that time he worked to make United States Department of Agriculture a cabinet-level department. Under the administration of President Grover Cleveland, he served as its first Secretary. His position as Secretary of Agriculture was never confirmed by the United States Senate.

He was a member of the Freemasons.

[[Interstate 99]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 99 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Pennsylvania in the United States. It goes from Bedford north to Bellefontaine. The route is 85 long.

[[2031]]

CATEGORIES: 2031, Years in the future

2031 (MMXXXI) will be 2031. It will also be the first year since 2019 to have all four digits being different numbers.

[[Interstate 238]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 238 is an Interstate Highway in the state of California in the United States. It goes from Interstate 580 in Castro Valley west to Interstate 880 in San Leandro. The route is 2.126 long. The route is not like a 3-digit route as there is no Interstate 38. It is called Interstate 238 as it was a part of California State Route 238 and no numbers with "80" at the end were able to be used.

[[2032]]

CATEGORIES: 2032, Years in the future

2032 (MMXXXII) will be 2032.

[[Interstate Highways in Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

There are Interstate Highways in Alaska that get money from the government. Even though these are Interstate Highways, most of them are not grade separated, which means drivers must use a specially made group of ramps to get to the road. They mostly are along roads with two lanes.  Also, there are no signs for these Interstate Highways. 

The four Interstate Highways in Alaska are:

[[Jeremiah McLain Rusk]]

CATEGORIES: 1830 births, 1893 deaths, American Civil War generals, Bankers, Governors of Wisconsin, Politicians from Ohio, United States Secretaries of Agriculture, US Republican Party politicians

Jeremiah McLain Rusk (June 17, 1830 – November 21, 1893) was the 15th Governor of the U.S. state of Wisconsin from 1882 to 1889.

[[Na'vi language]]

CATEGORIES: Constructed languages

The Na'vi language is a language that was made for the Na'vi in the 2009 film Avatar. It is a constructed language. This means a person created it; no one grows up speaking it.

[[Interstate 76]]

Interstate 76 can refer to:

[[Interstate 84]]

Interstate 84 can refer to:

[[Interstate 86]]

Interstate 86 can refer to:

[[Interstate 88]]

Interstate 88 can refer to:

[[Kentrosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs of Africa, Jurassic dinosaurs, Stegosaurs

Kentrosaurus was a stegosaurian, whose intelligence was low among the dinosaurs. Kentrosaurus fossils have been found in Tendaguru in Tanzania, Africa.

[[Delgadillo's Snow Cap Drive-In]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Arizona, American fast food restaurants, 1953 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Arizona

Delgadillo's Snow Cap Drive-In is a historic small restaurant and roadside attraction along a part of what used to be Route 66 in Seligman, Arizona USA. The drive-in was built in 1953 by a man who lived in the town, Juan Delgadillo (May 17, 1916 - June 2, 2004).  Delgadillo had very little money, so he built the restaurant mostly from scrap lumber he found at the nearby Santa Fe Railroad yard.

Delgadillo thought of a fun way to bring attention to his new restaurant.  He cut the roof off of a 1936 Chevrolet, put paint, horns and emblems from other cars all over it and placed an artificial Christmas tree in the rear of the car.

Delgadillo's had a sense of humor which could be seen both on his car and on his menu.  That menu still has such choices as a "cheeseburger with cheese" and "dead chicken."  "Juan's Garden" at the rear of the restaurant is just as funny.  That is the place Mr. Delgadillo kept his collection of old cars and other strange things.    Even the building itself has strange and funny things written on it. Hand-painted signs in the parking area warn drivers that they are "parking at their own risk."  A neon sign in the window tells people, "Sorry, we're open."  The door which leads inside has two knobs, one on the right and one on the left.  The knob on the right is fake; the one on the left opens the door.  Delgadillo would have fun with his customers by asking, for example, if they wanted cheese on their cheeseburgers.

While learning about the history of Route 66 for the 2006 Disney/Pixar motion picture Cars, John Lasseter met Delgadillo's brother, Seligman barber and Route 66 expert, Angel Delgadillo, who told him how traffic through the town almost completely went away on the day that nearby Interstate 40 opened.

Since Delgadillo's death in 2004, the Snow Cap has been run by his sons John-Michael and Robert.  They both work the counter and play with the customers like their father did.  The walls around the counter area itself are covered with business cards from all over the world.

Author Michael Wallis covers the history of the Snow Cap in his book, Route 66:  The Mother Road. 

[[Simão Sabrosa]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers

Simão Sabrosa (born 31 October 1979) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Atlético Madrid and Portugal national team.

[[Marco Donadel]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Marco Donadel (born 21 April 1983) is an Italian football player. He plays for Fiorentina.

[[Henri Camara]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Senegalese footballers, People from Dakar

Henri Camara (born 10 May 1977) is a Senegalese football player. He has played for Senegal national team.

[[Julio dos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Paraguayan footballers, People from Asunción

Julio dos Santos (born 7 May 1983) is a Paraguayan football player. He has played for Paraguay national team.

[[Kim Sung-Kil]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Kim Sung-Kil (born 8 July 1983) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Ziad Tlemcani]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Tunisian footballers, People from Tunis

Ziad Tlemcani (born 10 May 1963) is a former Tunisian football player. He has played for Tunisia national team.

[[Hideyuki Ujiie]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Hideyuki Ujiie (born 23 February 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tonan Maebashi.

[[Matthew Bingley]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Sydney

Matthew Bingley (born 16 August 1971) is a former Australian football player. He has played for Australia national team.

[[Brachiopod]]

CATEGORIES: Brachiopods, Fossils

Brachiopods are a phylum of small marine shellfish, sometimes called lampshells. They are not common today, but in the Palaeozoic they were one of the most common types. They lived near the shore (littoral zone), but now they have been pushed into deeper water by competition from bivalve molluscs.

At their peak in the Palaeozoic era the brachiopods occupied a number of marine ecological niches. They were among the most abundant filter-feeders and reef-builders. Many sat on the sea floor, but some swam in the jet-propulsion style of scallops. Brachiopod fossils have been useful indicators of climate changes during the Paleozoic era. 

They do look rather like bivalves, but their internal organisation is quite different. Their mostly calcium carbonate shells or "valves" have upper and lower surfaces, unlike the left and right arrangement in bivalve molluscs. Brachiopod valves are hinged at the rear end. The front can be opened for feeding or closed for protection. 

Two major groups are recognized, articulate and inarticulate. Articulate brachiopods have toothed hinges and simple opening and closing muscles, while inarticulate brachiopods have untoothed hinges and a more complex system of muscles used to fit the two halves together. In a typical brachiopod a stalk-like pedicle goes from an opening in one of the valves (the pedicle valve). It attaches the animal to the seabed but clear of silt that would block the opening.

Brachiopods have a huge fossil record going back to the Cambrian. They were much reduced by the two main extinction events, the P/Tr and K/T. Bivalve molluscs took over their inshore habitats in the Mesozoic, and since then the brachiopods have been confined to deeper water, except for a handful of species. There are about 100 to 350 species living; the fossil species number 12,000.

Lingula, one of the oldest genera of brachiopods, has survived from the earliest Ordovician to the present day. The various species look very similar, and the genus is a good example of a living fossil.

Brachiopod classification is being debated by invertebrate palaeontologists.

[[Deaths in 2010]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 deaths

The following is a list of notable deaths in 2010.

