[[Ray Winstone]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Actors from London, Emmy Award winning actors, British movie actors, British movie producers, British television actors, People from Hackney

Raymond Andrew "Ray" Winstone (born 19 February 1957 in Homerton, Hackney, London) is a British actor. Winstone made his big screen debut in the 1979 movie That Summer. Winstone is also a former professional boxer in the Repton Amateur Boxing Club where he won 80 out of 88 bouts.

[[Citroën Evasion]]

CATEGORIES: Citroen automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Citroën Evasion was a large MPV produced by Citroën between 1994 and 2002. It is similar to the Fiat Ulysse, Lancia Zeta and Peugeot 806.

[[Fuck You (CeeLo Green song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Obscenity controversies

"Fuck You", also known as  "Forget You" or simply "FU", is a song by American recording artist Cee Lo Green. It was released as a single when he was promoting his third studio album, The Lady Killer.

This song won the Grammy Award for Best Urban/Alternative Performance at the 53rd Grammy Awards on February 13, 2011.

It reached number one in the United Kingdom and Scotland.

[[Only Girl (In the World)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Rihanna songs, Dance songs, R&B songs

"Only Girl (In the World)" is a song performed by Barbadian recording artist Rihanna. It is taken from her fifth studio album, Loud. It was written by Crystal Johnson, Mikkel S. Eriksen and Tor Erik Hermansen from the Norwegian production team Stargate and Sandy Vee.cn The latter two also handled production. The song was released on September 10, 2010. It was the lead single from Loud. Critics have praised the song. They praised the strong chorus and musical production. Critics also complimented the choice of song and strength of Rihanna's voice.  The song reached number one on the charts of several countries, including the United States, Canada, Australia, and the United Kingdom.cn  It won the award for Best Dance Recording at the 2011 Grammy Awards.cn

[[Kim Cattrall]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Actors from British Columbia, Actors from Liverpool, Canadian movie actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, British movie actors, British stage actors, British television actors, Naturalized citizens of Canada, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Kim Victoria Cattrall (k; born 21 August 1956) is a British-Canadian actress. She was born in Liverpool and moved to Canada when she was three months old. She holds British, Canadian and American citizenship. She played Samantha Jones in Sex and the City on HBO. She has starred in many films. 

[[Christian mission]]

CATEGORIES: Christian behavior and experience

Christian churches often send individuals, or small groups of people to a foreign country. These people should then convince the local population to convert to the Christian faith. Very often, this couples evangelisation with humanitarian work. As well, the missionaries are priests, and can administer sacraments, but sometimes they are laypeople. Today, missionary activity often means cooperating with the local church. As an example, the Evangelical-Lutheran Church in Tanzania has sent missionaries to Mozambique.

Missionary work is often criticized for the ways used. Examples are forced baptisms, proselytism, and that during colonial times, there were strong ties between colonialism and missionary work. Sometimes, there is the problem that the moral standards of the societies are very different from the moral standards of Christianity, missionary work will force different standards onto indigenous societies.

[[Jean-Baptiste Le Moyne de Bienville]]

CATEGORIES: 1680 births, 1767 deaths, Canadian people, Governors of Louisiana, People with foods named after them

Jean-Baptiste Le Moyne de Bienville (23 February 23 1680 Montreal, Quebec – March 7, 1767).  He helped colonise North America for France, and was    governor of French Louisiana 4 separate times between 1701 and 1743. He is also known as Sieur de Bienville.  

His older brother was the explorer Pierre Le Moyne d'Iberville. 

[[Evolution of the eye]]

CATEGORIES: Eye, Evolutionary biology

The evolution of the eye is an example of a homologous organ present in many animals. 

Some components of the eye, such as the light-sensitive opsins, seem to have a common ancestry. They evolved once, early in the evolution of animals. They control the conversion of photons into electrical signals. For example, an opsin found in the mammalian retina, melanopsin, is involved in circadian rhythms and pupillary reflex but not in vision.

Complex, image-forming eyes evolved some 50 to 100 times – using many of the same proteins and genetic toolkits in their construction.

Complex eyes appear to have first evolved within a few million years, in the rapid burst of evolution known as the Cambrian explosion. There is no evidence of eyes before the Cambrian, but a wide range of diversity is evident in the Middle Cambrian Burgess Shale.

Eyes show a wide range of adaptations to meet the requirements of the organisms which bear them.  Eyes may vary in their acuity, the range of wavelengths they can detect, their sensitivity in low light levels, their ability to detect motion or resolve objects, and whether they can discriminate colours.

[[Rudolph Boysen]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1955 deaths, Scientists from California

Charles Rudolph Boysen (July 14, 1895 – November 25, 1950) was a California horticulturist. Boysen worked as Anaheim City Parks superintendent from 1921-1950. He created the boysenberry, a hybrid between several types of blackberries, raspberries, and loganberries.

[[Spyro the Dragon (character)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1998, Fictional dragons, Video game protagonists

Spyro the Dragon is a video game character from the video game series with the same name, where he is the main hero. He is a purple dragon who goes on missions to help protect his home world which is the Dragon Realms. He is usually followed by a yellow dragonfly named Sparx and in the earlier games Sparx would be Spyro's health bar. His main attack in the games are ramming enemies with his horns. He also has 5 breath abilities: fire, water, bubbles, electricity and ice. 

[[Concentrate]]

CATEGORIES: Physical chemistry, Chemical compounds

A concentrate is a special form of a substance, where one of the base components is mostly removed. The most common case is the removal of the solvent from a solution: Fruit juice concentrate will have most of the water removed. The benefit of this is that the concentrate takes up less volume, and weighs less than the original solution. This can save transportation costs. When needed, the solvent can simply be added again.

[[Biophilia]]

CATEGORIES: Björk albums, 2011 albums

Biophilia is the musical project and seventh studio album from Icelandic singer Björk. The album was released in 2011.

The album is "partly recorded" on an iPad and was released in the form of a series of apps. The project is directed by Michel Gondry. Björk has described the project as a multimedia collection "encompassing music, apps, internet, installations and live shows". Material from the album debuted in summer 2011 during a series of concerts at the Manchester International Festival.

[[North Atlantic oscillation]]

CATEGORIES: Weather

The North Atlantic oscillation is a climatic phenomenon in the North Atlantic Ocean. It controls the strength and direction of westerly winds and storms' tracks over the Atlantic Basin. It was discovered during the 1920s by Sir Gilbert Walker.

[[Steve McQueen]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Indiana, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in Mexico, Deaths from mesothelioma, Deaths from surgical complications, Movie producers from Indiana, 1930 births, 1980 deaths, Former Roman Catholics

Terence Stephen "Steve" McQueen (March 24, 1930 - November 7, 1980) was an American actor.

McQueen died in Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, Mexico on November 7, 1980. The cause of death was mesothelioma. He was 50 years old.

[[Co-factor]]

CATEGORIES: Enzymes

A co-factor (or cofactor) is a chemical compound which is not a protein, but is attached to a protein. The compound is needed for the protein's biological activity. In most cases, the protein will be an enzyme, and the cofactor will help the enzyme work. If so, the cofactors are also called coenzymes. 

Cofactors which are complex organic molecules are often called coenzymes. If connected by a covalent bond they are a prosthetic group. But if they are just temporarily connected then the cofactor is a cosubstrate.

Some enzymes need several cofactors. Organic cofactors are often vitamins, or made from vitamins. Metallic ions are often cofactors, but many cofactors have both inorganic and organic parts. 

[[Connective tissue]]

CATEGORIES: Animal tissues

Connective tissue is a  fibrous tissue. It is one of the four traditional classes of tissues (the others being epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue).  

Connective tissue (CT) is found throughout the body.  It has 3 main components; cells, fibres, and extracellular matrix.  

Connective tissue makes up a variety of physical structures including, tendons, blood, cartilage, bone, adipose tissue, and lymphatic tissue. CT is classified into three subtypes: embryonic CT, proper CT, and special CT.      

Collagen is the main protein of connective tissue in animals and the most abundant protein in mammals, making up about 25% of the total protein content.

[[Collagen]]

CATEGORIES: Proteins, Animal tissues

Collagen is a group of naturally occurring proteins. In nature, it is found exclusively in animals, especially in the flesh and connective tissues of mammals.

It is the main component of connective tissue, and is the most abundant protein in mammals. It makes up about 25% to 35% of the whole-body protein content.

Collagen, in the form of elongated fibrils, is mostly found in fibrous tissues such as tendon, ligament and skin, and is also abundant in cornea, cartilage, bone, blood vessels, the gut, and intervertebral discs.

Collagen makes up 1% to 2% of muscle tissue, and accounts for 6% of the weight of strong, tendinous muscles.

Gelatin, which is used in the food industry, is collagen that has been irreversibly hydrolyzed.

[[Hurricane Ginger]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in the United States

Hurricane Ginger is the second longest-lasting Atlantic hurricane on record. It started September 6, 1971 and lasted until October 5. The storm struck eastern North Carolina on September 30, causing $10 million in damage. Peak winds were 110 miles per hour during Ginger's life.

[[Priory Green]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Priory Green is a hamlet in the civil parish of Edwardstone, in the Babergh district, in the county of Suffolk, England. It has four listed buildings, including Barn to the North of Lynn's Hall, Lynn's Hall, Priory Cottage and Priory Farmhouse. There are also selfcatering cottages in Priory Green.

There used to be a monastery in Priory Green, called Edwardstone Priory. It was stated by Peter, Bishop of Winchester. The site is now Priory Farm.

[[Sudbury, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Sudbury is a town in the Babergh district, in the county of Suffolk, England. For transport there is the A134 road and the A131 road. Sudbury is in the Stour Valley.

It is the birthplace of the eigtheenth century painter Thomas Gainsborough

[[Boxford, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Boxford is a village and civil parish in the Babergh district, in the county of Suffolk, England. Boxford has a church called St Mary's Church.

[[Shelley, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk

Shelley is a village and civil parish in the Babergh district, in the county of Suffolk, England. Shelley has a church called All Saints.

[[Hadleigh, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Hadleigh is a town near the A1071 road, in the Babergh district, in the county of Suffolk, England. The name Hadleigh comes from Haethlega (a heath-covered place).

Hadleigh is the headquarters of Babergh District Council, but the largest town in the district is Sudbury

[[Lavenham]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Lavenham is a village and civil parish on the A1141 road, in the Babergh district, in the county of Suffolk, England. Lavenham has a church called St Peter and St Paul.

[[Boxford]]

Boxford is the name of several places:

[[Hadleigh]]

Hadleigh is the name of several places:

[[Sudbury]]

Sudbury may mean:

[[Hutu]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Africa

The Hutu or Abahutu are a Central African ethnic group. They live mainly in Rwanda and Burundi.

[[Teenage Dream (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Katy Perry songs

"Teenage Dream" is a single from Katy Perry's album of the same name. It was released July 23, 2010 via digital download and received mostly positive reviews from the music critics. The song topped the charts in several countries, including the United States and the Republic of Ireland.

[[William Holden]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 1981 deaths, Academy Award winning actors, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, Deaths from hemorrhage, Actors from Illinois, American movie actors

William Holden  (April 17, 1918 - November 12, 1981) was an American actor.

He was born in O'Fallon, Illinois and moved to South Pasadena, California when he was three. He was a star during the golden age of Hollywood. He began his career western movies, including Arizona and Texas. Holden starred in The Man from Colorado and Rachel and the Stranger. He won an Academy Award for Best Actor in Stalag 17. He was also nominated twice more for Sunset Boulevard (1951) and Network (1976). Among his best works in film highlights Submarine Command (1951), Sabrina (1954), The Bridge on the River Kwai (1957). He starred with John Wayne in The Horse Soldiers (1957), and with Richard Widmark in Alvarez Kelly (1966).  In 1969, he played an outlaw leader, in the Sam Peckinpah film, The Wild Bunch. In the 1970s, Holden worked in The Towering Inferno (1974), and When Time Ran Out (1980). He played the role of Richard Thorn, the adoptive father of a child possessed by the devil, in the second film of The Omen, Damien: Omen II (1978).

[[Go West]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 establishments in England, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, English boy bands, English pop music groups, Musical groups established in 1982, Musical groups from London, Soul bands

Go West is an English pop duo. They were formed in 1982 by lead singer and drummer Peter Cox (born 17 November 1955, Kingston upon Thames, Surrey, England) and guitarist and singer Richard Drummie (born 20 March 1959, Twickenham, Middlesex, England). While they have had many successful singles in the United Kingdom, they are generally best known in the United States for their hits "King of Wishful Thinking" and "Faithful".

On 16 October 2009, Cox was announced as the new lead singer of Manfred Mann's Earth Band.

[[Living in a Box]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s British music groups, 1985 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s British music groups, 1990 disestablishments, 1990s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, English pop music groups, Musical groups established in 1985, Musical groups from Sheffield, New wave bands, Soul bands, Musical groups disestablished in 1990

Living in a Box were an English pop band in the 1980s. They are best known for their debut single "Living in a Box". It was produced by Richard James Burgess.

[[Girls, Girls, Girls]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 songs

"Girls, Girls, Girls" is a single by the American heavy metal band Mötley Crüe. It is the first single from the album of the same name, released on May 11, 1987 and peaked on the Billboard Hot 100  at #12 and #20 on the Mainstream rock charts. American pop artist Lady GaGa wrote the song "Boys Boys Boys" as an homage to this song.

[[Jaguar Racing]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One constructors

Jaguar Racing was a Formula One team which raced from 2000 to 2004. It comes from Stewart Grand Prix. Ford bought the team in June 1999 and was to be renamed to Jaguar Racing to promote their Jaguar brand.

For their first season in 2000, the team hired former Stewart GP driver Johnny Herbert and the 1999 Championship runner-up (second place) Eddie Irvine. However, the team only finished in the points twice during the season. In 2001, Herbert was replaced by Luciano Burti, who was replaced four races in the season by Pedro de la Rosa. Although the team got double the amount of points finishes in 2001, including a podium (top three) in Monaco, this did not help the fact that the team did not have the same success as Stewart GP got in 1999.

In 2002 the team got worse, with three points finishes (but a podium in Italy), and a lot of financial (money) issues. Cutbacks were announced for the 2003 season, which included money savings, and a layoff (mass sackings of employees). In 2003, with a improved points system which allowed eight drivers to finish in the points, Jaguar Racing benefitted from this as they finished in the points eight times, with drivers Mark Webber, Antônio Pizzonia, and Justin Wilson replacing Pizzonia for the last five races. 2004 was to be the last season for Jaguar, keeping Webber, and hiring Christian Klien for the whole season. Five points finishes would follow, though financial difficulties would result in the team being bought out by Red Bull, then the team was renamed to Red Bull Racing.

[[Railway brake]]

CATEGORIES: Machines

Railway brakes are brakes which are used for the cars of railway trains. The brakes are used to enable deceleration, to control acceleration when going down slopes or hills and to keep the cars standing while they are parked. There are several types of brakes, including vacuum brakes and air brakes.

[[Sex and the City 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American sequel movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Asia, Movies set in New York City, United Arab Emirates

Sex and the City 2 is an American romantic comedy movie released in 2010. It is the sequel to Sex and the City. It is set in New York City and the United Arab Emirates. It stars Sarah Jessica Parker, Cynthia Nixon, Kim Cattrall and Kristin Davis with cameo appearances by Miley Cyrus, Liza Minnelli and Penélope Cruz. The movie received negative reviews by movie critics, but grossed over $288 million at the box office and became the highest grossing romantic comedy of 2010.

[[Zarqa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Jordan

Zarqa is a city in Jordan. It is about 25 km east of Amman. It is the third-largest city in Jordan. Hashemite University is a big university in Zarqa.

[[Trace element]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical elements, Biochemistry, Geology

A trace element is present in only a small amount. The amount depends on context.

[[Ernest Borgnine]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2012 deaths, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Connecticut, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Ernest Borgnine (born Ermes Effron Borgnino; January 24, 1917 – July 8, 2012) was an American actor, voice artist, and comedian.

[[Dušan Švento]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Slovak footballers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Dusan Svento (born 1 August 1985 in Ružomberok, Slovakia) is a Slovak football player  now playing as a midfielder for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg in Austrias t-mobile Bundesliga and the Slovakia team.

Before he went to Salzburg he was playing for Slavia Praha in the Czech Gambrinus league (2005 - 2009). In the 2010/11 season he played even as left defender due to many injured defenders in the team.

His first match in the national team was on 15 August 2006 in  a match against Malta. He scored his first goal for the team in his fourth match against Wales. The team qualified for the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa but due to injuries he was not nominated for the squad.

[[Indian music]]

CATEGORIES: Indian culture, Entertainment in India, Music by nationality

There are lots of different varieties of Indian music. Most of the different types of music are similar to Western music types. Pop, classical, and folk are all included. India’s classical music has a history originating hundreds of years back and is still popular in India today, as religious inspiration or pure entertainment. Like Africa, India has many different ethnic groups, speaking their own languages, and having very distinct cultural traditions.

The tal, or tala, is a repeating rhythm pattern usually played by the tabla. It usually has between six and sixteen beats. The beats are grouped into small sections in the pattern. The first note in the pattern is called a ‘sam’. It shows the beginnings and ends of improvisation, so it is often emphasized.

The Raga is also a pattern, but it differs from Western scales or melodies. Ragas are sort of a mix of scales and melodies. They have particular ascending and descending patterns. Ragas are used to symbolize the time of day, season, mood or special occasion.

A drone is a note that’s either held or repeated throughout a piece of music. It’s usually the tonic note, the starting note. Nowadays, the drone is played by an electrical box, but traditionally, it is played using the tanpura, which is also known as the Tambura.

Improvisation is when the player does not have a prepared piece or an incomplete piece of music, and they make up notes as they play. Improvisation is recognized as a form of composition.

There are 4 types of structure in Indian Music, Alap, Jhor, Jhala and Gat/Bandish. Each of these has different roles in a piece of Indian music.

Alap is the name for the opening part of a piece of classical music from North India. It is a type of melodic improvisation that includes a Raga in it. Only the singer and the drone can be heard at this point.

Jhor is a more elaborate version of the Raga that is included in the Alap. It forms the beginning of the performance. This comes after Alap and before Jhala.

Jhala indicates the fast-paced ending of the Raga. It is often distinguished by the overcoming of the melodic component by the rhythm.

The Gat, or Bandish is a permanent composition set in a specific Raga. It is accompanied by the Tabla, a drone and melodic accompaniment by a sarangi , violin or harmonica.

[[Charles Darwin's books]]

CATEGORIES: Books by Charles Darwin, Science books, 19th century books

Charles Darwin wrote about twenty books, including the most famous book in biology, the Origin of Species. The books covered the natural history sciences, now called geology, palaeontology, zoology, botany, anthropology, psychology and evolutionary biology.

The Origin of Species is the most important single book in the biological sciences, and its main ideas are well-supported by modern research.

The Voyage of the Beagle (1839) and The Descent of Man (1871) are also highly important.

Several of the other books were also ground-breaking.

[[Penelope Ann Miller]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, 1964 births, Living people

Penelope Ann Miller (born Penelope Andrea Miller, January 13, 1964) is an American stage and movie actress. She has acted in numerous movies and television programs.

She was born in Los Angeles, California on January 13, 1964. She has been married to Will Arnett from 1994 until they divorced in 1995. She is now married to James Huggins since 2000. With Miller she has two children.

[[Order of the Companions of Honour]]

CATEGORIES: Companions of Honour, Orders, decorations, and medals of the United Kingdom, Commonwealth of Nations, 1917 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in the United Kingdom

The Order of the Companions of Honour is a British award given to citizens of the Commonwealth. It was founded by King George V in 1917, as a reward for outstanding achievements in the arts, literature, music, science, politics, industry or religion.

The order is limited to 65 Companions of Honour.  At first 45 members could be from the United Kingdom, 7 from Australia, 2 from New Zealand and 11 from other Commonwealth countries. Foreigners from outside the realm may be added as "honorary members". Membership of the order gives no title, or precedence, but recipients can put the post-nominal letters "CH" after their names.

The insignia of the Order consists of an oval medallion with an oak tree, a shield with the royal arms hanging from one branch, and on the left a mounted knight in armour.  The badge's clear blue border bears the motto IN ACTION FAITHFUL AND IN HONOUR CLEAR. Men wear the badge on a ribbon (red with golden border threads) around their necks, and women on a bow at the left shoulder.

[[Culture jamming]]

CATEGORIES: Activism, Politics

Culture jamming is a tactic by consumer social movements to either disrupt or subvert mainstream cultural institutions. It is also intended to expose dubious or substandard political thoughts on commercial culture. The tactics of culture jamming include refiguring fashion statements, product image and logos as means to challenge ideas about what is cool.

The term "culture jamming" was first used around 1984. 

[[Subdomain]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Websites

A subdomain is the portion shown before a domain name, separated by a dot (.)

For example, a domain might look like this

Whereas the subdomain of this domain might look like this, shown here in bold

[[Domain]]

Domain can mean:

[[Tretinoin]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Vitamins

Tretinoin is the acid form of vitamin A. It is also known as all trans retinoic acid, or ATRA. As a drug, it can be used used for the treatment of acne vulgaris and keratosis pilaris. The medicine goes under several brand names.

[[Thunder Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: West Yorkshire, Hamlets in England

Thunder Bridge is a hamlet near the villages of Stocksmoor and Kirkburton, in the Kirklees district, in the county of West Yorkshire, England. Thunder Bridge is also near the A629 road. The bridge is Grade 2 listed.

[[RuBisCO]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry, Enzymes

Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase, better known as RuBisCO, is an enzyme that catalyzes the first major step of carbon fixation in the Calvin cycle. Carbon fixation is a process by which the atoms of atmospheric carbon dioxide are made available to organisms in the form of energy-rich molecules such as glucose. RuBisCO splits 6-C molecules into two equal parts.

RuBisCO is very important in biology and ecology because it catalyzes the primary chemical reaction by which inorganic carbon permanently enters the biosphere.

RuBisCO is also the most abundant protein in leaves and the most abundant protein on Earth. It accounts for 50% of soluble leaf protein (20-30% of total leaf nitrogen) and 30% of soluble leaf protein in plants (5-9% of total leaf nitrogen).

Given its important role in the biosphere, there are currently efforts to genetically engineer crop plants to contain more efficient RuBisCO.

[[Boyle's law]]

CATEGORIES: Laws of physics, Experiments

Boyle's law (also called Mariotte's law and the Boyle-Mariotte law) is a law about ideal gases.

The law can be stated as follows:

In other words, the volume of a constant mass of ideal gas at a constant temperature is inversely proportional to the pressure applied on it.

In symbols, the law is:

or

where P is the pressure of the gas, V is the volume of the gas, and k is a constant.

For a given mass of gas at a constant temperature, the product of the pressure and the volume is constant. As the volume decreases, the pressure increases in proportion, and vice versa. For example, when the pressure halves, the volume doubles.

Suppose you have a tank that contains a certain volume of gas at a certain pressure. When you decrease the volume of the tank, the same number of gas particles is now contained in a smaller space. Therefore, the number of collisions increases. Therefore, the pressure is greater.

Imagine you have a gas at a certain pressure (P1) and volume (V1). If you change the pressure to a new value (P2), the volume changes to a new value (V2). We can use  Boyle's law to describe both sets of conditions:

The constant, k, is the same in both cases, so we can say the following:

Example: The pressure of a gas is 3 atm and the volume is 5 litres. If the pressure is reduced to 2 atm, what is the volume?

∴ The volume will be 7.5 litres.

The law was found by Robert Boyle in 1662, and afterwards independently by Edme Mariotte in 1679.

[[Dik Trom]]

CATEGORIES: Children's books, Dutch literature, Characters in written fiction

Dik Trom is the main character in a series of five children’s books written in the Dutch language.  The author, C.Joh. Kieviet wrote the first book in 1891.  It was called “Uit het leven van Dik Trom” (“From the life of Dik Trom”).  The books became extremely popular and they continue to be very popular today, more than 100 years after they were written.

[[Uranium-235]]

CATEGORIES: Actinides, Isotopes

Uranium-235 is a radioactive isotope of uranium. Uranium-235 has 143 neutrons, 92 protons, and an isotope mass of 235.0439299.  Uranium-235 has 235Pa, 235Np, and 239Pu as its parent isotopes.  As it decays, it produces 231Th. Uranium-235 has a half-life of 703.8 million years. Uranium-235 makes up about 0.72% of natural uranium. When it is separated from the other uranium isotopes, it is called enriched uranium. The main use for enriched uranium is in Nuclear reactors.  

Enriched uranium is best known for its use in the bombing of Hiroshima on August 6, 1945.  The bomb called Little Boy used Uranium-235. Uranium-235 can be used for nuclear fission.  This fission is about 504.81 barns for slow thermal neutrons and 1 barn for fast thermal neutrons.  Uranium-235 was discovered in 1935 by Arthur Jeffrey Dempster.

[[Eddie Gustafsson]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish footballers, Association football goalkeepers, 1977 births, Living people, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Sportspeople from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Douglas Edward „Eddie“ Alexander Gustafsson McIntosh (born  31 January 1977 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is a football player. He is currently playing for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg as goalkeeper in the Austrian t-mobile league.

He started playing football in 1983 with IFK Stockholm. He played afterwards for IFK Stockholm, IFK Norrköping, Molde FK, Ham-Kam and Lyn Oslo. 2009 he signed for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg. On April 18th, 2010 he was injured severely during the awaymatch versus LASK Linz and had to recover 317 days. On March 2nd, 2011 he came back in the away match versus Kapfenberg and is now again the Nr.1 goalkeeper of FC Red Bull Salzburg. In January 2011 he singed a new contract till 2014.

[[Broderick Crawford]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1986 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Best Actor Academy Award winners

Broderick Crawford (December 9, 1911 - April 26, 1986) was an American actor.

[[Peter Graves]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2010 deaths, Actors from Minneapolis, Minnesota, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Peter Graves (March 18, 1926 – March 14, 2010) was an American actor. 

[[Personal grooming]]

CATEGORIES: Hygiene, Ethology

Personal grooming, also called titivating and preening, is the art of cleaning and grooming parts of the body.

[[Firework (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Katy Perry songs

"Firework" is a 2010 song by Katy Perry from her second major-label album, Teenage Dream. It was released on October 26, 2010. The song received a good review by music critics and claimed the top spot on Billboard Hot 100. The single hit top 5 on twenty charts worldwide.  It reached the top three in most of the countries where it charted, including Australia and the UK.  It topped charts in the US, Canada, and New Zealand.  In the US, it was Perry's fourth number-one song altogether and the third in a streak of five number-ones.  At the 2012 Grammy Awards, "Firework" was nominated for Record of the Year and Best Pop Solo Performance.

The song was certified Diamond in the US for shipments of over 10 million copies in that country alone.

== Background ==  

"Firework" was written by Perry, Mikkel S. Eriksen, Tor Erik Hermansen, Sandy Wilhelm, and Ester Dean while produced by Stargate and Sandy Vee at Soapbox Studios in Atlanta, Georgia. It was recorded at Roc the Mic Studios in New York City. It was mixed at The Bunker Studios by Vee. Audio engineering was done by Carlos Oyandel and Damien Lewis. All instruments were done by Stargate and Vee. Lead and background vocals were provided by Perry. Perry said that "Firework" is her favorite song on Teenage Dream.

[[Man's Place in Nature]]

CATEGORIES: Biology books, 1863 books, Evolutionary biology

Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature is an 1863 book by Thomas Henry Huxley, in which he gives evidence for the evolution of man and apes from a common ancestor. 

It was the first book devoted to the topic of human evolution, and discussed much of the anatomical and other evidence. Backed by this evidence, the book said that evolution applied as fully to man as to all other life.

[[Bruno Mars]]

CATEGORIES: American R&B singers, American singer-songwriters, Grammy Award winners, Singers from Hawaii, Writers from Hawaii, 1985 births, Living people, People from Honolulu, Atlantic Records artists

Peter Gene Hernandez (born October 8, 1985), known by his stage name Bruno Mars, is an American singer-songwriter, record producer and dancer.

After an unsuccessful stint with Motown, Mars signed with Atlantic Records in 2002. He became recognized as a solo artist after lending his vocals and co-writing the hooks for the songs "Nothin' on You" by B.o.B, and "Billionaire" by Travie McCoy. He also helped write the hits "Right Round" by Flo Rida featuring Kesha, "Wavin' Flag" by K'naan, and "Fuck You" by Cee Lo Green, also known as "Forget You". In October 2010, he released his album, Doo-Wops & Hooligans. The album reached number three on the Billboard 200 chart. He was nominated for seven Grammys at the 53rd Grammy Awards, winning Best Male Pop Vocal Performance for "Just the Way You Are".  His singles "Just the Way You Are", "Nothin' on You", "Grenade", "Locked Out of Heaven", "When I Was Your Man", "The Lazy Song", "It Will Rain", "24K Magic", and "Finesse" have all reached the top five of the US Billboard Hot 100, with the first five reaching number one.

Mars has sold 10 million albums around the world.

In 2013, his song "Locked Out of Heaven" was nominated for a Grammy Award.  He was featured on British producer Mark Ronson's song "Uptown Funk", which became the number-one song of 2015 in the United States.  It spent 14 weeks at number one on the Billboard Hot 100.  "Uptown Funk" won a Grammy Award for Record of the Year.

Mars co-wrote the song "All I Ask" from English singer-songwriter Adele's 2015 album 25.  In 2016, Mars released the single "24K Magic" (pronounced "twenty-four-karat magic") from his album, also called 24K Magic.  It has reached the top five of the Billboard Hot 100.  The second single from 24K Magic, "That's What I Like", became Mars' seventh number-one song on the Hot 100.  A remix of the 24K Magic song "Finesse", featuring rapper Cardi B, was released in January 2018 and reached the top five around the world.

In 2021, Mars collaborated with recording artist Anderson .Paak on the song "Leave the Door Open" as the duo Silk Sonic. The song became Mars' eighth and Paak's first number-one on the Billboard Hot 100.

[[Space Shuttle Endeavour]]

CATEGORIES: Space Shuttles

Space Shuttle Endeavour (OV-105) is the fifth space shuttle run by NASA. It replaced the Space Shuttle Challenger. Endeavour was named after Captain James Cooks's ship, HMS Endeavour. It made 25 trips into space, travelling about 123,000,000 miles. It is now on display at the California Science Center.

[[Woodruff]]

CATEGORIES: Herbs, Rubiaceae

Woodruff (Galium odoratum) is a plant used for herbical medicine. It grows to 30-50 cm long.

[[Sudo]]

CATEGORIES: Unix

The sudo command is a program for Unix-like operating systems like Linux distributions.  It allows users to run programs as another user.  The "su" portion is sometimes described as substitute user, super user, or switch user.  

[[Castling's Heath]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Castling's Heath is a hamlet in the civil parish of Groton, in the Babergh district, in the county of Suffolk, England. It has three listed buildings, including Castling's Hall, Castling's Heath Cottage and Manor Farmhouse. There is also Dove Barn in Castling's Heath for weddings. 

[[Neuroblastoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Neuroblastoma is a kind of cancer that usually occurs in children and infants. This kind of cancer mostly affects the Autonomic nervous system. The cancer creates tumors, but the cells or pieces of the tumors do not fully finish growing. There are about 650 cases per year in the United States. About half of these cases occur in children younger than two years old. The tumors can grow from any  neural crest element of the sympathetic nervous system. Most of the time, it comes from one of the adrenal glands. It can also start growing in nerve tissues in the neck, chest, abdomen, or pelvis.

Neuroblastoma is one of the few malignant types of cancer that sometimes goes away on its own, for no obvious reason. 

[[Navigator]]

Navigator means more than one thing.

[[Alfa Romeo 156]]

CATEGORIES: Alfa Romeo automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Alfa Romeo 156 is a car produced by Alfa Romeo. It replaced the Alfa Romeo 155 in 1997, and were replaced by the Alfa Romeo 159 in 2005. It was the first car to feature hidden rear door handles, an idea which has since been copied by other brands. 

[[Engelbert Humperdinck (composer)]]

CATEGORIES: German composers, 1854 births, 1921 deaths

Engelbert Humperdinck (1 September 1854 – 27 September 1921) was a German composer. Today, he is seen as part of the Romantic movement. Most people remember him for his opera, Hänsel und Gretel which was first performed in 1893.

British singer, Arnold George Dorsey (born 1936), uses the name "Engelbert Humperdinck" as his stage name. He wanted the name to make him seem more cultured and refined.

[[Solar power plant]]

CATEGORIES: Solar power plants

A solar power plant is based on the conversion of sunlight into electricity, either directly using photovoltaics (PV), or indirectly using concentrated solar power (CSP). Concentrated solar power systems use lenses, mirrors, and tracking systems to focus a large area of sunlight into a small beam. Photovoltaics converts light into electric current using the photoelectric effect. The largest photovoltaic power plant in the world was the 354 MW Solar Energy Generating Systems (SEGS) CSP installation located in the Mojave Desert, California.  Other large CSP plants include the 250 MW Agua Caliente Solar Project in Arizona, the Solnova Solar Power Station (150 MW, 250 MW when finished), and the Andasol solar power station (150 MW), both in Spain.

Concentrated solar power plants first appeared in the 1980s. Solar power is increasingly used.

The solar power plant is based on the conversion of sunlight into electricity. As the use of solar energy has been increased nowadays. Not only we save the electricity with the help of a solar power plant but it also contributes towards the environment. It converts solar energy into electricity either directly using photovoltaics. 

It is in great use as it is least expensive and provides electricity with sunlight. The utilization of these products is increasing day by day after knowing the importance of solar energy use. the government is also taking initiatives to aware the people about solar products by introducing incentive schemes. 

Installing solar power plant is quite beneficial in every aspect not only your pocket but the entire globe. This solar equipment is used in an active manner and converts the solar energy into a useable form which can be used for powering all sort of appliances. 

Concentrated solar power system use mirrors, lenses and tracking systems to focus a large area of sunlight into a small beam. The photoelectric effect coverts the light into electric current. All the countries all over the globe have decided to bring the solar products into great use. 

As everyone is aware nowadays to contribute towards the globe, our environment with the help of solar energy. Apart from this, it is a one-time investment and there will no longer need to spend on heavy electricity cost again and again. 

[[Jersey (disambiguation)]]

Jersey is an island in the English Channel.

Other places:

Things:

Other:

[[Steampunk]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction genres

Steampunk is a style of fiction having to do with a semi-fictional world where old machinery from the Victorian 19th century is still being used. Technologies that were new or important to the Victorians, such as steam power, clockwork or electricity, are big themes in steampunk.

Important influences on steampunk are the Victorian "scientific romances", the first science fiction novels. Authors like Jules Verne and H.G. Wells are still very popular. Modern novels often cross-over with Goth and vampire themes.

The fictional style has become an active 'scene' where steampunks dress in costume and attend meetings or conventions. This costume is a large part of the scene. Many steampunks spend lots of time sewing their own outfits, or collecting accessories such as hats and goggles. The Maker movement involves many people who are both Makers and steampunks. They make Contraptions, fanciful devices as either art or a pretended function. Some of these contraptions are as large as cars, buses or even a steam-powered mobile house.

Sometimes this aspect is expanded to include cultural ideas of the 19th and early 20th century, such as small items like clothing and accessories, or large objects such as locomotives (trains) or machines that have not even been invented yet, like airplanes. 

[[Jersey (fabric)]]

CATEGORIES: Cloth

Jersey is a type of fabric which is mainly used for clothing. Originally it was made of wool, but today other materials, such as cotton or synthetic fibers are also used. Since the Middle Ages, the island of Jersey exported a lot of knitted goods; the fabric used became well-known under the name. 

[[Brown hair]]

CATEGORIES: Hair

Brown hair is the second most common hair color. It varies from light brown to black. People with brown or black hair are known as brunettes. Brown hair is common in Indo European and West Eurasian people. However, people with brown or black hair are found all across the world.

[[Joy Behar]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American voice actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City, Writers from New York City, Television talk show hosts

Joy Behar is an American actress, comedian and writer. She co-hosts the television program The View on ABC. Behar has been in a number of movies and other television programs. She currently hosts The Joy Behar Show. She was born October 7, 1942.

[[Jersey (clothing)]]

CATEGORIES: Sports clothing

In sport, a jersey is a shirt worn by a member of a team, often with the wearer's name and team number as well. Many Cycling jerseys of specific colour or pattern represent certain statuses in cycling, such as the maillot jaune (yellow jersey) of the leader of the Tour de France, or the rainbow jersey.  The World Cycling Union also says a champion must wear the champions jersey in a race, not the team jersey.  Cycling jerseys are usually made of special synthetic material to help sweat away from the skin.  The main garment of an ice hockey uniform, which was traditionally called a sweater, is increasingly known as a hockey jersey. This garment, along with basketball jerseys which are usually sleeveless and baseball jerseys which are usually button up, have become fashion accessories.

In some sports, such as baseball, basketball, and American football, a player's jersey may be "retired".  When a jersey is retired that player's jersey is placed usually where the team plays in honour of that player's accomplishment.  The retiring of a jersey at one time included the retiring of the number on the player's jersey leaving it unavailable for future players, to further honour that player.  However, as jerseys are usually double digit (00-99), that leaves only 100 possible numbers—if the rules of the sport allow it. For example, in U.S. college basketball, only 36 distinct numbers are possible, as rules prohibit the use of any digits greater than 5. As such the practice of retiring the number has dwindled, and in most cases only the specific jersey is retired and put on display.

[[Cameron Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, 1918 births, 1994 deaths, American television actors, Actors from Pennsylvania

Cameron Mitchell (November 4, 1918 - July 6, 1994), was an American actor.

[[Freckle]]

CATEGORIES: Human body features

Freckles are clusters of concentrated melanin that are most often visible with a fair skin complexion. Freckles are predominantly found on the face, although they may appear on any skin exposed to the sun, such as the lips, neck, arms, neck, shoulders, back and chest.

They are an inherited trait, caused by variation in the MC1R gene that is involved in the determination of red hair, fair skin, and freckles. Freckle formation is triggered through exposure to sunlight.

Two types of melanin, the red pheomelanin and the black eumelanin, are present in human skin. Eumelanin protects against sunlight. People with red hair have mostly pheomelanin in their hair and skin and/or a reduced ability to produce eumelanin. This may explain why they fail to tan and are at risk from the ultraviolet radiation in sunlight.

About 1.5 billion people in the world have freckles. About 75 per cent of Filipino people have freckles.

[[Lemon verbena]]

CATEGORIES: Verbenaceae

Lemon verbena (Aloysia citrodora) is a type of flowering plant in the verbena family. It can also be called lemon beebrush. Its tiny flowers bloom purple or white in late summer.

[[Anacardiaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Anacardiaceae

Anacardiaceae (also known as the cashew family or sumac family) is a family of flowering plants in the order Sapindales, with about 70 genera and 650 species of evergreen or deciduous trees, shrubs, and woody vines. Are plants including cashew, mango and pistachio. It is native to tropical and subtropical areas of the world, but a few species occur in temperate regions. 

[[Charlotte's Web]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 books, 20th century American novels, Newbery Honor books, English-language novels, Children's books

Charlotte's Web is a children's novel by E. B. White. First published in 1952, it was illustrated by Garth Williams and won many awards.

Three movies are based on the book:

[[Golpar]]

CATEGORIES: Apiaceae

Golpar (Heracleum persicum), also known as Persian hogweed, is a flowering plant. It grows wild in mountains.

[[Tsunami warning system]]

CATEGORIES: Tsunamis

Tsunami warning system or TWS detects tsunamis and issues warnings to prevent loss of life and property. It consists of two equally important components: a network of sensors to detect tsunamis and a communications infrastructure to issue timely alarms to start evacuation before the big waves reach the land to let the people to rush to safety.

There are two distinct types of tsunami warning systems: international and regional. Both of those systems depend on the fact that tsunami waves travel, approximately, 15-30 times slower than seismic waves.

[[The Sceptical Chymist]]

CATEGORIES: Science books, 1661 books

The Sceptical Chymist is a cornerstone book in the history of chemistry.

It was written by Robert Boyle FRS (1627–1691). He was a 17th century natural philosopher, chemist, physicist, and inventor.

Boyle was an alchemist, but also the first modern chemist. He is famous for Boyle's law, which is about the relationship between the temperature and pressure of a gas.

[[Tsunami protection engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Tsunamis, Earthquake engineering

Tsunami protection engineering is intended to prevent or mitigate possible tsunami damage and save lives. The best method of protection seems to be the use of seawalls in front of ports and cities. Another effective method from a tsunami is proper planting trees. Some villages in India, for example, had minimal casualties in the 2004 tsunami because they had planted trees along the coastline.

TsunamiTsunami protection engineering should also foresee and prevent situations like one that happened at Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant when the main power went down, backup generators failed and cooling water could not get to the nuclear fuel. The overheating that followed led to explosions, fires and dangerous release of radiation.

[[Telly Savalas]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1994 deaths, Actors from New York City, Actors who played Bond villains, American Eastern Orthodox Christians, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from bladder cancer, Deaths from prostate cancer, Emmy Award winning actors

Telly Savalas (January 21, 1924 – January 22, 1994) was an American actor. He is best known from playing the character Kojak in a television series and many television movies. He was born in Garden City, New York; his parents were Greek Americans.

[[Seth Rollins]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Iowa, WWE wrestlers

Colby Lopez (born May 28, 1986) is an American professional wrestler. He wrestles for the WWE currently on the Raw brand. He competes under the ring name Seth Rollins. On March 29, 2015, he won the WWE World Heavyweight Championship. Rollins is a former member of The Shield and while he was with them, he was a WWE Tag Team Champion with Roman Reigns. Before being called up to the main roster, Rollins wrestled for the WWE's developmental program NXT and was the first NXT Champion.

[[List of college athletic conferences]]

CATEGORIES: College athletics conferences, Sports lists

In college athletics in the United States, schools typically join together in conferences for regular play.

[[Network topology]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

Network topology is the layout of the connections (links, nodes, etc.) of a computer network.

There are two main

The names used - such as ring or star -  are only rough descriptions. The computers on a home network can be arranged in a circle but it does not necessarily mean that it represents a ring network.

[[Prostatitis]]

CATEGORIES: Male reproductive system

Prostatitis is any form of inflammation of the prostate gland. Because women do not have a prostate gland, it is a condition only found in men, although women do have microscopic paraurethral Skene's glands connected to the distal third of the urethra in the prevaginal space that are homologous to the prostate, and may cause symptoms.

A prostatitis diagnosis is assigned at 8% of all urologist and 1% of all primary care physician visits in the USA.

[[The Descent of Man]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Biology books, 1871 books, Books by Charles Darwin

The Descent of Man, and selection in relation to sex is a book by Charles Darwin, first published in 1871.

It was Darwin's second great book on evolutionary theory, with the first being his 1859 work, On the Origin of Species.

Darwin had said almost nothing about human beings in the Origin, except a single sentence:

"Light will be thrown on the origin of man and his history".

In The Descent of Man, Darwin applies evolutionary theory to human evolution, and also explains his theory of sexual selection. He thought the two topics were closely connected.

In the nearly 12 years between the Origin and the Descent of Man, several writers had written works on the subject. Noteworthy were:

Both were published in 1863.

[[Fearne Cotton]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, BBC radio presenters, BBC television presenters, British DJs, English television presenters, People from Hillingdon (London borough), Radio personalities from London, Television personalities from London, Vegetarians

Fearne Cotton (born 3 September 1981) is an English television and radio presenter. She is known for presenting a number of popular TV programmes such as Top of the Pops and the Red Nose Day telethon. Cotton joined BBC Radio 1 in September 2005.  In 2007, she became the first regular female presenter of BBC Radio 1's Chart Show. She now presents BBC Radio 1's weekday mid-morning programme. In 2008 Cotton moved to the United States to present The Guinness Book of Records - Live. In 2015, Cotton returned to children’s television by voicing a Voice Trumpet in the 2015 reboot of Teletubbies.

[[Minecraft]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 video games, Windows games, Xbox 360 Live Arcade games, 2009 video games, Minecraft, Adventure games, Android (operating system) games, IOS games, Indie video games, Microsoft video games, Nintendo 3DS games, Nintendo Switch games, MacOS games, Online games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation 4 games, Wii U games, Xbox 360 games, Xbox One games, Xbox games, Video games developed in Sweden

This is about mainly Java Edition. For Bedrock Edition, see Minecraft Bedrock Edition. 

Minecraft is an open world sandbox video game originally made by Markus "Notch" Persson. It was run by a company called Mojang before being sold to Microsoft in 2014 for USD $2.5 billion. It is the best-selling video game of all time, and over 200 million copies of the game have been sold.

In Minecraft, players explore a blocky world filled with various 3D items. Many of these items are cubes, called "blocks". These include basic terrain and resources such as dirt, stone, wood, and sand. There are also items the player can use, such as crafting tables and furnaces. Players can use these to make new items such as tools and armor, as well as different kinds of blocks. Players can then build structures using these blocks, such as buildings, statues, pixel art, and more.

[[Marylebone station]]

CATEGORIES: Bakerloo Line stations, Buildings and structures in the City of Westminster, Transport in the City of Westminster, Tube stations in the City of Westminster, 1899 establishments in England

Marylebone station, also known as London Marylebone, is a central London railway terminus and London Underground station. It is halfway between the mainline stations at Euston and Paddington, being about 1 mile (1.6 km) from each. It was opened on 15 March 1899 by the Great Central Railway.

[[Lucy Pinder]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Celebrity Big Brother contestants, English models, People from Hampshire, Winchester

Lucy Katherine Pinder (born 20 December 1983) is an English glamour model. She is from Winchester, Hampshire.

From 2 January 2009, Pinder appeared in the sixth series of Celebrity Big Brother UK. She revealed that she is "a bit of a Tory bird" and that 'thick' people irritate her. She was the first housemate to be voted out, on 9 January (Day 8) with 57% of the public vote. Pinder declared her wish to leave the Big Brother house after being driven to distraction by the incessant rapping of another housemate.

[[Keeley Hazell]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Models from London

Keeley Rebecca M. Hazell (born 18 September 1986) is a British former Page 3 Girl and glamour model. She was born in Lewisham  and grew up in Grove Park. She went to Ravensbourne School in Bromley. Her mother, Amber, is a dinner lady and her father, Roy, is a window fitter; they separated when she was thirteen.

[[Sexual conflict]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology

Sexual conflict is a term in evolutionary biology. It occurs in a species when what benefits the females is different from what benefits the males.

The word 'benefit' here means 'what benefits the reproduction of the female's (or male's) genes. It is expressed as  a difference in biological fitness.

The conflict can lead to an evolutionary arms race between males and females. It has primarily been studied in animals, though it can in principle apply to any sexually reproducing organism, such as plants and fungi.

[[Ali Mohsen Al-Ahmar]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Yemeni people, 1945 births

Ali Mohsen Al-Ahmar is the general of the Yemeni army and Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh's half brother. He helped recruit Islamist radicals to fight in Afghanistan during the Soviet-Afghan War.

On March 21, 2011, Al-Ahmar defected and joined the anti-government Yemeni protesters, along with other top Yemeni army commanders.

[[Milan Dudić]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Serbian footballers

Milan Dudić (born  November, 1st 1979 in Kraljevo, former Yugoslavia, now Serbia) is a football player from Serbia. He is now playing for SK Sturm Graz as defender in the Austrian t-mobile Liga, the highest division in Austrian football.

He started playing football with amateur teams and began 1998 with FK Cukaricki as professional player. In 2002, he began playing with Red Star Belgrade. He won the Serbian championship two times with the club (2004, 2006) and the cup also (2004, 2006). In 2006, he played with the national team of Serbia and Montenegro at the FIFA World Cup in Germany. All together he played 13 matches for the national team. In 2006, he signed with F.C. Red Bull Salzburg. With Red Bull Salzburg he won the Austrian Championship three times. In 2011, his contract faded and he went to SK Sturm Graz.

[[Chelonia]]

Chelonia is a name for the whole order of turtles, and for a particular turtles:

[[Brett DiBiase]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Mississippi

Brett DiBiase (born March 16, 1988) is an American professional wrestler. He currently has a contract with World Wrestling Entertainment. He wrestles in their farm team in Florida Championship Wrestling, where he gains experience before going national. He was a FCW Florida Tag Team Championship.

[[Passover]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish festivals and holidays

Passover (פסח, Pesach) is a religious holiday or festival noted by ceremonies each year, mostly by Jewish people. They celebrate it to remember when God used Moses to free the Israelites from slavery in Egypt, as told in the book of Exodus in the Bible. God told Moses to set aside this special week originally called "the feast of unleavened bread". During this time, the people eat special foods, do special rituals and sing songs. Passover is around the time of Easter (March/April) each year.

The Last Supper was probably a Passover Seder. 

[[Carbon fixation]]

CATEGORIES: Carbon

Carbon fixation is a process by which gaseous carbon dioxide is converted into a solid compound. It occurs in autotrophs during the Calvin cycle and in some heterotrophs.

[[2 Pallas]]

CATEGORIES: Asteroids

2 Pallas is the second asteroid discovered in the solar system. It was discovered by Heinrich Wilhelm Matthäus Olbers on March 28, 1802. 2 Pallas is named after Pallas Athena, an alternate name for the goddess Athena.

2 Pallas has a mass estimated to be 7% of the total mass of the asteroid belt. The asteroid is the third largest asteroid in terms of mass and the second largest in terms of diameter.

[[Paul Michael Glaser]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American movie directors, Actors from Massachusetts, 1943 births, Living people

Paul Michael Glaser (born March 25, 1943) is an American actor and director.

[[S&M (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, BDSM-related media, Rihanna songs, Songs about sexuality

"S&M" is a song by Barbadian singer Rihanna. It is about BDSM. It is the third single off her studio album Loud (2010). Another version of the song featuring pop singer Britney Spears was released after Rihanna instructed fans to vote for an artist to be featured on the remix of the song.  It has charted successfully in twelve countries. It hit number one in the United States, Canada, and Australia, while reaching the top three in the United Kingdom.

"S&M" was the 12th-best performing song of 2011 in the U.S. and UK and the 20th-best performing in Canada.

The genre of this song is Eurodance.

[[Coffee & TV]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 songs

"Coffee & TV" is a song by the British rock band Blur. The song was released on the 1999 album 13. "Coffee & TV" reached number 11 on the UK Singles Chart and number 26 on the Irish Singles Chart.

[[Vernon, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Vernon is a Canadian city in British Columbia, Canada. Vernon is in the south-central region of British Columbia and is the largest city in the North Okanagan region. It is named after Forbes George Vernon, a former member of government in British Columbia. Including the areas around it, Vernon has a population of 58,584 as of the Canada 2011 Census. A person who lives in Vernon is called a "Vernonite".

Vernon was named one of the top six most desirable communities to retire to in North America by Consumer Reports in 2005. Vernon has a BCHL (British Columbia Hockey League) ice hockey team called the Vernon Vipers.

[[Salmon Arm]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Salmon Arm is a city in the Canadian province of British Columbia. Salmon Arm is found in the Shuswap Country of the Southern Interior. The population of Salmon Arm was 17,464 in 2011. The mayor of Salmon Arm is Nancy Cooper.

Salmon Arm has an ice hockey team in the British Columbia Hockey League (BCHL) called the Salmon Arm Silverbacks.

[[Castlegar, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia, 1946 establishments, 1940s establishments in Canada

Castlegar is a Canadian city in British Columbia, Canada. Castlegar is in the West Kootenay region in British Columbia. There were 7,259 people in Castlegar at the 2006 consensus. Castlegar is the second largest place in the West Kootenay region. 

[[Albin Planinc]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2008 deaths, Chess grandmasters

Albin Planinc or Albin Planinec (18 April 1944 – 20 December 2008) was a chess Grandmaster from Slovenia. He won the Slovenian Chess Championship in 1968 and 1971.

Planinc enjoyed playing old, rarely used openings, and had an tactical style of play that led to some brilliant wins, but also some bad losses. His playing career ended by age 35 because he struggled with a mental illness, but he went on to become a trainer.

[[Robert Vaughn]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, American movie actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winners, Actors from New York City

 Robert Vaughn (November 22, 1932 – November 11, 2016) was an American actor.

[[Mike Shaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2010 deaths, Former WWE wrestlers, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Michigan

Mike Shaw (May 9, 1957 – September 11, 2010) was an American professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and World Wrestling Federation (WWF) under the ring names, Norman The Lunatic and Bastion Booger. He was married to his wife and they had two children. He died on September 11, 2010 due to a heart attack.

[[Robert W. Holley]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1993 deaths, American biochemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Illinois, People from Urbana, Illinois

Robert William Holley (January 28, 1922; Urbana, Illinois – February 11, 1993) was an American biochemist. He shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, which he won for describing the structures for alanine transfer RNA, linking DNA and protein synthesis.

[[Buff Bagwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni, People from Marietta, Georgia

Marcus Alexander Bagwell (born January 10, 1970 in Marietta, Georgia) is an American professional wrestler who is best known for wrestling with World Championship Wrestling (WCW), World Wrestling Federation (WWF) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) under the ring names, Buff Bagwell. 

[[Jay Lethal]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from New Jersey, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Jamar Shipman (born April 21, 1985 in Elizabeth, New Jersey) is an American professional wrestler who currently wrestles for Ring of Honor (ROH) under the ring name, Jay Lethal. He is probably best known for wrestling for TNA Wrestling from 2005 to 2011.

[[Lamborghini Miura]]

CATEGORIES: Lamborghini automobiles, Coupes, Sports cars, 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles

The Lamborghini Miura is a sports car that was built by Lamborghini from 1966 to 1972. The Miura is named after the fighting bull. It was designed by Marcello Gandini. 764 were automobiles produced.

[[Chase Field]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball venues, Buildings and structures in Arizona, Arizona Diamondbacks, Sports in Phoenix, Arizona, 1998 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Arizona

Chase Field is the home baseball park of the Arizona Diamondbacks. It is in downtown Phoenix, Arizona. The Diamondbacks moved into Chase Field in 1998 when the team was established. At that time the stadium was called Bank One Ballpark, or "The BOB". It was renamed Chase Field after the merger of Bank One with Chase. Chase Field also hosted the NCAA Insight Bowl from 2000 to 2005.

[[M&T Bank Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League venues, Baltimore Ravens, Sports buildings in the United States, Buildings and structures in Maryland, 1998 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Maryland

M&T Bank Stadium is the home football stadium of the Baltimore Ravens. It is in downtown Baltimore, Maryland. The Ravens moved into M&T Bank Stadium in 1998 after spending a two years in Memorial Stadium. M&T Bank Stadium has also hosted the NCAA Lacrosse Final Four in 2003, 2004 and 2007.

[[Lorne Greene]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1987 deaths, Actors from Ottawa, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Deaths from pneumonia

Lorne Greene (February 12, 1915 - September 11, 1987), was a Canadian actor and singer.

[[David McCallum]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Actors from Glasgow, Scottish television actors, Scottish movie actors, Scottish stage actors

David Keith McCallum (born September 19, 1933) is a Scottish actor.  He was born in Glasgow, Scotland. McCallum is best known for playing Illya Kuryakin in The Man from U.N.C.L.E. and Dr Donald "Ducky" Mallard on NCIS.

[[Memorial Stadium (Baltimore)]]

CATEGORIES: Former National Football League venues, Buildings and structures in Maryland, Baltimore Orioles, Baltimore Ravens, 1922 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Maryland, 2001 disestablishments in the United States

Memorial Stadium was a stadium in Baltimore, Maryland, USA. The stadium was home to the National Football League (NFL) team, the Baltimore Ravens from 1996 to 1997 and was also home to the Baltimore Orioles of Major League Baseball from 1954 to 1991, as well as the Baltimore Colts from 1954 to 1983, and the Baltimore Stallions from 1986 to 1987. The stadium was demolished in 2001. In 2010 a new baseball field was built on the same site of the Memorial stadium and Cal Ripken was at the ribbon-cutting. It was nicknamed "The Old Grey Lady of 33rd Street" and "The World's Largest Outdoor Insane Asylum", for the infamous fan noise. The stadium eventually lost teams because it could not compete with other newer stadiums. There was a plack on the stadium honoring allied soldiers in World War II. A replica now sits outside Oriole Park at Camden Yards, the new home of the Orioles. The Ravens now play in M&T Bank Stadium.

[[Sumac]]

CATEGORIES: Anacardiaceae, Spices

Sumac, also spelled sumach, is a flowering plant.

Sumacs are small trees. The leaves are arranged like spirals. The flowers are in spikes. Each flower is very small, greenish, creamy white or red, with five petals. The fruits form clusters of reddish drupes called "sumac bobs".

[[Cubeb]]

CATEGORIES: Piperales, Middle Eastern foods

Cubeb (Piper cubeba), also known as tailed pepper or Java pepper, is a plant in genus Piper is used for its fruit and essential oil. It is usually found in Java, and so it is sometimes called Java pepper. The fruits are gathered before they are ripe, and dried carefully. The seed of the plant is white and hard oily.

[[Electronic commerce]]

CATEGORIES: Technology, Economics

Electronic commerce more well known as e-commerce consists of the buying or selling of products via electronic means such as the internet or other electronic services. This type of trade has been growing rapidly because of the expansion of the Internet.

The need for electronic commerce emerged from the need to use computers more efficiently in banks and corporations. With the increasing competition, there was a need amongst organizations to increase customer satisfaction and information exchange. Electronic commerce started with the introduction of electronic funds transfer (EFT) by banks.  Over time many variants of EFTs within banks were introduced like debit cards, credit cards, and direct deposits.

[[John Stewart Bell]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

John Stewart Bell (28 June 1928 – 1 October 1990) was an Irish physicist who made great contributions to quantum physics, and especially to the question of what Heisenberg's uncertainty principle really tells us about the world.

http://www.ffn.ub.es/luisnavarro/nuevo_maletin/Bell%20(1964)_Bell%27s%20theorem.pdf

[[Louise of Mecklenburg-Strelitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1776 births, 1810 deaths, Electors and Electresses, House of Hohenzollern, People from Hanover

Duchess Louise of Mecklenburg-Strelitz (German: Luise Auguste Wilhelmine Amalie Herzogin zu Mecklenburg; 10 March 1776 – 19 July 1810) was Queen consort of Prussia as the wife of King Frederick William III. 

After her husband's ascension, Louise developed many ties to senior ministers and became a powerful figure within the government as she began to command universal respect and affection. The queen always tried to stay informed of political developments at court, and from the very beginning of his reign the new king consulted Louise on matters of state. 

Though Prussia had not fought in a war since 1795, its military leaders were confident that they could win against Napoleon's troops. After a small incident concerning an anti-French pamphlet occurred, King Frederick William was finally pressured by his wife and family to break off his uneasy peace and enter the war against the French emperor. Prussian troops began mobilizing, culminating in the October 1806 Battle of Jena-Auerstedt, which was a disaster for Prussia, as the ability of its armed forces to continue the war were effectively wiped out. The king and queen had accompanied their troops into battle at Jena (with Louise apparently dressed "like an Amazon"), but had to flee from French troops.

Napoleon himself occupied Berlin, and the king, queen and the rest of the royal family had to flee, despite Louise's illness, in the dead of winter to Königsberg in the easternmost part of the kingdom. On the journey there, there was no food or clean water, and the king and queen were forced to share the same sleeping arrangements in "one of the wretched barns they call houses", according to one witness traveling with them.

Napoleon demanded, from a highly superior position, peace terms in what was to be called the Peace of Tilsit (1807). In the midst of these negotiations, the emperor agreed to keep half of Prussia intact. Louise reluctantly agreed to meet the emperor at Tilsit, but only to save "her Prussia." She tried to use her beauty and charm to flatter him into more favorable terms. Before she had called him "the Monster", but now she made a request for a private interview with the emperor. She threw herself at his feet; Napoleon was impressed by her grace and determination, but he refused to make any concessions. Queen Louise's efforts to protect her adopted country from French aggression became well admired by future generations.

On 19 July 1810, the Queen died in her husband's arms from an unidentified illness. The queen's subjects attributed the French occupation as the cause of her early death. Louise's death left her husband alone during a period of great difficulty, as the Napoleonic Wars and need for reform continued. Napoleon remarked the king "has lost his best minister."

[[De revolutionibus orbium coelestium]]

CATEGORIES: Science books, 1543 books, History of science

De revolutionibus orbium coelestium (On the revolutions of the heavenly spheres) is great work of the Renaissance astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus (1473–1543).

The book, first printed in 1543 in Nuremberg, Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation, offered proof that the Earth went round the Sun, and not vice versa, as had been thought. 

This was an alternative model of the universe to Ptolemy's Earth-centered system, which had been accepted since ancient times.

Copernicus had worked his ideas out many years before, however he did not publish until right before his death because he himself did not truly believe it and only proposed the idea as a philosophy experiment. 

[[1989 Loma Prieta earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 disasters, 1989 in the United States, 1980s in California, Earthquakes in the 1980s, Earthquakes in California, Natural disasters in the San Francisco Bay Area, October events

The 1989 Loma Prieta Earthquake was an earthquake that happened in the San Francisco Bay Area. It happened on October 17, 1989, just after 5pm local time. The earthquake caused over 67 deaths. It caused billions of dollars worth of property damage. The earthquake happened during one of the games of the 1989 World Series. Because of that, it is sometimes called the "World Series Quake".

[[International Energy Agency]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 establishments, Energy, International organizations

The International Energy Agency (IEA; Agence internationale de l'énergie) is an autonomous intergovernmental organization created in 1974 after the 1973 oil crisis. It is based in Paris.  

On 1 September 2015, Fatih Birol succeeded the 2011 Executive Director of the IEA, Maria van der Hoeven.

[[Lee Majors]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Michigan, American adoptees, American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors, 1939 births, Living people

Lee Majors (born April 23, 1939) is an American actor.

[[Machel Montano]]

CATEGORIES: Musicians, Trinidad and Tobago people, Living people, 1974 births

Machel Montano (born 24 November 1974) is a soca artist from Trinidad and Tobago. He is the lead of the soca band Xtatik. He had his first hit as a youth with "Too Young To Soca". He then won the 1987 Caribbean Song Festival.

[[ASAP]]

CATEGORIES: Acronyms

ASAP is an acronym that means "As soon as possible". This means that something should be done as fast as it is able to be done.

ASAP may also mean:

[[Nelson Frazier, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2014 deaths, African-American wrestlers, American professional wrestlers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Memphis, Tennessee

Nelson Frazier, Jr. (February 14, 1971 – February 18, 2014) was an American professional wrestler.  He is best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Federation/World Wrestling Entertainment under the ring names, Mabel, Viscera, Big Daddy V, and King V. He wrestles for All Japan Pro Wrestling under the ring name, Big Daddy V and Big Daddy Voodoo. He was forced to retire from WWE for good as WWE did not want to be responsible for his health problems.

Frazier was in the 2009 movie The Legend of Awesomest Maximus co-starring

Will Sasso and Rip Torn. He also was in the movie Wrong Side of Town with fellow wrestlers Dave Batista and Rob Van Dam.

On the night of February 18, 2014, it was reported that Frazier had died following a heart attack, four days after turning 43.

[[Sylvain Grenier]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Canadian professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Quebec, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Sylvain Grenier (born March 26, 1977 in Varennes, Québec) is a Canadian professional wrestler. He is best known for his time working with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). He is known for wrestling for the tag team, La Résistance along with Rob Conway and René Duprée.

[[William Mueller]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Kansas, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

William Theodore Mueller (born September 10, 1980 in Coffeyville, Kansas) is an American professional wrestler who is best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) under the ring name, Trevor Murdoch.

[[Lovage]]

CATEGORIES: Apiaceae

Lovage (Levisticum officinale) is a tall perennial plant.

[[White mustard]]

CATEGORIES: Brassicaceae

White mustard is an annual plant.

[[Tiffany Thornton]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Actors from Texas, Singers from Texas, American Christians, American television actors, Comedians from Texas

Tiffany Dawn Thornton (born February 14, 1986 in College Station, Texas, U.S.) is an American actress, comedian and singer, best known for her co-starring role as Tawni Hart on the Disney Channel Original Series, Sonny with a Chance.

[[Lee Van Cleef]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, actors from New Jersey, 1925 births, 1989 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Lee Van Cleef (January 9, 1925 – December 16, 1989) was an American actor.

[[Loud (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Rihanna albums, Dance pop albums, Hip hop albums, R&B albums

Loud is the fifth studio album by Barbadian singer Rihanna. It was released November 12, 2010. This record produced several hit songs, including number one hits Only Girl (In the World), What's My Name? and S&M. The album received mostly positive reviews from the music critics.

The album has sold over 3 milion copies and was fifth on the Billboard 200. The album was more upbeat and happy compared to 2009's Rated R and features a more dance-pop and R&B sound. Several rap artists made an appearance on the album including Eminem, Drake and Nicki Minaj.

[[David Soul]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, musicians from Chicago, actors from Chicago, 1943 births, living people

David Soul born August 28, 1943 in Chicago, Illinois, U.S., is an American actor, director, and singer.

[[List of science books]]

CATEGORIES: Science-related lists, Science books, History of science

The List of science books is mainly got from:

[[Morning glory]]

CATEGORIES: Convolvulaceae, Epiphytes, Flowers

Morning glory is a family of common flowering plants known as Convolvulaceae which includes bindweed.

[[Edelweiss]]

CATEGORIES: Asteraceae, Flowers

Edelweiss is a well-known Europe mountain flower.

[[Borage]]

CATEGORIES: Boraginaceae

Borage, also known as starflower, is an annual herb.

The flowers are perfect with five narrow, triangular-pointed petals. Flowers are most often blue in color, although pink flowers are sometimes examined. White flowered types are also grown.

[[Garden cress]]

CATEGORIES: Brassicaceae, Herbs

Garden cress (Lepidium sativum) is a fast-growing eatable herb that is related to watercress and mustard, sharing their peppery taste and aroma. Garden cress is usually grown in England, France, the Netherlands and Scandinavia.

[[Tonka bean]]

CATEGORIES: Fabaceae

The tonka bean is the seed of Dipteryx odorata, a species of flowering tree in the pea family Fabaceae. They are black and wrinkled and have a smooth brown center.

[[Herculaneum]]

CATEGORIES: Places of Ancient Rome, Towns in Italy, Ruins, World Heritage Sites in Italy, Campania

Herculaneum was an ancient Roman town. It was completely destroyed when the volcano Mount Vesuvius erupted on 24 August, 79 AD. Herculaneum was covered by volcanic mud during the eruption, which quickly hardened to a semi-rock material. Herculaneum is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Unlike Pompeii, the deep pyroclastic material which covered it preserved most objects in its path. Archaeologists have recovered wooden and other objects such as rooves, beds, doors, and food. Some 300 skeletons  were discovered along the sea shore. It was thought until then that the town had been evacuated by its inhabitants.

Herculaneum was a wealthier town than Pompeii. It had many fine houses with a lavish use of coloured marble cladding, mosaics and wall paintings.

[[Martin Hinteregger]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, People from Carinthia (state), FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Martin Hinteregger ( born September 7 th, 1992 in Feldkirchen, Carinthia) is an Austrian footballplayer and plays for FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Football Bundesliga as defender.

[[Stratigraphy]]

CATEGORIES: Rocks, Stratigraphy

Stratigraphy is a branch of geology which studies rock formations called strata (layers). It is important in the study of sedimentary and layered vocanic rocks.

[[Insulin pump]]

CATEGORIES: Medical equipment, Diabetes mellitus

Insulin pumps are medical devices used to administering insulin for treatment of diabetes mellitus. These devices are an alternative to constant and daily injections of insulin via syringe or pen. An insulin pump allows intensive insulin therapy when used along with carb counting and blood glucose monitors.

[[Robert Wagner]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Actors from Detroit, Michigan, American movie actors, American television actors

Robert John Wagner, Jr. (born February 10, 1930 in Detroit, Michigan, U.S.), is an American actor. His paternal grandparents were from Germany.

[[Waves at shallow water]]

CATEGORIES: Oceanography, Tsunamis

Waves at shallow water develop when the ocean surface waves travel into the coastal area where the wavelength is much larger than the water depth. The normal circular motion of the water particles there is disrupted by the ocean bottom.  As the water becomes shallower, the swell on the water surface becomes higher and steeper.  After the wave breaks, the water flows violently, turbulently. This is where erosion of the ocean bottom and shore line intensifies dramatically. The most devastating effect may happen in the case of tsunami.

[[Pernell Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), 1928 births, 2010 deaths

Pernell Roberts (May 18, 1928 - January 24, 2010) was an American actor.

[[Westerbork concentration camp]]

CATEGORIES: Nazi concentration camps, Drenthe

Westerbork was a concentration camp in Drenthe in the Netherlands. It was used by the Nazis in World War II.

[[Sievert]]

CATEGORIES: Units of measurement

The Sievert, abbreviated Sv is the SI unit to measure the equivalent dose of ionizing radiation. It looks at how an organism reacts to a given dose. This is different from measuring the total absorbed dose, which is done in gray. It is named after Rolf Sievert, a Swedish physicist and doctor, who did research on how radiation affects organisms.

[[List of Nazi concentration camps]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Nazi concentration camps

This article lists some of concentration camps set up by the Third Reich, and includes camps such as Dachau which was set up at first to help the Nazis keep power and control political opponents, and other camps such as Auschwitz which was set up to help fulfil the Final Solution.  The German Ministry of Justice, in 1967,  named about 1200 camps and subcamps in countries occupied by Nazi Germany, while the Jewish Virtual Library writes "It is estimated that the Nazis established 15,000 camps in the occupied countries."  Most of these camps were destroyed.

[[The Event]]

CATEGORIES: NBC network shows, American science fiction television series, 2010 American television series debuts, English-language television programs

The Event was an American television show on NBC. It is in the genre of science fiction. It is about a group of aliens who come to Earth. 97 of these aliens are being held by the United States government. They were held held for 66 years until they escaped. The show will have 22 episodes for the first season. On May 13, 2011, NBC announced that the show will end after one season due to declining ratings. However the producers said that Netflix or Syfy may pick it up.

[[Dan Blocker]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Texas, 1928 births, 1972 deaths

Dan Blocker (December 10, 1928 – May 13, 1972) was an American actor.

[[List of subcamps of Sachsenhausen]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Nazi concentration camps

The list of subcamps of Sachsenhausen shows forced labour facilities of the Sachsenhausen concentration camp.

[[List of subcamps of Ravensbrück]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Nazi concentration camps

List of subcamps of Ravensbrück complex of Nazi concentration camps.

[[List of subcamps of Kraków-Płaszów]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Nazi concentration camps, Kraków, Poland-related lists

List of subcamps of the Kraków-Płaszów complex of Nazi concentration camps near Kraków, General Government, in occupied Poland between 1942–1944.

[[What's My Name?]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Rihanna songs, Drake songs, Electro songs, R&B songs

"What's My Name?" is a 2010 song from Barbadian singer Rihanna and Canadian rapper Drake. This song was released in October 2010 and was praised by the music critics. It was a commercial success, topping the US Billboard Hot 100 and becoming her third number-one song during 2010.  The song was Rihanna's seventh number-one hit in the US and Drake's first. It also reached number one on the UK Singles Chart and the top five in Canada, Ireland, and New Zealand.

[[List of subcamps of Stutthof]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Nazi concentration camps, Poland-related lists

The following is a list of subcamps of Stutthof complex of Nazi concentration camps.

[[Long pepper]]

CATEGORIES: Piperales

Long pepper (Piper longum), also known as the Indonesian long pepper, is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae, known for its fruit, which is usually dried and used as a spice.

[[Zedoary]]

CATEGORIES: Zingiberales

Zedoary is a perennial herb. This plant is native to India and Indonesia.

[[Hoja santa]]

CATEGORIES: Piperales

Hoja santa (Piper auritum) is a herb with a heart-shaped velvety leaf. The name hoja santa means "sacred leaf" in Spanish language. It is also known as yerba santa, hierba santa, Mexican pepperleaf, root beer plant, and sacred pepper.

[[Brandon McKinney]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, American football defensive tackles, Sportspeople from Ohio, Baltimore Ravens players, Indianapolis Colts players, Living people, San Diego Chargers players

Brandon McKinney (born August 24, 1983 in Dayton, Ohio) is an American football nose tackle for the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League (NFL). McKinney didn't get drafted but played college football at Michigan State University. McKinney started his NFL career with the San Diego Chargers in 2006 and played 3 seasons with them before signing a contract with the Baltimore Ravens on October 8, 2008. He played four seasons with the Ravens before signing with the Indianapolis Colts on April 4, 2012.

[[Kelly Gregg]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, Philadelphia Eagles players, American football defensive tackles, Sportspeople from Wichita, Kansas

Kelly Michael Gregg (born November 1, 1976 in Wichita, Kansas) is an American football nose tackle for the Baltimore Ravens. Gregg was drafted out of the University of Oklahoma by the Cincinnati Bengals with the 173rd overall pick in the sixth round of the 1999 NFL Draft. Gregg won Super Bowl XXXV while he was part of the Baltimore Ravens practice squad.

[[Anquan Boldin]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, African American players of American football, American football wide receivers, Sportspeople from Florida

Anquan Kenmile Boldin (born October 3, 1980 in Pahokee, Florida, USA) is an American football wide receiver for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL). Boldin was drafted out of Florida State University by the Arizona Cardinals with the 54th overall pick in the second round of the 2003 NFL Draft. Boldin has been selected for 3 Pro Bowls in 2003, 2006 and 2009. He has been known for his physical play. He won Super Bowl XLVII with the Ravens when they defeated the San Francisco 49ers 34-31.

In 2017, Boldin and Malcolm Jenkins founded the Players Coalition to help NFL players work for racial justice.  Part of the Coalition is a charity and part is a political action group.  By January 2020, the Coalition had given more than US$25 million to charities.

During the 2020 George Floyd protests, Boldin appeared on The Daily Show to talk about police racism and how athletes and the NFL could help society. He said why he founded the Players Coalition: "For me it was really important.  Unfortunately, I lost my cousin at the hands of law enforcement.  He was a drummer in a band. One night after  ashow he had just played with his band, he ended up breaking down by the side of the road.  Long story short, a law enforcement officer killed him while he was on the phone with roadside assistance.  For me, seeing the pain my family went through, seeing how long the process was before we felt like justice was served, I didn't want any other family to have to deal with that."

"I can tell you that, even after having money, I found myself in those situations where I'm pulled over just because of the car that I'm driving or the color of my skin.  Having money doesn't exempt you from being black in America."

He said he was glad that sporting events had been canceled because of COVID-19: "The one thing I'm happy that is not happening right now is that sports isn't being played." He then named many tournaments and other events that had been cancelled. "...and everybody could be distracted by those things that are going on, but because you don't have sports, everybody's attention is focused on this one thing.  And I think, for us, this is the opportunity to really create change.  It's an opportunity for us to really strategize and have a game plan going forward.  So I'm actually happy that there are no sports because there's nothing to distract people from the real issue that needs to be talked about."

[[Red Bank, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tennessee

Red Bank is a city in Hamilton County, Tennessee, United States. The population of Red Bank was 12,418 in 2000. The city of Red Bank is an enclave.

[[Cranbrook, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia, 1890s establishments in Canada

Cranbrook is a Canadian city in British Columbia, Canada. Cranbrook is in the southeastern and the East Kootenay region of British Columbia. At the 2006 census, 18,947 people lived in Cranbrook. It was named a city in 1905. Cranbrook is also home to an WHL team called the Kootenay Ice.

[[Colwood, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia, 1985 establishments in North America, 1980s establishments in Canada

Colwood is a Canadian city in British Columbia, Canada. Colwood is southwest of Victoria. It is on Vancouver Island. There were 14,687 people living there at the 2006 consensus. The current mayor of Colwood is David Saunders.

[[Alderney concentration camps]]

CATEGORIES: Nazi concentration camps on Alderney

The Alderney concentration camps were built and operated by Nazi Germany during its World War II occupation of the Channel Islands. The Channel Islands were the only British Commonwealth soil to be occupied by the Nazis. The Nazis built four concentration camps on Alderney Island, subcamps of the Neuengamme camp outside Hamburg. They were named after the Frisian Islands: Lager Norderney, Lager Borkum, Lager Sylt and Lager Helgoland. The Nazi Organisation Todt operated each subcamp and used forced labour to build bunkers, gun emplacements, air-raid shelters, and concrete fortifications. The camps started working in January 1942 and had a total inmate population of about 6,000.

The Borkum and Helgoland camps were "volunteer" (Hilfswillige) labour camps and the labourers in those camps were treated harshly but a little bit better than the inmates at the Sylt and Norderney camps. The prisoners in Lager Sylt and Lager Norderney were slave labourers forced to build the many military fortifications and installations throughout Alderney. Sylt camp held Jewish enforced labourers. Norderney camp housed European (usually Eastern but including Spaniard) and Russian enforced labourers. Lager Borkum was used for German technicians and "volunteers" from different countries of Europe. Lager Helgoland was filled with Russian Organisation Todt workers.

In 1942, Lager Norderney, containing Russian and Polish POWs, and Lager Sylt, holding Jews, were placed under the control of the SS Hauptsturmführer Max List. Over 700 of the inmates lost their lives before the camps were closed and the remaining inmates transferred to Nazi Germany in 1944.

[[Lager Borkum]]

CATEGORIES: Nazi concentration camps on Alderney

Lager Borkum was a Nazi concentration camp on Alderney, in the Bailiwick of Guernsey, in the Channel Islands, named after the East Frisian Island of Borkum.

The Germans built four concentration camps on the island, subcamps of the Neuengamme concentration camp (in Hamburg, Germany). Each subcamp was named after one of the Frisian Islands: Lager Norderney at Saye, Lager Borkum at Platte Saline, Lager Sylt near the old telegraph tower at La Foulère and Lager Helgoland, in the northwest corner of the island. Over 700 people died in the Alderney concentration camps (out of a total inmate population of about 6,000). These were the only Nazi concentration camps on British soil.

It was organised by the Schutzstaffel - SS-Baubrigade I–which was first under supervision of the Sachsenhausen concentration camp; and after mid-February 1943 ran under the Neuengamme camp in northern Germany. It was used by the Nazi Organisation Todt, a forced labour programme, to build bunkers, gun emplacements, air-raid shelters, and concrete fortifications.

Lager Borkum was near the centre of Alderney and was the smallest of the four camps. The Borkum and Helgoland camps were "volunteer" (Hilfswillige) labour camps and the labourers in those camps were treated harshly but marginally better than the inmates at the Sylt and Norderney camps. The prisoners in Lager Sylt and Lager Norderney were slave labourers forced to build the many military fortifications and installations throughout Alderney. Sylt camp held Jewish enforced labourers and was a death camp. Norderney camp housed European (usually Eastern but including Spaniard) and Russian enforced labourers. Lager Borkum was used for German technicians and volunteers from different countries of Europe. Lager Helgoland was filled with Russian Organisation Todt workers. (For further information on Alderney concentration camps, see Appendix F: Concentration Camps: Endlösung – The Final Solution; Alderney, a Nazi concentration camp on an island Anglo-Norman;.

[[Lager Helgoland]]

CATEGORIES: Nazi concentration camps on Alderney

Lager Helgoland was a Nazi concentration camp on Alderney in the Channel Islands, named after the Frisian Island of Heligoland (Helgoland), a former British possession handed over to Germany in 1890.

The Germans built four concentration camps on Alderney, run as subcamps of the Neuengamme concentration camp (in Hamburg, Germany). Each subcamp was named after one of the Frisian Islands: 

700 people died in the Alderney concentration camps (out of a total inmate population of about 6,000). These were the only Nazi concentration camps on British soil.

It was organised by the Schutzstaffel - SS-Baubrigade I–which was first under supervision of the Sachsenhausen concentration camp near Berlin; and from mid-February 1943 under the Neuengamme camp in northern Germany. It was used by the Nazi Organisation Todt forced labour programme, to build bunkers, gun emplacements, air-raid shelters, and concrete fortifications.

Lager Helgoland was in the northwest corner of Alderney. The Borkum and Helgoland camps were called "volunteer" (Hilfswillige) labour camps and the labourers in those camps were treated harshly but marginally better than the inmates at the Sylt and Norderney camps. The prisoners in Lager Sylt and Lager Norderney were slave labourers forced to build the many military fortifications and installations throughout Alderney. Sylt camp held Jewish enforced labourers and was a death camp. Norderney camp housed European (usually Eastern but including Spaniard) and Russian enforced labourers. Lager Borkum was used for German technicians and volunteers from different countries of Europe. Lager Helgoland was filled with Russian Organisation Todt workers. (For further information on Alderney concentration camps, see Appendix F: Concentration Camps: Endlösung – The Final Solution; Alderney, a Nazi concentration camp on an island Anglo-Norman;.

[[Lager Norderney]]

CATEGORIES: Nazi concentration camps on Alderney

Lager Norderney was a Nazi concentration camp on Alderney, in the Channel Islands, named after the East Frisian island of Norderney.

The Germans built four concentration camps on the island, subcamps of the Neuengamme concentration camp (in Hamburg, Germany). Each subcamp was named after one of the Frisian Islands: Lager Norderney at Saye, Lager Borkum at Platte Saline, Lager Sylt near the old telegraph tower at La Foulère and Lager Helgoland, in the northwest corner of the island. 700 people died in the Alderney concentration camps (out of about 6,000 inmates). These were the only Nazi concentration camps on British soil.

It was organised by the Schutzstaffel - SS-Baubrigade I–which was first under supervision of the Sachsenhausen concentration camp; and since mid-February 1943 ran under the Neuengamme camp in northern Germany. It was used by the Nazi Organisation Todt, a forced labour programme, to build bunkers, gun emplacements, air-raid shelters, and concrete fortifications.

Norderney camp housed European (usually Eastern but including Spaniard) and Russian enforced labourers. The prisoners in Lager Norderney and Lager Sylt were slave labourers forced to build the many military fortifications and installations throughout Alderney. Sylt camp held Jewish enforced labourers and was a death camp. The Borkum and Helgoland camps were "volunteer" (Hilfswillige) labour camps and the labourers in those camps were treated harshly but marginally better than the inmates at the Sylt and Norderney camps. Lager Borkum was used for German technicians and volunteers from different countries of Europe. Lager Helgoland was filled with Russian Organisation Todt workers. (For further information on Alderney concentration camps, see Appendix F: Concentration Camps: Endlösung – The Final Solution; Alderney, a Nazi concentration camp on an island Anglo-Norman;.

In 1942, Lager Norderney, containing Russian and Polish POWs, and Lager Sylt, holding Jews, were placed under the control of the SS Hauptsturmführer Max List. Over 700 of the inmates lost their lives before the camps were closed and the remaining inmates transferred to Germany in 1944.

[[Lager Sylt]]

CATEGORIES: Nazi concentration camps on Alderney

Lager Sylt was a Nazi concentration camp on Alderney in the Channel Islands, in operation between March 1943 and June 1944. The Germans built one concentration camp and three Labour camps on the island, subcamps of the Neuengamme concentration camp (in Hamburg, Germany). Each subcamp was named after one of the Frisian Islands: 

700 people are estimated to died in the camps on Alderney, although it is now believed to have been higher. This was the only Nazi concentration camp on British soil.

It was organised by the Schutzstaffel - SS-Baubrigade I–which was first under supervision of the Sachsenhausen concentration camp; and since mid-February 1943 ran under the Neuengamme camp in northern Germany–near the old telegraph tower at La Foulère.  It was used by the Nazi Organisation Todt, a forced labour programme, to build bunkers, gun emplacements, air-raid shelters, and concrete fortifications.

Sylt camp held Jewish enforced labourers. The prisoners in Lager Sylt and Lager Norderney were slave labourers forced to build the many military fortifications and installations throughout Alderney. Norderney camp housed European (usually Eastern but including Spaniard) and Russian enforced labourers. The Borkum and Helgoland camps were "volunteer" (Hilfswillige) labour camps and the labourers in those camps were treated harshly but marginally better than the inmates at the Sylt and Norderney camps. Lager Borkum was used for German technicians and volunteers from different countries of Europe. Lager Helgoland was filled with Russian Organisation Todt workers. (For further information on Alderney concentration camps, see Appendix F: Concentration Camps: Endlösung – The Final Solution; Alderney, a Nazi concentration camp on an island Anglo-Norman;)

The prisoners were from Russia and Europe, usually the east, but including Spanish Republicans.  Some of the few remaining unevacuated Alderney natives (round about 2% of the population) also found themselves in there.  In 1942, Lager Norderney, containing Russian and Polish POWs, and Lager Sylt, holding Jews, were placed under the control of SS Hauptsturmführer Max List.  Over 700 of the inmates are said to have lost their lives before the camps were closed and the remaining inmates transferred to Germany in 1944.

Alderney has been nicknamed "the island of silence", because little is known about what occurred there during the occupation.  The rest of the island was heavily fortified, mainly through the slave labour of the camp inmates.  The German officer left in charge of the facilities, Commandant Oberst Schwalm, burned the camps to the ground and destroyed all records connected with their use before the island was liberated by British forces on 16 May 1945.  The German garrison on Alderney surrendered a week after the other Channel Islands, and was one of the last garrisons to surrender in Europe.  The population were unable to start returning until December 1945.

The States (Alderney's governing body) decline to commemorate the sites of the four labour camps.  Local historian Colin Partridge feels this may be due to the locals' desire to separat themselves from the accusations of collaboration.  A faded memorial plate in the island's parish church mentions 45 Soviet citizens who died on Alderney in 1940-45 but does not  say how they died and why.

[[Nicolaus Steno]]

CATEGORIES: 1638 births, 1686 deaths, Danish scientists, Geologists, Astronomers, Christians

Nicolas Steno  also spelled as Nicolas Steno who lived 1 January 1638 – 25 November 1686 (NS: 11 January 1638 – 5 December 1686) was a Danish Catholic cleric and scientist who pioneered in both anatomy and geology.

In 1659 he decided not to accept anything written in a book and, instead, decided to find out things for himself. He is considered the father of geology and stratigraphy.4; 96

[[Chervil]]

CATEGORIES: Apiaceae, Herbs

Chervil (Anthriscus cerefolium) is a herb that is related to parsley. It is sometimes called garden chervil.

[[The Sims Medieval]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 video games, The Sims, IOS games, MacOS games, Simulator video games, Video game spin-offs, Windows games

The Sims Medieval is a video game developed by The Sims Studio. It is based on The Sims game series, and was released on March 22, 2011 by Electronic Arts. It is available for Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X. The game is different from the previous versions of The Sims, in the sense that it is set in medieval times. Players can build a kingdom, through a quest-driven gameplay. The game has received mixed reviews from critics.

[[Dulene]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Europe, Settlements in Serbia

Dulene is a village in the Pivara municipality in Kragujevac city district in the Šumadija District of central Serbia. 

It has a population of 218 people.

[[WWE Tough Enough]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American reality television series, World Wrestling Entertainment television programs, Stamford, Connecticut

WWE Tough Enough is a professional wrestling reality television program produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). Participants trained professionally and competed for a contract with WWE. There were two winners each season for the first three competitions. They were aired on MTV. A fourth competition was held in 2004, with only a single winner, but was integrated into UPN's SmackDown!. In October 2010, the USA Network said they would revive Tough Enough. The new series will begin airing on April 4, 2011.

[[E.T. (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Billboard Rhythmic Songs number-one singles, Katy Perry songs, Kanye West songs

"E.T." is a song by singer Katy Perry. It features rapper Kanye West. It was released 16 February 2011 and has a stomp-stomp-clap beat or rhythm similar to Queen's We Will Rock You. The Queen song has the band stamping their feet twice, and clapping once.  This single received mixed reviews by the music critics.February 2012 The song is style from the electronic music genre with elements from teen pop, with the lyrics speaking of falling in love with a foreigner.

[[Trail, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Trail is a Canadian city in British Columbia, Canada. Trail is in the West Kootenay region of British Columbia. At the 2006 census, 7,237 people lived in Trail. The current mayor of Trail is Mike Martin. Trail has a BCHL (British Columbia Hockey League) ice hockey team called the Trail Smoke Eaters.

[[Jérôme d'Ambrosio]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Belgian sportspeople, People from Brussels-Capital Region, Formula One current, Formula One drivers, GP2 Series drivers

Jérôme d'Ambrosio (born 27 December 1985 in Etterbeek, Belgium) is a Belgian racing driver of Italian descent. He one of the drivers for the Marussia Virgin Racing for the 2011 Formula One World Championship.

[[Chino XL]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American rap musicians from New York, Singers from New York City

Derek Keith Barbosa (born April 8, 1974 in The Bronx, New York) is an American rapper and actor better known by his stage name, Chino XL. As an actor he has made guest appearances on the television shows Reno 911! and CSI: Miami, as well as movies with Kate Hudson, Luke Wilson, and Rob Reiner.

[[Jeff Ross]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Actors from New Jersey, American movie actors, American stand-up comedians, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from New Jersey, Jewish American actors, Jewish American comedians, Jewish American writers, Writers from New Jersey

Jeffrey Ross Lifschultz (born September 13, 1965), better known as Jeff Ross, is an American stand-up comedian, actor and author. He is known for his insult-style of comedy, leading to his nickname "The Roastmaster General". He has had many appearances on Comedy Central's roast specials, aiming insults and jokes at celebrities. He has acted in television series such as Where My Dogs At?, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, Six Feet Under and Weeds. Ross was also a competitor on the seventh season of Dancing with the Stars where he danced with Edyta Śliwińska. They were the first ones eliminated.

Ross was born in Springfield, New Jersey to a Jewish family. He is a Democrat.

[[Sulphur Springs, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas, 1854 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Texas

Sulphur Springs is a city in Hopkins County, Texas, United States. The population of Sulphur Springs was 14,551 in 2000. Sulphur Springs was founded in 1854.

[[George Takei]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, LGBT people from California, Gay men, LGBT actors, 1937 births, Living people, American bloggers

George Hosato Takei Altman (born April 20, 1937 in Los Angeles, California) is an American actor. He is probably best known for playing Hikaru Sulu in the television series, Star Trek. His parents were of Japanese origin. In 2005, he said that he is homosexual during an interview with Frontiers magazine and that he was in a relationship with his partner of eighteen years, Brad Altman.

[[Gonzalo Zárate]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

He started playing football in the youthteams of CA Lanús und CA Tiro Federal. Zarate played his first professional matches in the second league of Argentina for PCC San José. 2007 he went to Switzerland playing for SC Kriens (Second League), scoring five goals in five matches. Then he went on loan to Grasshopper-Club Zürich, after the loan the bought him . He scored 14 goals and was the most successful scorer in the team. In May 2010 he signed  with FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga. In his first year he played till now 25 matches and scored three goals and gave one assist.

[[Alexander Stephens]]

CATEGORIES: 1812 births, 1883 deaths, Confederate States of America, United States representatives from Georgia

Alexander Hamilton Stephens (February 11, 1812 – March 4, 1883) was an American and Confederate politician.  He was from Georgia.  Stephens was short and sickly for much of his life.  Stephens owned a fair number of slaves.  He served as a Whig congressman from 1843 to 1859.  Later, he became a member of the Constitutional Union Party and then a Democrat.  Stephens was the Vice-President of the Confederacy from 1861 to 1865.  While Vice-President, he tried to end the war and did not get along with Confederate President Jefferson Davis.  After the war, Stephens again was a U.S. Congressman, and was Governor of Georgia for a short time.

[[Your Highness]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 movies, 2010s comedy movies, 2010s fantasy movies, English-language movies

Your Highness is a 2011 fantasy-comedy movie produced by Scott Stuber, Jon Mone, Danny McBride, Mark Huffam and Andrew Z. Davis, and directed by David Gordon Green. It was released on April 8, 2011 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with Rotten Tomatoes giving it a 26% and Metacritic gave it a 31 out of 100.

[[Baldwin apple]]

CATEGORIES: Apples, Massachusetts

The Baldwin apple is a bright red winter apple, very good in quality, and easily shipped. It was for many years the most popular apple in New England, New York, and for export from America.

[[Tropical Storm Agatha (2010)]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes, Deadly storms, 2010 in weather, History of Central America, 2010 in North America

Tropical Storm Agatha was a weak but devastating tropical cyclone which brought severe flooding across Central America. It was the deadliest Eastern Pacific storm since Hurricane Pauline in 1997. Agatha was the first storm of the 2010 Eastern Pacific hurricane season. The storm caused 190 deaths and $1.1 billion in damage across Central America.

[[Rebecca Black]]

CATEGORIES: American child singers, American pop musicians, American Internet celebrities, Singers from California, 1997 births, Living people, People from Irvine, California

Rebecca Renee Black (born June 21, 1997) is an American singer-songwriter. who gained fame for her 2011 single, Friday. Her single gained around 1,000 views in the first month and has had negative views. After the video saw many views on YouTube and other social media websites, "Friday" expressed unpraise by many music critics and viewers. They described it as "the worst song ever". After the video was uploaded in Youtube on February 10, 2011 and its temporary removal on June 16, 2011, the music video received around 167 million views. Black re-uploaded it to her own YouTube channel on September 2011.

[[John B. Bibb]]

CATEGORIES: 1789 births, 1840 deaths, People with foods named after them, Military people from Virginia, Politicians from Kentucky, Politicians from Virginia

Lt. John B. Bibb (October 27, 1789, in Prince Edward County, Virginia - April 12, 1840) served in the War of 1812, represented Logan County in the Kentucky House of Representatives and the state Senate from 1827 to 1834.  

Lt. Bibb was also an amateur horticulturist and developed the modern Bibb lettuce at his mansion in Frankfort, Kentucky.  However, it wasn't offered commercially until 1935.

[[Bing cherry]]

CATEGORIES: Fruits, Dishes named after people

Bing is a cultivar (farmed type) of the wild or sweet cherry (Prunus avium) that started in the Pacific Northwest, in Milwaukie, Oregon, United States. The Bing remains a major cultivar in Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia. It is the most produced variety of sweet cherry in the United States.

[[Isle of Man Government]]

CATEGORIES: Government of the Isle of Man

The Isle of Man Government (Reiltys Ellan Vannin) is the government of the Isle of Man.  The formal head of the Isle of Man Government is the Lieutenant Governor, representing HM Queen Elizabeth II, Lord of Mann.  The executive head is the Chief Minister.

Douglas, the largest town on the Isle of Man is its capital and seat of government, where the Government offices and the parliament chambers (Tynwald) are located.

The Civil Service has more than 2000 employees and the total number of public sector employees including the Civil Service, teachers, nurses, police, etc. is about 9000 people. This is somewhat more than 10% of the population of the Island, and a full 23% of the working population. This does not include any military forces, as defence is the responsibility of the United Kingdom.

[[Member of the House of Keys]]

CATEGORIES: Isle of Man

Member of the House of Keys, or MHK is the title given to a person who has been elected into the House of Keys, the lower house of Tynwald, the parliament of the Isle of Man. There are twenty-four Members of the House of Keys. Elections are held every five years; the last election took place in November 2006. The leader of the House is the Speaker of the House of Keys, Juan Watterson.

The House of Keys is in Douglas, the capital of the Isle of Man. The Old House of Keys, their former chamber, is in Castletown, the former capital. It is now a museum.

[[Evolutionary developmental biology]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Developmental biology

Evolutionary developmental biology interprets development in the light of evolution and modern genetics. It is called for short evo-devo.

In On the Origin of Species (1859), Charles Darwin proposed evolution through natural selection, a theory central to modern biology. Darwin recognised the importance of embryonic development in the understanding of evolution: 

Ernst Haeckel (1866) proposed that "ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny", that is, the development of the embryo of every species (ontogeny) repeats the evolutionary development of that species (phylogeny). Haeckel's concept explained, for example, why humans, and indeed all vertebrates, have gill slits and tails early in embryonic development. His theory has since been largely discredited.

[[James Anthony Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Manx people, Manx politicians

James Anthony "Tony" Brown (born 5 January 1950) is a Manx politician. He is the current Chief Minister of the Isle of Man and Member of the House of Keys for Castletown. 

Tony Brown was educated at Castle Rushen and was an electrician. He owned Tony Brown Electrics in Castletown until its closure in 2010. He was elected as a member of Castletown Commissioners (town council) in 1976, becoming Chairman in 1980 before being elected as the Castletown MHK in 1981 at his first attempt. In 2000, he was defeated in his attempt to become Speaker of the House of Keys by David Cannan but instead became the Deputy Speaker.  Following the 2001 General Election, he was elected Speaker and in January 2002, Deputy President of Tynwald.

He was reelected in November 2006 as MHK, beating Roy Redmayne by 915 votes to 335. There was a great deal of rumour that he might run for Chief Minister, but when nominations were put forward his name was not in the list. There was a round of voting with neither Steve Rodan, John Shimmin nor David Cannan being elected. Nominations then reopened, with Tony Brown being the only candidate put forward. His nomination was confirmed by Tynwald on Thursday, 14 December 2006 receiving 27 votes and the Lieutenant Governor appointed him Chief Minister later in the day.  He then resigned the Speakership of the House of Keys as required by law.

[[Chief Minister of the Isle of Man]]

CATEGORIES: Government of the Isle of Man, Manx politicians

The Chief Minister (Manx: Ard-choylargh) is the executive head of the Isle of Man Government. He is the Prime Minister of the island.

The office comes from that of Chairman of the Executive Council. Before 1980 the Executive Council was chaired by the Lieutenant Governor, but afterwards the chairman was elected by Tynwald, the parliament of the Isle of Man.  The title was changed to "Chief Minister" in 1986.

The Chief Minister is appointed by the Lieutenant Governor on the nomination of Tynwald after a general election of the House of Keys.  He holds office until the next general election (i.e., for 5 years), and is eligible for re-appointment, but may be removed from office by Tynwald on a vote of no confidence in the Council of Ministers.

After the general election in November 2006, Mr John Shimmin MHK, Mr Stephen Rodan MHK (Minister for Health and Social Security) and Mr David Cannan MHK (former Minister for the Treasury) tried to become Chief Minister, but none got enough votes in Tynwald. On a second vote Mr Tony Brown (Speaker of the House of Keys) was nominated unopposed.

[[Lieutenant Governor of the Isle of Man]]

CATEGORIES: Government of the Isle of Man

The Lieutenant Governor (Fo-chiannoort) is the representative on the Isle of Man of the Lord of Mann, who is currently Queen Elizabeth II. He/she has the power to grant Royal Assent and is styled His Excellency. 

The official residence of the Governor is Government House, Governor's Road, Onchan.

The Lieutenant Governor had all judicial, fiscal (tax raising) and executive power. In about 1900 they had more power over the island than any other Commonwealth leader had in their colony or Dominion.  However, he lost his role as Head of the Judiciary and as Head of Government in 1961, as President of Legislative Council in 1980 and finally as President of Tynwald in 1990.  Today the role of Lieutenant Governor is mainly ceremonial. Some powers under Isle of Man legislation do still fall to the Governor or Governor-in-Council.

[[David Doyle (judge)]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, Manx people, British lawyers, Judiciary of the Isle of Man

David Doyle QC was the First Deemster of the Isle of Man.  He was appointed in 2010  and used to be a partner of in the law firm of Dickinson, Cruickshank & Co from 1985 - 2010.  He was called to the Bar (Gray's Inn) in 1982 and the Manx Bar in 1984.

In November 2010 it was announced that he would take up the position of First Deemster following the death of Michael Kerruish earlier in the year. Doyle was sworn in on December 20, 2010. His appointment ended on July 31st 2018.

[[Nova Bus]]

CATEGORIES: Automobile companies, Bus transport

Nova Bus is a company which makes buses for public transit, and is owned by Volvo. Created in 1993, Nova Bus continued the production of the Classic and Rapid Transit Series models previously made by General Motors and Motor Coach Industries. Nova Buses are used in many cities across North America, including New York, Quebec City, Montreal and Calgary.

Nova Bus has three factories in which the buses are built; Plattsburgh, New York, St-François-du-Lac, Quebec, and St-Eustache, Quebec.

[[Deemster]]

CATEGORIES: Judiciary of the Isle of Man, Law occupations

A deemster (briw) is a judge in the Isle of Man. The Isle of Man is self-governing. It keeps some of its traditions, and has a long past history.

The High Court of Justice of the Isle of Man is presided over by a deemster. In the appeal division, a deemster and the Judge of Appeal preside.  The deemsters also make the Isle of Man's laws official, by reading them out to the people in English and Manx on Tynwald Day.

The First and Second Deemsters used to have seats in the Legislative Council of the Isle of Man. The Second Deemster lost his seat in 1965, and the First Deemster lost his in 1975.

There are currently three full time Deemsters in the Isle of Man. These are the First Deemster and Clerk of the Rolls (who is also the Deputy Governor), the Second Deemster, and an additional full-time Deemster. Additional deemsters, full-time or part-time, may be appointed from time to time. 

The offices of First Deemster, Second Deemster and Clerk of the Rolls are ancient offices. The offices of First Deemster and Clerk of the Rolls were joined in 1918. A new office of Deputy Deemster was created in 2002, but abolished in 2009. 

The First Deemster, Second Deemster and Judge of Appeal are appointed by the monarch, (acting on the advice of the UK's Secretary of State for Justice). The First Deemster acts in place of the Lieutenant Governor in the latter's absence, or during a vacancy in that office.

[[Coat of arms of the Isle of Man]]

CATEGORIES: National coats of arms, Isle of Man

The coat of arms of the Isle of Man, or The Arms of Her Majesty in right of the Isle of Man (their formal name as the Isle of Man is a Crown dependency).  The arms were adopted on 12 July 1996.

[[Patricia Arquette]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Actors from Virginia, American movie actors, American television actors, Jewish American actors, Arquette family, Best Supporting Actress Academy Award winners, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Patricia T. Arquette (born April 8, 1968) is an American actress and movie director. She played the lead character in the supernatural drama television series Medium. She also starred in other TV series and in many movies. She won a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for her role in Boyhood in 2015.

[[Downtown (owarai)]]

CATEGORIES: Comedians

Downtown is a popular Japanese comedy duo that features members, Hitoshi Matsumoto and Masatoshi Hamada. They first became a comedy duo in 1983 when they went on Yoshimoto Kōgyō: NSC (New Star Creation). They are known for acting on the television show, Downtown no Gaki no Tsukai ya Arahende!! along with another comedy duo, Cocorico. Matsumoto is the boke of the duo and he will often put up with light physical abuse (it is also common for the tsukkomi to slap the boke on top of his head whenever he says something rude or ridiculous) from Hamada who is the tsukkomi. They have also created the televisions series, Downtown no Gottsu Ee Kanji, Downtown DX and Hey! Hey! Hey! Music Champ.

[[No Way Out (2004)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in professional wrestling, Sports in California, WWE No Way Out, 2004 in California, 2004 in American television, February events

No Way Out was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on February 15, 2004 at the Cow Palace in Daly City, California. It was the 5th No Way Out event. Seven matches were scheduled on the event's card. The main event between Eddie Guerrero and Brock Lesnar was quoted by Kevin Sowers from PWTorch  as being "one to remember for a long time".

[[Modern English Bible translations]]

CATEGORIES: Bible versions

There are many translations of the Bible in English. 

People don't agree about what is the "original Bible". Because there are many versions of Greek and Latin Bibles, there are also many versions of the English Bible.

Some translations are word-for-word from the original language. These translations are usually difficult to read. Other translations are idea-for-idea. These translations change the ideas of the original Bible into English. Some idea-for-idea translations use very easy English. Literal translations are difficult for some people to understand. But, non-literal translations can change the meaning. "Dynamic Equivalence" means making the Bible easy to read, without changing the meaning.

[[László Bodnár]]

CATEGORIES: Hungarian footballers, 1979 births, Living people

[[Bell's theorem]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

Bell's theorem, also called "Bell's inequality," is a thought experiment. When joined with real experiments, it shows there are no hidden variables which can explain some of the consequences of quantum mechanics. This study, closely related to quantum mechanics, was done by John Stewart Bell. 

[[Mark Cavendish]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, British autobiographers, British cyclists, Commonwealth Games medallists, Manx people

Mark Cavendish (born 21 May 1985) is a Manx racing cyclist who rides for team dimension data. Originally a track cyclist in the madison, points race, and scratch race, he has competed on the road since 2006.

He is a double Madison World Champion and Commonwealth Games gold medallist on the track. As a road cyclist, he has risen to fame as a sprinter. He got eleven wins in his first professional season, equalling the record held by Alessandro Petacchi. In the 2008 Tour de France he won four stages, a then unprecedented achievement for a British cyclist (he surpassed the feat, winning six stages in 2009 and a further 5 in 2010) and he has been described as the fastest sprinter in the world. He continued his wins in 2009 by taking the Spring classic, Milan – San Remo. Cavendish started racing informally at 12, as a mountain-bike rider.

Cavendish was awarded the Freedom of the Borough of Douglas in 2008, and collected the award on 14 April 2011.  He lives on the Isle of Man and has a training base in Quarrata, Tuscany, Italy.

[[Hans Krebs]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1981 deaths, British biochemists, British Nobel Prize winners, Fellows of the Royal Society, German biochemists, German doctors, Jewish British academics, Jewish British scientists, Jewish German scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Knights Bachelor, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom

Sir Hans Krebs (Hans Adolf Krebs, 25 August 1900 – 22 November 1981) was a German Jewish scientist who became a naturalised British citizen. He was a physician and biochemist.

Krebs researched metabolism. He is famous because he discovered the urea cycle and the citric acid cycle (also called the Krebs Cycle). Krebs won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for this, in 1953.

[[Gabriel Narutowicz]]

CATEGORIES: 1865 births, 1922 deaths, Presidents of Poland

Gabriel Narutowicz (born 17 March 1865 – 16 December 1922) was a Polish politician. He was born it Telsze and died in Warsaw. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and first President of Poland. He was assassinated by a painter in an art gallery that supported Narutowicz's political enemies.  

[[Mechanical advantage]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics

Mechanical advantage (also written as MA in formulas) is the factor by which a machine multiplies force. The mechanical advantage of a machine can be used to find out how well a machine works and whether it can perform a particular job.

The mechanical advantage of a machine is the ratio of the load (the resistance overcome by a machine) to the effort (the force applied). 

For an ideal (without friction) mechanism, it is also equal to:

There is no unit for mechanical advantages since the unit for both input and output forces cancel out.

[[Jefferson Station (SEPTA)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 establishments in the United States, Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, 1980s establishments in Pennsylvania

Jefferson Station is a SEPTA station in the Market East neighborhood of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Its official SEPTA address is 12th and Filbert streets. Of the three Center City stations on the SEPTA system, Jefferson Station is located the farthest east. It is part of the Center City Commuter Connection. Opened in November 1984, the station replaced the Reading Terminal, which had closed on November 6, 1984. Jefferson Station cost $75 million to build, and is owned and maintained by SEPTA. The station used to be called Market East Station but the name changed to Jefferson Station on September 4, 2014 after Thomas Jefferson University Hospital paid $4 million to have the station named for them.

The station is 120 wide and two blocks long. The tracks are 35 below the street.

[[30th Street Station]]

CATEGORIES: Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, Railway stations in the United States, Amtrak

30th Street Station is a major Amtrak and SEPTA station in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is part of the Center City Commuter Connection. It is on the Northeast Corridor.

[[Center City Commuter Connection]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

The Center City Commuter Connection is an underground train tunnel in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It connects the core SEPTA stations Jefferson Station, Suburban Station, and 30th Street Station. The stations connect the networks of rail previously operated by the Reading Railroad and Pennsylvania Railroad.

[[Suburban Station]]

CATEGORIES: Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, Railway stations in the United States, 1930 establishments in the United States, 1930s establishments in Pennsylvania

Suburban Station is one of the core SEPTA Regional Rail stations in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is part of the Center City Commuter Connection. It is at 16th Street and JFK Boulevard. It was built by the Pennsylvania Railroad to replace the old Broad Street Station. It officially opened on September 28, 1930. Suburban Station originally had eight tracks and four platforms, until the Center City Commuter Connection extended the tracks to the newer Jefferson Station. It also added another platform.

[[The Shaggs]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 1968, Musical groups disestablished in 1975, 1970s disestablishments in the United States, American pop music groups, American rock bands, Musicians from New Hampshire, 1968 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in New Hampshire, Disestablishments in New Hampshire

The Shaggs were an  American all-female rock group formed in Fremont, New Hampshire in 1968. The band was composed of sisters Dorothy "Dot" Wiggin (vocals/lead guitar), Betty Wiggin (vocals/rhythm guitar), Helen Wiggin (drums), and later Rachel Wiggin (bass).

The sisters' father, Austin Wiggin, made Dot, Betty and Helen start a band. When Austin was young, his mother had predicted that Austin would have daughters who would be part of a famous music group.

The band's only studio album, Philosophy of the World, was released in 1969. The album was not very well-known, though the band's live performances were popular in their local area. The Shaggs disbanded in 1975 after the death of Austin.

Helen Wiggin died in 2006. The widow of Austin Wiggin, Jr., Annie Wiggin, died in 2005.

[[Random forest]]

CATEGORIES: Randomised algorithms

Random forest is a statistical algorithm that is used to cluster points of data in functional groups. When the data set is large and/or there are many variables it becomes difficult to cluster the data because not all variables can be taken into account, therefore the algorithm can also give a certain chance that a data point belongs in a certain group.

[[Cambrian explosion]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Fossils, Cambrian

The Cambrian explosion is when many animal phyla first appeared in the fossil record. It happened 541 million years ago (mya). Probably most had evolved before then, but that was their first appearance as fossils.

Before about 580 mya it seems that most organisms were simple. They were made of individual cells, occasionally organized into colonies. Over the following 70 or 80 million years the rate of evolution seemed to accelerate. By the end of the Cambrian most phyla we know today existed.

The Cambrian explosion has caused much scientific debate. The seemingly rapid appearance of fossils in the 'primordial strata' was noted as early as the mid 19th century,  and Charles Darwin saw it as one of the main objections that could be made against his theory of evolution by natural selection.

[[San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquake engineering, Nuclear energy, Nuclear power plants

San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (SONGS) is one of the largest nuclear generating stations in the U.S. It is at the north of San Diego County, California. It has two active 1,100-megawatt units. It began operation in 1968. 

[[Tomáš Vokoun]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Czech ice hockey goaltenders, Florida Panthers players, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, Nashville Predators players, Olympic bronze medalists, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Washington Capitals players, American Hockey League players, ECHL players

Tomáš Vokoun (born 2 July 1976 in Karlovy Vary, Czechoslovakia) is an Czech retired professional ice hockey goaltender. He played in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Montreal Canadiens, Nashville Predators, Florida Panthers, Washington Capitals and Pittsburgh Penguins. He was selected 226th overall by the Montreal Canadiens in the 1994 NHL Entry Draft. He also played for the Montreal Canadiens in 1996 and for the Nashville Predators from 1998 to 2006 before being traded to the Florida Panthers for a first-round selection in the 2008 NHL Entry Draft, a second-round selection in the 2007 draft (number 58) and a conditional second-round selection in either 2007 or 2008. After 4 seasons with the Panthers, Vokoun signed a one-year contract with the Washington Capitals on 2 July 2011. He played 1 season with the Capitals and was traded to the Pittsburgh Penguins for a 7th round pick at the 2012 NHL Entry Draft. He also played in the ECHL with the Wheeling Thundbirds. He retired from playing professional ice hockey on 15 December 2014.

He won a bronze medal with the Czech Republic's national ice hockey team in 2006.

[[K.S.V. Oudenaarde]]

CATEGORIES: Belgian football clubs, East Flanders

Koninklijke Sport Vereniging Oudenaarde is a Belgian team from Oudenaarde. The team was founded in 1919.

[[Juno (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 comedy-drama movies, 2000s coming-of-age movies, 2000s teen comedy movies, 2000s teen drama movies, Academy Award winning movies, American comedy-drama movies, American coming-of-age movies, American teen comedy movies, American teen drama movies, BAFTA Award winning movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Minnesota, Teenage pregnancy in movies, American independent movies

Juno is a 2007 American teen comedy-drama movie set in Minnesota. It was written by Diablo Cody and directed by Jason Reitman. It starred Elliot Page as Juno MacGuff, a teenage girl who becomes pregnant by her best friend (who is played by Michael Cera). The movie made $231 million around the world.

[[Masatoshi Hamada]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Japanese comedians, Japanese movie actors, Japanese television actors, Japanese voice actors, Japanese television personalities, People from Osaka

Masatoshi Hamada (born May 11, 1963 in Naniwa-ku, Osaka) is an Japanese comedian, actor and director. Hamada is probably best known for being one-half of the comedy duo Downtown also with member Hitoshi Matsumoto. While apart of Downtown, Hamada and Matsumoto made two television shows, Downtown no Gaki no Tsukai ya Arahende!! and Hey! Hey! Hey! Music Champ. He also voiced Japanese dubs of the characters Shrek in the Shrek series, Buck the Diesel in Thomas and Friends and Slowking in Pokémon: The Movie 2000. He is married to his wife Natsumi Ogawa and they have two children.

[[Youth in Revolt (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 romance movies, 2009 comedy-drama movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, 2000s teen comedy movies, 2000s teen drama movies, 2000s teen romance movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, American teen comedy movies, American teen drama movies, American teen romance movies, English-language movies, Movies about families, Movies about virginity, Movies based on books, Movies set in the San Francisco Bay Area, Movies directed by Miguel Arteta

Youth in Revolt is a 2009 American comedy movie based on C.D. Payne's novel and directed by Miguel Arteta. It was released on January 8, 2010 at the Deauville American Film Festival in September 2009. The movie received positive reviews with a 69% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 63 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Hugo Theorell]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1982 deaths, Swedish scientists

Physiology or MedicineAxel Hugo Theodor Theorel (6 July 1903 – 15 August 1982) was an Swedish scientist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1955 for his discoveries on the oxidation enzyme and its effects. 

Theorell died in Stockholm in 1982.

[[Werner Arber]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Swiss scientists, Microbiologists, Geneticists

Werner Arber (born 3 June 1929) is a Swiss microbiologist and geneticist. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1978 for his discovery of restriction endonucleases which he shared with Daniel Nathans and Hamilton O. Smith. 

Arber as one of 20 Nobel Laureates who signed the Stockholm memorandum at the 3rd Nobel Laureate Symposium on Global Sustainability in Stockholm, Sweden on 18 May 2011.

[[Elliot Page]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Canadian feminists, Canadian LGBT people, Canadian movie actors, Entertainers from Nova Scotia, LGBT feminists, LGBT actors, Transgender and transsexual people

Elliot Page (born Ellen Philpotts-Page, February 21, 1987) is a Canadian actor. Page was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actress for his role in Juno, in which he played a pregnant teenager. Page has also starred in movies including Hard Candy, Whip It, and Inception.

Page is from Halifax, Nova Scotia.

[[Seward Peninsula]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Alaska

The Seward Peninsula is a large peninsula on the western coast of the U.S. state of Alaska. It sticks out about 320 into the Bering Sea. It is just below the Arctic Circle. The peninsula is about 330 long and 145 wide.

The town of Seward, Alaska is actually not on the Seward Peninsula. It is much further south, on the Kenai Peninsula.

The Seward Peninsula was once part of the Bering land bridge. This was a strip of land that used to exist that connected Alaska with Siberia with mainland Alaska. It existed millions of years ago during a time called the Pleistocene Ice Age. People, animals, and plants all came across the land bridge into North America.  Archaeologists have found proof that Inupiat Eskimos have been living there for thousands of years.

[[Ramon Harewood]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, American football offensive tackles, Barbadian sportspeople

Ramon Harewood (born February 3, 1987 in St. Michael, Barbados) is an Barbadian-American football offensive tackle for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL). Harewood was drafted out of Morehouse College by the Baltimore Ravens with the 194th overall pick in the 6th round of the 2010 NFL Draft.

[[President of the Swiss Confederation]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the Swiss Confederation

The President of the Swiss Confederation is the head of state and head of government of Switzerland.  The president is the chief executive of the Federal Council of Switzerland and is the most senior member of the executive branch of the Swiss government.

[[Van Diemen Gulf]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the Northern Territory, Gulfs, Bodies of water of Australia

Van Diemen Gulf (11) is a gulf between Arnhem Land, the Cobourg Peninsula and Melville Island in northern Australia. It joins the Timor Sea in the west by the Clarence Strait near the city of Darwin. It joins the Arafura Sea in the north by Dundas Strait between Melville Island and Cobourg Peninsula. It covers an area of about 14,000 km².

Rivers flowing into the Gulf include the South Alligator River, the East Alligator River and the Adelaide River.

Abel Tasman mapped the northern entrance to the Gulf, Dundas Strait, in 1644. The Gulf is named after the Dutch Governor of Batavia, Anthony Van Diemen.

The waters in the Gulf near the Cobourg Peninsula are protected by the Garig Gunak Barlu National Park.

[[HTC-Highroad]]

CATEGORIES: UCI ProTour teams

HTC-Highroad (UCI team code:THR) is a professional cycling team competing in international road bicycle races. Their current title sponsor is HTC Corporation, a Taiwanese maker of Smartphones. High Road Sports is the management company of team manager Bob Stapleton. Past title sponsors include Columbia Sportswear and Deutsche Telekom.

The team was set up in 1991 as Team Telekom, sponsored by Deutsche Telekom. In 2004 their name changed to the T-Mobile-Team. It has 29 riders, 9 physiotherapists or nurses, 9 mechanics and service persons, and has 22 partners. The team is managed by Bob Stapleton and Rolf Aldag. Former leaders include Olaf Ludwig, Walter Godefroot and Eddy Vandenhecke (managers), Luuc Eisenga (spokesperson) and  Brian Holm, Valerio Piva (sports directors).

[[Genetic code]]

CATEGORIES: Molecular biology, Genetics

The genetic code is the set of rules by which information encoded within genetic material (DNA or mRNA sequences) is translated into proteins by living cells. Biological decoding is done by the ribosome. This links amino acids together in an order specified by mRNA. It uses transfer RNA (tRNA) molecules to carry amino acids and to read the mRNA. The molecules read the mRNA three nucleotides at a time. These nucleotide triplets are called codons. A codon specifies which amino acid will be added next during protein synthesis. There are some exceptions, but usually a three-nucleotide codon represents a single amino acid.

The genetic code among all organisms is very similar. It can be expressed in a simple table with 64 entries.

The genetic code decides the protein sequence for a given coding region (gene). Other regions in the genome can influence when and where these proteins are produced.

[[Altricial]]

CATEGORIES: Developmental biology, Biological reproduction

Altricial, meaning "requiring care", refers to a group or kind of creature that is incapable of moving around on its own soon after hatching or being born. The word is derived from the Latin root alere meaning "to nurse, to rear, or to nourish", which means that young has to be taken care of for a long time before it can overcome its helplessness.

Birds or mammals which need much less care after birth are called precocial, meaning they are precocious.

[[Glen Matlock]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Bassists, Sex Pistols

Glen Matlock (born 27 August 1956) is the first bassist of the British punk group Sex Pistols.

He left the group in 1977, because he "liked the Beatles", legend being "thrown out". Matlock was replaced by John Ritchie, also known as Sid Vicious.

In May 2010 it was announced that Matlock would be a member of a reunion of The Faces, scheduled to play at the Vintage at Goodwood festival in London in August 2010.

[[Cockfosters tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Piccadilly Line stations, Tube stations in Enfield, Grade II listed buildings in London, Grade II listed railway stations, Railway stations opened in 1933, Charles Holden buildings, 1933 establishments, 1930s establishments in the United Kingdom

Cockfosters is a London Underground station on the Piccadilly Line. It is the line's northern terminus. The station is on Cockfosters Road (A111), and is about 9 miles from central London. The station serves Cockfosters in the London Borough of Barnet, but it is actually a short distance away, across the borough boundary in the neighbouring London Borough of Enfield. The station is in Travelcard Zone 5. The next station southeast is Oakwood.

[[Villi]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the digestive system

Villi (singular is villus) are small, finger-like structures in the small intestine.  They help to absorb digested food. Each villus has microvilli which increase the surface area of the intestinal walls. A larger surface area allows nutrients to be taken in more quickly.

The food (proteins, fats and carbohydrates) has already been broken down by enzymes called proteases, lipases and amylases. The amino acids and sugars (breakdown molecules of proteins and carbohydrates) go first into the blood stream. Then they are processed by the liver, which acts like a chemical factory for the body. Lipid substances (such as cholesterol) go first into the lymphatic system, and eventually into the blood stream and the liver.

[[Statius]]

CATEGORIES: 40s births, 96 deaths, Poets, People from Naples, Ancient Roman writers

Publius Papinius Statius (circa45-96 AD) was a Roman poet born in Naples, Italy. Published in 92 A.D., his major epic was called Thebaid. It has the same theme as the Seven Against Thebes, a play by Aeschylus, the fight of seven city states against Thebes. He also wrote poems for different occasions. These poems are known as Silvae today. They show what the life at the court of Domitian was like. Even though he is not well-known today, he was better known during his time. He also appears in the Divine Comedy. 

[[2011 Myanmar earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 earthquakes, 2011 in Asia, History of Myanmar, Earthquakes in Asia

The 2011 Myanmar earthquake was a 6.8 magnitude earthquake on March 24 in Shan State, Myanmar. Its hypocenter was 10 deep. It had two aftershocks, one of magnitude 4.8, another at magnitude 5.4. The quake's epicenter was 70 from the northern Thai city of Chiang Rai, north of Mae Sai and southeast of Kentung.

[[20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (1954 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 movies, Disney movies, American science fiction movies, American family movies, Movies based on books by Jules Verne, Movies with underwater settings, Movies directed by Richard Fleischer, English-language movies

20,000 Leagues Under the Sea is a 1954 movie directed by Richard Fleischer. It is about a man who goes on a discovery all over the world with Captain Nemo. It stars Kirk Douglas as Ned Land, James Mason as Captain Nemo, Paul Lukas as Professor Pierre Aronnax, and Peter Lorre as Conseil. It was the first science fiction movie produced by Walt Disney Productions. It was the only science fiction movie produced by Walt Disney himself. It was also the first feature length Disney movie to be distributed by Buena Vista Distribution. The movie has become the best-known adaptation of the book of the same name by Jules Verne. It is cited as an early example of the steampunk genre.

[[Black market]]

CATEGORIES: Crime, Economic markets

The black market is the trade of goods illegally. Black markets operate outside the normal economy. The black market is different from the so-called Grey market, where goods are traded legally, but outside the common channels. Goods and services traded on the black market include drug and  arms trafficking as well as human trafficking and prostitution. 

In some cases, the goods or services are cheaper than on the normal market, because taxes or production costs do not need to be paid - very often the goods traded were stolen.  In other cases, the price on the black market is higher, because the goods are difficult to get, and producing or handling them may be dangerous. Prices in the illegal drug trade are often much higher than for similar but legitimate goods, for these reasons. 

As with legitimate trade, the economic principles are still that of a market: supply and demand influence the price.

[[Thebes]]

Thebes is the name of two cities:

[[Linda Evans]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from Hartford, Connecticut

Linda Evans (born November 18, 1942) is an American actress.

[[PHP License]]

CATEGORIES: Software licences

The PHP License is a free software license. It is an open source software license and is the license that the PHP programming language is released under.

[[Steven Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in New York, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Jewish American actors, Actors from Seattle, Washington

Steven Hill born Solomon Krakovsky February 24, 1922 – August 23, 2016 was an American actor.

[[Peter Medawar]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1987 deaths, British zoologists, Order of Merit, Knights Bachelor, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, Fellows of the Royal Society, Autobiographers, British Nobel Prize winners, Immunologists

Sir Peter Brian Medawar OM CBE FRS (28 February 1915 – 2 October 1987) was a British biologist.

His work was important to skin grafts and organ transplants. 

Transplants of skin  and organs from other people are usually rejected. This is an action by the immune system. Medawar showed that sometimes this reaction can be avoided, and why. 

He worked on graft rejection and the discovery of acquired immune tolerance. He was awarded the 1960 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, with Sir Frank Macfarlane Burnet. 

Until he was partially disabled by a stroke, Medawar was Director of the National Institute for Medical Research at Mill Hill, London.

[[Werethekau]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Werethekau is an Egyptian Goddess, credited with supernatural powers. The name weret hekau means "great of magic". Werethekau was the god of protection magic, and was often seen with Isis and Ra in the carvings.

[[Joe Don Baker]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Actors from Texas, Actors who played Bond villains, American movie actors, American television actors

Joe Don Baker (born February 12, 1936) is an American actor.

[[Princess of Orange]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of princesses, Princesses of Orange

Princess of Orange is the title (name) used for the women who were married to the Ruling Princes of Orange in the time between 1171 to 1815. Since 1815, it was also used for the wives of the heirs to the Dutch throne, who were titled Prince of Orange. The only woman who became a Princess of Orange without being married to a Prince of Orange was Marie, Princess of Orange (1393-1417). Together with her husband John, Prince of Orange (1393-1418), they governed the land. 

Because the title Prince of Orange was only used for 'the eldest son of the King' (the crown prince), Dutch crown princesses did not get the title. There were no "oldest sons" for a few generations, and so the title was not used since 1877. Because Dutch law was changed in 1983 to include "oldest daughters of the King", Catharina-Amalia, the next Princess of Orange became the first Dutch Princess of Orange in her own right once her father, Prince Willem-Alexander, became King of the Netherlands.

[[Finke River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of the Northern Territory, Rivers of South Australia

The Finke River is one of the largest rivers in central Australia. It starts in the MacDonnell Ranges in the Northern Territory. it is formed where Davenport and Ormiston Creeks join together, just north of Glen Helen. The Finke River flows about 600 km to the western edge of the Simpson Desert in northern South Australia. Usually the river is a collection of waterholes, but it can become a raging torrent during rare flood events. In a big flood water from the Finke River can flow into the Macumba River, and then into Lake Eyre, a total distance of about 750 km. Major tributaries include Ellery Creek, and the Palmer and Hugh Rivers. The Finke River flows through the West MacDonnell and Finke Gorge National Parks.

The Finke River was named by John McDouall Stuart in 1860 after William Finke, an Adelaide man, who was one of the people who paid part of the cost of his expeditions. The indigenous name for the river in parts of the Northern Territory is Larapinta. Larapinta Drive is a road which runs west from Alice Springs, and the Larapinta walking trail.

[[Anna van Egmont]]

CATEGORIES: 1533 births, 1558 deaths, Princesses of Orange, House of Orange-Nassau, House of Egmond, Earls and countesses

Anna van Egmont (Grave, March 1533 – Breda, 24 March 1558) was a member of an important and rich Dutch family. She was the first wife of William the Silent, Prince of Orange. 

She was the only child of Maximiliaan van Egmond and Françoise de Lannoy. She was also Countess of Lingen and of Leerdam, and Lady of IJsselstein, of Borssele, of Grave, of Cranendonck, of Jaarsveld, of Kortgene, of Sint Maartensdijk, and of Odijk. Because she was the only child, she also got the title of Countess of Buren and Lady of Egmond. 

In 1551 she married William the Silent in Buren. Because she was the Lady of Egmond and Countess of Buren, he became Lord of Egmond and Count of Buren. They had three children:

Anna died when she was only 25 years old. She was buried in Breda.

[[Central Mount Stuart]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of the Northern Territory

Central Mount Stuart is a mountain in the south of the Northern Territory, Australia. It can easily seen from the nearby Stuart Highway, which is about 6 km away. The mountain is made from dark red sandstone.

The mountain is named after the explorer John McDouall Stuart who reached the area on 22 April 1860. He worked out that a point about 4 km (2.5 miles) south-southwest of the mountain was the centre of Australia. Modern geographers do not agree with this and now place the centre at Finke.

Stuart climbed to the top on 23 April 1860, writing in his journal: 

The slip of paper was found in 1871 by John Ross during the building of the Australian Overland Telegraph Line. It is now in the Library of South Australia.

Stuart called the mountain Central Mount Sturt, after his former expedition leader Charles Sturt. The name was changed on a suggestion from the Governor of South Australia, Sir Richard MacDonnell. This happened soon after Stuart's return to Adelaide at the end of the expedition. Central Mount Stuart is the name that was printed in the published expedition journal.

[[Louise de Coligny]]

CATEGORIES: House of Orange-Nassau, Princesses of Orange, 1555 births, 1620 deaths

Louise de Coligny (Châtillon-sur-Loing, 23 September 1555 – Fontainebleau, 13 November 1620) was the fourth wife of Prince William the Silent. She was the daughter of an important French Protestant leader, Gaspard de Coligny. 

[[African National Congress]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 establishments in Africa, Nationalist organizations in South Africa, National liberation movements, Socialist International, Social democratic parties, Political parties in South Africa, 20th-century establishments in South Africa

The African National Congress (ANC), supported by the Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU) and the South African Communist Party (SACP), has been South Africa's governing centre-left political party since the establishment of non-racial democracy in April 1994. It defines itself as a "disciplined force of the left". Members founded the organization as the South African Native National Congress (SANNC) on 8 January 1912 in Bloemfontein to increase the rights of the black South African population. John Dube, its first president, and poet and author Sol Plaatje are among its founding members. The organization became the ANC in 1923 and formed a military wing, the Umkhonto we Sizwe (Spear of the Nation) in 1961.

It has been the ruling party of post-apartheid South Africa on the national level since 1994. It gained support in the 1999 elections, and further increased its majority in 2004, with 69.7% of the votes. In 2009 its share of the vote reduced slightly, but it remained the dominant party with 65.9% of the votes.

[[Environment of Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida

The state of Florida in the U.S.A. has a mild subtropical climate. Because of that, millions of people have settled in the once rural state over the last hundred years. Florida's population increases by about 1,000 residents each day. Land development and water use have changed the state, mostly by draining the wetlands that once covered most of the peninsula.

Much of Florida is made of karst limestone with water-filled caves and sinkholes, which provide homes to many species of aquatic life, some of which only live in Florida. As more and more people move to Florida, they use up the water in the underground caves. When a cave has no more water, it will sometimes collapse, forming a sinkhole, which can hurt animals, people, and buildings.

For a long time, the state has been trying to restore the Everglades. In 2000, Congress passed the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan, a $7.8 billion, 30-year project aimed at preserving and restoring the region and its unique combination of environments.

[[Tarafa Baghajati]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Engineers, Human rights activists, Muslims, Political prisoners, Syrian people, Writers

Tarafa Baghajati (طرفة  بغجاتي, (born September 1st 1961) in Damascus, Syria) is a human right activist and writer, he is also the chairman of the Austrian Muslim Initiative (AMI).

He lives in Vienna, Austria since 1986.

[[Micronation]]

CATEGORIES: Micronations

Micronations are countries started by one or a group of people which are not seen as actual countries by the United Nations. These countries are mostly used in people's heads, or on the internet. 

People make micronations for lots of reasons. Some are to show they do not like their main country (for example the United Kingdom), or if they want to make money, or to use it as a place for themselves.

[[Ilene Woods]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2010 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, Singers from New Hampshire, Actors from New Hampshire, People from Portsmouth, New Hampshire

Jacqueline Ruth "Ilene" Woods (May 5, 1929 – July 1, 2010) was an American singer and actress who voiced Cinderella in the 1950 Disney movie.

==Early life== 

Woods was born on May 5, 1929 in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. As a child Woods was led into singing by her mother. By the age of 11, Woods had her own radio show. 

[[Zygophyllaceae]]

CATEGORIES: rosids

The Zygophyllaceae is a family of flowering plants that contains the bean-caper and caltrop. It includes around 285 species in 22 genera.

In the APG III system of classification, the families Zygophyllaceae and Krameriaceae compose the order Zygophyllales. 

[[Hendrik Lorentz]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 births, 1928 deaths, Dutch academics, Dutch Nobel Prize winners, Dutch physicists, People from Arnhem, Theoretical physicists

Hendrik Antoon Lorentz (18 July 1853 – 4 February 1928) was a Dutch physicist. In 1902, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics together with Pieter Zeeman for the discovery and theoretical explanation of the Zeeman effect. He also derived the transformation equations that were later used by Albert Einstein to describe space and time.

[[Galileo (spacecraft)]]

CATEGORIES: NASA spacecraft, Jupiter

Galileo was an unmanned NASA spacecraft. It explored the planet Jupiter and its moons. Galileo was launched in 1989 and it arrived at Jupiter in 1995.

Galileo was made up of two parts: an orbiter and a probe. The probe was released from the orbiter on July 13, 1995 and it went towards Jupiter. It reached Jupiter on December 7, 1995 and went down into the atmosphere. The probe gathered data for 57 minutes until the great atmospheric heat and pressure destroyed it.

The orbiter went into orbit around the planet on December 8, 1995 and went down into Jupiter's atmosphere and was crushed on September 21, 2003.

[[Henderson's Boys]]

CATEGORIES: Young adult novels, Fiction books

Henderson's Boys is a series of young adult spy books. It was written by English author Robert Muchamore. The series follows Charles Henderson, the creator of a fictional espionage organisation CHERUB and is set in the 1940s, during World War II. Henderson goes on various adventures, helped by children. Henderson's Boys is a spin-off of the popular CHERUB series, which is about the same organisation in modern times. There are seven books in the series. These are The Escape, Eagle Day, Secret Army, Grey Wolves, The Prisoner, One Shot Kill and Scorched Earth.

[[MOX fuel]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear energy

Mixed-oxide fuel (or MOX fuel) is nuclear fuel that contains an oxide of more than one element. Most nuclear fuel that is not of the MOX type only contains uranium dioxide. In most cases, the additional oxide will be plutonium dioxide, sometimes thorium dioxide. Any reactor that uses uranium-based fuel will produce plutonium dioxide. Mox fuel consists of about 93% uranium, and about 7% of thorium or plutonium dioxide.

One of the benefits of using MOX-type fuel is that the plutonium dioxide that is produced, can be re-used for energy generation. Certain types of nuclear power plants need plutonium to work properly.

[[The Bush (Alaska)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Alaska

The Bush is a term for the portions of Alaska that are not connected to North America's road network.  Most of Alaska's native populations live in the Bush. They live off the land as their ancestors did.

Places in the Bush include Bethel, Dillingham, King Salmon, Nome, Barrow, Katmai National Park, Kodiak Island, Kotzebue, and Unalaska-Dutch Harbor.

Most parts of Alaska that are off the road system can only be reached by small airplane. Travel from place to place is usually by  snowmobile or snow machine, boat, or sometimes dog sled.

[[Arctic Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Alaska

Arctic Alaska, or Far North Alaska is a region of the U.S. state of Alaska. It is the northern area close to the Arctic Ocean.

Some of the places in Arctic Alaska are the North Slope Borough, the Northwest Arctic Borough, and the Nome Census Area. Some towns there are Prudhoe Bay, Barrow, Kotzebue, and Nome.

Most of these places have no highways and can only be reached by aircraft or snowmobile, or by boat if they are on the coast or near a river. Long ago there were only Eskimos living here. They mostly ate salmon, which there are lots of there. More people came to Arctic Alaska when gold was discovered there. Still more people and industry came when petroleum was discovered in the area. Above the Arctic Circle, the sun rises in May and sets in August.

Arctic Alaska is mostly tundra covering mountain ranges and coastal plains. Some of the animals there are bears, wolves, sheep, reindeer, and lots of birds.

[[Principality of Hutt River]]

CATEGORIES: Western Australia, Micronations

The Principality of Hutt River, previously known as the Hutt River Province, is the oldest micronation in Australia. The principality claims to be an independent sovereign state.  It is unrecognized except by other micronations, but got de facto legal status on 21 April 1972.

The principality is located 517 north of Perth, near the town of Northampton.

The principality was founded on 21 April 1970 by Leonard George Casley when he and his friends proclaimed their secession from the state of Western Australia.

[[Bitcoin]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments, Cryptocurrency

Bitcoin  (₿) is a digital and global money system cryptocurrency. It allows people to send or receive money across the internet, even to someone they don't know or don't trust. It is the first of its kind technology that allows the transfer of digital scarcity across the internet without needing a third party. Money can be exchanged without being linked to a real identity. The mathematical field of cryptography is the basis for Bitcoin's security.

Bitcoin was invented by someone using the name Satoshi Nakamoto. A Bitcoin address, or simply address, is an identifier of 26-35 letters and numbers, beginning with the number 1, 3, or bc1, that represents a possible destination for a bitcoin payment. Addresses can be generated at no cost by any user of Bitcoin. For example, using Bitcoin Core, one can click "New Address" and be assigned an address. It is also possible to get a Bitcoin address using an account at an exchange or online wallet service.

There are currently three address formats in common use:

Common P2PKH which begin with the number 1; e.g.: 1BvBMSEstWetqTFn5Au4m4GFg7xJaNVN2.

Newer P2SH type starting with the number 3; e.g.: 3MXknxVapwv6QkMoQv99MBuXZ2XpPewHn9.

The preferred Bech32 type starting with bc1; e.g.: bc1quqq27xwxstclj9xqlv70k63xcy4xt8kslyvhq8.

[[Andrew Fire]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American biologists, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from California, Jewish American scientists, People from Palo Alto, California

Andrew Zachary Fire (born April 27, 1959 in Palo Alto, California) is an American biologist. He is a professor of pathology and genetics at Stanford University School of Medicine. Fire was given the 2006 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for the discovery of RNA interference. The research was conducted at Carnegie Institution for Science and published in 1998.

[[Stanley Cohen]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2020 deaths, American biochemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from New York City

Stanley Cohen (November 17, 1922 – February 5, 2020) was an American biochemist of Jewish descent. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1986. His research helped people understand how cancer starts and how to design anti-cancer drugs.

He was also, with Herbert Boyer, one of the first to do any kind of genetic engineering.

[[Nephron]]

CATEGORIES: Animal anatomy, Anatomy of the urinary system

Nephrons are tiny tubules (miniature tubes) which make up the smallest working part of the kidney. In other words, they are the smallest level where the kidney removes waste, excess salt and excess water. Each nephron starts in the cortex of the kidney, then goes into the medulla of the kidney, before coming back to the cortex, then goes through the medulla into the pelvis. In the pelvis, the nephrons join up with the ureter.

In humans, a normal kidney has between 800,000 and 1.5 million nephrons.

Each nephron consists of a cup-shaped structure at one end called the Bowman's capsule. It extends into a long urinary tubule,that is surrounded by a network of renal capillaries. The urinary tubules of nephrons in each kidney join to form a common tube called the ureter.

Inside the Bowman's capsule,is a network of blood capillaries called glomerulus. The Bowman's capsule and glomerulus together form the Malphigian capsule or Malphigian body.

[[Parliament of Canada]]

CATEGORIES: Parliament of Canada

The Parliament of Canada  (Parlement du Canada) is the federal legislative branch of Canada, seated at Parliament Hill in the national capital, Ottawa. 

[[Queen Máxima of the Netherlands]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Dutch economists, Dutch Roman Catholics, Dutch royalty, House of Orange-Nassau, Kings and Queens consort, People from Buenos Aires, Princesses of Orange, United Nations officials

Queen Máxima of the Netherlands (born as Máxima Zorreguieta; 17 May 1971) is the wife of King Willem-Alexander,

[[Rhynie chert]]

CATEGORIES: Lagerstätten

The Rhynie chert is an Lower Devonian sedimentary deposit, part of the Old Red Sandstone. It has extraordinary fossil details, and is a Lagerstätte.

The chert is exposed near the village of Rhynie, Aberdeenshire, Scotland. A second unit, the Windyfield chert, is located some 700 m away.

The Rhynie chert contains exceptionally preserved material covered by an overlying volcanic deposit. Most of the fossil bed has primitive plants (which had water-conducting cells and sporangia, but no true leaves), along with arthropods, lichens, algae and fungi.

[[Fuckin' Perfect]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Pink songs

Fuckin' Perfect (also known as "Perfect") is a song by American singer-songwriter Pink. It was released as the second single from her album, Greatest Hits... So Far!!! on December 14, 2010. The song was written by Pink with Max Martin and Shellback. They also produced the song.

The song is similar to Pink's previous single, "Raise Your Glass". This is because it tells people to accept each other for who they are.

The video has been debated, as it contains topics such as depression, self-harm, and suicide.

"Fuckin' Perfect" rose to number two in Billboard Hot 100. In this way, it became Pink's eleventh top-ten song in the United States. The song became a top 10 hit in Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, New Zealand, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. It went up to the top 40 in Belgium, Denmark, Hungary, Sweden, and Switzerland.

[[Adobe Acrobat]]

CATEGORIES: Adobe software

Adobe Acrobat is a family of software made by Adobe Systems. Software in the family can read and display Portable Document Format (PDF) files. Acrobat software can convert PDFs to other formats, PDF to Microsoft Word or Excel for example. It can also combine multiple file types into a single PDF file.

[[Lesser Poland Voivodeship]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in Europe, Voivodeships of Poland

Lesser Poland Voivodeship, or Małopolska Province, is a voivodeship, or province, in southern Poland. It is 15108, and as of 2006, has 3,267,731 residents. It was created on 1 January 1999. The capital of the province is Kraków.

The province's natural borders are Świętokrzyskie Mountains (Góry Świętokrzyskie) on the north, Jura Krakowsko-Częstochowska (a broad range of hills stretching from Kraków to Częstochowa) on the west, and the Tatra, Pieniny and Beskidy Mountains on the south. The provinces and countries it is bordered by are the Silesian Voivodeship to the west, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship to the north, Subcarpathian Voivodeship to the east, and the country of Slovakia to the south.

[[Intransitive verb]]

CATEGORIES: Parts of speech

In English, an intransitive verb is an action that involves the object or person doing the action by itself. For example: "The door opened." (by itself) This contrasts with a transitive verb, where the action is done by someone or something else, i.e.: "The person opened the door."

[[Randolph Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1987 deaths, American movie actors, Actors from Virginia, Actors from Charlotte, North Carolina

Randolph Scott (January 23, 1898 – March 2, 1987) was an American actor.

[[Nichiren]]

CATEGORIES: 1222 births, 1282 deaths, Buddhist clergy

Nichiren (16 February 1222 - 13 October 1282) was a Buddhism priest who lived in Japan. He is often called Nichiren, "Nichi" means "sun" and "ren" means "lotus". The type of Buddhism he founded is known as Nichiren Buddhism. Nichiren's actions and writings are the basis of the modern Buddhist organization Soka Gakkai International (SGI). According to SGI's interpretation of Buddhism, it is through faith, practice and study that people can tap into their Buddha nature, become truly happy, and build a peaceful society. Faith refers to the belief in the concept known as "the mystic law of the universe." Practice means to chant every day the phrase "Nam-myo-ho-renge-kyo" and sections from the Lotus Sutra while sitting in front of the Gohonzon, a sacred scroll that hangs in the butsudan (an altar). Practice also entails telling other people about Nichiren Buddhism. Study means reading the writings of Nichren and discussing the readings with other people.

[[Bass Reeves]]

CATEGORIES: People from Arkansas

Bass Reeves (1838-1910) was an African American sheriff in Arkansas, who brought in hundreds of convicts. He was born as a slave, but then escaped his abusive master. He was one of the first African Americans to work in law enforcement west of the Mississippi River.

[[Stereotypic movement disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Disorders

People with stereotypic movement disorder often hurt themselves. Some people make behaviors such as keeping their hands in their pockets, to prevent these movements. Cause of stereotypic movement disorder is certain physical conditions, head injuries and use of some drugs (cocaine). Childhood habits can result in negative social interactions and avoidance by peers and family members. Some repetitive behaviors can cause damage. The most common treatment approaches used for children with this condition are therapies aimed at reducing stress that may trigger the movements and changing behaviors. Some medications may also help reduce stereotypic behavior. Naltrexone has been used with some success in reducing stereotypic self-injurious behavior. In some cases, antidepressants such as Prozac, Zoloft and Luvox (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors), or Anafranil (a tricyclic antidepressant) may be helpful.

[[Gannet]]

CATEGORIES: Seabirds

Gannets are seabirds in the genus Morus. They are related to boobies. They are large white and black with yellow heads. They have long, pointed wings and long bills.

Gannets only lay one blue egg.

Gannets can dive from a height of 30, and hit the water with great speed. This can carry them to a depth of 11. The bird can then keep going deeper using its wings and feet. Some have been known to dive deeper than 22.

[[Cabot High School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in the United States, Arkansas, 1912 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Arkansas

Cabot High School (CHS) is a public high school for students in grades nine through twelve in Cabot, Arkansas. Cabot High School is administered by the Cabot Public School District, which covers Cabot, Austin, Ward, and northern Lonoke County. CHS has been accredited by the North Central Association since 1967.

[[Mazon Creek]]

CATEGORIES: Lagerstätten

Mazon Creek is a lagerstätte in northeast Illinois. It is a site of exceptional fossil preservation from the Pennsylvanian sub-period of the Carboniferous, about 309 million years ago.

The area was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1997. 

The site's greatest find is the oldest-known beetle.

[[Diocese of Truro]]

CATEGORIES: Anglicanism, Cornwall, 1876 establishments in England

The Diocese of Truro is a Church of England diocese in the Province of Canterbury.

The area included in the diocese is that of the county of Cornwall including the Isles of Scilly. It was formed in 1876 from the western parts of the Diocese of Exeter and the first bishop was appointed in 1877. The Christian faith has been alive in the region since at least the 4th century AD. Many of the communities in the diocese, as well as the parish churches, bear a Celtic saint's name, which is a reminder of the links with other Celtic lands. The head of the diocese is the bishop of Truro, Tim Thornton, and the cathedral is in Truro. 

There are 225 parishes with a little more than 300 church buildings in the diocese.

[[Makaton]]

CATEGORIES: Sign languages, Disability

Makaton is a set of simple sign language and black-and-white symbols (pictures) which are used alongside simple talk. Makaton is a sign language that is free to teach other people but it is also sold, taught, guarded and checked up on by the business which started it. Makaton started with simple ordinary English and British Sign Language hand-signs; the pictures were added later. It is now used all over the world and changed for the country it is used in. It uses the same hand-signs as the sign language of the country it is used in but not in the same way. For example, in Britain, Makaton hand-signing is mostly made from BSL (British Sign Language), but the signs are used in a different order alongside the simple spoken words. 

Makaton is mainly taught to children and adults with special needs in speech and language, with or without hearing problems, by teachers, teaching assistants and childcare practitioners, carers or caregivers such as parents, grandparents, foster carers, other friends and family, and  specialist clinicians such as speech and language therapists.  Makaton is also popular to use with babies - "baby signing".

In British television, Justin Fletcher uses Makaton signing in Something Special, a series of television programmes aimed at children with special needs shown on CBeebies. It was also used by Dave Benson Phillips while telling nursery rhymes on BBC children's television years earlier than this. 

In schools and nursery schools and childcare as well as at home Makaton signs and symbols are often used alongside other ways of talking and showing like photographs and "PECS", which are drawn colour pictures of parts of a routine, like washing hands, eating a snack, or using the toilet. This way of using different ways of showing routines and making requests for people with communication problems is sometimes called "total communication".

[[Cladocera]]

CATEGORIES: Branchiopods

Cladocera is an order of small crustaceans commonly called water fleas. Around 620 species have been recognised so far, with many more undescribed. 

They are everywhere in inland aquatic habitats, but rare in the oceans. Most are 0.2 long, with a down-turned head, and a carapace covering the thorax and abdomen. There is a single median compound eye. They swim with jerking flea-like movements.  

Most species show cyclical parthenogenesis, where asexual reproduction is occasionally supplemented by sexual reproduction. The sexual reproduction produces resting eggs that allow the species to survive harsh conditions and disperse to distant habitats.

[[Old Red Sandstone]]

CATEGORIES: Continents, Sandstones

The Old Red Sandstone is a dark red sandstone laid down mainly in the Devonian period over a large part of the continent of Laurussia. The base of the ORS is now known to be in the Silurian and the top in the Carboniferous.

Laurussia is often called the Old Red Continent, or Euramerica. It included what is now much of northern Europe, Greenland and North America. It was, at the time, between 0o and 30o south of the equator.

[[Joe Flanigan]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American television actors, American television writers, Writers from Los Angeles, California, 1967 births, Living people

Joe Flanigan (born January 5, 1967) is an American television actor. He is best known for playing the character Major/Lt. Colonel John Sheppard in Stargate Atlantis. He shares his birthday with Stargate Atlantis co-star Paul McGillion.

[[Craftsman architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural styles

Craftsman was a style of architecture in the United States in the early 20th century.  It is called that because Gustav Stickley, a craftsman furniture maker, had a magazine called The Craftsman.  The movement was part of the Arts and Crafts movement that started in England in the late 19th century.  It wanted a "simpler way of life" that was not like American and English industrialized society.  Architects such as Greene and Greene designed Craftsman homes such as the Gamble House.  These houses were well-made, but did not have a lot of ornamentation.  Often they played off of natural themes.  A smaller version of the craftsman home was the bungalow.  By the 1910s, Craftsman bungalows were being built in large numbers in and around American cities.  Besides America and England, there was a lot of Craftsman architecture in Japan.

[[Eugène Dubois]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch scientists, European anthropologists, 1858 births, 1940 deaths

Marie Eugène François Thomas Dubois (28 January 1858 – 16 December 1940) was a Dutch paleoanthropologist. He earned worldwide fame for his discovery of Pithecanthropus erectus (later redesignated Homo erectus), or 'Java Man'. Although hominid fossils had been found and studied before, Dubois was the first anthropologist to embark upon a purposeful search for them.

[[Torri Higginson]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors

Sarah Victoria "Torri" Higginson (born Burlington, Ontario, December 6, 1969) is a Canadian actress. She is best known for her roles in the TekWar movies and series, The English Patient, Bliss,  and Stargate Atlantis. 

[[Rachel Luttrell]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Television actors, Stargate

Rachel Luttrell (born 19 January 1971) is an actress. She is best known for her roles as Veronica Beck in the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation TV series Street Legal and Teyla Emmagan, an Athosian warrior leader on Stargate Atlantis.

[[Sun angle]]

CATEGORIES: Climate, Seasons, Solar energy

Sun angle is the angle of incidence at which sunlight strikes the Earth at a particular time and place. In most places the Sun rises in the morning, is highest at noon, and sets in the evening. In different seasons the Sun is farther north or south. The angle controls the amount of heat energy received at this place, so summer days are usually warmer than winter nights.  

Seasonal change in the angle of sunlight, caused by the tilt of the Earth's axis, is the basic mechanism that results both in warmth of the weather and in length of the day. 

[[Huntington Beach, California]]

CATEGORIES: Huntington Beach, California

Huntington Beach is a ocean town in Orange County, California.  According to the 2010 Census estimate, the number of people living in Huntington Beach is 202,556.  This makes it one of the largest cities in Orange County in the number of people, or population.  It is has the Pacific Ocean on the southwest, Seal Beach in the northwest, Costa Mesa to the east, Newport Beach on the southeast, Westminster to the north, and Fountain Valley to the northeast.

Huntington Beach is well known for its 8.5 mile (13.7 km) strip of beach running down the west side.  The beach is a very good place for surfing.  Several surfing meets are held there each year.

The beach is named for Henry E. Huntington, the head of the Pacific Electric Railway.  The PE served Huntington Beach for many years.

[[2001 Sino-Russian Treaty of Friendship]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s in Russia, 2000s in China, Treaties involving China, 2001 in Asia

The Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation Between the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation (FCT) is a treaty outlining a twenty-year cooperation between China and Russia. It was signed by the leaders of the two world powers, Jiang Zemin and Vladimir Putin, on July 16, 2001.

[[Einstein field equations]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

The Einstein field equations, or Einstein-Hilbert equations, or simply Einstein equations are equations that describe gravity in the classical sense. They are named after Albert Einstein and David Hilbert. The basic idea is to use geometry to model the effects of gravity. The usual form of the equations is that of nonlinear partial differential equations. Such equations are usually solved by approximation. An exact solution can be obtained in special cases, where certain assumptions are dropped, or simplified.

[[Mie scattering]]

CATEGORIES: physics

Mie scattering is the way that light scatters when it hits an object.  It is  named after the German physicist, Gustav Mie.  This theory is good for all wavelengths of light, and all object sizes.  If the object is much smaller than the wavelength of light, Rayleigh scattering theory is also quite good.

When the object is big, the light can hit many places on the object.  A quite good formula for the scattering is:

[[Clint Walker]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Illinois, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Illinois, Deaths from congestive heart failure, 1927 births, 2018 deaths

Clint Walker (born Norman Eugene Walker; May 30, 1927 – May 21, 2018) was an American actor.

[[Hope, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Hope is a district municipality in British Columbia, Canada. Hope is in the confluence of both of the Fraser and Coquihalla rivers. As of 2006, 6,185 people lived there. The current mayor of Hope is Laurie French. During World War II there was a internment camp in Hope for the Canadians of Japanese extraction.

[[Princeton, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Princeton is a Canadian district municipality in British Columbia, Canada. Princeton is in the Similkameen region of British Columbia. The population of Princeton as of 2006 is 2,677. The current mayor of Princeton is Randy McLean. Princeton is also known for it's castle, which is on the outskirts of Princeton. The castle is now a resort. 

[[Merritt, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Merritt is a Canadian city in British Columbia, Canada. Marritt is in the south-central Interior of British Columbia and also in the Nicola Valley. As of 2006, Marritt had 6,998 people. The current mayor of Merritt is Susan Roline. Merritt is home to a BCHL (British Columbia Hockey League) team called the Merritt Centennials which is the oldest ice hockey team in the league. In 2008, the Country Music Hall of Fame relocated from Calgary to Merritt.

[[Rayleigh scattering]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

Rayleigh scattering is the way that light scatters when it hits a very small object.  This theory is valid if the wavelength of the light is much bigger than the object. It is named after Lord Rayleigh but was also the work of Raman and Krishnan as it is part of the Raman scattering theory. 

[[John William Strutt, 3rd Baron Rayleigh]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1919 deaths, Order of Merit, United Kingdom Barons, British physicists, People from Essex, British Nobel Prize winners

John William Strutt, 3rd Baron Rayleigh, OM (12 November 1842 – 30 June 1919) was an English Physicist.  He won the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1904.  He discovered argon and Rayleigh scattering.

[[Big Fat Liar]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 comedy movies, 2000s adventure movies, American adventure movies, American comedy movies, 2000s spy movies, Movies set in California, Movies directed by Shawn Levy

Big Fat Liar is an 2002 teen comedy movie that was produced by Michael Goldman, Marie Cantin, Brian Robbins and Michael Tollin and was directed by Shawn Levy. Big Fat Liar was released on February 8, 2002 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews with a 44% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 36 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Kunal Nayyar]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Actors from London, British movie actors, British television actors, British voice actors, Indian movie actors, Indian television actors, Indian voice actors, People from New Delhi

Kunal Nayyar (born 30 April 1981) is a British-Indian actor. He is best known for playing Rajesh Koothrappali, an astrophysicist on the television series, The Big Bang Theory. He also played a terrorist in the series, NCIS. He was born in London, England and was raised in New Delhi, India.

[[3 Juno]]

CATEGORIES: Asteroids

3 Juno is a main belt asteroid discovered by Karl Ludwig Harding on September 1, 1804. Juno was the third asteroid discovered in the Solar System and is named after Juno, the Roman goddess that is the queen of all gods.

Juno is an S-type asteroid, and is estimated to contain 1% of the total mass of the asteroid belt.

[[Monzón]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Aragon, Settlements in Huesca, Cities in Aragon

Monzón is a city in Aragón, in Spain. It is about 60 km east of the capital of the province (Huesca). As of the 2010 census, 17,115 people lived there.

The city has a long history. In it, the James I of Aragon was trained in its castle by the knights templar, being a strategic spot between Segre and Cinca valleys. Furthermore, the city owned the Aragonese corts in many times.

Cardinal Richelieu and Gaspar de Guzmán, Count-Duke of Olivares signed a treaty here, ending the conflict over Valtelline in 1626.

In the present, Monzón has a sporty tradition, with its slogan Monzón, cuna de deportistas (Monzón, birthplace of sportmen). Among them are Conchita Martínez, the only Spanish woman to win the most important and ancient tournament in tennis, Wimbledon, and Eliseo Martín, bronze medal winner in the 3000m steeplechase in the Paris World Championships (2003) - the only non African athlete to get a medal in those Champìonships since 1993.

But Monzon has also been home to Olympic athletes, including Javier Moracho (110 m hurdles) - Spanish record holder for almost 20 years - the decathlete Álvaro Burrell, and the renowned pole vaulter Javier Gazol.

[[Jackie Gayda]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Ohio, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Jacquelyn Suzanne Gayda-Haas (born November 3, 1981 in Strongsville, Ohio) is a semi-retired American professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Entertainment and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). She won the second season of Tough Enough. She is married to Charlie Haas who she married in 2005.

[[Glenn Gilbertti]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from New York City

Glenn Gilbertti (born November 12, 1968 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) under the ring name, Disco Inferno. He currently works as a host at the Sapphire Gentlemen's Club, which is a strip club in Las Vegas, Nevada.

[[Ceratophyllum]]

CATEGORIES: Flowering plants, Aquatic plants

Ceratophyllum is a genus of flowering plants, commonly found in ponds, marshes, and quiet streams in tropical and in temperate regions.

Ceratophyllum grows completely submerged, usually, though not always, floating on the surface, and does not tolerate drought. The plant stems can reach 1–3 m in length. At intervals along nodes of the stem they produce rings of bright green leaves, which are narrow and often much-branched. The forked leaves are brittle and stiff to the touch in some species, softer in others.

[[Christoph Leitgeb]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, People from Graz, Players of the Austrian national football team, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, UEFA Euro 2008 players

Christoph Leitgeb (born 14 April 1985 in Graz) is an Austrian football player playing in the Austrian Bundesliga for F. C. Red Bull Salzburg as midfielder. He also plays in the nationalteam and was member of Austrias team for the Euro 2008.

He started playing football in the youth teams of SK Sturm Graz in his hometown. In the 2005/06 season he played his first match in the first team of Sturm Graz. The first goal he scored was on 22 April 2006 against Red Bull Salzburg. After two seasons with Sturm Graz he signed with FC Red Bull Salzburg. In his first year he played regularly, but in his second year he had problems with his knees. The following years he came back and played very often from the beginning.

His first international match was in a friendly against Croatia on 23 June 2006. (1:4) Till today he played 27 times in the national team of Austria. In the Euro he played in the second match versus Poland (0:1) and the third match versus Germany where he came on in minute 55 for Martin Hiden. (0:1)

[[CHERUB]]

CATEGORIES: Young adult novels, Fiction books

CHERUB is a series of young adult spy books. It is written by English author Robert Muchamore. The series is about a division of the British Security Service named CHERUB. CHERUB takes on children, mostly orphans, as spies. CHERUB stands for Charles Henderson's Espionage Research Unit B. This was revealed in the book Secret Army, a book in Muchamore's other series, Henderson's Boys.

[[Diocese of Exeter]]

CATEGORIES: Devon, Anglicanism

The Diocese of Exeter is a diocese of the Church of England including the whole of Devon, and it is one of the largest in England. The head of the diocese is the bishop, Michael Langrishe, and the cathedral is in the city of Exeter. It is part of the Province of Canterbury. Two other bishops and four archdeacons help the bishop of the diocese oversee all the Anglican parishes and congregations of Devon. There are 506 parishes in this diocese. Before the founding of the Diocese of Truro in 1876 the whole of Cornwall was also part of the Diocese of Exeter.

[[Portrait of an American Family]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 albums, Debut albums, Marilyn Manson albums, Heavy metal albums

Portrait of an American Family is the first studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It was released on July 19, 1994. The producers of the album were Trent Reznor and Marilyn Manson. The bassist for the band, Gidget Gein, was fired after the making of the album.

[[Antichrist Superstar]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 albums, Marilyn Manson albums, Concept albums

Antichrist Superstar is the second studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It was released on October 8, 1996. The producers of the album were Trent Reznor, Dave Ogilvie, Marilyn Manson and Sean Beavan. There were many protest from religious and civic groups such as the American Family Association because of the band's anti-Christian views.

[[Mechanical Animals]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 albums, Marilyn Manson albums, Concept albums, Glam rock albums

Mechanical Animals is the third studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It was released on September 14, 1998. The producers of the album were Michael Beinhorn, Marilyn Manson and Sean Beavan. The album received controversy from Wal-Mart because of the album's artwork which features Manson covered from head to toe in latex paint. His genitals are covered by a thin cup of plastic that creates the androgynous appearance of an alien figure that he calls Omēga.

[[Holy Wood (In the Shadow of the Valley of Death)]]

CATEGORIES: Marilyn Manson albums, 2000 albums, Concept albums

Holy Wood (In the Shadow of the Valley of Death) is the fourth studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It came out on November 13, 2000 in the United Kingdom, November 14, 2000 in Australia and United States and on December 5, 2000 in Japan. The producers of the album were Marilyn Manson and Dave Sardy. The album was the first album that Marilyn Manson released after the Columbine High School massacre that took place on April 20, 1999.

[[Welsh Springer Spaniel]]

CATEGORIES: Spaniels

The Welsh Springer Spaniel is a breed of dog and a member of the spaniel family. They are similar to the English Springer Spaniel and historically have also been called the Welsh Spaniel and the Welsh Cocker Spaniel. This breed is usually energetic and helps hunters. They are used as a flushing dog. They are closely related to the English Springer Spaniel and the Cocker Spaniel.

[[Roman influence in Caucasian Albania]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Rome, History of Azerbaijan, Ancient history of Azerbaijan

Caucasian Albania was the area of modern-day Azerbaijan. It was a client state of the Roman Empire for four centuries around the time of Christ. Its influence over the region started in the first century before Christ and lasted until around 250 AD. Around 299 AD, Albania was again a "nominal" vassal state of emperor Diocletianus for a few years more.

Rome controlled Caucasian Albania only as a client or vassal state. It was never able to fully make it a part of the Roman Empire, like a "province" (as happened with its neighbour, Armenia).

In these centuries Rome brought Christianity to the Caucasian Albanians, with a western cultural influence that has lasted until contemporary Azerbaijan. Even if few Azerbaijanis are Christians today, the writing system they use is the Roman alphabet.

A second and final influence came from the Eastern Roman Empire when emperor Heraclius was able to take control of Caucasian Albania in 627 AD with help from the Gokturks of the Western Turkic Khaganate, in the Third Perso-Turkic War.

[[National Space Science Data Center]]

CATEGORIES: Space research organizations, NASA, Spaceflight, 1966 establishments in the United States

The National Space Science Data Center (NSSDC) is an archive  that stores NASA space science mission data. "Space science" means astronomy and astrophysics, solar and space plasma physics, and planetary and lunar science. It also stores space physics mission data. The NSSDC was first established at the Goddard Space Flight Center in 1966.

[[Disneyland (disambiguation)]]

Disneyland is the original Disney theme park in Anaheim, California.

Disneyland may also refer to:

[[Disney California Adventure]]

CATEGORIES: Disney theme parks, Anaheim, California, 2001 establishments in California, Theme parks in California

Disney California Adventure, also called just California Adventure, is a theme park in Anaheim, California, across from Disneyland Park and part of the larger Disneyland Resort. The park is owned and operated by The Walt Disney Company. It opened on February 8, 2001 as Disney's California Adventure Park. On May 28, 2010, it was announced through the official Disney Parks Blog that Disney's California Adventure Park would be renamed Disney California Adventure.

The park is 55 and has of five areas: Sunshine Plaza, Hollywood Pictures Backlot, The Golden State, A Bug's Land and Paradise Pier. Each space is meant to look like different parts of California, its culture, landmarks and history.

In 2009, the park had around 6.05 million guests, making it the 11th-most visited theme park in the world, its highest ever attendance total for a calendar year. The pre­vi­ous record-holder was Warner Bros. Movie World, 338 days after its open­ing.

[[Ascorbic acid]]

CATEGORIES: Vitamins

Ascorbic acid is a sugar acid. It is white to light-yellow in colour, and comes in the form of crystals or powder. It is water-soluble. Ascorbic acid is one form of vitamin C, and was historically the first chemical compound to be synthesized, and identified, as vitamin C. The name is derived from a- (meaning "no") and scorbutus (scurvy), the disease caused by a deficiency of vitamin C.

[[Seneca Falls Convention]]

CATEGORIES: Feminism

The Seneca Falls Convention was a meeting of people who supported Women's rights. It was at Seneca Falls, New York in on July 19 and July 20, 1848. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, a women's rights activist, wrote a "Declaration of Sentiments" that would list some things she believed and that would be talked about at the meaning. One of these ideas was that men and women are equal. Many of the people there were Quakers, which is a sect of Christianity. Over one hundred people who were there signed a document called the Seneca Falls Declaration. Both men and women signed it. One man at the meeting was Frederick Douglass.

[[The Golden Age of Grotesque]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, Marilyn Manson albums

The Golden Age of Grotesque is the fifth studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It was released on May 13, 2003. The producers of the album were Marilyn Manson, Tim Sköld and Ben Grosse. The album was supposed to be Marilyn Manson's departure from music.

[[Eat Me, Drink Me]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Marilyn Manson albums

Eat Me, Drink Me is the sixth studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It was released on June 5, 2007. The producers of the album were Marilyn Manson and Tim Sköld. It was the last album to feature Tim Skold's contributions because he was replaced by Twiggy Ramirez in the following January.

[[The High End of Low]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Marilyn Manson albums, Glam rock albums, Heavy metal albums

The High End of Low is the seventh studio album by American rock band, Marilyn Manson. It was released on May 20, 2009. The producers of the album were Sean Beavan, Marilyn Manson, Chris Vrenna and Jeordie White. Some critics said that they praised the album for showing a more human Manson after following his divorce, and is a return to the sound of the well-received Mechanical Animals.

[[James B. Dudley]]

CATEGORIES: 1859 births, 1925 deaths, African-American people, People from Greensboro, North Carolina, Slaves, American educators

James Benson Dudley (November 2, 1859 – April 4, 1925) was President of North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University from 1896 until his death in 1925. James B. Dudley High School in the town of Greensboro, North Carolina, where the Agricultural and Technical University is located, was named after Dudley because of his work for his community.

[[Duck and Cover]]

CATEGORIES: Cold War

Duck and Cover is a suggested method of protection from nuclear weapons. Duck and Cover is a method where the person must lay face-forward towards a wall or under a table in the fetal position. Today it is used for earthquakes and tornados.

[[Schizophreniform disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Symptoms

Schizophreniform disorder is a mental illness. Usually, people suffering from this disorder show certain symptoms of schizophrenia, but they do not have all of them, or the symptoms are not present long enough. To be recognised as schizophrenia, the symptoms need to be present a full six months. If symptoms are not present for that time period, the illness may be classified as shizophreniform disorder.

The disorder can be treated in much the same way as schizophrenia. There are certain antipsychotic drugs and therapies that can help treat the symptoms.

[[Posidoniaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Alismatales

Posidoniaceae is a family of flowering plants. The APG II system classification accept this genus as constituting the sole genus which it places in the order Alismatales, in the clade monocots. 

[[Arma-Goddamn-Motherfuckin-Geddon]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Industrial music

"Arma-Goddamn-Motherfuckin-Geddon'" is a industrial rock song by the American rock band Marilyn Manson and is the first single from their seventh studio album The High End of Low, which was released in 2009. There is a remix of the song by the Swedish rock band, Teddybears. The song reached number 37 on the U.S. Billboard Mainstream Rock Tracks.

[[Geological formation]]

CATEGORIES: Geological formations, Sedimentary rocks, Stratigraphy

A formation, or rock formation, is the fundamental unit of lithostratigraphy. 

A formation consists of a certain number of rock strata. They have similar lithology (rocks), sedimentary facies (appearance) or other properties. Formations are not defined on the thickness of the rock strata, and the thickness of different formations can therefore vary widely.

The concept of formally defined layers or strata is central to stratigraphy. A formation can be divided into 'members' and are themselves packed together in 'groups'.

Formations were initially described as time markers, based on relative dating and the law of superposition. The divisions of the history of the Earth were the formations described and put in chronological order by the geologists and stratigraphers of the 18th and 19th centuries. 

Rock formations are formed by sedimentary deposition in environments which may persist for hundreds of millions of years. For example, the Hammersley Basin in Pilbara, Western Australia, is a Proterozoic sedimentary basin where up to 1200 million years of sedimentation is preserved intact. Here, up to 300 million years is represented by a single unit of banded iron formation and shale.

[[Laurie Holden]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American activists, American movie actors, American television actors, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Human rights activists, Actors from Toronto, 1972 births

Heather Laurie Holden (born December 17, 1969) is an American- Canadian actress and human rights activist. She is the daughter of actors Lawrence Holden (aka Glenn Corbett) and Adrienne Ellis. Her stepfather is British director Michael Anderson. Laurie was born in Los Angeles and raised in Toronto. She began her career when she played Rock Hudson's daughter in The Martian's Chronicles (1980).  Her best known roles are Marita Covarrubias in the movie/series The X-Files (1996-2002), Olivia Murray in The Shield (2008), and  Andrea in The Walking Dead (2010-2013). She co-starred with Jim Carrey in The Majestic (2001), played Cybil Bennett in the horror movie Silent Hill (2006) and Amanda Dunfrey in The Mist (2007). In 2014, she starred to the comedy Dumb and Dumber To, alongside Jim Carrey, Jeff Daniels and Kathleen Turner. In 2015, she appeared as Dr. Hannah Tramble, an ER surgeon, in the third season of Chicago Fire. It was announced Holden would reprise her role as Dr. Tramble in a planted spinoff, Chicago Med. Holden will co-star opposite Epatha Merkerson and Yaya Dacosta in the ensemble medical drama. The series is being conceived and written by Chicago Fire creators/executive producers Derek Haas and Michael Brandt.

Holden has dual citizenship - Canadian and American. Her year of birth is given as 1969 by some sources.

She was nominated to Gemini Awards in 1996 for Due South TV Series. In 2011, she was nominated to Saturn Awards and Scream Awards for The Walking Dead. In 2013, she win the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress in Television.

[[Speed metal]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy metal subgenres

Speed metal is an sub-genre of heavy metal music that originated in the late 1970s from NWOBHM and hardcore punk roots. It is described by Allmusic as "extremely fast, abrasive, and technically demanding" music.

Motörhead is often credited as the first band to invent/play speed metal. Some of speed metal's earlier influences include Deep Purple's "Fireball" and Queen's "Stone Cold Crazy" (which was eventually covered by the thrash metal band Metallica), from their 1974 album Sheer Heart Attack, and Deep Purple's song "Highway Star", from their album Machine Head. The latter was called 'early speed metal' by Robb Reiner of speed metal band Anvil. Led Zeppelin's "Communication Breakdown", first released in January 1969, could also be said to be an early template for speed metal as mentioned in Mac Randall's.

Speed metal eventually evolved into thrash metal. Although many tend to equate the two subgenres, there is a distinct difference between them. In his book Sound of the Beast: The Complete Headbanging History of Heavy Metal, Ian Christe states that "...thrash metal relies more on long, wrenching rhythmic breaks, while speed metal... is a cleaner and more musically intricate subcategory, still loyal to the dueling melodies of classic metal."

[[Peugeot 508]]

CATEGORIES: Peugeot automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 2010s automobiles

The Peugeot 508 is a car produced by Peugeot since 2011. It replaced both the smaller Peugeot 407 and the larger Peugeot 607.

[[Kingdom Hearts (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 video games, Disney video games, Kingdom Hearts series, PlayStation 2 games

Kingdom Hearts is the first game of the Kingdom Hearts series. It was made for PlayStation 2 and was released in Japan on March 28, 2002, and in North America on September 17, 2002.

In it, the player controls Sora, a 14-year-old boy living in his home island, but is sent to different worlds along with his friends after their world is destroyed. Along the way, he meets various Disney characters, like Donald Duck and Ariel, and Final Fantasy characters, like Cloud and Yuffie. Sora must save the worlds while searching for his friends.

[[Till the World Ends]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Britney Spears songs

"Till the World Ends" is a 2011 single by Britney Spears. The song is second from her seventh studio album Femme Fatale. The song was released on March 11, 2011.

[[Bill Bixby]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 1993 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, Deaths from prostate cancer, Actors from San Francisco

Bill Bixby (born January 22, 1934 in San Francisco, California - November 21, 1993), was an American actor, director, and producer. He is known for the role of David Banner in the TV series The Incredible Hulk.

Bixby died from complications of prostate cancer in Los Angeles on November 21, 1993. He was 59 years old.

[[Radiation hardening]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering, Electronics

Radiation hardening is the designing of electronic parts and systems so they can withstand the damage done by ionizing radiation.  Such radiation occurs in outer space and when flying at high altitudes in the Van Allen radiation belts. They also occur in nuclear explosions, and near nuclear reactors and other sources of radiation.

There are many techniques which can achieve hardening. The MRAM, Magnetoresistive random access memory, is proposed as the solution to long-lasting electronic memory. This is the heart of radiation resistance, because if the system memory is undamaged, the system can be rebooted.

[[Vic Hadfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, New York Rangers players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Memorial Cup winners

Victor Edward Hadfield (born October 4, 1940 in Oakville, Ontario) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player. He is best known for playing with the New York Rangers where he is one of the most popular players in the history of the team. He also played with the Pittsburgh Penguins for the last three seasons of his career.

[[Marcus Krüger]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Swedish ice hockey players, Carolina Hurricanes players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Stanley Cup champions, Living people, American Hockey League players, Swedish Hockey League players, Ice hockey centres

Marcus Krüger (born 27 May, 1990 in Stockholm, Sweden) is an NHL ice hockey center that currently plays for the Chicago Blackhawks. He has also played for the Djurgårdens IF of the SEL for 5 seasons before being recalled by the Blackhawks on March 23, 2011. He was drafted with the 149th overall pick in the 2009 NHL Draft by the Chicago Blackhawks. He signed a three-year contract with the Chicago Blackhawks in June 2010 but he decided to stay with Djurgården during the first year of the contract, later he was recalled from Djurgården to Chicago on 23 March 2011. He scored his first NHL goal in a 5-2 win against the Columbus Blue Jackets on October 29, 2011. On June 24, 2013, He won the Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals.

[[Cecil Browne]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1985 deaths, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Sportspeople from Winnipeg

Cecil Browne (February 13, 1896 – August 13, 1985) was a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger. He played 13 games for the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL). Browne was named the "Manitoba's Athlete of the Century" in 1970. He quit playing professional hockey because of an injury. He was the AHA Scoring Champion in 1927, is an “Honoured Member” of the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame and was inducted into the Manitoba Sports Hall of Fame and Museum in 1980.

[[Daniel Cleary]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Edmonton Oilers players, Ice hockey people from Newfoundland and Labrador, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Living people, Ontario Hockey League players, Phoenix Coyotes players, Swedish Hockey League players

Daniel Michael Cleary  (born December 18, 1978) is a former Canadian ice hockey left and right winger that played for the Detroit Red Wings. He also played for the Chicago Blackhawks for 2 seasons, the Edmonton Oilers for 4 seasons and the Phoenix Coyotes for 1 season. He was drafted with the 13th overall pick in the 1997 NHL Draft by the Chicago Blackhawks. He also played with the Belleville Bulls of the OHL.

[[Nolan Baumgartner]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Chicago Blackhawks players, Dallas Stars players, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Kamloops Blazers players, Living people, People from Calgary, Philadelphia Flyers players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Vancouver Canucks players, Washington Capitals players, Memorial Cup winners

Nolan Baumgartner (born March 23, 1976 in Calgary, Alberta) is a Canadian retired ice hockey defenceman. He played a total of 12 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Washington Capitals for 4 seasons, the Chicago Blackhawks for 1 season, the Vancouver Canucks for 4 seasons, the Pittsburgh Penguins for 1 season, the Philadelphia Flyers for 1 season and the Dallas Stars for 1 season. He was drafted with the 10th overall pick in the 1994 NHL Draft by the Washington Capitals. He also played with the Kamloops Blazers of the WHL.

[[Rob Klinkhammer]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, American Hockey League players, Arizona Coyotes players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Edmonton Oilers players, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Lethbridge Hurricanes players, Living people, Ottawa Senators players, People from Lethbridge, Phoenix Coyotes players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Portland Winterhawks players, Seattle Thunderbirds players

Robert Klinkhammer (born August 12, 1986 in Lethbridge, Alberta) is a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger. He currently plays for the Edmonton Oilers of the National Hockey League (NHL). He signed as a free agent with the Rockford IceHogs NHL affiliate, the Chicago Blackhawks, to a two-year entry level contract on June 8, 2009. He was called up by the Blackhawks on December 10, 2010 to replace an injured Patrick Kane and debuted in a home game against the Dallas Stars which they won. He was traded to the Ottawa Senators on December 2, 2011. He was signed by the Coyotes as a free agent on July 3, 2012 and played with their AHL farm team, the Portland Pirates during the 2012 NHL lockout.

[[Parchment]]

CATEGORIES: Writing media, Natural materials

Parchment is a thin material made from animal skin. The most common use for parchment was as a material for writing on, for the pages of a book. It is different to leather in that parchment is limed but not tanned. The better qualities of parchment are named vellum.

[[David Mendes da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Sportspeople from Rotterdam

David Mendes da Silva Gonçalves (born 4 August 1982 in Rotterdam) is a Dutch football player of Cape Verdean heritage.  He plays as defender or defensive midfielder. He is known for his dribbling and his tackling.

He started his career with Sparta Rotterdam.  He played with Rotterdam for five years.  In 2003 he was on loan to Ajax Amsterdam for part of the season. His next team was NAC Breda. He played with them for two years.  From 2006 till 2010 he played for AZ Alkmaar. Under coach Louis van Gaal he reached the Dutch Championship in the 2008/09 season and the UEFA Champions League. He scored the 1:1 in the away match versus Arsenal London in minute 93 on 20th October 2009. In 2010 he went to FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga.

[[Hurricane Igor]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in the United States, September 2010 events, Category 4 Atlantic hurricanes, 2010 in the United States, History of Bermuda, 2010 in Canada

Hurricane Igor was a destructive tropical cyclone which passed by Bermuda and struck the Island of Newfoundland. This storm was a powerful Category Four hurricane with winds as high as 155 miles per hour. Igor brushed Bermuda as a minor hurricane with minimal damage. In Newfoundland, however, the storm caused $200 million in damage, making Igor the most destructive Atlantic tropical cyclone on record to strike the region. The name Igor was retired and replaced by Ian for the 2016 Atlantic season.

[[Arthur Young (police officer)]]

CATEGORIES: British Army officers, Commanders of the Royal Victorian Order, Companions of the Order of St Michael and St George, Knights and Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire, Knights Bachelor, Knights of the Order of St John, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, People from Hampshire, Police officers, 1907 births, 1979 deaths

Colonel Sir Arthur Edwin Young, KBE, CMG, CVO, KStJ, KPM (15 February 1907 – 20 January 1979) was a British police officer. He was Commissioner of Police of the City of London from 1950 to 1971 and was also the first head of the Royal Ulster Constabulary to be called the Chief Constable, instead of Inspector-General. Young helped create the post of Chief Inspector of Constabulary.

In the early 1950s, he played a crucial role in policing decolonisation in the British Empire, and developedg a model of public service policing that was not liked by everyone in some colonies but which time has shown to have been a good idea. During the 1960s, he led the way in modernising British police recruitment and in improving the training of senior officers.

[[Speed of Sound (roller coaster)]]

CATEGORIES: Roller coasters in the Netherlands, Roller coasters by name, 2011 establishments in the Netherlands

Speed of Sound is a Boomerang coaster in Walibi Holland in the Netherlands. It is manufactured by Vekoma and opened in 2000 as La Via Volta. It operated until 2007 when the park announced it would be shut down. In the same year, the train was sold to Pleasurewood Hills to be operating on Wipeout, also a boomerang coaster. On January 30, 2011, Walibi World announced that the roller coaster will reopen in 2011, with a new style train from Vekoma. The coaster was renamed to Speed of Sound and the track was painted orange.

The coaster also has a unique tunnel on the lift hill where the train go through before starting the ride.

[[Royal Victorian Order]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Victorian Order

The Royal Victorian Order is a British honour. It is given by The Queen, to people who have served her, or the Monarchy personally. Like the Orders of the Garter and Thistle, the Prime Minister does not suggest who should get the honour.

The Order was created in April 1896, by Queen Victoria, as a way of rewarding personal service to her. Today, people receive their award either privately from The Queen or another member of the Royal Family, or during an investiture.

Often, and on a State Visit, the Queen will invest people in the country visited before returning to the UK. The British Ambassador and others who have helped the Visit may be rewarded, as can foreigners, and it is often awarded by the Sovereign during official tours overseas.

The first foreigners to get the Order were the Prefect of Alpes Maritimes and the Mayor of Nice, during Queen Victoria's visit to the south of France, in 1896.

The Chapel of the Order is The Queen's Chapel of the Savoy, a 'Royal peculiar', which for historic reasons is in the private possession of the Sovereign, in his or her right as the Duke of Lancaster.

The Savoy Chapel is not very big, so now, the service for those who have been given the award is held in St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, every four years.

Many members of the Royal Family have been given the award, along with many other recipients, who include servants of The Queen, who have served the Monarchy for many years.

The motto is Victoria.

[[Santa's Little Helper]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons characters, Fictional dogs, Fictional characters introduced in 1989

Santa's Little Helper is a fictional character in The Simpsons. Santa's Little Helper is a greyhound and is the Simpson family pet dog. He first appeared in the episode, Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire where he was working as a race dog at a dog track and was abandoned by his owner after he finished in last place. He is then adopted by Homer and Bart. He is orange and brown colored. In the episode, The Canine Mutiny he was shortly abandoned by Bart after Bart gets a new dog named Laddie (a parody of Lassie) with his credit card and the repo-men took him but is then re-adopted by Bart after he gets bored of Laddie and goes to search for Santa's Little Helper who was at the time working as a seeing-eye dog for a blind man.

[[Snowball (The Simpsons)]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons characters, Fictional cats, Fictional characters introduced in 2004

Snowball is a fictional character in The Simpsons. Snowball is the Simpson family's pet cat. She first appeared in the episode, I, (Annoyed Grunt)-Bot. There have been five cats in the Simpson's family and the current cat is named Snowball V (later renamed Snowball II). The first version of Snowball was killed when it was run over by a Chrysler. The second version of Snowball named Snowball II was killed by Dr. Hibbert's Mercedes-Benz G500. The third version of Snowball was a male cat named Snowball III and was killed when he drowned after he tried to catch a goldfish in the aquarium while Lisa was in the kitchen preparing his cat food for the first time. The fourth cat was named Coltrane and was also known as Snowball IV, she was killed when she jumped out the window after being scared by Lisa's saxophone. Snowball doesn’t know basic addition. The cats were not all the same color; some were white, some were black, another one looked like Bart. They all died except for Snowball 5, the newest cat, which was given to Lisa by the crazy cat lady.

[[Order of Canada]]

CATEGORIES: Order of Canada

The Order of Canada was set up in 1967 by Queen Elizabeth II, to reward service to Canada.  

It is at the top of Canada’s honours system.  It has three classes or ranks to recognize a lifetime of outstanding achievement, dedication to the community and service to the nation.

Only Canadian citizens can have the award, but every year up to five foreigners can be given an honorary award.  

The Order of Canada’s motto is DESIDERANTES MELIOREM PATRIAM (They desire a better country).

[[Barry Enright]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Baseball players from California, Arizona Diamondbacks players, People from Stockton, California

Barry R. Enright (born March 30, 1986 in Stockton, California) is an American baseball player. He plays Pitcher for the Arizona Diamondbacks of Major League Baseball (MLB). He also played college baseball at Pepperdine University. He was drafted 2007 amateur draft in the second round by the Arizona Diamondbacks.

[[Dnepropetrovsk maniacs]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Prisoners, Serial killers, Ukrainian people

The Dnepropetrovsk maniacs is a media name for two serial killers from Dnipropetrovsk, Ukraine, who caused 21 murders in June and July 2007. The murderers are named Viktor Sayenko (born March 1, 1988) and Igor Suprunyuck (born April 20, 1988). They gained notoriety when a video recording of one of the murders was leaked to the internet. The video on the internet is often called 3guys1hammer. Sayenko and Suprunyuck were charged with murder after they were arrested. Alexander Hanzha, one of their friends, was charged with two robberies that took place before the murder spree. They were all found guilty by a court in February 2009, and Suprunyuck and Sayenko were sentenced to life imprisonment. Hanzha received nine years in prison.

The leaked internet video shows the murder of a 48-year-old man named Sergei Yatzenko. He is shown lying on his back in a wooded area, and is struck many times in the face with a hammer that is held inside a yellow plastic bag. Suprunyuck pokes out Yatzenko's eyes, and stabs him in the abdomen with a screwdriver. He is then struck with the hammer again in order to ensure that he is dead. The attack lasts over four minutes, during which the victim slips in and out of consciousness. During the video, Suprunyuck is shown smiling at the camera.

[[Apterygota]]

CATEGORIES: Apterygota

The Apterygota are a small subclass of primitive insects.

They are insects which have never had wings at any time in their evolutionary history. Their first known occurrence in the fossil record is in the Rhynie chert of the Devonian period, ~400 million years ago. While some other insects, such as fleas, also lack wings, these are descended from winged insects, and have lost them during the course of evolution. By contrast, the apterygotes are a primitive group of insects that diverged from other orders before wings evolved.

They have some other primitive traits (features).

The nymphs (younger stages) go through little or no metamorphosis, so they look like the adults. They continue to moult throughout life, with multiple instars (stages) after reaching sexual maturity. All other insects have only a single sexually mature adult stage. Their skin is thin, making them appear translucent. Males deposit sperm packages rather than fertilising the female internally.

Currently, no species are listed as being at conservation risk.

[[Psalms 152–155]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament

Pslams 152-155 are psalms of the Bible that only exist in the Syriac language translation of the Bible, which is commonly known as Peshitta. Psalms 154 and 155 also exist in a Hebrew version in the Dead Sea Scrolls. Together with Psalm 151, which only exists in some versions of the Septuagint, these psalms are sometimes called the 'Five Apocryphal Psalms of David'.

[[Tiryns]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Greece, Ancient Greek cities

Tiryns (ἡ Τίρυνς) was an ancient Greek acropolis (city). The remains are in the  Peloponnese, a large peninsula  and region in southern Greece, near to Nauplion. Heinrich Schliemann excavated Tiryns in 1885 and 1886. Tiryns is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, listed with Mycenae.

[[Siberian roe deer]]

CATEGORIES: Deer, Mammals of Asia

The Siberian roe deer or eastern roe deer (Capreolus pygargus) is a species of roe deer found in northeastern Asia. In addition to Siberia and Mongolia, it is found in Kazakhstan, the Tian Shan Mountains, Eastern Tibet, the Korean peninsula, and northeastern China. 

[[Angel of the North]]

CATEGORIES: Sculptures, Gateshead, 1998 establishments in England

The Angel of the North is a  sculpture that is in Gateshead, England. It was made by the English sculptor Anthony Gormley. It was built in 1994 and was finished in 1998. It is made from copper, concrete and weathering steel.

[[North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in North Carolina, Greensboro, North Carolina

North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University (abbreviated to NC A&T or A&T) is a university located in Greensboro, North Carolina, United States of America. The current chancellor of North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University is Harold L. Martin Senior.

[[Bagdad, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kentucky

Bagdad is a city of Kentucky in the United States.

[[Kite surfing]]

CATEGORIES: Surfing, Wind energy

Kite surfing or Kite boarding is a kind of water sports that uses the wind to pull a rider on the water surface on a small surfboard or a kiteboard. There are a number of different styles of kiteboarding.

A kitesurfer or kiteboarder uses a board with or without foot-straps or bindings, combined with the power of a large controllable kite to propel the rider and the board across the water. In 2006, the number of kitesurfers has been estimated at around 150,000 to 210,000, with 114,465 inflatable kites sold that same year.  Various surfing styles have appeared to suit both kitesurfers and conditions, such as waveriding, freestyle, freeride, jumping, and cruising.

[[Warne, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in North Carolina, Unincorporated communities in the United States

Warne (sounds like worn) is an unincorporated community in Clay County, North Carolina, United States. In 2008, Clay County was one of the least populated counties in  North Carolina. About 10,389 people live there. Like many other areas in the southern United States, there are many more people there than there used to be. 18.4% more people live there since 2000. Warne is closer to the capitals of six other states than to Raleigh, which is the capital of North Carolina.

Warne is 1,736 feet (529 m) above sea level. It has an area of 8.05.  Although it is unincorporated, it has a volunteer fire department and a post office, with the ZIP code of 28909.

[[Wind engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering, Winds

Wind engineering studies effects of wind on the buildings and its possible damage or problems to their inhabitants. From the point of structural engineering, it is interested in strong winds, which may cause discomfort, as well as extreme winds, such as in a tornado, hurricane or heavy storm, which may cause widespread destruction. 

Wind engineering needs information from meteorology, fluid dynamics, mechanics,  and a number of special engineering disciplines including aerodynamics, and structural dynamics. The tools may also include atmospheric models, atmospheric boundary layer, wind tunnels and computational fluid dynamics models.

[[Vinnie Vincent]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, American guitarists, American heavy metal musicians, American rock guitarists, Kiss, Living people, Musicians from Connecticut, People from Bridgeport, Connecticut

Vinnie Vincent (born Vincent John Cusano; August 6, 1952) is an American guitarist and songwriter. He is best known for being a former member of the band Kiss. He was also the leader of his own band, Vinnie Vincent Invasion.

[[Manhattan Chess Club]]

CATEGORIES: 1877 establishments in the United States, 2002 disestablishments in the United States, Chess, Manhattan

The Manhattan Chess Club is the second-oldest chess club in the United States (after the Mechanics' Institute Chess Club in San Francisco). The club was founded in 1877 and permanently closed in 2002.

[[Dokken]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, American hard rock bands, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California

Dokken is an American Heavy metal band that was formed in 1978. The group accumulated numerous charting singles and has sold more than 10 million albums worldwide.The band was nominated for a Grammy.

Dokken was composed of founder Don Dokken on vocals, George Lynch on lead guitars, Juan Croucier on bass, and "Wild" Mick Brown on drums. In 1983 Croucier left Dokken in order to join Ratt and was replaced by Jeff Pilson. Currently, Dokken and Brown remain from the original line-up. After several personnel changes on guitar, Dokken's attorney Jon Levin stepped in to fill the role in 2004. In 2001, Barry Sparks replaced Jeff Pilson on the bass guitar. In 2009, Sean McNabb replaced Barry Sparks on bass guitar.

[[Just Can't Get Enough]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, The Black Eyed Peas songs

"Just Can't Get Enough" is a song by American hip hop group The Black Eyed Peas. William Adams, Allan Pineda, Jaime Gomez and Stacy Ferguson of the Black Eyed Peas wrote the song. Joshua Alvarez, Stephen Shadowen, Rodney "Darkchild" Jerkins, LaShawn Daniels, Julie Frost also helped in writing it. The song was written for the group's sixth studio album, The Beginning (2010). It was announced on January 21, 2011 as the album's second single. The song has been successful on music charts. It reached the top-five in many countries, such as Australia, France, United Kingdom and the United States, among others. The video for this song was made a week before the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami had began. 

[[David Yelldell]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, African-American sportspeople, American footballers, German footballers, Association football goalkeepers, Sportspeople from Stuttgart

David Yelldell (born October 1, 1981, in Stuttgart) is a German-American goalkeeper who is currently playing for Bayer 04 Leverkusen. Yeldell has dual citizenship. His mother is German; his father is African-American.

At March 29, 2011, he had his first match for the United States national team. He is allowed to join the team because his father is American.

[[Simone Rethel]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, German movie actors, German television actors, German artists

Simone Rethel (born 1949 in Germany) is a German actress, painter and photographer.  She is the widow of actor and singer Johannes Heesters. Rethel came from a large, artistic family. Her grandfather was a painter.

Rethel married Heesters, 46 years her senior, in 1991. In December 2010, the 107-year-old Heesters said that he had quit smoking for his then 61-year-old wife: "She should have me as long as possible."

[[Messel pit]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Germany, Landmarks in Germany, Eocene, Lagerstätten

The Messel Pit (Grube Messel) is a disused quarry near the village of Messel, Hesse. The site about 35 km southeast of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. It is a site where fine fossils are preserved: a lagerstätte. The site is very important: it includes fossils of early mammals, including early primates. Because of its fossils, the site has significant geological and scientific importance. 

Bituminous shale was mined there. After almost becoming a landfill, strong local resistance eventually stopped those plans. The Messel pit was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1995. It was placed on the list solely due to fossils.

Amateur collectors developed a "transfer technique" to preserve the fine details of small fossils, the method still used to  preserve the fossils today. Many of the known specimens from the site have come from amateur collectors, and in 1996, an amnesty on previously collected fossils was put in effect, in the hope of getting privately owned collections back into public ownership and available to science.

[[Jedi Mind Tricks]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 establishments in the United States, Hip hop bands, Musical groups from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1990s establishments in Pennsylvania

Jedi Mind Tricks is a hip-hop group from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Jedi Mind Tricks formed when Vinnie Paz and Stoupe the Enemy of Mankind were in high school and Jus Allah later joined in 1999. The first debuted when they released their first EP called, Amber Probe.

[[The Psycho-Social, Chemical, Biological & Electro-Magnetic Manipulation of Human Consciousness]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums, Debut albums, Jedi Mind Tricks albums, Hip hop albums

The Psycho-Social, Chemical, Biological & Electro-Magnetic Manipulation of Human Consciousness is the first studio album by American underground hip hop group, Jedi Mind Tricks. It was released on November 4, 1997 through Superegular Records. It was re-released in 2003 through Babygrande Records. The producer of the album was Stoupe the Enemy of Mankind. The album is sometimes called The Psycho-Social CD for short.

[[Violent by Design]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 albums, Jedi Mind Tricks albums

Violent by Design is the second studio album by American hip hop group, Jedi Mind Tricks. It was released on October 3, 2000. The producers of the album were Stoupe and Mr. Len. The album was re-released on May 25, 2004 by Jedi Mind Tricks current label, Babygrande Records.

[[Visions of Gandhi]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, Jedi Mind Tricks albums

Visions of Gandhi is the third studio album by American hip hop group, Jedi Mind Tricks. It was released on August 26, 2003. The producer of the album was Stoupe. Jus Allah quit the group after the release of Violent by Design.

[[Mainstream Top 40]]

CATEGORIES: Pop music, Billboard charts

The Mainstream Top 40 is an airplay chart from Billboard magazine. It is also known as Pop Songs on billboard.com. People often mistook it for the now discontinued Pop 100 Airplay chart. The chart is solely based on radio airplay, ranking the week's hottest pop songs based on monitored radio detections from a panel of 200 Top 40/CHR radio stations in the United States as measured by Nielsen BDS Nielsen Broadcast Data Systems. Arbitron sometimes refers to the format as contemporary hit radio.

The chart was launched the week of October 10, 1992, along with the Rhythmic Songs Chart as a way to distinguish stations that played a broad based mix of current hits from those who focused on offering a direction centering on R&B/Hip and Dance material.

[[Legacy of Blood]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Jedi Mind Tricks albums

Legacy of Blood is the fourth studio album by American hip hop group, Jedi Mind Tricks. It was released on August 24, 2004. The producer of the album was Stoupe. The intro for the song features a promo that was cut by professional wrestler, Kane.

[[Servants in Heaven, Kings in Hell]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Jedi Mind Tricks albums

Servants in Heaven, Kings in Hell is the fifth studio album by American hip hop group Jedi Mind Tricks. It was released on September 19, 2006. The producer of the album was Stoupe. The album was the group's most commercially successful release and was their first album that made it into the Billboard 200. The album also won "Verse Of The Year" at the HipHopDX 2006 awards for Uncommon Valor: A Vietnam Story.

[[Judiciary of the Isle of Man]]

CATEGORIES: Judiciary of the Isle of Man

The lowest courts in the Isle of Man are the Summary Courts, Coroner of Inquests, Licensing Court, Land Court, etc. These courts are presided over by magistrates.  There are two stipendiary magistrates, the High Bailiff and the Deputy High Bailiff, along with lay Justices of the Peace.

The court on the next level is the High Court of Justice of the Isle of Man.  It has two parts, the Civil Division and an appeal division called the Staff of Government Division.

The judges of the High Court are the Deemsters and the Judicial Officers. The Deemsters are appointed by The Queen on the advice of the Secretary of State for Justice of the United Kingdom.  The Judicial Officers are appointed by the Lieutenant Governor. The High Bailiff and the Deputy High Bailiff are ex officio Judicial Officers, and other Judicial Officers (full-time or part-time) may be appointed. Often they are appointed because they have special knowledge of a complex legal case

Civil matters are usually heard at first instance by a single Deemster sitting in the High Court. Criminal proceedings are heard at first instance before either the High Bailiff or the Deputy High Bailiff or a bench of lay magistrates, in less serious cases. More serious criminal cases are heard before a Deemster sitting in the Court of General Gaol Delivery; in a defended case the Deemster sits with a jury of seven (twelve in cases of treason or murder).

Civil and criminal appeals are dealt with by the Staff of Government Division. Appeals are usually heard by a Deemster (the one not involved with the case previously in the High Court or Court of General Gaol Delivery) and the Judge of Appeal.

Final appeal is to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the United Kingdom. This dates back to an ancient right of the Manx to appeal to the Crown of England against the decisions of the Lord of Mann.  The right still exists, even though the Lord of Mann is now the Crown of England.  The right was confirmed by the Privy Council in their decision of Christian v. Corren in 1716, several years before revestment.

In the Isle of Man, and the Channel Islands, the Queen's Bench Division of the English High Court can hear appeals about habeas corpus. This was to allow the king to find out why any of his subjects was being impisoned.  It dates from before the revestment, applied to all the king's dominions even for all other cases the Kings's Bench was restricted to England.

[[Misery (Maroon 5 song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Maroon 5 songs

Misery is a song by American band Maroon 5. It was released on June 22, 2010 by A&M/Octone Records via the iTunes Store. The song was released in advance of the band's mid-2010 tour, and is the first single from their third studio album, Hands All Over, which was released on September 21, 2010.

Genre pop rock

[[Lord of Mann]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of people, Government of the Isle of Man

Lord of Mann (Çhiarn Vannin), is used on the Isle of Man as part of Queen Elizabeth II's title.  The Lord of Mann was the island's feudal Lord Proprietor, the Monarch of England was head of state.

[[Nikolayevsk Incident]]

CATEGORIES: Massacres, 1920, 1920 deaths, Military of Japan, Russian Revolution

The Nikolayevsk Incident was a series of several events during the Russian Civil War. They happened between February and March 1920. It ended with the killing of many Japanese people in Russia and most of the Russians living in the town Nikolayevsk-on-Amur. Nikolayevsk-on-Amur is in the far eastern section of Russia.

In September 1918, about 350 troops of the 14th division the Imperial Japanese Army held the town.  They're were part of the Siberian Intervention.  Early in February 1920, the town also had about 450 Japanese civilians.   The Russian "White Army" also had about 300 members in Nikolayevsk.  Roughly 15,000 civilians also lived in Nikolayevsk. In January 1920, the town had been surrounded by an army of four thousand controlled by Yakov Triapitsyn, an anarchist who was allied with the Red Army.

On February 24, the commander of the Japanese Army's people in Nikolayevsk realized that there were too many enemy troops, so he allowed Triapitsyn's troops to enter the town under a flag of truce. However, Triapitsyn began rounding up all of his forces and deploying White Army supporters, the only force cooperating, the small Japanese garrison. He then demanded that the Japanese garrison disarm–remove all their weapons they are holding, sure that the small Japanese force would not agree with his request.

The Japanese then had an unexpected attack on 12 March. However, the attack was unsuccessful, and most people in the Japanese Army died. The few who survived did not stop the attack until they were ordered by the Japanese high command. Triapitsyn decided to attack the remaining Japanese troops, which helped capture the Japanese garrison and deaths of all but 122 Japanese non-army members. In all, about 700 people died.

Triapitsyn decided to terrorize and kill any civilians he felt were a danger to his forces. The other way to execute those who he only injured was to stab them with a bayonet and throw them into a hole in the Amur River. Using this method, Triapitsyn and his army killed thousands of people in Nikolayevsk-on-Amur. In late May, as other Japanese people were coming to help, Triapitsyn killed everyone living in Nikolayevsk-on-Amur–Japanese or Russian–and burned the town to the ground.

The Japanese government protested to the Bolshevik government in Moscow, demanding compensation for the execution of all the residents in Nikolayevsk-on-Amur. The government of Russia responded by murdering Triapitsyn; however, the Japanese government felt that this didn't make up for what had happened. Japan used this as an excuse to have it residents live in Sakhalin island, where they remained till 1925.

[[William Peter Van Ness]]

CATEGORIES: American judges, 1778 births, 1826 deaths, People from New York, Martin Van Buren

William Peter Van Ness (February 13, 1778–September 6, 1826) was a United States federal judge.

[[Sundae]]

CATEGORIES: Ice cream, American food

The sundae is an ice cream dessert. It is usually made of a scoop of ice cream topped with sauce or syrup. Sometimes, it has other toppings including chopped nuts, sprinkles, whipped cream, or maraschino cherries. The first historically documented sundae was created on Sunday, April 3, 1892. Sundaes are found and available to buy in many places, including fast foods, restaurants, and other luxury places. Sundaes are usually sweeter than ice cream and the scoops of ice cream and flavors can be customized.     

[[Soyuz (spacecraft)]]

CATEGORIES: Spacecraft, Russia

Soyuz (Союз, Union) is a series of spacecraft designed for the Soviet space programme. It was first used in the 1960s. The Soyuz spacecraft is launched on a Soyuz rocket, the most frequently used and most reliable launch vehicle in the world to date.12 All Soyuz spacecraft are launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.

[[Space Shuttle Challenger disaster]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 in the United States, 1980s explosions, 1980s in Florida, Aviation disasters in the 1980s, Aviation disasters in the United States, January events, Presidency of Ronald Reagan, Space Shuttles

The Space Shuttle Challenger disaster occurred on January 28, 1986, when the NASA's 99 broke up 73 seconds after liftoff. All seven crew members were killed. It was the 25th flight of a Space Shuttle. The cause of the explosion was a part called an O-ring that broke in the right solid rocket booster. During the flight, hot gases escaped from the O-ring and made it break apart. Shuttles stopped flying for two and a half years. 

[[Royal Society of Arts]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Society of Arts, Listed buildings in London

The Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (RSA) is a British multi-disciplinary institution, based in London. It is often called the Royal Society of Arts instead of by its long formal name.  The front of the building uses the short name too — see photograph. It was founded in 1754 and was granted a Royal Charter in 1847. Notable members have included Benjamin Franklin, Karl Marx, Adam Smith, William Hogarth, John Diefenbaker, Stephen Hawking and Charles Dickens.

The RSA was set up to "embolden enterprise, enlarge science, refine art, improve our manufactures and extend our commerce", but also to reduce poverty and secure full employment.

[[Nolan Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, American baseball players, American League All-Stars, California Angels players, Houston Astros players, Living people, National League All-Stars, National Baseball Hall of Fame members, New York Mets players, Sportspeople from Texas, Texas Rangers players

Lynn Nolan Ryan (born January 31, 1947) is a former Major League Baseball pitcher.  He played in the major leagues from 1966 to 1993.  He played for the New York Mets, California Angels, Houston Astros, and Texas Rangers..  As a pitcher, Ryan struck out 5,714 batters.  This is the most all-time.  Ryan is the only pitcher in the MLB to strike out 5,000 batters.  Ryan has also walked more batters and thrown more no-hitters than anyone else.  He is now the president and one of the owners of the Texas Rangers.  Ryan is from Refugio, Texas.

[[Nickelodeon Games and Sports for Kids]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in the United States, 2009 disestablishments in the United States, Nickelodeon television series, Companies based in New York City, Cable television, Viacom, 1990s establishments in New York (state)

Nickelodeon Games and Sports for Kids (also called Nickelodeon GAS, Nick GAS, or GAS) was an American cable television network. It was part of MTV Networks's digital cable channels, and was available to all companies that provide digital cable and to Dish Network.

Nick GAS started on March 1, 1999. Dave Aizer (1999–2003), Vivianne Collins (1999–2003), and later Mati Moralejo (2001–2005) were the network's first on-air hosts.

Nick GAS focused on Nickelodeon game shows, which by 2000 were no longer available on the main Nickelodeon network. It was basically a children's version of Game Show Network, which had started in 1994.

On December 31, 2007, Nick GAS was discounted and was replaced by The N, which splitted from Noggin. However, Dish Network continued to air Nick GAS until April 23, 2009.

[[Noah Cyrus]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 births, Living people, Actors from Nashville, Tennessee, American child actors, American television actors, Singers from Nashville, Tennessee

Noah Cyrus (born 8 January 2000) is Miley Cyrus's younger sister.  She was born in Nashville, Tennessee. She has been in some TV shows like Hannah Montana but had very small roles. 

[[Enver Galim]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1988 deaths, Bible translators, Soviet military personnel of World War II, Soviet writers, Tatars, Teachers, Turkish journalists

Enver Galim (March 15, 1915, Kazan, Russian Empire – March 2, 1988, New York, US), Tatar writer and journalist, was one of the translators of the Bible into the Tatar language.

After graduating from the Institute of the Tatar Language and Literature in 1938, Enver Galim worked as a school teacher and a journalist.  He was drafted into the Soviet Army in 1941 and sent to the front to fight against Nazi Germany.  A year later he was severely wounded and captured by German soldiers.  After spending a few months in the POW camp Enver Galim was released.  Fearing repression in Stalinist Russia, he decided to stay in Germany.  To avoid deportation, he applied for Turkish citizenship and after receiving it, changed his name to Enver Galimoglu.

After the war, he continued his career as a journalist, writing articles for the magazine Azad Vatan and other publications.  Between 1953 and 1988 Enver Galim worked for the Tatar-Bashkir Service of Radio Liberty. After 1968 he was Radio Liberty's correspondent based in New York. He contributed numerous articles and analyses to Problems of the Peoples of the USSR, the Turkish-language magazine  Dergi and the Russian-language newspaper Vestnik.  One of his major works was the translation of the Bible into the Tatar language.

[[Acorales]]

CATEGORIES: Monocots

Acorales the sweet flag order of flowering plants and the most basal lineage among the monocotyledons, which are characterized by having a single seed leaf. This order contains the single family Acoraceae and one genus (Acorus), which comprises two to four species of plants that resemble the irises.

[[Semicolon]]

A semicolon is a punctuation mark. It looks like this: ;

[[Magazine (firearms)]]

CATEGORIES: Ammunition

A magazine is a place for keeping ammunition. For artillery it can be a special warehouse or a special room in a warship. 

In firearms, a magazine (often incorrectly called a "clip") is a container that holds ammunition for a firearm. An external magazine is pushed into the firearm, which is called loading. An Internal magazine(common in bolt action rifles) is built into the gun and cannot be easily taken out, these are usually reloaded individually or via a stripper clip. Taking an empty magazine out of a firearm and putting in a full one is known as reloading the gun, but putting more bullets inside the magazine is known as reloading the magazine. 

The most common type of magazine is a box magazine, which holds the bullets in columns. There are also other types of magazines such as drum, pan and helix that hold more bullets that a normal box magazine.

The most common type of ammo used with magazines is bullets. Most modern guns that shoot bullets use magazines for loading ammo (with the notable exception of revolvers). Some kinds of shotguns use shotgun shell speed-loader magazines for faster reloading. 

Most magazines use a spring and follower inside to push the ammunition into the gun.  Magazines may be made out of metal or plastic. Metal magazines are more common, but some plastic magazines can be partly see-through so that the user can see how much ammo is left inside.

[[Shotgun shell]]

CATEGORIES: Ammunition, Shotguns

A shotgun shell is the standard type of ammunition for a shotgun. It is fired after being loaded into the chamber or chambers of a shotgun. The shell is cylindrical in shape and is normally between 2.75 and 3.5 long. It holds a charge of gunpowder and either lead shot or a shotgun slug made to be fired from the shotgun. Shotgun shells are usually mostly plastic but have thin brass at the base, though they can be made of solid brass, paper, or other combinations of these materials.

A shotgun shell's size is usually measured in gauge (also known as bore). The most common size of shotgun shell is the 12-gauge. When measuring gauge, a smaller number means a larger shell: a 12-gauge shell is larger than a 20-gauge shell. Shell gauge is an old measurement. Except for the .410 bore or gauge, which is not a gauge at all but a caliber, 

the gauge of a shotgun was equal to the number of lead balls that added up to 1. So in a 12 gauge, 12 balls add up to about a pound of lead. So the diameter is equal to a ball weighing 1/12th of a pound of lead. A 20 gauge, another popular size today, has the diameter of a ball weighing 1/20th of a pound of lead.

Besides lead shot and slugs which are designed to be lethal, there are special less lethal types of shotgun shells which shoot things made to hurt but not kill people. Less lethal shells are most often used by police. These can be loaded with plastic or rubber shot, rubber slugs, beanbags, or salt.

[[Eric Carr]]

CATEGORIES: American rock drummers, Cancer deaths in New York City, Kiss, Musicians from New York City, 1950 births, 1991 deaths, Deaths from heart cancer

Eric Carr (July 12, 1950 - November 24, 1991) was an American rock drummer. He was a member of the rock band Kiss from 1981 to 1991.

[[Royal Canadian Navy]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Canada

The Royal Canadian Navy (RCN) was the navy of Canada from 1911 to 1968.

From 4 May 1910 to 29 August 1911 the navy was known officially as the Naval Service of Canada and operationally as Canadian Naval Forces.

During the early years of the 20th century, there was a lot of talk in the British Empire as to the role the Dominions would play in defence and foreign affairs.  Because of the developing naval arms race with Germany, a key part of this discussion focused on naval issues.

In Canada, the naval debate came down to a choice between two options: either the young country could provide funds, support and manpower to the Royal Navy, or it could form its own navy, which could help support the Royal Navy if necessary.  After extensive political debates, Canadian politicians chose to set up their own navy.

The Royal Canadian Navy Served with the Royal Navy in World Wars I and II, but during the Suez Crisis of the 1950s Canada and the United Kingdom had different political views.  Coupled with mutinies in 1949 partly linked to old British ways the Canadian government started looking at making sure the Canadian Navy had a very separate identity from the Royal Navy. In August of 2011 the three services were once again separated, ending decades of confusion and low morale. The Royal Canadian Navy, the Canadian Army and Royal Canadian Air Force were reinstated.

[[Leo (constellation)]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Leo is one of the constellations of the zodiac. Its name is Latin for lion. Its symbol is 20px (♌). Leo lies between dim Cancer to the west and Virgo to the east.

[[Leo (astrology)]]

CATEGORIES: Astrological signs

Leo is the fifth astrological sign of the Zodiac, starting from the constellation of Leo. Leo is considered to be a "feminist ", positive (extrovert) sign. It is also considered a fire sign and is one of four fixed signs  ruled by the Sun. Being the fifth sign of the zodiac, Leo has been associated with the astrological fifth house.

Individuals born when the Sun is in this sign are considered Leo individuals. The Sun is in Leo roughly from July 22 to August 23. Under the sidereal zodiac, it is currently there roughly from August 10 to September 15.

[[Celestial sphere]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy

In astronomy and navigation, the celestial sphere is an imaginary sphere (ball) of a very large unspecified size. The earth and the sphere have the same centre: they are concentric. They also rotate upon the same axis. All objects in the sky can be thought of as projected (drawn, written) upon the celestial sphere. This imaginary sphere is a very practical tool for positional astronomy.

[[Capricornus]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations, Constellations listed by Ptolemy

Capricornus is one of the constellations of the zodiac. It is often called Capricorn, especially when referring to the corresponding astrological sign. Its name is Latin for "horned male goat" or "goat horn", and it is commonly represented in the form of a sea-goat: a mythical creature that is half goat, half fish. Its symbol is 20px (Unicode ♑).

Capricornus is one of the 88 modern constellations, and was also one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy. Under its modern boundaries it is bordered by Aquila, Sagittarius, Microscopium, Piscis Austrinus and Aquarius. The constellation is in an area of sky called the Sea or Water, consisting of many water-related constellations such as Aquarius, Pisces and Eridanus.

[[SV Ried]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Upper Austria

SV Ried is a soccerclub from Austria, playing in the Bundesliga, the highest class in Austria.

[[Navarre]]

CATEGORIES: Navarre

Navarre is an autonomous community in northern Spain. The capital of Navarre is Pamplona.

[[Barbary falcon]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Pakistan, Birds of Turkey, Falconiformes

The Barbary falcon (Falco pelegrinoides) is a species of bird. It is a medium-sized falcon about the size of a crow. This bird of prey breeds in the Canary Islands and on the coasts of North Africa. It is mainly resident. It is thought to be related to the peregrine falcon.

[[L-DOPA]]

CATEGORIES: Acids

Levodopa, or L-DOPA is an amino acid. In the body of mammals, it is made from Tyrosine in a process named synthesis. It also occurs in different plants. As such it can be used as a dietary supplement. L-Dopa is the precursor to the neurotransmitters dopamine, norepiphedrine and epiphedrine, which are part of a group known as Catecholamines. L-dopa can also be used as a drug for diseases such as Parkinson's disease. The substance used in the drug is usually called Levodopa, and the naturally occurring substance is called L-Dopa.

[[Austrobaileyales]]

CATEGORIES: Flowering plants

Austrobaileyales is the botanical name for an order of flowering plants. There are about 100 species of woody plants, perhaps the most famous of which is the spice star anise, from Illicium verum. 

The APG system, of 1998, did not recognize such an order. However, the APG II system, of 2003, did accept this order and placed it among the basal angiosperms. 

[[Chloranthaceae]]

CATEGORIES: flowering plants

Chloranthaceae is the botanical name of a family of flowering plants. The family consists of four genera, totalling several dozen species, of herbaceous or woody plants occurring in Southeast Asia, the Pacific, Madagascar, Central & South America, and the West Indies. The flowers are inconspicuous, and arranged in inflorescences. Petals are absent in this family, and sometimes so are sepals. The flowers can be either hermaphrodite or of separate sexes. The fruit is drupe-like, consisting of one carpel.

[[Creodont]]

CATEGORIES: Creodonts, Fossils

The Creodonta are, traditionally, an extinct order of mammals which lived from the Palaeocene to the Miocene epoch. They are distant relatives of the Carnivora. However, the carnassial teeth of modern carnivores and both groups of creodonts are not formed from the same teeth. This evolutionary convergence suggests the creodonts are not the ancestors of modern carnivores. 

Also, they are perhaps not a natural group. However, a phylogenetic analysis of Paleocene mammals published in 2015 supported the monophyly of Creodonta, and put the group as relatives of pangolins. There is an extensive literature on the subject.

Creodonts were the dominant group of carnivorous mammals from 55 to 35 million years ago (mya) in the ecosystems of Africa, Eurasia and North America. They competed with the Mesonychids and the Entelodonts and ultimately outlasted them. In Oligocene Africa, they were the dominant predatory group.  

At last, they lost ground to the Carnivora. The Carnivora are the only group to survive today. The last creodont genus went extinct eight million years ago, and modern carnivores now occupy their ecological niches.

The first creodont fossils were in the Palaeocene, about 60 million years ago (mya), and the last Dissopsalis, perhaps eight mya. So, the creodonts lasted for at least 50 million years.

[[Peter Criss]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American drummers, Musicians from New York City, American rock musicians, Kiss

George Peter John Criscuola, also known as Peter Criss and by his stage name The Catman, (born December 20, 1945, in Brooklyn, New York) is an American drummer. Criss is known for being the drummer in the original lineup of New York Glam metal band Kiss (band) during the 1970s before being replaced by Eric Carr in 1981. 

[[Kamaboko]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food, Seafood

Kamaboko, also known as surimi' is a cured, processed seafood product of Japan. It is made of puréed white fish, formed into different shapes including semi-cylinder loafs, and steamed until it becomes firm. Some kamaboko known as narutomaki is made with a swirl pattern in the center of each slice, named after the famous tidal whirlpool in the Japanese city Naruto. Outside of Japan, kamaboko is often referred to as fish cake.

Kamaboko has been made in Japan since the 14th century CE and has become commonly available in many other countries. One example that can be found in the West is kanikama (also known as kani kamaboko), or imitation crab. This variation of surimi is quite common in the West as it is a cheap substitute for real crab meat.

In Japan, kamaboko can often be seen served as a topping over ramen or udon. It is also commonly sold at convenience stores as chikama (kamaboko and cheese).

[[Banga Sena]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in Bangladesh, Political organizations based in Asia

The Banga Sena (Bengal Army) is a separatist Hindu organisation, which supports the making of a Bangabhumi/separate homeland for Bengali Hindus in the People's Republic of Bangladesh. The group is led by Kalidas Baidya.

[[Swadhin Bangabhumi Andolan]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in Bangladesh, Politics of Bangladesh, 1973 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Bangladesh

Bangabhumi (বঙ্গভূমি, meaning the land of Bengal) also known as Bir Bango (বীর বঙ্গ), is a separatists movement to create a Hindu country using southwestern East Bengal envisioned by Banga Sena of Bangladesh.

The movement was founded in 1973 in the Republic of India soon after Bangladeshi independence to support the Hindu refugees from Bangladesh, who were targeted by the Pakistani national army in the 1971 Bangladesh atrocities based on ideas of reconquest. However, this movement did not receive much support at that time. In an interview with BBC in 2001, Chittaranjan Sutar, one of the alleged organisers of the movement, denied any existence of the movement at that time. The movement openly became active again on 2003 when it declared the independence of Hindu Republic of Bangabhumi.

[[Tempura]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

Tempura is a kind of Japanese food. It is deep fried vegetables or seafood. Also templa that do not use seafood are called shojinage. The dish comes from a Portuguese dish peixinhos da horta, which was brought to Japan by Portuguese sailors in the mid-sixteenth century.

[[1985 Mexico City earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 disasters, 1985 in North America, 1980s in Mexico, Earthquakes in Mexico, Earthquakes in the 1980s, Mexico City, September events

The 1985 Mexico City earthquake was an earthquake that happened in Mexico City on September 19, 1985. It had a magnitude of 8.1, and the number of people killed was around 10,000.

[[Warkany syndrome 2]]

CATEGORIES: Syndromes

Warkany syndrome 2, also known as chromosome 8 trisomy syndrome or trisomy 8, is a condition where chromosome 8 in humans has three sets of chromosomes, as opposed to the normal two. This condition is called "trisomy", and is where Warkany syndrome 2 derives its alternative names. People born with Warkany syndrome 2 typically have mental retardation and renal or skeletal malformations.

[[Yothu Yindi]]

CATEGORIES: Australian rock bands, Folk music groups, People from the Northern Territory, Indigenous Australian people

Yothu Yindi was the first major indigenous band in Australia. They released many hits and albums such as "One Blood", "Treaty", "Garma", "Homeland Movement" and "Birrkuda". The name Yothu Yindi translates from 'yolngo matha' to English as "child and mother". This term refers to the connection the tribe has to their land.

[[Andreas Ulmer]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Andreas Ulmer (born October 30, 1985) is an Austrian footballplayer playing for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga as defender. His father,Gerhard Ulmer, and his uncle, Fritz Ulmer, were also footballplayers, playing for SK Voest Linz.

He started playing football in the local clubs SK Asten and LASK Linz. At the age of 14 he went to the Frank Stronach Academy in Hollabrunn (a school, where you can also visit a school beside your football education). He got his A-levels and then played for the second squad of FK Austria Wien after his debut for Austria Wien in the 2004/05 season. 2008/09 he played for  SV Ried and then went to F.C. Red Bull Salzburg.

For Red Bull Salzburg he played regularly as left defender. In the 2009/10 season he played all matches of Red Bull Salzburg. This year he even played 37 matches in the league, because he came in Winter to Red Bull Salzburg which had to play a match from the first half of the season in the second half, so Andreas Ulmer played this year 22 matches for SV Ried and 15 for Red Bull Salzburg. So far he is the only player in the whole football history of Austria who did one match more than the regular 36. During the warm-up for a Championsleague qualifing match versus Omonia Nikosia he was badly injured so he missed the first half of the season 2010/11. At the moment he is working at his comeback and is sitting on the replacement bench.

[[WrestleMania XXVIII]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in professional wrestling, Sports in Miami, Florida, WrestleMania, 2012 in American television, 2012 in Florida, 2010s in Miami, Florida

WrestleMania XXVIII was the twenty-eighth yearly WrestleMania professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place at Sun Life Stadium in the Miami suburb of Miami Gardens, Florida.

[[Juan Miranda]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Arizona Diamondbacks players, New York Yankees players, Cuban people

Juan Miguel Miranda (born April 25, 1983 in Consolación del Sur, Cuba) is an Cuban Major League Baseball first baseman who currently plays for the Arizona Diamondbacks. Miranda also played for the New York Yankees from 2008 to 2010 before being traded to the Arizona Diamondbacks for Scott Allen.

[[Hop (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 animated movies, 2011 comedy movies, English-language movies, American animated movies, American comedy movies

Hop is a 2011 Easter-themed comedy movie that was produced by Chris Meledandri and was directed by Tim Hill. Hop was released on April 1, 2011 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 23% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 41 out of 100 from Metacritic. Even though the movie got bad reviews, it opened at #1 at the Friday box office in the US, earning $11.4 million and also topped the weekend box office with $38.1 million, which made it the highest opening weekend so far in 2011.

[[Heckler & Koch]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Germany, Firearms

Heckler & Koch (H&K, Heckler und Koch) is a German firearm manufacturing company. They make many guns such as the MP5 series submachine gun and the rifle G3. Heckler and Koch are one of the most famous weapon manufacturers and deliver weapons to many government agencies such as German Armed Forces or the US Army.

The company is in Oberndorf in the state of Baden-Württemberg, but also has locations in the United Kingdom, France and the United States.  The company motto is "Keine Kompromisse!" (No Compromise!).  H&K makes firearms for many military and paramilitary units and counter-terrorism and hostage rescue teams.

[[Ritchie Blackmore]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, British rock musicians, English guitarists, English songwriters, People from Somerset

Ritchie Blackmore (born 14 April 1945) is an English guitarist. He is former member and founder of British hard rock band Deep Purple. 

[[Clint Mansell]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, English composers, English rock musicians, Entertainers from Coventry

Clinton Darryl "Clint" Mansell (born 7 January 1963 in Coventry, England) is an English musician, composer, and was also the lead singer and guitarist of the band Pop Will Eat Itself. He is known for scores on movies. Some of the most famous movies that he has scored are Requiem for a Dream, The Fountain, Moon, Smokin' Aces, The Wrestler, and Black Swan. His composition has become very popular and has been used in many advertisements and movie trailers.

[[Microsoft Publisher]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft Office

Microsoft Publisher is a desktop publishing application (program). It is made by Microsoft and it is part of Microsoft Office. Publisher is similar to Word except that it places the emphasis on page layout and design (rather than writing text and proof reading). With Publisher, you can create a variety of publication types. For example, you can make brochures, newsletters, postcards and  greeting cards as well as normal, 'Word-like' documents. Publisher's file extension is .pub.

[[Daily Express]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in the United Kingdom

The Daily Express is a British newspaper. It is published daily and it is a tabloid. It was founded in 1900.

[[LGBT rights in Bangladesh]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Bangladesh, LGBT rights by country

LGBT human rights are not respected in the People's Republic of Bangladesh, and there appears to be no organized movement to advance such human rights. And such acts of homosexuality will lead to life in prison, or even face the death penalty.

[[A History of Violence (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Jedi Mind Tricks albums

A History of Violence is the sixth studio album by American hip hop group, Jedi Mind Tricks. It was released on November 11, 2008. The producer of the album was Stoupe. The first single off the album is "Monolith".

[[Sindhi people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Sindh

Sindhis (سنڌي, سندھی Sindhī) are a Sindhi speaking socio-ethnic group of people originating from the Sindh province of Pakistan. Today Sindhis that live in Pakistan belong to various religious denominations including Islam, Zoroastrianism, Hinduism, Sikhism and Christianity. The original inhabitants of ancient Sindh were believed to be aboriginal tribes speaking languages of the Indus Valley civilization around 3000 BC.

In his book Kitab-ul-Hind, the Persian scholar Abū Rayhān Bīrūnī (Al-Beruni) declared that even before the advent of Islam into Sindh (711 A.D.), the Sindhi language was prevalent in Sindh.

[[Persian and Urdu]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Pakistan, Persian language

The Persian language influenced the formation of many modern languages of the Greater Middle East, Central Asia, and South Asian regions, including Urdu. 

Following the Turko-Persian Mahmud of Ghazni's Ghaznavid conquest of South Asia, an influenced language of Turkish, Arabic and Persian and local dialects began to form, one that would eventually be known as Urdu. This language was called Zaban-e-Ordu ('language of the army'), the court language, and was later shortened to just Urdu. In the indigenous literature and spoken name, it was/is called Lashkari or Lashkari Zaban in the long form. It grew from the interaction of Persian and Turkish speaking Muslim soldiers and the native peoples. Under Persian influence from the state, the Persian script and Nasta'liq form of cursive writing was adopted, with additional figures added to accommodate the Indic phonetic system. The national anthem of Pakistan is highly Persianized.

Urdu is a morpho-syntax/grammatically a Persian-Turkish written in the Persia-Arabic script, and contains literary conventions and specialised vocabulary largely from Persian. Some grammatical elements peculiar to Persian, such as the enclitic ezāfe, and the use of the takhallus, were readily absorbed into Urdu literature both religious and secular.

Urdu soon gained distinction in literary and cultural spheres because of the hybrid nature of the language. Many distinctly Persian forms of literature, such as Ghazal, Qasida, Marsia and Nazms, caried over into Urdu literature, producing a distinct melding of Iranian and South Asian heritages. A famous cross-over writer was Amir Khusro, whose Persian and Urdu couplets are to this day read in South Asia-Central Asia.

[[Pure-bred]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics

Pure-bred organisms are homozygous for the desired characteristics that a breeder wants. The offspring of a pure bred organism will always show the desired phenotype. The type is often got by inbreeding. Standard laboratory white rats are so genetically similar that they will accept skin grafts from other rats of the type. See strain (biology) for a fuller discussion.

[[Diagnosis]]

CATEGORIES: Science, Technology, Medicine, Causality

A diagnosis is an accurate and precise account of the nature or cause of something. 

Medical diagnosis is the best-known field, but diagnosis can be applied to any subject. Whereas a doctor diagnoses what is wrong with a patient, a motor mechanic can diagnose the fault in a car. In all cases they replace a vague query, such as "My car will not start", with an exact analysis, such as "It's out of petrol". Notice the diagnosis is precise enough so the solution can be seen.

These ideas work even in more subtle cases. A boy brings an insect in a box to a natural history museum. He asks an expert "What is this?" The expert says "You mean, apart from it being a beetle?" When the boy nods, the expert looks at the insect under a magnifying glass, or a binocular microscope. Chances are, it is a common beetle, and the expert can give the boy quite a lot of information about it. 

But if it is not known to the expert, a much longer study is needed. Large reference books will be consulted; trays of similar insects will be taken out of store to be compared. A full diagnosis needs at least the genus and species. If the species is unknown, the detailed work of description is needed for publication.

[[Agoraphobia]]

CATEGORIES: Phobias

Agoraphobia is a medical condition that causes anxiety. Sufferers are afraid of large open spaces, crowds, and new places. Many doctors believe that people with the condition are afraid of becoming anxious. Places that make them feel unsafe and increase their feelings of anxiety and panic. They may be afraid they might lose control and embarrass themselves. They worry that they may not be able to get away, or find help if they have a panic attack. The word agoraphobia means "fear of the market place". People with agoraphobia often believe that their home is the only safe place. Extreme sufferers may be unable to leave their homes for months or in some cases years.

Agoraphobia is sometimes treated successfully with medication and cognitive behavioral therapy, but some people never recover.

[[Russian Far East]]

CATEGORIES: Russia

The Russian Far East is a geographical term that describes the eastern section of Russia.

Although traditionally considered part of Siberia, the Russian Far East is categorized separately from Siberia which covers a smaller territory called the Siberian Federal District.

This was also true during the Soviet era when it was called the Soviet Far East.

The Russian Far East covers the territory of the Far Eastern Federal District.

[[Remington 700]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles

A Remington 700, also called an R700 is a bolt sniper rifle. It is called M24 by the United States Army.

[[Amur River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Russia, Rivers of China

The Amur River is a river extending from northeastern China to the Russian Far East. It is the tenth longest river in the world.

[[Civilian]]

CATEGORIES: People

A civilian in time of war is a person who is not a member of a country's military and any other fighting group. This is what the word means under the laws of war. Civilians are the opposite of soldiers and combatants, who fight in wars.

Civilians are protected by international law from being harmed during war. The treatment of civilians during times of war is covered by the Fourth Geneva Convention. Prisoners are covered by the Third Convention. These are based on humanitarian doctrines (ethical beliefs) and that most countries follow them as law.

Civilians have the right to defend themselves. If they participate in other fighting, they are usually called partisans, and they can be tried for war crimes.

The modern use of the word also has problems:

[[Imperial Japanese Army]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Japan, Armies, 1871 establishments, 1870s establishments in Japan, 1945 disestablishments in Asia, 1940s disestablishments in Japan

Imperial Japanese Army, also known as the IJA, was the army of Imperial Japan from 1871 to 1945.

The IJA was started after the Meiji Restoration and dissolved at the end of World War II.

[[Catastrophism]]

CATEGORIES: History of science, Geology, Philosophy of science

Catastrophism is the idea that Earth has been affected in the past by sudden, short-lived, violent events. Catastrophes, possibly worldwide in scope, came between long periods of quiet inactivity. This was called 'catastrophism' by William Whewell in 1837.

Catastrophes were thought to be the main cause of the changes seen in the record of the rocks and fossils. This record appeared to show that the Earth had suffered occasional gigantic upheavals in what was otherwise a quiet planet.

Supporting this view was the greatest comparative anatomist and palaeontologist of the early 19th century. He was Georges Cuvier, Director of the Muséum national d'histoire naturelle in Paris. Cuvier had shown that extinction of species had definitely taken place. His catastrophism was an explanation for the regular changes in species seen in the rock strata. He had no real explanation of why later species were different from earlier ones. He rejected the idea of evolution, but did not propose a religious solution.

== The opposition == 

James Hutton's Theory of the Earth (2 vols, 1795), followed lated by Charles Lyell's Principles of Geology (3 vols, 1830–33), painted a quite different picture.

This was uniformitarianism, also a word coined by Whewell. Hutton's basic idea was 'present-day processes also worked in the past'. The Earth's features had been shaped by same geological processes that could be observed in the present, acting gradually over an immense period of time.

Lyell developed these ideas, and presented a huge number of observations which could only be explained by gradual action. His book strongly influenced the young Charles Darwin, who took the first volume with him on the HMS Beagle, and had the second volume sent ahead to Rio de Janeiro.

The age of the Earth is a factor in the debate. In the 19th century it was thought the Earth was perhaps 100 million years old. Now, we know it to be about 4,560 million years old. That is definitely long enough for slow processes to take effect.

As a result, for a long period from 1840 to 1980, virtually all geologists were uniformitarians, believing 'the present is the key to the past'.

[[Steve Harris]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, British bass guitarists, British keyboardists, English rock guitarists, Iron Maiden, Musicians from Essex

Steve Harris (born 12 March 1956) is a bassist, keyboardist, and founder of the British band Iron Maiden.

[[Kid Rock]]

CATEGORIES: US Republican Party politicians, American rap musicians from Michigan, American singer-songwriters, American movie actors, American rock musicians, Singers from Michigan, Writers from Michigan, Politicians from Michigan, 1971 births, Living people

Robert James "Bob" Ritchie (better known as Kid Rock) (born January 17, 1971) is an American singer-songwriter, rapper, musician, record producer, and actor. He has made songs with parts of many different styles of music, including rap, heavy metal, and country. 

[[Amborellaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Flowering plants

Amborellaceae is a family of flowering plants native to New Caledonia. The family contains only one species, Amborella trichopoda.  Botanists think it is the most basal plant in the angiosperm clade.

The Amborellaceae are distinctive. They are sprawling evergreen shrubs or small trees. Their tissue is different from any other Angiosperm. The xylem of Amborella contains only tracheids; vessel elements are absent. Xylem of this form has long been regarded as a "primitive" feature of flowering plants.

[[Castro]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Castro is a Chilean city with 39.366 inhabitants (2002 census).

[[Puerto Montt]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Puerto Montt is a Chilean city with 175,847 inhabitants (2002 census).

[[Temuco]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Temuco is a Chilean city with 245,347 inhabitants (2002 census).

[[Talca]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Talca is a Chilean city with 201.797 inhabitants (2002 census).

[[Rancagua]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile, Settlements in the Region of O'Higgins

Rancagua is a Chilean city with 214,344 people living there according to 2002 census. 

[[Coyhaique]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Coyhaique is a Chilean city with 50.041 inhabitants (2002 census).

[[Grackle]]

CATEGORIES: Birds, Passeriformes

A grackle is a bird that lives around North and South America. They belong to the Icterid family.

[[Crystallography]]

CATEGORIES: Technology, Chemistry, Molecular biology, Physics

Crystallography is the study of the arrangement of atoms in solids that are mostly in three dimensional pattern. 

Before the development of X-ray crystallography, the study of crystals was based on their geometry. This involves measuring the angles of crystal faces, and establishing the symmetry of the crystal in question.

[[Tea Party movement]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United States

The Tea Party is an American populist political movement.  Most people say it is conservative and libertarian.

The Tea Party:

The name "Tea Party" comes from the Boston Tea Party, a protest by colonists who objected to a British tax on tea in 1773.  They demonstrated by dumping British tea taken from docked ships into the harbor.  Some say that the  Tea in "Tea Party" also stands for "Taxed Enough Already".

The Tea Party movement has caucuses (groups) in the House of Representatives and the Senate of the United States.  Many of the members of the Tea Party caucus were first elected in the 2010 midterm elections.  Some of them had never held any public office before.

The Tea Party movement has no central leadership but is composed of a loose linking of national and local groups that decide their own platforms and agendas. The Tea Party movement has been cited as an example of grassroots political activity, although it has also been cited as an example of astroturfing.

The Tea Party's most famous national figures include Republican politicians such as Sarah Palin, Ron Paul, and Michele Bachmann. As of 2010, the Tea Party movement is not a national political party, but has endorsed Republican candidates.

A Gallup poll shows almost 80% of Tea Partiers say they are Republicans. Commentators, including Gallup Editor-in-Chief Frank Newport, have suggested that the movement is not a new political group but simply a rebranding of traditional Republican candidates and policies. An October 2010 Washington Post canvass of local Tea Party organizers found 87% saying "dissatisfaction with mainstream Republican Party leaders" was "an important factor in the support the group has received so far".  Though many are opposed to GOP leadership, they are even more opposed to President Obama.  Some members believe that President Obama was not born in the United States (despite a birth certificate showing he was born in Hawaii).

One of the main positions the Tea Party took was against the debt ceiling (the amount of money the U.S. is allowed to borrow).  Many voted against any raising of the debt ceiling.  Others demanded large spending cuts and a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution.

[[Maurice Wilkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2004 deaths, Biophysicists, British Nobel Prize winners, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, English physicists, Fellows of the Royal Society, New Zealand scientists, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, People from Birmingham, New Zealand Nobel Prize winners

Maurice Hugh Frederick Wilkins CBE FRS (15 December 1916 – 5 October 2004) was a New Zealand-born English physicist and molecular biologist.

Wilkins was born in New Zealand to a family from Dublin. When he was six, he moved to Birmingham.

His research contributed to the understanding of phosphorescence, isotope separation, light microscopy and X-ray crystallography. 

He worked on the development of radar during World War II, and was a member of the Manhattan Project. 

He is best known for his work at King's College London on the structure of DNA. 

In recognition of this work, he, Francis Crick and James Watson were awarded the 1962 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, "for their discoveries concerning the molecular structure of nucleic acids and its significance for information transfer in living material". His obituary provides extensive information on the topics mentioned here.

Wilkins was the Assistant Director of the Biophysics Unit at Kings College, and responsible for work on the structure of DNA. Wilkins and a graduate student, Raymond Gosling, got the first X-ray diffraction photos of DNA in 1950. He introduced Francis Crick to the importance of DNA, and hired Rosalind Franklin on a three-year grant. Franklin made progress with the crystallography, and produced some better photographs of the structure. 

In 1953 Watson visited King's, and Crick got sight of a progress report. This report included useful information from Franklin about features of DNA she had deduced from her X-ray diffraction data.

Watson and Crick published their proposed DNA double helix structure in a paper in the journal Nature in April 1953. In this paper Watson and Crick acknowledged that they had been "stimulated by.... the unpublished results and ideas" of Wilkins and Franklin.

By this time Franklin was suffering from cancer of the ovary. She died in 1958, which explains why she was not included in the 1962 Nobel Prize. A controversy exists as to the relative contributions of her and Wilkins.

[[Adolf Eichmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1962 deaths, Colonels, Executed German people, Executed Nazis, German war criminals, Holocaust perpetrators, Kidnapped people, Mossad, Nazi leaders, People executed by hanging, People from Solingen, RSHA people, SS officers

Otto Adolf Eichmann (19 March 1906 in Solingen - 31 May 1962 in Ramla) was a German SS officer (he had the rank of SS-Obersturmbannführer, comparable with lieutenant colonel).

Eichmann was an important person of Nazi Germany during the Third Reich. As head of a subdivision of the Reich Main Security Office (Reichssicherheitshauptamt, Referat IV B4) he was the architect of The Holocaust who organized the death camps, like the Auschwitz concentration camp, that were used to kill 11 million people during World War 2. 

After the war he escaped and in 1960 was discovered to be living in Argentina. The Israeli secret service, the Mossad, kidnapped him and took him back to Israel. Eichmann was put on trial for war crimes and crimes against humanity. He was found guilty on 11 December 1961, and executed by hanging in Ramla. His body was cremated in an unusually hot furnace, and the ashes were scattered in the sea.  Eichmann is one of the few people to ever be executed by Israel.

The trial of Adolf Eichmann was broadcast on radio in Israel, and millions of people around the world watched it on television. This was the first time that victims of the Holocaust talked openly about what had happened. This was an event that helped bring together and unify the many people who had come to live in the new nation of Israel.

[[Phat Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1970 deaths, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, People from Thunder Bay

Gordon Allan "Phat" Wilson (December 29, 1895 – July 26, 1970) was a Canadian amateur ice hockey forward who won the Allan Cup three times as a member of the Port Arthur Bearcats.  Seen as one of the top amateur players of his time, Wilson was added into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1963.

[[Benny Woit]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, People from Thunder Bay, Stanley Cup champions, Eastern Hockey League players

Benedict Francis Woit (born January 7, 1928 in Fort William, Ontario) was a National Hockey League defenceman of the 1950s.

[[Murray Wing]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, People from Thunder Bay, Central Professional Hockey League players

Murray Alan Wing (born October 14, 1950) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey defenceman who played in one National Hockey League game for the Detroit Red Wings during the 1973–74 NHL season.

[[Zwolle]]

There are three towns and villages with the name Zwolle:

[[Bindi Irwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, Actors from Queensland, Living people, Australian child actors, Australian television actors, Australian television presenters, Australian movie actors, People from the Sunshine Coast, Queensland

Bindi Sue Irwin (born 24 July 1998 in Buderim, Queensland) is an Australian actress, singer, television personality and conservationist. She is the daughter of Terri Irwin and Steve Irwin and has a younger brother Robert Clarence "Bob" Irwin.

[[Microsoft TechNet]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft

Microsoft TechNet is a website owned by Microsoft, as source for information, news and events for IT professionals. There is also a paid magazine called TechNet Magazine.

TechNet used to be restricted to paying customers. Now the website is free, with extra possibilities for paying customers.

[[Tom Araya]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Chilean singers, Bassists, Heavy metal singers, Heavy metal musicians, People from Viña del Mar

Tom Araya (born Tomás Enrique Araya June 6, 1961 in Viña del Mar, Chile) is an Chilean-American musician, best known as the bassist and vocalist of the American thrash metal band Slayer. Araya is ranked fifty-eighth by Hit Parader on their list of the 100 Greatest Metal Vocalists of All Time.

Araya was employed as a respiratory therapist in the early 1980s and used his earnings to finance Slayer's debut album Show No Mercy. Much of Araya's lyrical content is about serial killers, a subject he finds interesting, first making his lyrical contribution to 1985's Hell Awaits with the track "At Dawn They Sleep".

[[Jakob Jantscher]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Jakob Jantscher (8 January 1989 in Graz) is an Austrian footballer, he plays as midfielder for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg.

[[Valery Leontiev]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Russian singers, Russian actors, Soviet singers

Valery Yakovlevich Leontiev (Валерий Яковлевич Леонтьев; born 19 March 1949 in Ust-Usa, Soviet Union) is a well-known Russian and formerly Soviet singer and actor.

Valery Leontiev began his career in Soviet times, and actively continues to this day. He has recorded more than 30 albums.

[[Andrew Neiderman]]

CATEGORIES: American novelists, American screenwriters, writers from New York, 1940 births, Living people

Andrew Neiderman (born 1940) is an American novelist.  He became a "ghostwriter" for V. C. Andrews after she died.  Her estate hired him to complete the "Casteel" series of books and continue her unfinished stories.

Andrew Neiderman is also the author of "The Devil's Advocate," which was made into a movie, and wrote the libretto for a live musical adaptation of The Devil's Advocate.  He is currently (as of 2011) developing a new script with revised music and lyrics.

He is the screenwriter of the movie based on the "Rain" series published as V. C. Andrews' novels. Six of Neiderman's own novels have been adapted into movies also.

As of January 2011, Andrew Neiderman has written 100 published novels, between the V. C. Andrews books and the books published with his name.

[[Ghostwriter]]

CATEGORIES: Writers, Writing, Literary terms

A ghostwriter is a professional  writer whose published work is credited to another person.  One famous ghostwriter is Andrew Neiderman. He was hired by the estate of V. C. Andrews, who died in 1986.  Niederman completed the "Casteel" series of books and continues writing books credited to Andrews.

Ghostwriters are paid a fee to help write the autobiographies of celebrities, athletes and politicians.  They also help write letters, song lyrics, magazine and news articles that get published under someone else's name.

[[Remember When (Alan Jackson song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 songs

"Remember When" is a country-western song recorded by Alan Jackson. It was the second single released from the 2003 album Greatest Hits Volume II. "Remember When" reached number one on the Billboard Hot Country Songs and number 29 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.

[[Dasypogonaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Monocots

Dasypogonaceae is a botanical name of a family of flowering plants. Such a family has not been commonly recognized by taxonomists are the plants involved were usually included in the family Ashphodelaceae.

The family is native to Australia, and contains 16 species in four genera.

[[Classical liberalism]]

CATEGORIES: Liberalism, Political philosophy

Classical liberalism is a type of liberalism.  It is a belief in economics and a political ideology. It is about civil and economic freedom. 

Classical liberals believe in a small government, and believe that people will be ruled mostly by natural law. They believe that people have inalienable rights, which is to say rights that cannot be taken away. They also believe in a free market and property rights.  

Notable people who developed classical liberalism during the 18th and 19th century are Adam Smith, Thomas Malthus and Thomas Jefferson.  More recently, in the mid-20th century, Ludwig von Mises, Friedrich Hayek and Milton Friedman were in favor.  Many of the beliefs of classical liberalism are similar to those of libertarianism.

[[Safeway Inc.]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States, 1915 establishments in the United States

Safeway, Inc. SWY is the third-largest supermarket chain in North America. The company has around 198,000 employees worldwide. In some of the Safeway stores, they have fuel stations where they allow customers to use a phone number or club (loyalty) card to receive fuel savings. Safeway stores also have a Safeway ATM Network. The name "Safeway" came from a contest that was held in 1925 to develop a name for the store and Safeway was chosen. Safeway has stores in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, West Germany, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.

[[Gamma-ray burst]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical phenomena

Gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are flashes of gamma rays from extremely energetic explosions. They have been seen in distant galaxies. They are the most luminous electromagnetic events known to occur in the universe.

Bursts can last from milliseconds to several minutes, although a typical burst lasts a few seconds. The initial burst is usually followed by a longer-lived 'afterglow' emitted at longer wavelengths (X-ray, ultraviolet, visible light, infrared and radio waves).

Most GRBs are a narrow beam of intense radiation released during a supernova, as a huge rapidly spinning star collapses to form a black hole. A subclass of GRBs (the 'short' bursts) seem to come from a different process, perhaps the merger of binary neutron stars.

The sources of most GRBs are billions of light years away from Earth. This suggests the explosions are extremely energetic: a typical burst releases as much energy in a few seconds as the Sun will in its entire 10 billion year lifetime. They are very rare (a few per galaxy per million years).

All observed GRBs have come from outside the Milky Way galaxy. Similar phenomena, soft gamma repeater flares, are associated with magnetars within the Milky Way. It has been suggested that a gamma-ray burst in the Milky Way could cause a mass extinction on Earth. No such case is known.

[[Philosophy of religion]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Religion

Philosophy of religion is a branch of philosophy. Religions, and religious beliefs can manifest themselves in different ways. Philosophy of religion looks into explaining certain answers to questions of religion using understanding. It is also looks into different ways religions are practiced and their importance for the everyday lives of the people practicing them. Other domains of it include criticism and analysis of religious texts using philosophy of language. 

According to Winfried Löffler, philiosphers of religion can be grouped as follows. Many of the philosophers mentioned belong to more than one group:

Philosophy of religion also looks at more practical matters like defining the features that make up a religion. There are two main schools of thought. The one called Essentialist says that all religions have a common"essence". The following have been proposed:

The problem with this is that using only these definitions leas to a common "philiosphy of religion" that is harly usable for studies. The other approach (called "functional") tries to counter this: Rather than trying to get an "abstract idea" of religion, it looks at the use or function religion has in the live of people or societies. Among the things mentioned are that religions help keep a psychological equilibrium and that they provide a certain amount of stability to a society. Thinkers with this opion include Karl Marx, Émile Durkheim, Bronisław Malinowski and Talcott Parsons. Critics of these theories say that such explanations often go against common sense, as religions can also have the popposite effect to that mentioned.

Other topics include arguments for the existence of God, the problem of evil, divine attributes and the relationship between science and religion.

Important philosophers of religion include Thomas Aquinas, Augustine and Alvin Plantinga. Philosophers of religion can be religious or non-religious

[[Rough-skinned newt]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

The rough-skinned newt (Taricha granulosa) is a North American newt known for its strong poison. 

Juveniles live on land for four or five years after metamorphosis. Adults are amphibious, and live in water and on land. Eggs are laid in water. They can be found especially after there has been a lot of rain.

[[SV Mattersburg]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Burgenland, 1922 establishments

SV Mattersburg was an Austrian football club from Mattersburg, Burgenland.

Football came to Mattersburg in 1912 through students from Vienna who played there in their sparetime. The input for forming a football club came from the Sieberer family, which came to Mattersburg from Vienna. Their sons had already played in Viennese football clubs. The SV Mattersburg was founded on Juny, 10th 1922. The club plays since the 2003/04 season in the Austrian Bundesliga, the highst division of Austrian football. The most successful season was 2006/07 reaching the 3rd place. In this year also 4 players of SV Mattersburg have played in the national team (Cem Atan, Michael Mörz, Christian Fuchs,Jürgen Patocka)

[[December 2009 North American blizzard]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 in the United States, Historic blizzards in the United States, 2009 in weather, December events

There was a blizzard in Mid December 2009 in the northeast. The blizzard dumped heavy snow and strong winds. 31 inches of snow fell on Washington DC.

[[National Secular Society]]

CATEGORIES: Secularism, Political organizations, Organisations based in the United Kingdom, 1866 establishments in the United Kingdom

The National Secular Society is a group that campaigns for secularism in the United Kingdom. It was founded by Charles Bradlaugh in 1866.

[[Jill Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, American R&B singers, American movie actors, American television actors, American poets, Singers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Jill Scott (born April 4, 1972) is an American poet, actress, soul and R&B singer and songwriter. She is from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Scott has recorded three albums. She has also acted in some movies and television series. These include Hounddog, Why Did I Get Married? and The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency.

[[Heythrop College]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in London

Heythrop College is a philosophy and theology college that is part of the University of London. It was started in 1614 in Leuven in Belgium by the Society of Jesus but moved to Stonyhurst in England due to persecution of Catholics.

The college offers undergraduate and postgraduate degree courses in philosophy, theology, religious studies and psychology. It became part of the University of London in 1971. It moved to Kensington in 1993.

[[Mosaic evolution]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology

In mosaic evolution some characters in a transitional form are basal, while others are remarkably advanced.

Apparently, evolutionary change takes place rapidly in some body parts or systems without simultaneous changes in other parts. Another definition is the "evolution of characters at various rates both within and between species".408 Its place in evolutionary theory comes under long-term trends or macroevolution.

Evolution from a basal (early) form to a derived (later) form takes place in stages. Modules (groups of characters) change semi-independently of each other. They change at different times, so producing a mosaic of primitive and derived traits.

These changes play a leading role in major evolutionary transitions. It may involve speciations producing a series of species, only a few of which would be found as fossils.

By its very nature, the evidence for this idea comes mainly from palaeontology. It is not claimed that this pattern is universal, but it is common. There are now a wide range of examples from many different taxa.

[[Lyoto Machida]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Brazilian sportspeople, Living people, Mixed martial artists, People from Salvador, Bahia

Lyoto Carvalho Machida (born May 30, 1978), nicknamed "The Dragon", is a mixed martial arts fighter from Salvador, Brazil. Machida fights in the Light Heavyweight division. He is a former Ultimate Fighting Championship Light Heavyweight champion. He is a third degree black belt in Machida Karate. He is a first degree black belt in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu. He is known to have great counter-fighting ability.

[[Nicktoons Racing]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 video games, Game Boy Advance games, Game Boy Color games, Nickelodeon, PlayStation games, Windows games

Nicktoons Racing is a Nickelodeon racing game for the PlayStation, Game Boy Advance, Game Boy Color, Windows and arcade. This game was released in 1999.

[[Tommy Thayer]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American guitarists, Kiss, Musicians from Portland, Oregon, Singers from Portland, Oregon, Actors from Portland, Oregon

Tommy Thayer (born November 7, 1960 in Portland, Oregon) is a former guitarist of Black 'N Blue (1981-1989, 1998) and current guitarist of the band Kiss (2002-present).

[[Brazilian jiu-jitsu]]

CATEGORIES: Martial arts, Sport in Brazil

Brazilian jiu-jitsu (Portuguese pronunciation: dʒɪwˈdʒitsu, English: /dʒuːˈdʒɪtsuː/) is a martial art, combat sport, and a self-defense system. It focuses on grappling and especially ground fighting.

Brazilian Jiu Jitsu was founded by Helio Gracie who was part of the famous Gracie family. He combined the grappling used in Judo but focused it towards ground fighting. Brazilian Jiu Jitsu often involves the gi but can also be trained without it, wearing only a rash guard. Like Judo it has many chokes and joint locks, but also includes leg-based submissions and strangles. 

[[Charles Hendry]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from East Sussex, Politicians from Sussex, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015

Charles Hendry is the Member of Parliament for Wealden in East Sussex. He is a member of the Conservative Party.

His predecessor in the Wealden seat was Geoffrey Johnson Smith, also a Conservative.

[[Saul Kripke]]

CATEGORIES: American philosophers, People from New York, 1940 births, Living people

Saul Kripke (born November 13, 1940) is an American philosopher and logician. The work he is best known for is Naming and Necessity (1980). Much of his best known work deal with the logic and language.   Kripke was born in Bay Shore, New York. 

[[Robert Nozick]]

CATEGORIES: American philosophers, 1938 births, 2002 deaths, Libertarians

Robert Nozick (November 16, 1938 – January 23, 2002) was an American political philosopher. His best known work is Anarchy, State, and Utopia (1974). It responds to A Theory of Justice, a book by John Rawls.

Politically, Nozick was a libertarian. He believed that the government should protect property and resolve contractual disputes but not much else.

[[Graves' disease]]

CATEGORIES: Autoimmune diseases

Graves' disease is an autoimmune disease of the thyroid. In people affected by the disease, the thyroid produces a bigger quantity of hormones than normal, which is commonly known as hyperthyroidism. It occurs more often in women than men.

[[Sex shop]]

CATEGORIES: Sex industry, Shops

A sex shop is a shop that sells adult products including sex toys, pornography, lingerie and fetish goods.

Most countries make it so that children cannot enter sex shops. Some require shops to have warnings outside the shop.

In the United Kingdom, sex shops must not show the products on sale inside the shop so that people on the street can see them. Sex shops in the United Kingdom are the only place where you can buy videos rated as "R18" by the British Board of Film Classification.

[[Infant attachment]]

CATEGORIES: Human behavior, Babies

Infant attachment is a special bond first developed in infancy.  It is the first relationship an infant has, usually with its mother or parents.

Research on human babies by developmental psychologist Mary Ainsworth in the 1960s and 70s found that children may have different patterns of attachment. This depends mainly on how they experienced their early caregiving environment. Early patterns of attachment, in turn, shape – but do not determine - the individual's expectations in later relationships.

During the first stage of development the mother nurses the baby and the mother and infant(s) stay physically close to each other unless the mother needs to leave to seek food (etc.). While the mother is gone the infant(s) remain hidden and quiet, sometimes in a nest or den.

Infancy is a crucial time of development—of physical growth and of learning, developing social skills to interact with others and learning life skills such as what to eat and how to respond when predators are near.

Infancy is also a time of brain development. In mammals, only some behavior is hard-wired in their brain as a fixed-action pattern. Much behavior is genetically determined only as potential behavioral systems that must be activated and developed. These include: 

With their increasing size of neocortex, primates and especially humans, have progressively more complex social behaviors. Nursing is an integral part of this, and serves four functions:

If the infant is part of a litter it plays with its littermates; if it is a single infant, after the first stage of infancy it will begin peer play with other juveniles nearby, close enough for the mother to quickly respond to any difficulty.

Nursing requires proximity; proximity facilitates social interaction, and social interaction is essential for survival. Attachment exists to varying degrees among non-human mammals; it is greatly increased especially in humans. In hunter-gatherer and village-agricultural societies, the mother typically carried the baby or would leave it briefly with an allomother—someone with whom the child will have a life-long relationship such as a grandmother, aunt, or older sibling. Only with the rise of civilization and wealth, and especially within the last 60 years has this pattern of childraising, embedded in our mammalian biology, been significantly altered.

Conclusions: Infant attachment is a multipurpose behavioral system essential to social animals. During infancy patterns of behavior are established on which other long-term relationships are built. Originating in the infant’s protection, the primary purpose of attachment soon became to support brain development. The establishment of homeostasis of physiological systems, social and emotional development and learning are other functions. Infant attachment is found to some degree in all mammals and is greatly expanded in humans. Attachment is a behavioral system that is present at birth but that must be activated and developed.

[[Hayfield University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Los Angeles, California, 1995 establishments in California

Hayfield University I was founded in August 1995 by Benjamin Hong, Hayfield University was founded on the basis of the interdenominational character of training in the Christian faith. Through God's tremendous blessing, the university has grown steadily since its foundation. The university is accredited by the California State Private Higher Education Authority (BPPE) and accredited by the Association for Biblical Higher Education (ABHE). ABHE  are accrediting agencies recognized by the United States Department of Education (USDE) and by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA).

The Database of Postsecondary Institutions and Programs

The Database of Accredited Postsecondary Institutions and Programs contains information reported to the U.S. Department of Education directly by recognized accrediting agencies and state approval agencies. The database reflects additional information as it is received from recognized accrediting agencies and state approval agencies. This reported information is not audited. The U.S. Department of Education cannot, therefore, guarantee that the information contained in the database is accurate, current, or complete. For the most accurate and current information, contact the appropriate agency.

[[It's On (Dr. Dre) 187um Killa]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 albums, Eazy-E albums

It's On (Dr. Dre) 187um Killa is the second EP by American rapper, Eazy-E. It was released on October 25, 1993. The producers of the album were Eazy-E, DJ Yella, Rhythum D, Madness 4 Real, Dr. Jam and Cold 187um. The EP was certified 2x Platinum in late 1994. The album is a reply to then rival/former N.W.A bandmate Dr Dre. The songs "Real Muthaphuckkin G's" and "It's On" are diss songs meant to insult Dr Dre and his then new protegee Snoop Doggy Dogg. Other tracks such as "Down 2 tha Last Roach", "Any Last Werdz", "Still a Nigga" and "Exxtra Special Thankz" are about the gangster lifestyle. The song "Gimme That Nutt" tells a rather sexually vulgar story that was banned from being played on radio stations.

[[Rub' al Khali]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Saudi Arabia, Deserts of Asia

The Rub' al Khali or Empty Quarter is a desert in Saudi Arabia. It is one of the largest sand deserts in the world. It covers an area of about 650,000 square kilometres, more than all of Holland, Belgium and France together. Some of the sand dunes are more than 250 metres high.

[[Bird bath]]

CATEGORIES: Birds

A bird bath is an artificial "puddle" or small shallow pond, created with a water-filled basin, for birds to bathe in, cool off, and drink from. A bird bath can be a garden decoration, small reflecting pool, or outdoor sculpture.

A bird bath is an attraction for many different species of birds to visit gardens, especially during the summer and drought periods. Bird baths that provide clean and continual water all year makes more birds come.

[[Robert Bly]]

CATEGORIES: American poets, 1926 births, Living people, American activists, writers from Minnesota

Robert Bly (born December 23, 1926) is an American poet, author, activist and leader of the Mythopoetic Men's Movement.

[[Mount Gongga]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of China, Sichuan

Mount Gongga is a 7556 mountain in the Daxue Shan range, in Sichuan China. It is also known as Gongga Shan and Minya Konka. The name Minya Konka means "White Ice Mountain of Minyang". It is the 41st highest mountain in the world. The first people to reach the top were Richard Burdsall and Terris Moore, in 1932. It was not climbed again until 1957.

Mount Gongga is thought of as one of the hardest and most dangerous mountains to climb. There have been many deaths on the mountain. These include a group of eight Japanese climbers in 1981. Until 1999, more people had died on the mountain than had made it to the top.

[[Jared Carter]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, American poets, Writers from Indianapolis, Indiana, Yale University alumni

Jared Carter (born January 10, 1939) is an American poet.

[[Red Bull Arena (Salzburg)]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Austria, Salzburg

[[John James Audubon]]

CATEGORIES: 1785 births, 1851 deaths, Writers from Kentucky, American naturalists, American ornithologists, American painters

John James Audubon (April 26, 1785 – January 27, 1851) was a French-American ornithologist, naturalist, hunter, and painter. He painted, described, and put in catalogues the birds of North America. His Birds of America is a collection of 435 life-size prints. It is still a standard against which 20th and 21st century bird artists are measured.

Audubon was born in Saint Domingue (now Haiti). He was the illegitimate son of a French sea captain and plantation owner and his French mistress. He was raised by his stepmother in Nantes, France. Early interests included birds, nature, drawing, and music. In 1803, at the age of 18, he was sent to America to escape conscription into Napoleon’s army. He lived on the family-estate at Mill Grove, near Philadelphia. It was here that he hunted, studied and drew birds. He married Lucy Bakewell. The couple became the parents of two sons, Victor Gifford and John Woodhouse. A daughter died in infancy. 

Audubon set up a dry goods business on the western frontier in Henderson, Kentucky. He continued to draw birds as a hobby. He was quite successful in business, but hard times hit. In 1819 he was briefly jailed for bankruptcy. Audubon had few prospects. He set off with his gun, his artist’s materials, and a young assistant to paint America's birds. Floating down the Mississippi River, he lived a rugged hand-to-mouth existence in the South. His wife earned money as a tutor to rich plantation families. In 1826 he sailed with his partly finished collection of bird drawings to England. "The American Woodsman" was an overnight success. 

Audubon found a printer for the Birds of America, first in Edinburgh, then London, and later collaborated with the Scottish ornithologist William MacGillivray on the Ornithological Biographies – life histories of each of the species in the work.est comfort. The last print of his monumental work was issued in 1838. By this date, Audubon was famous. He traveled America several more times in search of birds, and settled in New York City. He made one more trip to the West in 1843 for his work of mammals, the Viviparous Quadrupeds of North America. It was largely completed by his sons. The text was written by his long-time friend, the Lutheran pastor John Bachman (whose daughters married Audubon’s sons). Audubon spent his last years in senility and died at age 65. He is buried in the Trinity Cemetery at 155th Street and Broadway in New York City.

The National Audubon Society writes: "Audubon’s story is one of triumph over adversity; his accomplishment is destined for the ages. He encapsulates the spirit of young America, when the wilderness was limitless and beguiling. He was a person of legendary strength and endurance as well as a keen observer of birds and nature. Like his peers, he was an avid hunter, and he also had a deep appreciation and concern for conservation; in his later writings he sounded the alarm about destruction of birds and habitats. It is fitting that today we carry his name and legacy into the future".

[[Lorine Niedecker]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1970 deaths, American poets, Writers from Wisconsin

Lorine Niedecker (pronounced Needecker) (May 12, 1903 - December 31, 1970) is a poet who was the only woman associated with the Objectivist poets.

[[Max Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Songwriters, Swedish record producers, Grammy Award winners, Singers from Stockholm, Writers from Stockholm, Record producers

Karl Martin Sandberg, known professionally as Max Martin, (born 26 February 1971) is a Swedish music producer and songwriter. Raised in Sweden, he became a producer and songwriter in the mid 1990s after writing a string of hits for pop artists like the Backstreet Boys, Britney Spears, *NSYNC, Kelly Clarkson, Katy Perry, and Pink, Taylor Swift, among many others. 

[[Raise Your Glass]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Pink songs

"Raise Your Glass" is a song by American recording artist and songwriter Pink. It was released as the lead single of her album, Greatest Hits... So Far!!!. It celebrates the ten years Pink has spent in the music industry. She said it was for the fans who supported her during these years.

The song was released in October 2010. It was praised by critics who said it was a party anthem. It was successful commercially as well. It reached the Top 10 in several countries, including the United States. There it became Pink's second solo number one hit, following "So What," and her third overall.

[[Shellback (producer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Songwriters, Swedish record producers, Swedish writers

Karl Johan Schuster (born February 1, 1985January 2009), better known by his stage name Shellback, is a songwriter, record producer and musician from Karlshamn, a small town in Southern Sweden. Together with Max Martin, he wrote "So What" and "Raise Your Glass" by Pink, "If U Seek Amy" and "3" by Britney Spears, "DJ Got Us Fallin' in Love" by Usher featuring Pitbull, and "Whataya Want from Me" by Adam Lambert. Also with Martin he co-wrote the Maroon 5 single One More Night.

[[Vocal range]]

CATEGORIES: Singing

Vocal range is the measure of the pitches that a human voice can make. Although the study of vocal range is not used in terms of speech, it is a topic of study within linguistics, phonetics, and speech and language pathology. However, the most common use of the term "vocal range" is in singing, where it is used for classifying singing voices into groups.

[[RCA Records]]

CATEGORIES: American music companies

RCA Records (originally The Victor Talking Machine Company, then RCA Victor) is one of the flagship labels of Sony Music Entertainment. The RCA initials stand for Radio Corporation of America (later renamed RCA Corporation), which was the parent corporation from 1929 to 1985 and a partner from 1985 to 1986.

RCA's Canadian unit the Sony's oldest label in Canada, because it was only one of two Canadian record labels to survive the Great Depression.

[[Compact Disc single]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry, Compact Disc

A CD single (sometimes abbreviated to CDS) is a music single in the form of a Compact Disc. The format was introduced in the mid-1980s, but was not sold much in the market until the early 1990s.

[[Music download]]

CATEGORIES: Music technology, File sharing

A music download is the act of downloading a song from the Internet to a user's computer. This term can mean both legal downloads (by paying to download the music) and downloads of copyright material without permission or paying.

As of 2006, digital music sales are estimated to have reached about US$2 billion. Around the world in 2006, an estimated 509 million songs were purchased online.

There are many websites that let you download music. Some of these sites are iTunes, Google Play, Windows Store, and Amazon.com. 2011, The biggest of these stores is iTunes, which is run by Apple, and had an income of $1.1 billion in 2011.

[[Maratone Studio]]

CATEGORIES: Music companies

Maratone is a music production company, started by two music producers and songwriters, Max Martin and Tom Talomaa. It was started in January 2001 after the closing of the Cheiron Studios.

The first songs to be written and produced at Maratone were four tracks for Britney Spears´ third album "Britney".

With Kelly Clarkson's hits Since U Been Gone and Behind These Hazel Eyes, which were produced at Maratone, Max Martin had reinvented himself (together with Lukasz Gottwald) by using a completely different sound than the "Cheiron sound" which he was so famous for. He has continued to use the new rock sound on hits for a-ha, Pink and many more.

[[About.com]]

CATEGORIES: Websites

About.com is an online source for information and advice. It is written in English, and is aimed mostly at North Americans. It is owned by The New York Times Company.

About.com is divided into topic sites, which are grouped into channels and subjects such as home repair, pediatrics, and weather. The content is written by a network of writers, referred to as Guides, who have experience in the subject they look after. Each Guide looks after one subject only.

Guides receive money of about $100,000 per year, although the exact number is not told.

[[Blogcritics]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

Blogcritics is a blog network and online magazine of news and opinion. The site—a self-proclaimed "sinister cabal of superior writers"—was founded in 2002 by Eric Olsen and Phillip Winn. Blogcritics features hundreds of original articles every week, and keeps an archive of all their published content.

[[Digital Spy]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in the United Kingdom, Entertainment websites

Digital Spy is a British entertainment and media news website. According to comScore figures, it is the fourth largest British entertainment website with 2.1 million special users on its news site. According to Alexa Internet traffic statistics, as of February 2011, Digital Spy is the 93rd most popular website in the United Kingdom, with an overall Alexa ranking of 2,088.

[[George Beadle]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1989 deaths, American geneticists, American botanists, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Chicago, Scientists from Nebraska, Cornell University alumni

George Wells Beadle (October 22, 1903 – June 9, 1989) was an American geneticist.

He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Edward Tatum; they shared the prize with Joshua Lederberg, who worked with Tatum on bacterial genetics.  

Beadle and Tatum discovered the role of genes in regulating biochemical synthesis in cells.

Beadle and Tatum's key experiments involved exposing the bread mould Neurospora crassa to x-rays, causing mutations. In a series of experiments, they showed that these mutations caused changes in specific enzymes involved in pathways making proteins. They proposed a direct link between genes and enzymatic reactions, known as the "one gene, one enzyme" hypothesis.

[[Nur Muhammad Taraki]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Afghanistan, 1917 births, 1979 deaths, Prime Ministers of Afghanistan

Nur Muhammad Taraki (1917–1979) was an Afghan politician. With other people he founded the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan, who stopped the monarchy in Afghanistan. Taraki was president of Afghanistan in 1978 and 1979. Taraki started economic reforms in mid-1978.

[[KMFDM]]

CATEGORIES: german rock bands, Electronic music bands, Heavy metal bands

KMFDM is a German industrial metal band.  The five members of the band are leader, singer, and bassist Sascha Konietzko, singer Lucia Cifarelli, guitarist Jules Hodgson, guitarist Steve White, and drummer Andy Selway.  The band has sold more than 2 million albums.

KMFDM formed on February 29, 1984, in Paris, France.  They made eleven albums between then and 1999, when the band broke up.  The band got back together in 2002, and has made eight albums between then and 2015.

[[V. C. Andrews]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1986 deaths, American novelists, Cancer deaths in Virginia, Deaths from breast cancer, People from Portsmouth, Virginia, Writers from Virginia

Cleo Virginia Andrews (V. C. Andrews) (June 6, 1923 – December 19, 1986) was an American writer from Portsmouth, Virginia. Her best-selling stories included "My Sweet Audrina" and two series of books about the "Dollanganger" and "Casteel" families.  

Her stories were written in English and translated into French, Italian, German, Spanish, Dutch, Japanese, Korean, Turkish, Greek, Finnish, Hungarian, Swedish, Portuguese and Hebrew.

Her first novel, "Flowers in the Attic," was published in 1979.   

V. C. Andrews died from breast cancer in 1986, leaving behind some unpublished stories. The estate of V. C. Andrews hired a ghostwriter, Andrew Neiderman, to continue the stories, which are still published under the name V. C. Andrews.  

[[LGBT rights in Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Pakistan, LGBT rights by country

There are few to no LGBT rights in Pakistan. Since 6th of October in 1860, it has been illegal to participate in homosexual acts (to have sexual contact with a person of the same gender). Unlike in the neighbouring country of India, this Section 377 of the British Indian penal code (Law) has not yet been repealed (or gotten rid of). Homosexuality is also thought of as a taboo vice in Pakistan, Laws are harsh yet go unopposed in most cases. If individual orientation and acceptance isn’t enough, young boys in some cases are forced to delve into sexual activities with older predatory men. The major religions in Pakistan do not approve of homosexuality. Because of this, many people in the country are against homosexuality and other forms of alternative sexual orientation. Nevertheless, the LGBT community is still able to socialize, organize, date, and even live together as couples, if done mostly in secret.

Pakistan is officially an Islamic Republic. However, in reality, Pakistan is largely secular (non-religious). It mainly has Anglo-Saxon laws which were inherited from the British. More and more, there are trends (or patterns) of liberalization (becoming more liberal) in the country. Globalization and social tolerance are also increasing. Because of this, public gay parties have been taking place in the country, and these parties have been thriving for a number of years.

The Constitution of Pakistan does not specifically mention sexual orientation or gender identity. There are certain parts in the Constitution that may affect the rights of LGBT Pakistani citizens. In 2018, Parliament passed the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act which established broad protections for transgender people. Earlier, in a historic 2009 ruling, the Supreme Court of Pakistan ruled in favour of civil rights for transgender citizens, and further court rulings upheld and increased these rights. Pakistan does not have civil rights laws to prohibit discrimination or harassment on the basis of sexual orientation. Neither same-sex marriages nor civil unions are permitted under current law and are scarcely ever brought up in the political discourse. In addition, there is a growing number of individuals—especially those born to parents who have been educated in the developed world, who are usually University graduates and have some sort of understanding about evolution and sexuality—who are Coming out to their friends and introducing them to their same-sex partner.

[[Spain Davis Cup team]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Spain

The Spain Davis Cup team represents Spain in the Davis Cup tennis competition.

Spain has won the Davis Cup four times (2000, 2004, 2008 and 2009), and finished at second position three times (1965, 1967, 2003).

[[Wilby, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Wilby is a village and civil parish in the Mid Suffolk part of Suffolk in eastern England. It is around nine miles south-east of Diss, in 2001 there was 231 people living in Wilby. It has a primary school, village hall, Church, Trucking company (TG Askews) and a phone box (cards only).

[[Road Warrior Hawk]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2003 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Minneapolis, Minnesota, WWE Hall of Fame

Michael James Hegstrand (September 12, 1957 – October 19, 2003) was an American professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Federation (WWF) and World Championship Wrestling (WCW) under the ring name, Road Warrior Hawk. He is probably best known for wrestling as one half of the tag team, Road Warriors in WCW and The Legion of Doom in WWF. On April 2, 2011, He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Dusty Rhodes as part of The Road Warriors along with their manager, Paul Ellering.

[[Developing 8 Countries]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations

The Developing 8 (D-8 or Developing Eight) are a group of developing countries with large Muslim populations that have formed an economic development alliance. It consists of Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan, and Turkey.

[[Next Eleven]]

CATEGORIES: International relations

The Next Eleven (or N-11) are eleven countries—Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, South Korea, Turkey and Vietnam—that Goldman Sachs investment bank says will probably become some of the world's largest economies in the 21st century, together with the BRICS. The bank chose these states on December 12, 2005 because they are good places for people to invest money, and are likely to become a lot richer soon. 

[[Ethnic groups of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Pakistan

About 98% of languages spoken in Pakistan are Indo-Iranian (sub-branches: 70% Indo-Aryan and 30% Iranian), a branch of Indo-European family of languages. Most languages of Pakistan are written in the Perso-Arabic script, with significant vocabulary derived from Arabic and Persian. Urdu (or Lashkari), Balochi, Pashto, Sindhi, Seraiki, Kashmiri (Koshur), Punjabi (Shahmukhi), etc. are the general languages spoken within Pakistan. Pakistanis belong to various Indo-Aryan-speaking ethnic groups as well as Iranic peoples and Dardic language groups. In addition, small groups language isolates such as Burusho and Brahui-speaking peoples also live in the country. The major ethnic groups of Pakistan in numerical size include: Punjabis, Pashtuns, Sindhis, Seraikis, Muhajirs, Balochis, Chitralis and other smaller groups.

The population comprises several main ethnic groups (2009):

Smaller ethnic groups, such as Kashmiris, Kalash, Burusho, Brahui, Khowar, Shina, and Turwalis are mainly found in the northern parts of the country. The people of the Potohar Plateau in Northern Punjab, (Potoharis) are sometimes listed separately from Punjabis. This would tend to decrease the Punjabi's population further.

[[Industrial metal]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy metal subgenres, Industrial music, Fusion music genres

Industrial metal is a heavy metal musical genre that draws from industrial music and many different types of heavy metal, using repeating metal guitar riffs, sampling, synthesizer or sequencer lines, and distorted vocals. Founding industrial metal acts include Ministry, Godflesh, and KMFDM. Industrial metal's popularity led to some criticism from other artists associated with the industrial scene. Subsequently, it is most well known in various European permutations. Industrial metal groups have produced many acclaimed music videos.

[[John Rawls]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2002 deaths, 20th century philosophers, American philosophers

John Rawls (February 21, 1921 – November 24, 2002) was an American political philosopher. His is known best for writing the book A Theory of Justice (1971).

[[Melinoe]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

In Greek mythology, Melinoe is the goddess of ghosts. She is the daughter of Persephone and Hades. She lives in the Underworld. She has a pale complexion and a short temper and takes after her father in almost every way, except from her beauty that she gets from her mother Persephone. Melinoe has the powers to turn any mortal insane by her phantoms.

Little is known about Melinoe, but ancient Greeks used to conduct rituals and acts of praises to her as a sign of devotion and to garner protection from ghosts.

[[2. Liga]]

CATEGORIES: Football in Austria, Football leagues, 1975 establishments in Europe, 1970s establishments in Austria

[[SV Kapfenberg]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Styria

The Kapfenberger SV (official Kapfenberger Sportvereinigung Superfund) is a football club from Kapfenberg, Styria.

==History== 

The club was founded in 1919. Before the Second World War he played under the name Kapfenberger SC and was an important part of Styrian football. 1947 the club was new founded and got new sections (table tennis, ski and handball). During the 1950´s and 60´s Kapfenberg played in the Staatsliga A and in the 1980´s in the 2.Division. In 1997 the club, which was only a section of the SV, was dissolved from the Kapfenberger SV and became a legaly independent club. From 2002/03 to 2007/08 the club played in the Erste Liga and became Champion in the 2007/08 season.

In the season 2008/09 the club played in the Bundesliga for the first time since 41 years. In the 2009/10 season the LASK was beaten 7:2, which was the highest victory in the club history.

The club plays in the Franz-Fekete-Stadium, which was built in 1951 and named after a former mayor of Kapfenberg. 

[[Religious segregation]]

CATEGORIES: Religious ethics, Race

Religious segregation is the idea that people should be separated based on their religion. Certain laws of a country may only apply to one religious group. As an example, Sharia only applies to Muslims. The term religious apartheid has also been used. Apartheid was the term used to refer to racial segregation in South Africa. Other examples for religious segregation are that in Iran, certain students have been expelled from university because they were not Muslims, but Baha'i.

According to the Times Higher Education, Bahá'í are required to give up their faith in order to teach in Iranian universities. 

Bahá'í is not among the recognized "recognized religious minorities" in the Constitution of Iran. The Bahá'í faith is considered apostate in Iran

because it believes in a prophet (Bahá'u'lláh) more recent than Muhammad. This goes against Islamic teachings, which teach the belief that Muhammad is the last and final messenger sent to mankind.

Saudi Arabia sees the cities of Mecca and Medina as holy. Only Muslims may enter or travel through these cities. A Non-Muslim who enters one of them may be fined. People who are not Muslims will be deported from Mecca.

[[Paraphyly]]

CATEGORIES: Cladistics

Paraphyly is a term in cladistics. It means a group which does not include all its descendents. So Sauropsida without birds is paraphyletic, since birds are definitely descended from archosaurs, probably small theropod dinosaurs (origin of birds).

Paraphyly is corrected to monophyly when the missing group(s) are included. So if birds are included in Sauropsida, the larger group is then monophyletic. 

Traditional Linnaean classification is often paraphyletic. Many common terms, like "fish", are paraphyletic, but still very useful for everyday purposes.

[[Polyphyly]]

CATEGORIES: Cladistics

Polyphyly is a term in cladistics. It describes a group of organisms whose last common ancestor is not a member of the group. Another way of expressing this is to say that polyphyly includes groups some members of which are descended from ancestral populations.

The diagrams show that birds and mammals are indeed related, but only at the level of the early amniotes. In terms of evolution, there is a vast gulf between them.

More common in traditional taxonomy is to include all descendants (say, living mammals) without the group they evolved from (which would be some clade in the therapsida). This is done for convenience; but it makes the mammals polyphyletic.

Biological classification aims to group species together such that every group is descended from a single common ancestor. A polyphyletic group can be "fixed" either by excluding clades or by adding the common ancestor.

According to cladistics it should be the aim of classification to ensure that all groups are monophyletic. However, other taxonomists argue that there is a valid place for groups that are paraphyletic. These would contain their most recent common ancestor but not all the descendants of that ancestor.

[[Apache License]]

CATEGORIES: Software licences

The Apache License is a free software license made by the Apache Software Foundation to set rules on how the software they created may be used by others. Some of these rules are about not only using the software, but also making changes to the software. All of the Apache Software Foundation's software and projects, such as the Apache HTTP Server, use this license. Some software that is not made by the Apache Software Foundation also use this license rather than trying to create another type of license on their own.

In May 2004, Google said that 25.8 percent of software projects hosted on Google Code used this license.

[[The All-American Rejects]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Emo bands, Musical groups from Oklahoma

The All-American Rejects are an American alternative rock band from Stillwater, Oklahoma. The All-American Rejects have four members in the band; the current band members are Tyson Ritter, Nick Wheeler, Mike Kennerty and Chris Gaylor.

[[Mark Boal]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Academy Award winning writers, BAFTA Award winning writers, Journalists from New York City, Movie producers from New York City, Screenwriters from New York City

Mark Boal (born 1973) is an American journalist, screenwriter and film producer. Boal won 2 Academy Awards in 2009 for The Hurt Locker in the categories of Best Writing (Original Screenplay) and Best Picture.

[[Vampirates]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books, Fantasy books, Young adult novels, Fiction books

Vampirates is a series of young adult fantasy books. It is written by British author Justin Somper. The series is about two twin children, Connor and Grace Tempest, who get separated at sea. They are saved by two very different ships. Connor is saved by a normal pirate ship called the Diablo, Grace by the mythical Vampirate ship called the Nocturne. The word Vampirate refers to a vampire living on the Nocturne.

[[Sidney Lumet]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2011 deaths, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American television actors, American theatre directors, Cancer deaths in New York City, Deaths from lymphoma, Golden Globe Award winners, Movie directors from Pennsylvania, Movie producers from Pennsylvania, Screenwriters from Pennsylvania, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Sidney Lumet (June 25, 1924 - April 9, 2011) was an American movie director, producer and screenwriter. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He directed more than 200 plays for live television. He also directed more than 40 movies. His movies include Serpico, Dog Day Afternoon, 12 Angry Men, Network, Prince of the City and Q&A. He died of lymphoma in New York City.

[[Incertae sedis]]

CATEGORIES: Incertae sedis

In taxonomy, the term incertae sedis (abbreviated inc. sed.) is used for a taxon when its broader relationship to other taxa is unknown. The first person who used the term in botany was probably Antoine-Laurent de Jussieu. In his book Genera Plantarum of 1789 he listed a few plantae incertae sedis. 

Reasons why a taxon might be classified as incertae sedis include:

[[Dorudon]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Cetaceans

Dorudon ("spear-tooth") was a genus of ancient cetacean. It lived alongside Basilosaurus, 41 to 33 million years ago, in the Eocene. 

They were about five meters (16 ft) long and were most likely carnivorous, feeding on small fish and molluscs. Dorudon lived in warm seas around the world., Fossils have been found along the former shorelines of the Tethys Sea in present-day Western Sahara, Egypt, Pakistan, the United States, and New Zealand. Most finds have been in Egypt.

[[Moeritherium]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Extinct elephants

Moeritherium is a extinct genus of primitive mammals. It represents a very early stage in the evolution of elephants.  These prehistoric mammals are related to the elephant and, more distantly, the sea cow. They lived during the later Eocene in what is now North Africa.

Moeritherium did not resemble living elephants. It was about as large as a tapir. It had short, strong legs, a relatively long body, and a short tail. The feet of Moeritherium were broad and had flat-hoofed toes. 

[[Somatic nervous system]]

CATEGORIES: Nervous system

The somatic nervous system (SNS) is part of the peripheral nervous system. It controls various muscles and the sensory input from external stimuli 

The SNS controls voluntary body movements by skeletal muscles. Its outgoing (efferent) nerves stimulate muscle contraction. Its incoming (afferent) nerves relay sensation from the skin, and sense organs to the central nervous system. This includes touch, hearing, and sight.

The SNS does not, however, control reflex arcs.

[[National Basketball League (Australia)]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball leagues, 1979 establishments, 1970s establishments in Oceania

New Zealand:

Online:

The National Basketball League is a basketball competition in Australasia. 

It's current sponsor is Hungry Jack's, so it is also known as the Hungry Jack's NBL Championship. It is the top-level basketball competition in Australasia. The Singapore Slingers once played in this league, meaning it is the first Australasian sporting league ever to have a team from Asia. The league started in 1979, and its most successful time is during the 1980s and 1990s. However, it started to struggle in the 20th century. At the start of the 2004/05 season the league had a deal with Fox Sports of Australia. On September 18, 2007, the National Basketball League had Hummer as their sponsor. one HD started broadcasting in 2010, the first time a game has been on TV for eight years.

[[ASEAN Basketball League]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball leagues, Sport in Asia, ASEAN

The ASEAN Basketball League (ABL) is a men's basketball competition in Southeast Asia, China, Hong Kong,  Taiwan, and Macau. Six teams compete, all from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). Teams that participated in the first season were the Philippine Patriots, Thailand Tigers, SM BritAma, Kuala Lumpur Dragons, Brunei Barracudas and former National Basketball League (Australasia) team the Singapore Slingers. Similar to the Euroleague in Europe, the ABL has its own set of rules in terms of its roster and salary  Teams are allowed two players of non-ASEAN citizenship and two ASEAN imports. Teams are allowed to have a team of all local players if they want. The KL Dragons were renamed the Westports KL Dragons and the Thailand Tigers were renamed Chang Thailand Slammers at the start of the 2nd (2010) season. ABL CEO Kuhan Foo said that 3 teams may be a part of the ABL for the next season.

[[Westports Malaysia Dragons]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball teams, Kuala Lumpur

The Westports Malaysia Dragons are a team in the ASEAN Basketball League. They are based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. They were previously known as the Kuala Lumpur Dragons and Westports KL Dragons. They are coached by Goh Cheng Huat. They play home games in the MABA stadium.

[[Republican People's Party]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 establishments, Socialist International, Social democratic parties, Politics of Turkey

The Republican People's Party (Cumhuriyet Halk Partisi, CHP) is the oldest political party in Turkey. Their ideologies are social democracy and Kemalism.

They are currently the second largest party in the Turkish Parliament, with 132 out of 550 seats and they form the Main Opposition of Turkey. Their founder is Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and their current leader is Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu.

On September 7, 1919, Turkish nationalists established a resistance organisation against the invasion of Turkey. On September 9, 1923, the organisation officially declared itself as a political party and it was the Republican People's Party.

[[Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Turkish politicians

Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu (born 17 December 1948) is a Turkish politician. He is the currently leader of the Republican People's Party (CHP) and the leader of the Main Opposition in Turkey. He has been the Member of Parliament for İstanbul since 2002.

He became popular with the documents about lawlessness. The CHP nominated him as candidate for Mayor of Istanbul in 2009 local elections, in which he gained 36.8% of all votes. Despite this result he could not be first. However this result was a big success for social democrats because they had not ruled Istanbul for many years and this city had become the power centre of AK Parti for long years. This popularity provided him with a great advantage. Upon Deniz Baykal's resignation in 2010, Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu became the leader with a record voting rate.

Firstly he took part in the Turkish general election in 2011. The Republican People's Party gained 25.98% of all votes with an increase of about 6 points. However, this was not enough to be ruling party.

[[İsmet İnönü]]

CATEGORIES: 1884 births, 1973 deaths, Presidents of Turkey, People from İzmir

Mustafa İsmet İnönü (24 September 1884 – 25 December 1973) was a Turkish politician and military officer, who was the first Prime Minister and second President of Turkey. In 1938, Republican People's Party gave him "National Chief" title.

İsmet İnönü was by the standards of his time a highly educated man, speaking Arabic, English, French and German in addition to his native Turkish. His resting place is in Anıtkabir with Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. He was close friend of Atatürk. He had two sons, Erdal and Ömer.

[[Twenty-fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution]]

CATEGORIES: Amendments to the United States Constitution, Democratic rights

The Twenty-fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution is the twenty-fourth time the United States Constitution has been amended (revised). The twenty-fourth amendment prevents the United States Congress and US states from charging a poll tax on federal elections. The amendment was proposed by Congress to the states on August 27, 1962, and was ratified by the states on January 23, 1964.

[[Polemic]]

CATEGORIES: Communication, Conflicts, Rhetoric, Human issues

A polemic is a forceful argument or controversy made against one opinion, doctrine, or person. 

It is one-sided and extreme, not a debate or discussion. It often occurs in disputes. 

The word is derived from the Greek polemikos (πολεμικός),  meaning "warlike, hostile".  

[[Thesis]]

CATEGORIES: Academia, Genres

A thesis (plural: 'theses') is a document written in support of an idea that is presented for discussion or disputation.  In modern usage it usually refers to a document presented as a requirement for an academic degree or professional qualification. It presents the author's research and findings. In the academic context it means the same as dissertation. The term dissertation can be used to describe an argument without relation to academic degrees. The term thesis may also be used for  the central claim of an essay or other work.

[[Charmin]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in Wisconsin

Charmin (ˈ) is a brand of toilet paper. It is made by Procter & Gamble.

[[Follicle-stimulating hormone]]

CATEGORIES: Hormones, Female reproductive system

Follicle-stimulating hormone (abbreviated FSH, sometimes called Follitropine) is a glycoprotein and sex steroid. It is synthesised in the adeno hypophysis of pituitary gland. In females, it controls the synthesising process of progesteron and will cause the growth of follicles in the ovaries. In males, it will lead to the production of sperm. Other hormones control the release of FSH. Luteinizing hormone will cause ovulation in females, or the production of testosterone in males.

This hormone is made by the pituitary glands in the brain.

[[Henderson, Nevada]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nevada

Henderson is a city in Clark County, Nevada, United States. The population of Henderson was 332,258 in 2019. The mayor of Henderson is Debra March. Henderson is the second largest city in the state of Nevada behind Las Vegas. The city of Henderson is named after Senator Charles B. Henderson.

[[Primm, Nevada]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nevada

Primm is a small city in Clark County, Nevada, United States. Primm was featured in the video game, Fallout: New Vegas where it had Vikki and Vance Casino which was based on Primm's Whiskey Pete's and the Bison Steve Hotel which was based on Buffalo Bill's Casino and had the roller coaster.

[[Provincial Assembly of Balochistan]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Pakistan, Balochistan (Pakistan)

The Provincial Assembly of Balochistan is one of the four provincial assemblies of Pakistan. The Balochistan assembly is the unicameral (single chamber) legislature of the province of Balochistan. It was set up by Article 106 of the Constitution of the Pakistan. The Assembly has 51 directly elected Members of the Provincial Assembly, representing constituencies from each district, as well as 11 seats reserved for women and 3 for non-Muslims.

[[Baloch Lions]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Pakistan

Baloch Lions is a member internal hockey team for the Balochistan Province in Pakistan part of Pakistan Hockey Federation.

[[Platybelodon]]

CATEGORIES: Extinct elephants

Platybelodon was a Gomphothere. These are extinct  large herbivores related to modern elephants. They are commonly known as  shovel tuskers. Platybelodon lived during the Miocene, about 154 million years ago in Africa, Europe, Asia and North America.

[[George Reeves]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1959 deaths, Actors from Iowa, Actors who committed suicide, American movie actors, American television actors, Suicides by firearm in the United States

George Reeves (January 5, 1914 – June 16, 1959) was an American actor.

[[Goodsprings, Nevada]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Nevada

Goodsprings is a census-designated place in Clark County, Nevada, United States. The population of Goodsprings was 232 at the 2000 census. Goodsprings was featured in the video game, Fallout: New Vegas where it is the first place the player wakes up in.

[[Johnny Guitar]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Women's movies, English-language movies, United States National Film Registry movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Nicholas Ray

Johnny Guitar is a 1954 western movie. It was directed by Nicholas Ray. It stars Joan Crawford and Sterling Hayden. The movie received mixed reviews. The movie was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry. Johnny Guitar was adapted to a campy stage musical in 2004.

[[Tequixquiac Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Mexico (state)

Tequixquiac is a municipality in the state of México in Mexico. About 30,000 people live there.

[[Boyz n the Hood]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 crime movies, 1991 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, American gangster movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies set in the 1980s, United States National Film Registry movies

Boyz n the Hood is a 1991 American hood movie that was produced by Steven Nicolaides and DJ Pooh and was directed by John Singleton. Boyz n the Hood was released on July 12, 1991 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 98% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 73 out of 100 from Metacritic. The movie was selected to be in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress to be preserved because it was considered to be "culturally significant" in 2002. This movie was the directorial debut for John Singleton.

[[Top Gun]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 action movies, 1986 romance movies, 1986 drama movies, 1980s romantic drama movies, American action movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Tony Scott, Movies set in San Diego, California, Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award, Top Gun

Top Gun is a 1986 American action-drama movie set in San Diego, California. It was produced by Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer and was directed by Tony Scott. Top Gun was released on May 16, 1986 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 45% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and Roger Ebert gave the movie a 2.5 out of 4 stars. The movie won an Academy Award in 1987 for Best Music, Original Song – Giorgio Moroder (music) and Tom Whitlock (lyrics) for the song "Take My Breath Away" and a Grammy Award for Best Pop Instrumental Performance (Orchestra, Group or Soloist) – Harold Faltermeyer and Steve Stevens for "Top Gun Anthem".

[[Crimson Tide (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 movies, 1995 action movies, 1995 thriller movies, American action movies, American thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies composed by Hans Zimmer, Movies with underwater settings, Movies set in the 1990s

Crimson Tide is an 1995 submarine action/thriller movie that was produced by Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer and was directed by Tony Scott. Crimson Tide was released on May 12, 1995 in North America.

The movie received positive reviews with a 87% "Fresh" rating on Rotten Tomatoes. The movie was nominated for three Academy Awards for Best Film Editing, Best Sound, and Best Sound Editing.

[[Face/Off]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 action movies, 1997 crime movies, 1997 thriller movies, 1990s action thriller movies, 1990s crime thriller movies, 1997 science fiction movies, American action thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, American science fiction movies, Body swapping in fiction, English-language movies, Movies about revenge, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies directed by John Woo

Face/Off is an 1997 American science fiction action crime thriller movie that was directed by John Woo. Face/Off was released on June 27, 1997 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 93% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 82 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Broken Arrow (1996 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 action movies, 1996 thriller movies, 1990s action thriller movies, American action thriller movies, English-language movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by John Woo

Broken Arrow is an 1996 action/thriller movie that was produced by Bill Badalato, Terence Chang and Mark Gordon and was directed by John Woo. Broken Arrow was released on February 9, 1996 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews with a 57% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 61 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Windtalkers]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 movies, American action movies, American drama movies, American war movies, Multilingual movies, Movies directed by John Woo

Windtalkers is an 2002 action war movie that was produced by John Woo, Terence Chang, Tracie Graham-Rice and Alison Rosenzweig and was directed by John Woo. Windtalkers was released on June 14, 2002 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 33% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and Roger Ebert gave the movie 2 stars out of 5.

[[Ghost Rider (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, 2007 horror movies, 2000s superhero movies, Supernatural horror movies, American action movies, American fantasy movies, American ghost movies, Australian movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Mark Steven Johnson, Multilingual movies, Screenplays by Mark Steven Johnson, Columbia Pictures movies, American superhero movies

Ghost Rider is a 2007 American supernatural superhero horror fantasy action movie that was produced by Avi Arad, Stan Lee, David S. Goyer, Michael DeLuca and Gary Foster and was directed by Mark Steven Johnson. Ghost Rider was released on February 16, 2007 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 27% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and Metacritic gave the movie a 35 out of 100.

[[Caillou]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian animated television series, 1997 television series debuts, 2010 television series endings, 1997 establishments in Canada, 2010 disestablishments in North America, 2010s disestablishments in Canada, English-language television programs

Caillou is an Canadian children's TV show based on the series of books by author Christine L'Heureux and illustrator Hélène Desputeaux. Caillou was first voiced by Bryn McAuley, then Jaclyn Linetsky, but due to her death in 2003, Jaclyn was replaced with Annie Bovaird.

[[The Jayhawks]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from Minnesota, American rock bands, Country bands, Musicians from Minneapolis, Minnesota

The Jayhawks are an American alternative country and rock band from Minneapolis, Minnesota. They have released several studio albums. The band formed in 1985. They did not work together between 2005 and 2009, but reunited in 2010.

[[Mayan pyramid]]

CATEGORIES: Central America, Buildings and structures in North America, Maya civilization, Pyramids

The Maya pyramids are structures built in the jungles of Central America by the Maya civilization between 200 and 900 AD. Unlike the straight sides of the more commonly known Egyptian pyramids, the sides of Maya pyramids are stepped–sometimes for the purpose of enabling people to ascend to the top. Moreover, Egyptian pyramids have sharper tips, while Mesoamerican (including Maya) pyramids tend to have flatter tops. These flatter tops accommodate certain ceremonies, such as sacrificial rituals, and temples for gods. 

The pyramids served a variety of very important functions. Apart from the religious ceremonies, Maya pyramids were used as landmarks to aid in navigation. In the jungle where these pyramids were built, the pyramids were so tall that they could be seen above the trees. Finally, inside some of the pyramids, there were burial chambers for the highest-ranking officials, just as in Egyptian pyramids.

[[Edward Tatum]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1975 deaths, American geneticists, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, People from Boulder, Colorado, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Colorado

Edward Lawrie Tatum (December 14, 1909 – November 5, 1975) was an American geneticist. 

He shared half of the  Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1958 with George Beadle for showing that genes control individual steps in metabolism. The other half of that year's award went to Joshua Lederberg.

Beadle and Tatum's experiments exposed the bread mold Neurospora crassa to x-rays, causing mutations. They showed the mutations caused changes in specific enzymes involved in metabolic pathways. These experiments, published in 1941, led them to propose a direct link between genes and enzymatic reactions, known as the "one gene, one enzyme" hypothesis.

Tatum went on to study genetics in bacteria. Tatum and his student Lederberg showed that Escherichia coli could share genetic information through recombination.

Ed Tatum was born in Boulder, Colorado. He attended college at the University of Chicago and received his PhD in biochemistry from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1934.  Starting in 1937, he worked at Stanford University, where he began his collaboration with Beadle.  He then moved to Yale University in 1945 where he mentored Lederberg.  He returned to Stanford in 1948 and then joined the faculty of Rockefeller Institute in 1957. A heavy cigarette smoker, he died in New York City of heart failure complicated by chronic emphysema.

[[François Jacob]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2013 deaths, French atheists, French autobiographers, French biologists, French Nobel Prize winners, Geneticists, Jewish atheists, Jewish French academics, Jewish French scientists, Jewish French writers, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Molecular biologists, People from Nancy

François Jacob (17 June 1920 – 19 April 2013) was a French biologist. He shared the 1965 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Jacques Monod and André Lwoff.

Jacob and Monod discovered a fundamental control system in cells. Enzyme levels in all cells is regulated by feedback on transcription.

Like his colleague Monod, Jacob was an almost lifelong atheist. He was also of Jewish descent.

[[Abbey Dawn]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne

Abbey Dawn is a clothing line designed by musician Avril Lavigne. It was designed only for Kohl's in the US. The name is from Lavigne's childhood. Her father had nicknamed her "Abbey Dawn", and her high school friends would often call her "Abbey". 

Abbey Dawn is featured in Lavigne's 2011 single, What the Hell. There, the latter enters a vintage clothing store.

[[Eimear]]

CATEGORIES: Irish culture, Mythology

Emer, in modern Irish Éimhear, or, Eimhear or Éimear, is the wife of the hero Cú Chulainn in Irish mythology. She is the daughter of Forgall Monach. 

Emer was a very common name for girls around the Midlands of Ireland. The name means that she has the "Six Gifts of Womanhood" – "beauty, a gentle voice, sweet words, wisdom, needlework and chastity".

As a child, She was to one day be married to the warrior Cuchulainn. They loved each other very much. But Cuchulainn was attracted to many women. Emer accepted this. She believed that "everything new is fair." But, when he made love to Fand, wife of the sea god Manannan, Emer had to say something. After seeing how much Fand love him, Emer said she would leave him and let them be together. Fand felt this showed that Emer thought more of others than she did of herself. Fand left Cuchulainn to be with Emer and went back to the sea. When Cuchulainn died, Emer spoke lovingly at his graveside.

[[Capital Dynamos]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Pakistan

Capital Dynamos is the internal hockey team for the Islamabad Capital Territory in Pakistan. It is part of the Pakistan Hockey Federation.

[[Northern Cavaliers]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Pakistan

Northern Cavaliers is a field hockey team for the Gilgit–Baltistan in Pakistan.  They are part of the Pakistan Hockey Federation.

[[Precocial]]

CATEGORIES: Developmental biology, Birds, Mammals, Biological reproduction

Precocial in biology is a developmental strategy. It refers to species in which the young are relatively mature and mobile from the moment of birth or hatching. It applies mainly to mammals and birds. 

The opposite developmental strategy is called altricial, where the young are born or hatched helpless. These two categories are at ends of a continuum. All degrees exist in birds and mammals. With the tiny eggs of invertebrates, different strategies have evolved. Many use some kind of metamorphosis, in which different stages of growth occupy different environmental niches.

[[Jaclyn Linetsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, 2003 deaths, Accidental deaths in Canada, Actors from Quebec, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Child actors, Road accident deaths

Jaclyn Linetsky (January 8, 1986 – September 8, 2003) was a Canadian teenage actress who has voiced many different people. She was best known for voicing Caillou in the animated television show between 2000–2003. She later played as Megan in the television show 15/love. She died in a car crash on September 8, 2003 at the age of 17.

[[Judith Barsi]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, 1988 deaths, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American murder victims, American television actors, American voice actors, Murders by firearm in California

Judith Barsi (June 6, 1978 – July 25, 1988) was an American child actress. She was born in Los Angeles, California and started her acting in commercials. She also played Thea Brody in the movie "Jaws 4: The Revenge" in 1987 and voiced "Ducky" in The Land before Time and Annie-Marie in All Dogs Go to Heaven in June 1988.  Her father, Jozef, was jealous and paranoid. He abused Judith and her mother for some years.

Barsi was the daughter of Hungarian immigrants József Barsi and Maria Barsi (née Benkő). Her parents fled the 1956 Soviet occupation of Hungary and then immigrated to Los Angeles. Maria Barsi wanted to be an actress herself, but later hoped that her daughter would be one, instead.  Judith was discovered at a skating rink when she was five years old, but could still pass for age three. She went on to appear in over 70 commercials and soon appeared in movies. Later in her life, Barsi had growth hormone injections to help her growth.

On July 25, 1988 at 8:30 pm, her father shot Judith in the head. She was killed instantly. Her mother ran down the hall to see what was going on and was also shot. Jozsef later went down to the garage and killed himself. Judith was only 10 years old at the time of her death.

[[Lego minifigure]]

CATEGORIES: Lego

A Lego minifigure (a.k.a. Lego person) is a small figure as part of Lego toys. Minifigures are found in Lego sets, although they are also sold separately as keychains and magnets. Minifigures in 1975 were the same size as minifigures today, but did not have any moving arms or legs. They had a small variety of headpieces, including caps, pigtail hair and cowboy hats. Since 1978, Lego minifigures have had more clothing, hats, shirts and pants to choose from. They started packing them in sets, including Star Wars.

Minifigures are still used in many Lego sets we know today. There are many minifigures such as mermaid with a identical tail to the ocean king and many shorter characters such as the evil dwarf.

[[Chilean Spanish]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish language, Languages of Chile

Chilean Spanish (español chileno or castellano de Chile) is the variety of Spanish spoken in most of Chile. Though still entirely mutually intelligible with standard Spanish, Chilean Spanish has distinctive pronunciation, grammar, vocabulary, and slang usage. Spanish speakers often say that Chileans speak very quickly and "mix up words". Non-native speakers who are competent in Spanish may find the Chilean variety to be difficult to understand unless they have built up an ear for it.

[[Pacific Electric Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in the United States, Los Angeles, Transport in California

The Pacific Electric Railway Company was a private transportation system in Los Angeles, California. It started when Henry E. Huntington began building and buying streetcar railroads in and around Los Angeles to help people reach his properties.

Most of its lines carried people but there was also some freight. Pacific Electric also owned a mountain tourist attraction called the Mount Lowe Railway.

In the 1920s, with hundreds of miles of track, it was the largest system in the world. While Huntington lost money running Pacific Electric, he made money by selling the land it reached.  

After Henry Huntington died and the land was all sold, the system started to break down and there was no money coming in to repair it. The city of Los Angeles decided it would be cheaper to move passengers with buses and close the whole system. 

And so the last Pacific Electric train ran in 1961. The tracks were all ripped up and all of the old trains were either destroyed or sold to other countries.

Almost thirty years after the last train, with traffic becoming worse and buses becoming slower, the city remembered the old system. They decided to start rebuilding it because they realized trains do not slow down when there is a traffic jam.

Today, a small part of the old Pacific Electric rail network is now part of the new and growing Los Angeles Metro and people are riding trains again.

[[Brickfilm]]

CATEGORIES: Animation

A Brickfilm is a stop-motion movie using Legos, Mega Blocks, or  other Lego-like products. Brickfilms are often used to help the Lego Group advertise more sets and themes. The first known Brickfilm was called "The Magic Portal". It was made 1980–1989 in Perth, Western Australia by Lindsay Fleay.

A brickfilm can be made by taking a Lego character, and placing it on a board. The creator takes a picture, and slightly moves the character, and Repeats this step many times. The easiest way to stream the pictures together, is to use video editing software, adding the pictures, and finally, setting them to a very short time. Fifteen frames per second (15 fps) is common, if a video editor only uses fps instead of changing time length.

[[Extreme Rules (2011)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in professional wrestling, Sports in Tampa, Florida, WWE Extreme Rules, 2011 in American television, 2011 in Florida, 2010s in Tampa, Florida, May 2011 events

Extreme Rules was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event made by WWE. The event took place May 1, 2011 at the St. Pete Times Forum in Tampa, Florida. It was the third Extreme Rules event. Nine matches overall took place, with eight airing live on PPV.

[[Dorgon]]

CATEGORIES: 1612 births, 1650 deaths, Emperors of Qing Dynasty

Dorgon (多爾袞, duō ěr gǔn, 1612 - 1650) was the Prince empire of Qing Dynasty. His surname was Aisin Gioro. His reign names were Sing Cong and Chong De.

Dorgon was the 4th illegitimate  son of Taizu Emperor (Nurhaci). Half brother of Huang Taiji, Half Uncle of Shunzhi Emperor.

[[Slingshot]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons, Toys

A slingshot is a kind of projectile weapon which is used to launch small things. It is small and made to be handheld. It is made of a Y-shaped body with an elastic band such as rubber tied to the two top ends of the Y. The projectile is placed in the band, which is pulled back and let go of.

How strong and dangerous the slingshot is depends on how it is made and especially the elastic band. Although a slingshot is a type of weapon and a strong one can hurt people, they are not often used in modern war because there are many better weapons. Strong slingshots may be used to hunt small animals, or weaker ones may be used as toys.

In some places, a slingshot may be illegal because it can be a weapon.

[[Mortal Kombat (1995 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 movies, American action movies, English-language movies, Mortal Kombat movies, New Line Cinema movies

Mortal Kombat is an 1995 live-action/adventure movie that was produced by Lauri Apelian and Lawrence Kasanoff and was directed by Paul W.S. Anderson. It is based on the video game franchise, Mortal Kombat. Mortal Kombat was released on July 13, 1995 in Argentina & Israel, August 18, 1995 in North America, October 20, 1995 in the United Kingdom and on December 26, 1995 in Australia. The movie received mixed reviews with a 35% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and Metacritic gave it a 58 out of 100. The movie gained a sequel called Mortal Kombat: Annihilation and it was released in 1997.

[[X-wing fighter]]

CATEGORIES: Star Wars vehicles

The X-wing is a starfighter from the Star Wars fictional universe. It is seen in the original trilogy movies and many books, games, toys, and other things. It is shown as a main starfighter for the Rebellion and later the New Republic.

[[One Step Closer]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 songs, Linkin Park songs

"One Step Closer" is a song by American rock band Linkin Park. It was released as the first single and second track off the band's first album, Hybrid Theory.

[[Áras an Uachtaráin]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Dublin

[[Hangar]]

CATEGORIES: Transport buildings and structures, Aviation infrastructure

A hangar is a closed structure made to hold an aircraft while it is on the ground. It is like a garage but for aircraft instead of cars. A hanger is most often metal, but may be made of other things like wood and concrete. It protects the aircraft from weather and sun damage.

[[Phoenix Park Murders]]

CATEGORIES: 1882, 1880s in Europe, 19th century in the United Kingdom, Assassinations in Europe, History of Dublin, Irish republicanism, May events, Murder in the 19th century, Terrorist incidents in the United Kingdom

The Phoenix Park Murders were the fatal stabbings on 6 May 1882 in Phoenix Park in Dublin, Ireland, United Kingdom. Lord Frederick Cavendish and Thomas Henry Burke were killed. Cavendish was the newly appointed Chief Secretary for Ireland, and Burke was the Permanent Undersecretary, the most senior Irish civil servant. The assassination was carried out by members of the "Irish National Invincibles".

[[Garage]]

CATEGORIES: Transport buildings and structures, Rooms, Home

A garage is a place for storing cars. There are many kinds of garages used for different things.

[[Melatonin]]

CATEGORIES: Hormones

Melatonin is a hormone found in animals, plants, and microbes. In animals, levels of melatonin have a daily cycle. It drives the circadian rhythms of several biological functions.

Melatonin is produced in the pineal gland which is outside of the blood–brain barrier. It acts as a hormone, and is released into the blood.

Melatonin acts on melatonin receptors. It also acts directly because it is a powerful antioxidant, which protects DNA.

Melatonin supplements for humans can be given. Melatonin is categorized by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a dietary supplement, not a drug.  A prescription-only, timed release melatonin product for people aged 55 and over was approved for use by the European Medicines Agency in 2007, despite having shown only small effects, and in Australia in 2009.

[[Luria–Delbrück experiment]]

CATEGORIES: Experiments, Microbiology, Genetics

The Luria–Delbrück experiment, 1943, also called the 'Fluctuation Test', asks the question: are mutations independent of natural selection? Or are they directed by the selection?

Max Delbrück and Salvador Luria showed that in bacteria, DNA mutations happen randomly. This means they happen at any time, rather than being a response to selection. 

So, Darwin's theory of natural selection acting on random mutations applies to bacteria as well as to more complex organisms. 

Delbrück and Luria won the 1969 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine partly for this work.

[[Polydactyly]]

CATEGORIES: Limbs and extremities, Developmental disorders

Polydactyly is a birth defect which may affects the hands, feet, or both. It causes one or more extra fingers or toes. It can affect people, and other mammals such as dogs, and cats.

[[Screen Actors Guild]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 establishments in the United States, 2012 disestablishments in the United States, Trade unions in the United States, Los Angeles, 1930s establishments in California

The Screen Actors Guild (SAG) is an American labor union representing over 200,000 film and television principal performers and background performers worldwide. According to SAG's Mission Statement, the Guild was created to negotiate and enforce reasonable salaries, benefits, and working conditions for its performers; collect compensation for exploitation of recorded performances by its members, and provide protection against unauthorized use of those performances; and preserve and expand work opportunities for its members.

The Guild was founded in 1933 in an effort to end exploitation of actors in Hollywood who were being forced into oppressive multi-year contracts with the major movie studios that did not include restrictions on work hours or minimum rest periods, and often had clauses that automatically renewed at the studios' discretion.  These contracts were notorious for allowing the studios to dictate the public and private lives of the performers who signed them, and most did not have provisions to allow the performer to end the deal.

In addition to its main offices in Hollywood, SAG also maintains local branches in several major US cities, including:  Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, Honolulu, Houston, Las Vegas, Miami, Nashville, New York City, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Portland, Salt Lake City, San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle, and Washington DC.

Since 1995, the guild has annually awarded the Screen Actors Guild Awards, which are considered an indicator of success at the Academy Awards.

The membership of the Screen Actors Guild voted to merge with the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists on March 30, 2012. It was later renamed as SAG-AFTRA.

[[Screen Actors Guild Award]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 establishments, Entertainment awards, Movie awards

A Screen Actors Guild Award is an award given by the Screen Actors Guild (SAG) to recognize outstanding performances by its members. The statuette given, a nude male figure holding both a mask of comedy and a mask of tragedy, is called "The Actor". It is 16 inches tall, weighs over 12 pounds, cast in solid bronze, and produced by the American Fine Arts Foundry in Burbank, California.

SAG Awards have been one of the major awards events in Hollywood since 1995. Nominations for the awards come from 4200 randomly selected members of the union, with the full membership (120,000 as of 2007) available to vote for the winners.  The awards have been televised for the past several years on TNT, but now also airs on TBS.

The first SAG Awards aired live on February 25, 1995 from Stage 12, Universal Studios. The second SAG awards aired live from the Santa Monica Civic Auditorium, while later awards have been held at the Shrine Exposition Center. Bob Hope was given the first award.

[[Machair]]

CATEGORIES: Environments

Machair or machar is a Gàidhlig (Scottish Gaelic) word used to describe a fertile low-lying grassy plain found on some of the north-west coastlines of Ireland and Scotland, in particular the Outer Hebrides. There are machairs in the Isle of Skye, The Isle of Barra, the Isle of Harris and all throughout the west coast and islands.

[[Max Delbrück]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1981 deaths, American biologists, American molecular biologists, American Nobel Prize winners, American physicists, Biophysicists, California Institute of Technology faculty, German biologists, German Nobel Prize winners, German physicists, Molecular biologists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Scientists from Berlin

Max Ludwig Henning Delbrück (September 4, 1906 – March 9, 1981) was a German-American biophysicist and Nobel laureate.

Delbrück was one of the most influential people in the movement of physical scientists into biology during the 20th century.

Delbrück's big idea was to explore genetics by means of the bacteriophage viruses which infect bacteria. This was important in the early development of molecular biology.

[[Salvador Luria]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1991 deaths, American activists, American biologists, American Nobel Prize winners, Italian Jews, Italian biologists, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Microbiologists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, People from Turin, Italian Nobel Prize winners

Salvador Edward Luria (Turin, Italy, August 13, 1912 – Lexington, Massachusetts, February 6, 1991) was an Italian microbiologist.

He won the 1969 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his pioneering work with Max Delbrück and Alfred Hershey on phages in molecular biology.

[[Maya calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy, Astrology, Maya civilization, Calendars

The Maya calendar is a system of calendars and almanacs used in the Maya civilization of pre-Columbian Mesoamerica, and in some modern Maya communities in highland Guatemala.

It shares many aspects with calendars employed by other earlier Mesoamerican civilizations, such as the Zapotec and Olmec, and contemporary or later ones such as the Mixtec and Aztec calendars. Although the Mesoamerican calendar did not originate with the Maya, their subsequent extensions and refinements of it were the most sophisticated. Along with those of the Aztecs, the Maya calendars are the best-documented and most completely understood.

[[Mexican coat of arms]]

CATEGORIES: Mexico

The flag of Mexico contains a coat of arms which is derived from an Aztec symbol depicting an eagle with a snake in its mouth.

In the early 14th century, the Mexica people were a wandering tribe  looking for a permanent settlement in modern day central Mexico. They survived by hunting and gathering and were often hired to fight as mercenaries for the city-states scattered throughout the region. According to legend, their god, Huitzilopochtli, told them to establish a city of their own at a site where they would find an eagle eating a snake on top of a cactus. The legend relates that the people saw the eagle on a small, swampy island in the middle of the shallow Texcoco lake. The Mexica invented a resourceful system of gardening, called chinampas, which allowed them to grow small gardens, eventually drying out the lake. In 1325, they completed construction of a city there. That city, which they called Tenochtitlan, became the capital of the Aztec Empire, which dominated central Mexico until its destruction by Spanish Conquistadores led by Hernando Cortes.

After winning its independence from Spain in 1810, the newly created nation of Mexico–whose capital was built on the ruins of Tenochtitlan–adopted the symbol of the eagle and the snake to commemorate its Aztec heritage. The symbol can be found at the center of the Mexican flag.

[[San Lorenzo Tenochtitlan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Mexico

San Lorenzo Tenochtitlan started out as an agricultural and population center for the Olmec civilization, which inhabited a region of what is today southeastern Mexico. The Olmecs emerged as early as 1500 BC as the earliest complex society in the Americas. San Lorenzo is best known as the first city established in the Americas.

The main reason San Lorenzo flourished at such an early period is its location within the Coatzacoalcos flood plain, which provided fertile land for farming. Thus, the settlement of San Lorenzo follows the pattern of settlement of the world’s very first urban centers, which emerged in the fertile river valleys of Mesopotamia. Because of the high farming value of the surrounding land, San Lorenzo ranked as the Olmecs’ most populous settlement from 1200-900 BC. During that period, San Lorenzo had the biggest trade market in all of the Olmec Heartland.

For unknown reasons, many people migrated out of San Lorenzo in 800 BC to the nearby city of La Venta. However, San Lorenzo was repopulated in 600 BC, when it became a center for Olmec ritual sacrifices until the population faded away in 400 BC along with the Olmec civilization. Today, San Lorenzo remains a significant archaeological site because the artifacts found there–including the famous Colossal Heads and jade masks–shed some light on Olmec culture and its profound influence on later Mesoamerican civilizations, such as the Aztec and Maya.

[[Terrace farming]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Terrace farming (also called step farming) is a method of farming that consists of different "steps" or terraces that were developed in various places around the world. The Rice Terraces of the Philippine Cordilleras (hills and mountains) is a World Heritage Site. It dates back two thousand years.

This method of farming uses "steps" that are built into the side of a mountain or hill. On each level, various crops are planted. When it rains, instead of washing away all of the nutrients in the soil, the nutrients are carried down to the next level. These steps prevent water from washing away the soil and plants. This system also allowed them to build aqueducts, which carried water to each level.

The idea was also independently developed by the Inca people. The Incas built their aqueduct system so well that it is still used today.

[[Sapa Inca]]

CATEGORIES: South America

Sapa Inca was the  Inca emperor. Sapa Inca means "The Great Inca" or "The Only Inca" in Quechua, the Inca language. According to legend, the first Sapa Inca, Manco Cápac (c. 1200 CE- 1230) was the son of the sun god, Inti. Manco Cápac became Sapa Inca by founding the city of Cuzco after he was sent on a quest by a god to find a good location for a city and build one. He also united the tribes around Cuzco.

The position of Sapa Inca was hereditary, which means that it passed from father to son. The Sapa Inca was the sole and absolute ruler over the Incas. His word was law, and he was the supreme commander of the military. The Sapa Inca lived in great luxury with many wives, slaves, and riches. Another privilege that he had was that he was allowed to (and usually would) marry his sister even though it was prohibited for common people. When the Sapa Inca died he would be mummified.

The Inca Empire reached its height under Huayna Capac (1493–1527) when it stretched from modern day Argentina to Ecuador, although Tupac Inca Yupanqui (1471-1493) was responsible for expanding much of the empire to those borders. Tupac Yupanqui conquered the Kingdom of Chimor, the biggest rival to the Inca. He expanded the empire into modern day Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia. Atahualpa was the last pre-conquest Sapa Inca. He was killed by the invading Spaniards in 1533 and after that there were several Sapa Inca who were installed by the Spanish. The last person to hold the title was Tupac Amaru who was killed by the Spanish in 1572.

[[STS-1]]

CATEGORIES: Space Shuttle flights, 1981 in the United States, April events

STS-1 was the first flight of the space shuttle. It launched on April 12, 1981 and landed on April 14. It was launched 20 years after the first manned space flight. The space shuttle used was Columbia. Space Shuttle Columbia orbited the Earth 37 times in this mission.

[[Omar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Presidents of Sudan

Omar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir (عمر حسن أحمد البشير; born 1 January 1944) is the former President of Sudan. He came into power in 1989 and resigned in 2019 following massive anti-protests and a coup. In October 2004, Omar's government negotiated an end to the second Sudanese civil war, one of the longest-running and deadliest wars of the 20th century. However, there has been a violent conflict in Darfur that has resulted in a death toll between 200,000 and 400,000. During his presidency, there have been several violent struggles between the rebel groups such as the Sudanese Liberation Army (SLA) and the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) in the form of warfare in the Darfur region. The civil war has resulted in over 2.5 million people being displaced, and the relations between Sudan and Chad are at a crisis.

[[Regression (psychology)]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Regression is a word used in psychology on defense mechanism. It means the act of reversing the ego into an earlier state which allows one to avoid dealing with impulses in a mature manner.

A common example of regression is “curling up into a ball” (also known as the fetal position) when stressed, ill, or wounded.

[[Displacement (psychology)]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Displacement is a word used in Freudian psychology for is an unconscious defence mechanism. Example: the mind redirects thoughts, emotions, desires from an object or person felt to be dangerous or unacceptable to an object or person felt to be safe or acceptable.

More generally, the substitute of one response by another, when the original response is blocked: displaced aggression.

[[Ego depletion]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Ego depletion is the idea that people get tired of making decisions because it is a neuro-chemical process that requires energy.

[[Central dogma of molecular biology]]

CATEGORIES: Molecular biology

The central dogma of molecular biology is a phrase by Francis Crick, who proposed the double helix structure of DNA.

It means that information passes from DNA to proteins via RNA, but proteins cannot pass the information back to DNA.

Crick first wrote it in 1958, and repeated it in 1970.

The dogma is a framework for understanding the transfer of sequence information. 

There are 3 major classes of such biopolymers: DNA and RNA (both nucleic acids), and protein. There are 3×3 = 9 conceivable direct transfers of information that can occur between these. The dogma classes these into 3 groups of 3: 

The general transfers describe the normal flow of biological information: DNA can be copied to DNA (DNA replication),  DNA information can be copied into mRNA, (transcription), and proteins can be synthesized using the information in mRNA as a template (translation).

The dogma is a modern version of the Weismann barrier (after August Weismann). This is the principle that hereditary information moves only from genes to body cells, and never in reverse. Hereditary information moves only from germline cells to somatic cells.

[[Ubar]]

CATEGORIES: Oman

Ubar is a ruined city in Oman. English adventurer Ranulph Fiennes discovered the city in 1992. According to Nicolas Clapp, this probably is the lost city Iram of the Pillars the Qu'ran talks about. 

Today, ruins are left, which can be reached in a four-wheel drive. Part of the area forms the ceiling to underground vaults, which have collapsed. These vaults hold water supplies for a nearby settlement, which houses a small museum.

[[Wavves]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from San Diego, California

Wavves (pronounced "waves") is an American noise pop band based out of San Diego, California. They formed in 2008, and are currently signed to Fat Possum Records.

[[Daniel Catán]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2011 deaths, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, Jewish musicians, Mexican entertainers, Mexican Jews, Musicians from Mexico City

Daniel Catán Porteny (3 April 1949 in Mexico City - 9 April 2011 in Austin, Texas) was a Mexican opera composer of Jewish descent. He is best known for turning the Italian movie, Il Postino, into an opera. He was working at the University of Texas at Austin on a new opera based on the Frank Capra movie, Meet John Doe.

[[Rick Perry]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American Evangelicals, American Methodists, American military people, Governors of Texas, 2012 United States presidential candidates, 2016 United States presidential candidates, United States Secretaries of Energy, US Republican Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Texas

James Richard "Rick" Perry (born March 4, 1950) is an American former politician. He was the 14th United States Secretary of Energy from March 2, 2017 through December 1, 2019. He was the Governor of Texas from 2000 to 2015. He is a Republican.  He became governor when George W. Bush became President, and has been elected three more times. Perry was the longest governor in the United States for 14 years.  

On December 13, 2016, then-President-elect Donald Trump nominated Perry to serve as United States Secretary of Energy during his administration. He was confirmed by the United States senate on March 2, 2017.

[[Jerry Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American billionaires, Sportspeople from Arkansas, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California

Jerral "Jerry" Wayne Jones (born October 13, 1942 in Los Angeles, California) is the owner and general manager of the Dallas Cowboys in the NFL.  He has owned the team since 1989.

[[Texas Motor Speedway]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR tracks, Fort Worth, Texas, 1996 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Texas, IndyCar Series tracks

Texas Motor Speedway is a racetrack in Fort Worth, Texas. It hosts two races a year in the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series. It first opened in 1996. Its layout is similar to the track layout of Atlanta Motor Speedway and Charlotte Motor Speedway (which used to be known as Lowe's Motor Speedway).

[[Little Caesars]]

CATEGORIES: American restaurants, Companies based in Michigan, 1959 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Michigan

Little Caesars is a pizza company in the United States. It is the 4th biggest pizza company in the United States. It was founded on May 8, 1959 in Garden City, Michigan by Mike Ilitch. It is a subsidiary of Ilitch Holdings, Inc.

[[Whataburger]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 establishments in the United States, American fast food restaurants, Companies based in Texas, Corpus Christi, Texas, 1950s establishments in Texas

Whataburger is a fast food restaurant that specifically makes hamburgers. It was founded in 1950 in the city of Corpus Christi, Texas. The restaurant chain was completely on portable stands until the first permanent store was built in 1961. Most Whataburger locations are open for all 24 hours in the day.

[[Monday Night Football]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s American television series, 1980s American television series, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, English-language television programs

 ESPN Monday Night Football is a television show about the NFL which is broadcast on the channel ESPN and is on every Monday during the NFL season. Monday Night Football's first run was on September 21, 1970. It is currently airing.

[[The Human League]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1970s British music groups, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, Electronic music bands, English pop music groups, English rock bands, Musical groups established in 1977, Musical groups from Sheffield, New wave bands

The Human League is a British pop music band from Sheffield. The Human League has 3 members: Philip Oakey, Joanne Catherall, and Susan Ann Sulley. The band originally had 6 members. The other 3 members were Ian Burden, Jo Callis, and Philip Adrian Wright. They all left The Human League in the late 1980s.

The Human League started in 1977 and they had their greatest success during the 1980s. They continue to make new music today. Philip Oakey, the band's singer, is the only Human League member that has been with the band since it started. The other 2 members, Joanne Catherall and Susan Ann Sulley, joined The Human League in 1980.

The Human League has made 10 albums. Their newest album is called "Credo" and it was released in March 2011. Some of The Human League's hit songs are "Don't You Want Me", "Keep Feeling Fascination", "The Lebanon" and "Human".

[[20/20 (American TV program)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, ABC network shows, English-language television programs

20/20 is a television newsmagazine on ABC. It has been on ABC since June 6, 1978 and is currently airing. 20/20 is recently hosted by Chris Cuomo and Elizabeth Vargas, currently hosted by David Muir and Amy Robach.

[[Mesoamerican ball game]]

CATEGORIES: Games, Mesoamerica, Sport in Mexico

The Mesoamerican ball game is a sport that people in Mesoamerica have played since about 1,400 B.C.E.  It was the first team sport in history, as far as historians know.

The Olmecs, who lived from 1,200 B.C.E. to 400 B.C.E., played the Mesoamerican ballgame.  They may have created the game.  The ancient Mayans played the game; they called it pitz in Classical Maya.  Later, the Aztecs played it; in their language, Nahuatl, they called the game ōllamaliztli.

In some parts of Mexico, indigenous people still play a more modern version of the game, called ulama.  This means that people have played the Mesoamerican ballgame for over 3,400 years  longer than any other sport in history.  The Mesoamerican ballgame was also the first sport in history ever to use a rubber ball.

[[Hit the Road, Jack]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 songs, R&B songs

"Hit the Road Jack" is a rhythm and blues song from the 1960s.

[[Olaf Scholz]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Former members of the German Bundestag, Government ministers of Germany, Mayors of Hamburg, People from Osnabrück, Politicians from Lower Saxony, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany, Vice Chancellors of Germany

Olaf Scholz (ˈoːlaf ˈʃɔlts; born 1958) is a German politician. Scholz is the Social Democratic Party (SPD) candidate for Chancellor of Germany. He is the Federal Minister of Finance and Vice Chancellor of Germany since 14 March 2018. He was First Mayor of Hamburg from 7 March 2011 to 13 March 2018.

[[Lemmy]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2015 deaths, British bass guitarists, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Deaths from cardiac arrhythmia, Deaths from prostate cancer, English rock guitarists, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Staffordshire, People from Stoke-on-Trent

Ian Fraser "Lemmy" Kilmister (24 December 1945 – 28 December 2015), commonly known by Lemmy, was a British musician, singer-songwriter and actor. He was best known as the bassist of the heavy metal band Motörhead.

[[Ole von Beust]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Gay men, German LGBT people, German nobility, LGBT politicians, Mayors of Hamburg, Politicians from Hamburg, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany

Carl-Friedrich Arp Ole Freiherr von Beust, generally called Ole von Beust, born 13 April 1955, in Hamburg, Germany, was Ole von Beust First Mayor of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg (Freie und Hansestadt Hamburg) from 31 October 2001 to 25 August 2010, serving as President of the Bundesrat from 1 November 2007 on for one year. He was followed as mayor by Christoph Ahlhaus.

[[Sunny Day Real Estate]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Indie rock bands, Musical groups from Seattle, Washington, Musical groups established in 1992, 1992 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Washington (state), Musical groups disestablished in 1995, 1995 disestablishments in the United States, Musical groups established in 1997, 1997 establishments in the United States, Musical groups disestablished in 2001, 2001 disestablishments in the United States, Musical groups established in 2009, 2009 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Washington (state), 1990s disestablishments in Washington (state), 2000s disestablishments in Washington (state)

Sunny Day Real Estate is an American rock band from Seattle, Washington. Sunny Day Real Estate formed in 1992 when they were originally called Empty Set. The started in 1992 and broke up in 1995 because Goldsmith and Mendel were leaving to join Dave Grohl's band The Foo Fighters. They reunited in 1997 and disbanded again in 2001. They reunited once again in 2009.

[[Volbeat]]

CATEGORIES: Danish heavy metal bands

Volbeat is an Danish heavy metal band from Copenhagen. Volbeat formed in 2001 when singer Michael Poulsen formed a death metal band called Dominus. He became tired of the death metal genre and left the band. He then formed a new band called Volbeat with other members of Dominus.

[[Alfred Hershey]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1997 deaths, American chemists, American geneticists, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, Scientists from Michigan, American Nobel Prize winners, Microbiologists

Alfred Day Hershey (December 4, 1908 – May 22, 1997) was an American Nobel Prize-winning bacteriologist and geneticist.

He was born in Owosso, Michigan and received his B.S. in chemistry at Michigan State University in 1930 and his Ph.D. in bacteriology in 1934, taking a position shortly thereafter at the Department of Bacteriology at Washington University in St. Louis.

He began doing experiments with bacteriophages with Italian-American Salvador Luria and German Max Delbrück in 1940. He found that when two different strains of bacteriophage have infected the same bacteria, the two viruses may exchange genetic information.

He moved with his wife Harriet to Cold Spring Harbor, New York, in 1950 to join the Carnegie Institution for Science's Department of Genetics. There he performed the famous Hershey-Chase blender experiment with Martha Chase in 1952. This experiment provided additional evidence that DNA, not protein, was the genetic material.

He became director of the Carnegie Institution in 1962 and was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1969, shared with Luria and Delbrück for their discovery on the replication of viruses and their genetic structure.

[[Blues Hall of Fame]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music, American music history

The Blues Hall of Fame is a list of people who are important in the development of blues music. The Hall is part of the Blues Foundation, and honors people who have performed, recorded, or documented blues.

[[Night terror]]

CATEGORIES: Sleep disorders, Health problems

A night terror, also known as a sleep terror, is a sleep disorder that causes extreme terror and a temporary inability to regain full consciousness. The person having the night terror wakes up suddenly, usually gasping, moaning, or screaming while waking. It is often impossible to wake up the person fully because they are so concentrated on waking, and after the terror the subject normally settles back to sleep without waking. A night terror can rarely be recalled by the subject. They typically occur during non-rapid eye movement sleep.

[[David Hubel]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2013 deaths, American biologists, American Nobel Prize winners, Canadian Nobel Prize winners, Canadian scientists, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, Neuroscientists, People from Ontario

David Hunter Hubel CAN (February 27, 1926 – September 22, 2013) was a Canadian neurophysiologist noted for his studies of the structure and function of the visual cortex. He was co-recipient with Torsten Wiesel of the 1981 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine (shared with Roger W. Sperry), for their discoveries concerning information processing in the visual system. 

[[Red Bull Arena (Harrison)]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in the United States, 2010 establishments in New Jersey

The Red Bull Arena is a football stadium in Harrison, New Jersey in the United States. It is the homeground of New York Red Bulls, a team playing in the MLS (Major League Soccer), the highest league in American soccer.

The construction started in 2006, but through differences of the clubowner and the state of New Jersey there was a delay. After the buying of the former Metro Stars by the Red Bull Company the stadium was opened on March 20th, 2010 with a friendly match of the NY Red Bulls versus FC Santos from Brazil. One week later the first leaguematch was held in the new stadium versus Chicago Fire. The stadium has 30 luxury suites and 1,000 premium seats. The design is customized to the design of the owner company, Red Bull.

[[Roger Wolcott Sperry]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1994 deaths, American biologists, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, scientists from Connecticut, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, American Nobel Prize winners, Neuroscientists, People from Hartford, Connecticut

Roger Wolcott Sperry (August 20, 1913 – April 17, 1994) was an American neurobiologist and Nobel Prize winner. 

He shared the 1981 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with David Hubel and Torsten Wiesel. In 1989, Sperry also received the National Medal of Science.

Before Sperry's experiments, some research evidence seemed to indicate that areas of the cerebral cortex were largely interchangeable. In his early experiments, Sperry showed that the opposite was true: after early development, circuits of the brain are largely hardwired. That is, they are set with a particular function.

Sperry's work was on 'split-brain' research. In his Nobel-winning work, Sperry tested ten patients who had undergone an operation developed in 1940 by William Van Wagenen, a neurosurgeon in Rochester, NY.  

The surgery, designed to treat epileptics with grand mal seizures, severed (cut) the corpus callosum, the area of the brain used to transfer signals between the right and left hemispheres.  

Sperry and his colleagues tested these patients with tasks that were known to be dependent on specific hemispheres of the brain and demonstrated that the two halves of the brain may each contain consciousness.  In his words, each hemisphere is

This research contributed greatly to understanding how each cerebral hemisphere works. 

Some activities, such as naming objects or putting blocks together in a particular way, can only be done when using one side of the brain or the other. It seems the left hemisphere usually specializes in language processes and the right is dominant in visual-construction tasks.

[[Machair (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 television series debuts, 1999 television series endings, 1990s British television series, British soap operas, Scotland in fiction, 1993 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1999 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s British television series debuts, 1990s establishments in Scotland

Machair was a Scottish Gaelic television soap opera produced by Scottish Television Enterprises between January 1993 and April 1999.

Machair was written in English and translated into Gaelic, then given English subtitles and broadcast during primetime.  At first, critics thought this process would not work, but when the show aired it got lots of praise from reviewers.  Kenneth Roy, television critic of Scotland on Sunday, described it as "A credit to the company (Scottish Television) and a smack in the face to those of us who were doubtful" and after a few episodes said "It is even better than it looked at first glance quite simply the best thing to have happened to television in Scotland for a long time." Audiences liked the show too. Machair got 30% audience share and made it into the Top Ten of programmes viewed in Scotland, even though fewer than 2% of the Scottish population can speak Gaelic.  It was nominated for awards for production and writing from The Celtic Film Festival and Writers Guild of Great Britain.

[[Oil refinery]]

CATEGORIES: Energy, Fuel

An oil refinery or petroleum refinery is an industrial plant where crude oil is made into useful petroleum products by fractional distillation and other processes. Products include gasoline, diesel fuel, asphalt base, heating oil, kerosene, and liquefied petroleum gas.

[[IP Phone]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications

An IP Phone is a VoIP-based telephone service. Because it uses the internet instead of a phone company, call costs are often lower.

[[List of Rugrats episodes]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Nickelodeon television series episodes

The following is a list of episodes from the American animated series Rugrats. The first episode aired on Sunday, August 11, 1991. The first three seasons aired between 1991 and 1994. The series returned with two Jewish holiday specials in April 1995 and December 1996. From 1997 to 2004, the series began airing regular episodes again.  Nickelodeon aired the Tenth Anniversary special "All Growed Up" on July 21, 2001. Rugrats ended on Sunday, August 1, 2004. As of December 2010, Rugrats reruns still air sometimes on Nickelodeon's main channel, Nicktoons, and TeenNick’s late night programming block NickRewind. There are 9 seasons, 172 episodes, three movies, and two direct-to-DVD specials as of September 9, 2006.

[[American Express]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in New York (state), Buffalo, New York, Companies based in New York City, Money

The American Express Company, is a financial company which today is best known for its credit card business.  Sometimes called Amex cards, these credit cards make up nearly a quarter of all credit card transactions in the USA.

Since 1958 the company's mascot has been a Roman centurion.

[[Traveler's cheque]]

CATEGORIES: Money

A traveler's cheque (also traveller's cheque, travellers cheque, traveller's check or traveler's check) is a preprinted  cheque for a fixed amount.  The person who buys it must sign it and then sign it again when he "cashes" it.  It is a good way for a traveller to take money when going on holiday.  If a traveler's cheque is stolen it can be replaced so long as the person still has a receipt to prove that he bought it.

Traveler's cheques were a large part of the business of American Express.  Since 2005 the American Express have been issuing "American Express Travelers Cheque Cards".  These can be used in stores like a credit card.

[[Catscratch]]

CATEGORIES: American children's television series, Nickelodeon, English-language television programs, 2005 television series debuts, 2007 television series endings

Catscratch is a cartoon television show that aired on Nickelodeon and Nicktoons Network from 2005 to 2007.

[[Nabarlek]]

CATEGORIES: Marsupials of Australia

The nabarlek (Petrogale concinna), also known as the pygmy rock-wallaby or the little Rock-wallaby, is a small marsupial, a type of wallaby from northern Australia. Nabarleks are small kangaroos. They can hop and jump with their powerful legs, and balance on their long tail.

[[Mathias Grünewald]]

CATEGORIES: 1470s births, 1528 deaths, German painters, People from Würzburg

Mathias Grünewald (born between 1475 and 1480 in Würzburg, died 31 August 1528) was a German painter and artist. Today he is seen as one of the important German artists of the Renaissance. His real name was Mathias Gothart or Mathias Neidhardt, his first name is also spelled Mathis. Sometimes he is called Mathias of Aschaffenburg. Today, only ten paintings and 35 drawings survive. At first many of his works were attributed to Albrecht Dürer, even though Dürer's style of paining is completely different. All the surviving works have religious motifs.

[[American Airlines Center]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in Texas, Sports in Dallas, Texas, 2001 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Texas

The American Airlines Center (also known as the AAC) is a multi-purpose arena. It is in the Victory Park neighborhood, near downtown Dallas, Texas. It is currently used by the Dallas Stars, Dallas Mavericks and, Dallas Vigilantes. It is also used for concerts and entertainment.

[[Torsten Wiesel]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish scientists, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, 1924 births, Living people, Neuroscientists, People from Uppsala

Torsten Nils Wiesel (born June 3, 1924) is a Swedish neuroscientist.

He and David Hubel won the 1981 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, for their discoveries of information processing in the visual system. The prize was shared with Roger Sperry for his independent research on the cerebral hemispheres.

After serving as president of the Rockefeller University, he is now director of the Shelby White and Leon Levy Center for Mind, Brain and Behavior at the same institution. He is also an advisor to several countries and organizations, mainly helping young scientists do research. He is a member of the President's Council of University of the People.

Torsten was married to American editor Jean Stein from 1995 until they divorced in 2007.

[[Yi-junyong]]

CATEGORIES: 1870 births, 1917 deaths, Korean politicians

Yi junyong (or Lee Junyong, 이준용, hanja: 李埈鎔, June 25 1870 - March 22, 1918) was a Korean politician. He was a member of the Joseon Dynasty royal family. He was the grandson of Heungseon Daewangun, and elder nephew of Emperor Kojong of the Korean empire. He was rival of his uncle Kojong 1874 to 1907. His title was 'Prince Youngseon' (영선군, 永宣君).

[[Keine Sorgen Arena]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Austria, Upper Austria

The Keine Sorgen Arena ("No Worries Arena") is a football stadium in Ried, Austria. It is the homeground of SV Ried. The stadium is named after a slogan used by one sponsor of SV Ried, an upper Austrian insurance company.

The stadium replaced the former stadium of SV Ried which had only 1 100 places and was a multipurpose stadium with a running track. The new stadium is only used for football and has 7 700 seats of whom 120 are a VIP-area. The weststand and the awaystand offer only standingroom.

[[Barbara McClintock]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1992 deaths, American academics, American botanists, American geneticists, American Nobel Prize winners, Cornell University alumni, Female scientists, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, People from Hartford, Connecticut, Scientists from Connecticut, Scientists from New York City

Barbara McClintock (June 16, 1902 – September 2, 1992) was an American biologist. She was a distinguished cytogeneticist who worked on inheritance in maize. McClintock was awarded the 1983 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.

McClintock got her PhD in botany from Cornell University in 1927. Maize cytogenetics was the focus of her research for the rest of her career.

From the late 1920s, McClintock studied chromosomes and how they change during reproduction in maize. She used microscopic analysis to show genetic recombination by crossing-over during meiosis—a mechanism by which chromosomes exchange information.

She produced the first genetic map for maize, and demonstrated the role of the telomere and centromere. These are regions of the chromosome that are important in preserving genetic information.

She was recognized amongst the best in the field, awarded prestigious fellowships, and elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences in 1944.

During the 1940s and 1950s, McClintock discovered transposition and used it to show how genes are responsible for turning physical characteristics on or off. She developed theories to explain the control of genetic information from one generation of maize plants to the next. Encountering skepticism of her research and its implications, she stopped publishing her data in 1953. Later, she made an extensive study of the cytogenetics of maize races from South America.

McClintock's research became well understood in the 1960s and 1970s, as researchers discovered the mechanisms behind the genetic change and gene regulation that she had shown in her maize research in the 1940s and 1950s.

Awards and recognition for her contributions to the field followed for the discovery of transposons; she is the only woman to receive an unshared Nobel Prize in the category 'Physiology or Medicine'.

[[PKN Orlen]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Europe, Poland

Polski Koncern Naftowy Orlen S.A. (PKN Orlen) is a Polish oil and gas company. It has a lot of petrol stations in Poland, Germany, Czech Republic, Lithuania and Slovakia. It is the biggest company in Poland and one of the biggest oil and gas companies in Europe.

[[Richard Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, English biochemists, British Nobel Prize winners, Fellows of the Royal Society, Knights Bachelor, English molecular biologists, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, People from Derby

Sir Richard John Roberts FRS (born 6 September 1943, Derby) is a British biochemist and molecular biologist.

He was awarded the 1993 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Phillip Sharp for "the discovery that genes in eukaryotes are not contiguous strings but contain introns, and that the splicing of messenger RNA to delete those introns can occur in different ways, yielding different proteins from the same DNA sequence".

Roberts has worked at Harvard University, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and New England Biolab. He was knighted in the 2008 Birthday Honours.

[[Asseco]]

CATEGORIES: Technology companies of Europe, 1991 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Poland

Asseco Poland S.A. is a Polish company in the technology sector, the biggest in Warsaw Stock Exchange.

[[Etta Baker]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from North Carolina, Musicians from North Carolina, American guitarists, Blues guitarists, 1913 births, 2006 deaths, Piedmont blues

Etta Baker (March 31, 1913 – September 23, 2006) was an American blues guitarist and singer from North Carolina, United States. She played in the Piedmont blues style.

Baker was born as Etta Lucille Reid in Caldwell County, North Carolina of African American, Native American, and European American origin. Since the age of three she played 6- and 12-string guitar and Banjo. She was thought by her father, who was also a Piedmont blues musician. She did her first recording in 1956, when folk singer Paul Clayton was asked by her father to listen to his daughter. She played "One Dime Blues" and Clayton was very impressed. Next day he did some recordings with his taperecorder in Etta Bakers home.

Over the years she played with different musicians like Bob Dylan, Taj Mahal, and Kenny Wayne Shepherd. Etta Baker had nine children, one of them died in the Vietnam War. She died at the age of 93 in Fairfax, Virginia, while visiting a daughter who had suffered a stroke.

[[Susumu Tonegawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Japanese scientists, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, People from Aichi Prefecture, Japanese Nobel Prize winners, Kyoto University alumni

Susumu Tonegawa (born 6 September 1939) is a Japanese scientist who won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1987.

He discovered the genetic mechanism that produces antibody diversity. Although he won the Nobel Prize for his work in immunology, Tonegawa is a molecular biologist by training. In his later years, he has turned his attention to the molecular and cellular basis of memory.

Tonegawa is best known for elucidating the genetic mechanism in the adaptive immune system. If each antibody was coded by one gene, it would take millions of genes to protect against antigens.

Instead, as Tonegawa showed in a landmark series of experiments beginning in 1976, genetic material can rearrange itself to form the vast array of available antibodies. The main mechanism is called RNA splicing.

Antibodies have a 'variable region' in their structure. Tonegawa compared the DNA of B cells (a type of white blood cell) in embryonic and adult mice. He found that genes in the mature B cells of the adult mice are moved around, recombined, and deleted to make the many versions of the variable region of antibodies.

[[Edexcel]]

CATEGORIES: Education in the United Kingdom, Companies of the United Kingdom

Edexcel is a UK examination board. It is one of England, Wales and Northern Ireland's five main examination boards. Edexcel is owned by the private-sector Pearson PLC.  The company offers many qualifications including A levels and GCSEs. Edexcel's name is from the words education and excellence.

[[Chamber pot]]

CATEGORIES: Furniture

A chamber pot (also a chamberpot), a piss pot, a potty, a po, a gazunder, or a thunder pot) is a container with a handle, usually used as a urinal at night. It is kept in a bedroom under a bed or in a nightstand.

During Victorian times, some chamber pots were built into a cabinet with a closeable cover. 

[[SimCity 2000]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 video games, Windows games, PlayStation games, Game Boy Advance games, Nintendo 64 games, SimCity, Amiga games, DOS games, Sega Saturn games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games

SimCity 2000 is a city building computer game released in 1994. It is the sequel to SimCity. It had a lot of new things such as more power plants, hills and mountains, subways, water pipes, prisons, schools, libraries, museums, and hospitals. There were also roads, highways, and other buildings.

The game also had different scenarios.

[[Jonathan Dickinson State Park]]

CATEGORIES: Florida, State parks in the United States, 1950 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Florida

Jonathan Dickinson State Park is a Florida State Park and historic site in Martin County, Florida, between Hobe Sound and Tequesta. The park has many kinds of areas, such as sand pine scrub, pine flatwoods, mangroves, and river swamps. The Loxahatchee River, which was named a National Wild and Scenic River in 1985 (the first in Florida), runs through the park. The address is 16450 S.E. Federal Highway, Hobe Sound.

[[Phillip Sharp]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, American geneticists, Living people, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Kentucky

Phillip Allen Sharp (born June 6, 1944) is an  American geneticist and molecular biologist.

He co-discovered gene splicing, and shared the 1993 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Richard Roberts for "the discovery that genes in eukaryotes are not contiguous strings but contain introns, and that the splicing of pre-messenger RNA to delete those introns can occur in different ways, yielding different proteins from the same DNA sequence".

Sharp was born in Falmouth, Kentucky. He completed his PhD in chemistry at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1969. After completing his PhD he worked at the California Institute of Technology until 1971, where he studied plasmids and, later, gene expression in human cells at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory under James Watson.

In 1974 he was offered a position at MIT by biologist Salvador Luria.  He was director of MIT's Center for Cancer Research (now the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research) from 1985 to 1991; head of the Biology department from 1991 to 1999; and director of the McGovern Institute for Brain Research from 2000 to 2004.

[[Anti-Comintern Pact]]

CATEGORIES: 1936, 1936 in Germany, Anti-Communists, Berlin, World War II, 1930s in Japan

The Anti-Comintern Pact was a pact between Nazi Germany and the Empire of Japan, which would later joined by more countries, in Berlin, Germany, on November 25, 1936. It was set up directly against the Comintern, or Communist International, an organization that was led by the Soviet Union. On November 6, 1937, Fascist Italy joined the pact, which was the beginning of the Axis Powers.

[[Reichstag fire]]

CATEGORIES: 1933, 1930s in Germany, 20th century in Berlin, Arson, Attacks on buildings and structures in Germany, Building and structure fires in Europe, February events, Nazi Germany, Reichstag

The Reichstag fire (Der Reichstagsbrand) was an arson (setting fire) on the Reichstag building, the meeting place of the German Parliament, in Berlin on 27 February 1933. It was an important event in the creation of Nazi Germany.

A Berlin fire station was called, and by the time the police and firefighters had arrived, most of the building was covered in flames. Inside the building, Marinus van der Lubbe was found. He was a Dutch communist. The Nazis said it proved that communists were beginning a plot against the German government. Van der Lubbe and four Communist leaders were arrested shortly after that. Adolf Hitler, who had become Chancellor of Germany four weeks before, urged President Paul von Hindenburg to pass an emergency law to fight back "the confrontation of the Communist Party of Germany". 

As a result, Enabling Act of 1933 was passed. The Reichstag Fire Decree was issued by German President von Hindenburg on the advice of Chancellor Adolf Hitler on 28 February 1933 in response to the Reichstag fire. The decree suspended most civil liberties in Germany. Many Communists were arrested, including all the Communist Party members of Parliament. This made the Nazis the majority of the Parliament, and made Hitler's the dictator in effect. The following elections gave Hitler more power.  

More investigation continued. In early March 1933, three men were brought to the court. All of them were senior Bulgarian Comintern agents. One Communist was found guilty and executed; the others were acquitted and went to the Soviet Union. 

Historians still do not know who planned the fire or who did it. It is still an ongoing topic of research.

[[Operation Sea Lion]]

CATEGORIES: World War II

Operation Sea Lion (Unternehmen Seelöwe) was the plan to invade the United Kingdom by the Nazis during World War II. The plan began in 1940. However, Germany first had to control the sky and sea of the English Channel before a land invasion. With German Navy weakened during the German invasion of Norway and with the German Air Force defeated in the Battle of Britain, the operation was put off on 17 September 1940 and never happened.

[[Max Perutz]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2002 deaths, Deaths from Merkel-cell carcinoma, Austrian Jews, Austrian scientists, British Nobel Prize winners, Fellows of the Royal Society, Jewish British academics, Jewish British scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, British molecular biologists, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Scientists from Vienna, Austrian Nobel Prize winners

Max Ferdinand Perutz FRS OM CBE (19 May 1914 – 6 February 2002) was an Austrian-born British molecular biologist.

He shared the 1962 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with John Kendrew, for their studies of the structures of haemoglobin and globular proteins. The method used was mainly X-ray crystallography.

He went on to win the Royal Medal of the Royal Society in 1971 and the Copley Medal in 1979.  At Cambridge he founded and chaired (1962–79) The Medical Research Council Laboratory of Molecular Biology, fourteen of whose scientists have won Nobel Prizes. Perutz's contributions to molecular biology in Cambridge are documented in The History of the University of Cambridge: Volume 4 (1870 to 1990) published by the Cambridge University Press in 1992.

Perutz was born in Vienna, Austria. His family was Jewish. He had worked in Cambridge (Peterhouse College) since 1936, and moved to Britain permanently after the Anschluss, the Nazi takeover of Austria. He did his war work in Canada, and returned to Cambridge after the war. Max did some of his most important work after winning the Nobel award, and is still held in the highest esteem.

[[Battle of Moscow]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 in Europe, 1942, 1940s in the Soviet Union, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving the Soviet Union, European battles of World War II, 20th century in Moscow

The Battle of Moscow (Битва под Москвой, Schlacht um Moskau) is a name given by Soviet historians to two periods of fighting on a 600 km area of the Eastern Front during World War II. It took place between October 1941 and January 1942. The Soviet defenses stopped the German attack on Moscow, the Soviet capital, which was one of the Axis's primary military and political objectives in the invasion of the Soviet Union.

The German strategic offensive named Operation Typhoon was planned to attack Moscow from the north and south. The Soviets reacted by sending in more reserve from the Far East. Shortly, German attacks were stopped, and the Soviets began counter-attack and forced to push the Axis back.

[[Second Battle of El Alamein]]

CATEGORIES: 1942, 20th century in Egypt, Battles involving Australia, Battles involving France, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving Greece, Battles involving India, Battles involving Italy, Battles involving New Zealand, Battles involving South Africa, Battles involving the United Kingdom, North African battles of World War II

The Second Battle of El Alamein was a great turning point in the Western Desert Campaign of the Second World War. The battle lasted from 23 October to 5 November 1942. The First Battle of El Alamein had stopped the Axis from attacking deep into Egypt further. Thereafter, Lieutenant-General Bernard Montgomery took command of the British Eighth Army in August 1942. In the second battle he took the offensive, with great success.

The Allied victory turned the tide in the North African Campaign. It ended Axis's hopes of occupying Egypt, taking control of the Suez Canal, and reaching the Middle Eastern oil fields.

The battle forced Erwin Rommel and his Afrika Corps to retreat back to the former French fortifications in the Mareth Line in the border between Tunisia and Libya.

[[John Kendrew]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1997 deaths, English biochemists, Royal Air Force, Nobel Prize in Chemistry winners, Fellows of the Royal Society, British Nobel Prize winners, English molecular biologists

Sir John Cowdery Kendrew CBE FRS (24 March 1917– 23 August 1997) was an English biochemist and crystallographer.

He shared the 1962 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with Max Perutz. Their group in the Cavendish Laboratory was the first to determine the structure of proteins, using X-ray crystallography. He was also a Fellow (teacher) at Peterhouse College in Cambridge.

In what became the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Kendrew determined the structure of the protein myoglobin, which stores oxygen in muscle cells.

He spent the early months of World War II doing research on radar. In 1940 he became engaged in operational research at the Royal Air Force headquarters, holding the honorary rank of Wing Commander R.A.F.

[[Chelsea Kane]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Actors from Phoenix, Arizona, American movie actors, American television actors, Disney actors, Musicians from Phoenix, Arizona, Singers from Phoenix, Arizona

Chelsea Kane Staub  (born September 15, 1988) is an American actress and singer professionally known as Chelsea Kane since December 2010. She is best known for her role as Stella Malone in the Disney Channel sitcom Jonas L.A.. She also appeared in the Disney Channel Original Movies, Minutemen and Starstruck. She also co-stars in the Disney Channel animated series, Fish Hooks.

[[Common marmoset]]

CATEGORIES: Marmosets, Mammals of South America

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a very small New World monkey that lives in Brazil. Marmosets can found in many forest habitats. Common marmosets eat gum, sap, latex, and resin from trees the most out of all the members of the Callithrix family. 

A common group of marmosets is made up of 15 members, but usually has nine members. Common marmosets have a complex mating system. In a group of marmosets, there will usually be one or two females that will have babies and one male to be the father. The females are usually closely related, while the male is distantly related. If the male dies, the group will break up and form new groups. When marmosets get older, they leave the group they were raised with. It is not known why.

To show fear or submission, marmosets flatten their ear-tufts close to their heads. Marmoset alarm calls tend to be brief and high-pitched. Marmosets monitor and find group members with calls called "trills".

[[Intron]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Molecular biology, Cell biology

An intron is a non-coding sequence in a gene.

It is any nucleotide sequence within a gene that is removed by RNA splicing to get the final RNA product of a gene. The term intron refers to both the DNA sequence within a gene, and the corresponding sequence in RNA transcripts.  

Sequences of coding DNA which are joined together in the final RNA after RNA splicing are exons. They code for amino acids in the final polypeptide.

Introns are in the genes of most organisms and many viruses. They can be in a wide range of genes, including those that generate proteins, ribosomal RNA (rRNA), and transfer RNA (tRNA). RNA splicing takes place after transcription and before translation.

The discovery of introns led to the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1993 for Phillip Sharp and  Richard Roberts. The term intron was introduced by American biochemist Walter Gilbert.

[[Lake Clarke Shores, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Florida, Palm Beach County, Florida

Lake Clarke Shores is a town in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States. The population was 3,451 at the 2000 census. 2004, the population recorded by the U.S. Census Bureau is 3,475.

[[List of busiest Amtrak stations]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport lists, Amtrak

This article lists the 25 busiest Amtrak stations in the United States.

[[Sacramento (disambiguation)]]

Sacramento may refer to:

[[New Haven (disambiguation)]]

New Haven may refer to:

[[Harrisburg]]

Harrisburg may refer to:

[[Flagler County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Flagler County, Florida, 1917 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in Florida

Flagler County, in Florida, United States, was created in 1917.  It was named for Henry Morrison Flagler, a famous railroad builder who built the Florida East Coast Railway.

In 1998, when two brush fires threatened to become one huge brush fire in Flagler County, a mandatory evacuation was ordered for the entire county.  This was the first and so far the only time a whole county was evacuated in Florida. Flagler is also a sports town. Three Flagler baseball teams have made it to the State Tournament in the last 2 years.

[[Davis]]

Davis may refer to:

[[David McAllister]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, MEPs for Germany, Ministers-President of Lower Saxony, Politicians from Berlin, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany, Scottish people

David James "Mac" McAllister (born 12 January 1971) is a German politician of the conservative Christian Democratic Union (CDU). On 1 July 2010 he was elected Minister-President of the state of Lower Saxony, succeeding Christian Wulff, who resigned following his election as President of Germany. Until 2013, McAllister headed a coalition government with the liberal FDP, the Cabinet McAllister. In 2013, he was succeeded by Social Democrat Stephan Weil. Since 2014 he has been a Member of the European Parliament.

A lawyer by profession, he has been the chairman of the CDU parliamentary group in the Landtag of Lower Saxony from 2003 to 2010 and was elected chairman of the state party from 2008 until 2016. From 2010 until 2013, he was also a member of the supervisory board of Volkswagen.

McAllister is of German and Scottish descent, and he leads a state that has historic ties to Britain, as the old Kingdom of Hanover makes up parts of the state and the state capital is Hanover City.

[[Dixie County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1921 establishments in Florida

Dixie County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida.  As of 2000, 13,827 people lived there.  The U.S. Census Bureau 2005 estimate for the county is 14,647. Its county seat is Cross City, Florida6.

[[Gadsden County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Gadsden County, Florida, 1832 establishments in Florida Territory

Gadsden County is a county in the panhandle of the U.S. state of Florida.  As of the 2000 census, 45,087 people lived there.  The U.S. Census Bureau 2005 estimate for the county is 46,428 people. Its county seat is Quincy, Florida.6 Gadsden County is the only majority African American county in Florida. Gadsden county is home to two high schools - West Gadsden High School (a combination of former Chattahoochee High and Greensboro High) on the western edge of Quincy near Greensboro, and East Gadsden High School (a combination of former James A. Shanks High and Havana Northside High) located on Highway 90 East of Quincy.

The county is part of the Tallahassee, Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Gulf County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Gulf County, Florida, 1925 establishments in Florida

Gulf County is a county in the panhandle of the U.S. state of Florida.  As of 2000, 13,332 people lived there.  The U.S. Census Bureau 2005 estimate for the county is 13,975. Its county seat is Port St. Joe, Florida.6

[[Spliceosome]]

CATEGORIES: Molecular biology, Organelles

A spliceosome is a complex of special RNA and protein subunits. Spliceosomes are amazingly complex molecular machines. They remove introns from a transcribed pre-mRNA segment. This process is generally referred to as splicing.

Each spliceosome is composed of five small nuclear RNAs, (snRNA)s, and more than 50 proteins.

[[Hamilton County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Hamilton County, Florida, 1827 establishments in Florida Territory

Hamilton County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida.  As of 2000, 13,327 people lived there.  The U.S. Census Bureau 2005 estimate for the county is 13,983. Its county seat is Jasper, Florida.6

[[RNA splicing]]

CATEGORIES: RNA, Genetics

RNA splicing is a stage in gene transcription. Messenger RNA (mRNA), which transfers the code from DNA to proteins, is built in two stages. 

In the first stage, each gene is translated into a pre-mRNA. Then the exons in pre-mRNAs are joined by splicing, which is done in the spliceosomes. 

This is needed because the gene is split into code sections called exons and non-coding sections called introns. The exons are brought together by splicing.

So, in molecular biology, splicing is a process where introns are removed and exons are joined. This makes the final mRNA. This messenger RNA is then used to produce a correct protein by translation. 

[[Holmes County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Holmes County, Florida, 1848 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Florida

Holmes County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. As of 2000, 18,564 people lived there. The U.S. Census Bureau 2005 estimate for the county was 19,264. Its county seat is Bonifay, Florida.6

[[Nassau County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Nassau County, Florida, 1824 establishments in Florida Territory

Nassau County is a county in the state of Florida.  As of 2000, 57,663 people lived there.  The U.S. Census Bureau 2008 estimate for the county was 69,835.  Its county seat is Fernandina Beach, Florida.6

Nassau County is part of the Greater Jacksonville Metropolitan area.

[[Alternative splicing]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, RNA

Alternative splicing allows DNA to code for more than one protein. It varies the exon make-up of the messenger RNA.

In alternative splicing the exons of the pre-messenger RNA produced by transcription are reconnected in different ways during RNA splicing.

This produces different mature messenger RNAs from the same gene. They get translated into different proteins. Thus, a single gene may code for multiple proteins.

Alternative splicing is normal in eukaryotes. It greatly increases the diversity of proteins that can be encoded by the genome. In humans, ~95% of multiexonic genes are alternatively spliced.

There are various kinds of alternative splicing: the most common is exon skipping. An exon may be included in mRNAs under some conditions or in particular tissues, and omitted from the mRNA in others. There are splicing activators that promote the use of a particular splice site, and splicing repressors that reduce the use of a particular site. New types of alternative splicing are being found.

Abnormal variations in splicing occur in disease. Many human genetic disorders come from splicing variants. Abnormal splicing variants may also contribute to the development of cancer. Non-working splicing products are usually dealt with by post-transcriptional quality control. That is, they are chopped up by enzymes.

[[Gun control]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms, Politics

Gun control is the attempt, usually by a government, to restrain or stop people from owning or using guns.  Gun control may also regulate the making, moving, and selling of guns.  People want gun control because guns are very dangerous.  Gun control is very controversial in some countries, such as in the United States.  Some countries such as the United States, Switzerland, and Israel allow people to own guns to defend themselves, but most countries do not.

[[St. Lucie County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1844 establishments in Florida Territory

St. Lucie County is a county in the state of Florida.  The county seat is the city of Fort Pierce.  As of 2000, 192,695 people lived there.  The 2005 census estimate for the county was 241,305.

[[Tommy Ramone]]

CATEGORIES: American bluegrass musicians, American drummers, American record producers, American rock musicians, Cancer deaths in the United States, Entertainers from Budapest, Hungarian Jews, Jewish American musicians, Musicians from New York City, Deaths from cholangiocarcinoma, 1949 births, 2014 deaths

Tommy Ramone, also known as Thomas Erdelyi (born Erdélyi Tamás; January 29, 1949 - July 11, 2014), was a Hungarian-American record producer and musician. He was born to Jewish parents in Budapest and grew up in Queens, New York City. He was the drummer for an early and important punk rock band, the  Ramones.

[[Arsinoitherium]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Mammals

Arsinoitherium is an extinct genus, a large mammal that lived during the early Oligocene (about 38 to 23 million years ago). Although it looked like a rhinoceros, it is more closely related to elephants. Fossils of Arsinoitherium have been found in Faiyum, Egypt.

[[Sydney Brenner]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2019 deaths, Fellows of the Royal Society, Geneticists, Jewish academics, Jewish scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, South African Jews, South African Nobel Prize winners, South African scientists, White South African people

Sydney Brenner CH FRS (13 January 1927 – 5 April 2019) was a South African biologist and a 2002 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine laureate, shared with Robert Horvitz and John Sulston. He was of Jewish descent.

Brenner made significant contributions to work on the genetic code, and other areas of molecular biology.

He established the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans as a model organism for the investigation of developmental biology. He founded the Molecular Sciences Institute in Berkeley, California.

[[Gerhard-Hanappi-stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Austria, Vienna

The Gerhard Hanappi stadium is a football stadium in Vienna, Austria. It is the homeground of SK Rapid Wien and is named after Gerhard Hanappi, the architect of the stadium and former player of Rapid Wien.

[[Observe and Report]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 movies, 2009 comedy movies, English-language movies, 2000s black comedy movies

Observe and Report is a 2009 black comedy movie that was produced by Donald De Line and was directed by Jody Hill. Observe and Report was released on April 10, 2009 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews with a 51% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 54 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books

Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist is a 2009 romantic comedy movie that was produced by Kerry Kohansky Roberts, Andrew Miano, Chris Weitz and Paul Weitz and was directed by Peter Sollett. Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist was released on October 3, 2008 in North America. The plot involves Nick and Norah following rabbit-associated clues to see a music band, and during their adventure they fall in love.  The movie received positive reviews with a 72% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 64 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Kicking & Screaming]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, Sports comedy movies, English-language movies

Kicking & Screaming is a 2005 sports comedy movie that was produced by Jimmy Miller and Judd Apatow and was directed by Jesse Dylan. Kicking & Screaming was released on May 13, 2005 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews with a 41% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 47 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[How Do You Know (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 comedy-drama movies, 2010 romance movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Washington, D.C.

How Do You Know is a 2010 American comedy-drama movie produced by Julie Ansell, James L. Brooks and Paula Weinstein, and written and directed by Brooks. It premiered on December 17, 2010 and received negative reviews with a 30% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 47 out of 100 from Metacritic. It became poor at the box office with $7.6 million made in North America, which made it eighth in the box office at its first weekend. It fell off the chart on the third weekend and grossed a total of $47,707,151 worldwide. It failed to recoup for its $120 million budget and made it a massive box-office bomb.

[[The Girl He Left Behind]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 comedy movies, 1950s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by David Butler

The Girl He Left Behind is a 1956 romantic comedy movie that was produced by Frank P. Rosenberg and was directed by David Butler. The Girl He Left Behind was released on 1956 in North America and in 1957 in Europe by Premier Productions.

[[Thermal power plant]]

CATEGORIES: Power plants

A thermal power plant is a power plant where steam is used to drive a steam turbine. This turbine is connected to an electrical generator. After this, the water is condensed, and may be used again. This is known as the Rankine cycle. There are different procedures that can be used to heat the water;

[[Ruth Buzzi]]

CATEGORIES: American comedians, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from Rhode Island, 1936 births, Living people, Clio Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Ruth Ann Buzzi (born July 24, 1936) is an American comedian and actress.  She is most famous for her performances on the variety show Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In. She most often appeared as the unwilling object of "dirty old man" character Tyrone F. Horneigh's affection. Ruth appeared as Ruthie on seasons 25 (1993-1994)-32 (2001) of Sesame Street.

[[NART TV]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 establishments in Asia, Television channels, Jordan

NART TV (National Adighe Radio and Television) is a Circassian satellite TV channel which broadcasts from Amman, Jordan. The channel is gaining in popularity and is beginning to get a larger audience in Jordan, Syria and Turkey.

==History== 

Young Circassians from Jordan decided to open a Circassian-language TV channel with a hope to find international exposure for the Circassian people who live overseas. The experimental channel began broadcasting Circassian music and dance like on MTV. Through the years it has become a commercial channel broadcasting social events, documentaries and activities of the Circassian diaspora. It is continuously under development and regeneration with the increase of advertising incomes from local commercial activities.

[[Volcano rabbit]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of North America, Lagomorphs

The volcano rabbit (also known as teporingo or zacatuche) is a small rabbit native to Mexico. The rabbit lives on about 280 square kilometers of land in central Mexico. The rabbit is ranked as endangered by the IUCN.

[[Happy Science]]

CATEGORIES: New religious movements, 1986 establishments in Japan, Organisations based in Japan

Happy Science is a new religious movement in Japan. Ryuho Okawa started the religion on October 6th, 1986. On February 2nd, 2008, the group changed its official English name. It had been called Kofuku-no-Kagaku, which is a version of the Japanese name in Latin alphabet. The group now calls itself "Happy Science" in English.

[[Tommy's First Birthday]]

CATEGORIES: Rugrats, 1991 television episodes

"Tommy's First Birthday" is the first official episode of the animated television series Rugrats. It originally aired on the television network Nickelodeon on August 11, 1991, during the series' first season. In the episode,  Stu and Didi strive to make Tommy's first birthday a memorable one. They do, but under the wrong circumstances. Meanwhile, Tommy wants to eat dog food so he can be just like Spike, eventually selling the other Rugrats on the idea.

[[Daniel Sedin]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Art Ross Trophy winners, Living people, Olympic gold medalists, Swedish ice hockey players, Swedish Hockey League players, Twin people, Vancouver Canucks players

Daniel Sedin (born September 26, 1980) is a Swedish professional ice hockey winger with the Vancouver Canucks of the National Hockey League (NHL), and serves as an alternate captain for the Canucks during home games. His identical twin brother Henrik also plays for the Canucks, and is the team captain. Born and raised in Örnsköldsvik, Sweden, they have played together throughout their careers; the pair are known for their effectiveness playing off one another. Daniel is known as a goal-scorer, while Henrik is known as a playmaker.

[[West Coast Eagles]]

CATEGORIES: Australian football clubs, Australian Football League, Perth, Western Australia

The West Coast Eagles are an Australian Rules Football team in Perth, Western Australia.

[[Subiaco Oval]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums, Football in Australia, Sports buildings in Australia, Buildings and structures in Perth, Western Australia, 1908 establishments in Australia

Subiaco Oval, widely known as Patersons Stadium is a stadium. is the largest sports stadium in Perth, Western Australia. It is in the suburb of Subiaco, about three kilometres west of Perth's city centre.

[[John Sulston]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2018 deaths, English biologists, English geneticists, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, Fellows of the Royal Society, Knights Bachelor, British Nobel Prize winners

Sir John Edward Sulston FRS (27 March 1942 – 6 March 2018) was a British biologist. He was a joint winner of the 2002 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.

He was the first Director of the Wellcome Sanger Institute, and then Chair of the Institute for Science, Ethics and Innovation at the University of Manchester.

Sulston was one of 20 Nobel laureates who signed the "Stockholm memorandum" at the 3rd Nobel Laureate Symposium on Global Sustainability in Stockholm, Sweden on 18 May 2011.

[[Aaron Klug]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2018 deaths, Biophysicists, British chemists, British Nobel Prize winners, Fellows of the Royal Society, Jewish British academics, Jewish British scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Knights Bachelor, Lithuanian Jews, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, Order of Merit, South African Jews, White South African people

Sir Aaron Klug OM PRS (August 11, 1926 – November 20, 2018) was a Lithuanian-born British chemist and biophysicist. 

Klug won the 1982 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing crystallographic electron microscopy and working out the structure of nucleic acid-protein complexes.

[[Deportivo Petare]]

CATEGORIES: Venezuelan football clubs, Caracas, 1948 establishments in Venezuela

Deportivo Petare Fútbol Club (until summer 2010 called Deportivo Italia Fútbol Club) is a Venezuelan football club based in Caracas. Formed in 1948 as "Deportivo Italia F.C.", the club after fifty years merged with "Deportivo Chacao F.C." in 1998, and was called Deportivo Italchacao for eight years. The club has won the Primera División Venezolana five times and the Copa de Venezuela three times.

[[STS-2]]

CATEGORIES: Space Shuttle flights, 1981 in the United States, November events

STS-2 was the second flight of the space shuttle. It flew in November 1981.

[[Planck units]]

CATEGORIES: Basic physics ideas, Units of measurement

The Planck units are physical units of measurement. The system of these units was first developed by Max Planck. The four basic Planck units are based only on four physical constants found in nature.  When Planck units are used to express any of these four physical constants, the value is 1.  This allows physicists to simplify many equations about physical law. Planck proposed these units in 1899. 

Plank units are unique: they are based only on properties of free space (a vacuum). Plank units are also called natural units because they come only from properties of nature and not from any human construct.  Planck units are only one system of natural units among other systems. The constants that Planck units define as 1 are these:

Each of these constants has at least one fundamental physical theory: c with special relativity, G with general relativity and Newton's law of universal gravitation, ħ with quantum mechanics, ε0 with electrostatics, and kB with statistical mechanics and thermodynamics. 

Planck units are very important for theoretical physics, because they simplify several recurring algebraic expressions of physical law. They are particularly relevant in research on unified theories such as quantum gravity.

Planck units may sometimes be semi-humorously referred to by physicists as "God's units".  They eliminate human centred arbitrariness from the system of units: some physicists argue that communication with extraterrestrial intelligence would have to use such a system of units to make common reference to scale. Unlike the meter and second, which exist as fundamental units in the SI system for historical reasons, the Planck length and Planck time are linked at a fundamental physical level.

Natural units help physicists to reframe questions.  Frank Wilczek puts this succinctly:

The strength of gravity is simply what it is and the strength of the electromagnetic force is simply what it is. 

[[Blah Blah Blah]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Kesha songs

"Blah Blah Blah" is a song by American singer Kesha. It is from her first album, Animal. It was produced by Benny Blanco. Kesha, Blanco, Neon Hitch and Sean Foreman wrote the song. It was released as the album's second single on February 19, 2010. It features the alternative band 3OH!3. The song is an electropop song. The lyrics are about a woman who would rather have sex than listen to a man speak.

Critics have mixed opinions on the song. The single was successful commercially by reaching the top five in Australia and Canada. It reached the top ten in the United States and New Zealand. The song became Kesha's second top ten single in Australia, Canada and the United States. It has gone on to sell over two million copies in the United States. It has been certified two times platinum in Canada.

[[Dorothy Hodgkin]]

CATEGORIES: Fellows of the Royal Society, Order of Merit, Nobel Prize in Chemistry winners, People from Warwickshire, British chemists, British biologists, 1910 births, 1994 deaths, Female scientists, British Nobel Prize winners

Dorothy Mary Crowfoot Hodgkin GBR (12 May 1910 – 29 July 1994), was a British chemist, credited with the development of protein crystallography. Hodgkin received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1964.

[[Hans Adolf Krebs]]

CATEGORIES: German Nobel Prize winners

[[Friday (Rebecca Black song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Pop songs

"Friday" is a song by American singer Rebecca Black. It was written and produced by Clarence Jey and Patrice Wilson. It was released as a single on February 10, 2011, and then, it premiered on iTunes on March 14, 2011 by Ark Music Factory as Black's debut single.

[[Aurora, Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Aurora, Colorado, 1880s establishments in Colorado

Aurora is a Home Rule Municipality in the U.S. state of Colorado. The city is in Arapahoe, Adams, and Douglas counties. It is the third biggest city by number of people in Colorado, and the 59th biggest city by number of people in the United States. The city's population was 325,078 during the 2010 United States Census. 

[[SpongeBob SquigglePants]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 video games, Nintendo 3DS games, Wii games, THQ games, Video games based on television shows, SpongeBob SquarePants

SpongeBob SquigglePants is a video game based on the television series SpongeBob SquarePants. It is the fourth game in the uDraw Series. It was published by THQ and developed by WayForward Technologies. 

The game was released for Wii on April 12, 2011. It was released for Nintendo 3DS on May 17, 2011.

It contains over 100 mini-games that require using the uDraw GameTablet. It allows players to draw their own paintings or color in them.

[[Derby Museum and Art Gallery]]

CATEGORIES: Derby Museum and Art Gallery, 1879 establishments in England

[[All Killer, No Filler]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 albums, Sum 41 albums

All Killer, No Filler is the first studio album by Canadian rock band, Sum 41. It was released on May 8, 2001. The producer of the album was Jerry Finn. The album was ranked as the 9th greatest punk pop album of all time by Top40.com.

[[Joseph Wright of Derby]]

CATEGORIES: English painters, 1734 births, 1797 deaths, Derby Museum and Art Gallery, People from Derbyshire

Joseph Wright (3 September 1734 – 29 August 1797), (Wright of Derby), was an English landscape and portrait painter. He painted the Industrial Revolution."

Wright showed the contrast of light and dark. His paintings of early science in the English Midlands, show the Age of Enlightenment.

Many of Wright's paintings and drawings are on display at the Derby Museum and Art Gallery.

[[Rotary evaporator]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment, Chemistry

A rotary evaporator (or rotavap) is  commonly used in chemical laboratories to remove solvents by evaporation.

The liquid is put in a round-bottomed flask and placed in the device. The rotavap spins and heats the flask and reduces the pressure inside by creating a vacuum. The vacuum makes the liquid evaporate at a low temperature than normal. The liquid becomes a gas and is collected by cooling it so it condenses into another flask.

If there are substances dissolved in the liquid they will be left behind in when it evaporates. If water with salt dissolved in it is evaporated, then pure water and dry salt will be separated. Scientists use rotary evaporators to remove the liquid a solid is dissolved in.

Rotary evaporators are often quicker to use than evaporating basins. They can be used for distillations.

[[Reptar on Ice]]

CATEGORIES: Rugrats, 1992 television episodes

"Reptar on Ice" was the twenty-third episode of the Nickelodeon show Rugrats. It aired November 8, 1992.

[[Death of Baby P]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 crimes, 2006 births, 2007 deaths, 2007 in the United Kingdom, 2000s in England, 21st century in London, British children, British crime victims, Crime in London, London Borough of Haringey

Peter Connelly (1 March 2006 - 3 August 2007) (also known as "Baby P", "Child A" and "Baby Peter") was a 17-month-old baby who lived in the UK. Peter died of child abuse on 3 August 2007 in London after suffering more than 50 injuries over an eight-month period.

The case resulted in several big investigations into how the Social Services department of Haringey Council carried out its job looking after children in danger.

[[Waikiki]]

CATEGORIES: Beaches of the United States, Honolulu, Neighborhoods in the United States

Waikīkī is a neighborhood of Honolulu, on the south shore of Ookinaahu, Hawaii. Waikiki Beach is the shoreline in front of Waikīkī.

The name Waikīkī means "spouting fresh water" in the Hawaiian language. This because the area had springs and streams that fed wetlands.

[[Interchange (road)]]

CATEGORIES: Roads, Bridge types

A freeway interchange a place where two freeways meet, or where a freeway and another road meet. There are many different types of freeway interchanges.

Two main types of freeway interchanges are the diamond interchange and the cloverleaf interchange.

[[A Rugrats Passover]]

CATEGORIES: Rugrats, 1995 television episodes

"A Rugrats Passover" (possibly known as "Passover" in the opening title) was the sixty-fifth episode of the Nickelodeon show Rugrats. It aired April 13, 1995.

[[Major Oak]]

CATEGORIES: Nottinghamshire, Legends, Trees

The Major Oak is the main Tree in Sherwood Forest. Legend said Robin Hood lived near here.

It weighs an estimated 23 tons, has a waistline of 33 feet (10m), and is about 800–1000 years old.  Because of its age, the tree is held up by chains.

In June 2002, the Tree Council decided that The Major Oak was one of fifty "Great British Trees" in because of its place in the national heritage.

[[Jar Jar Binks]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1999, Star Wars characters

Jar Jar Binks is a fictional character from the Star Wars movie Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace. He also appears in Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones and Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith. He is a Gungan and was born on the planet Naboo. Jar Jar is treated like the "class clown" by the other Gungans, and is often yelled at for being clumsy. This changes when two Jedi named Obi-Wan Kenobi and Qui-Gon Jinn are stranded on Naboo and Jar Jar accidentally stumbles into them in a swamp. He shows them his home, an underwater city built by Gungans to stay away from humans. There, he gets in trouble for letting humans into their secret city. The Jedi use the Force to convince the Gungan leader, Boss Nass, to let them leave safely. He is hated by many fans, and critics have accused him of being a racist stereotype of black people.

[[Gungan]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional races, Star Wars species

The Gungans are a fictional race of creatures from the Star Wars universe. They are amphibious (frog-like) creatures that live on the planet Naboo. The most famous Gungan is a character named Jar Jar Binks from Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace.

[[Sonic & Knuckles]]

CATEGORIES: Sonic the Hedgehog games, 1994 video games, Platform games, Sega Genesis games, Video games developed in Japan, Video game sequels

Sonic & Knuckles is the fourth video game in the Sonic the Hedgehog series. It was made by Sonic Team and published by Sega for the Sega Mega Drive in 1994. In the game, you are able to play as Sonic the Hedgehog and Knuckles the Echidna. You can insert a Sonic the Hedgehog 2 or Sonic the Hedgehog 3 cartridge into it and you will get new modes for those games. This is called Lock-on Technology.

[[Controller]]

Controller may refer to:

[[Half-Life (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Half-Life series

Half-Life is a series of video games created by Valve Corporation. The player plays as a character named Gordon Freeman, who is a survivor of a terrible accident at the Black Mesa Science Research Company. A group of scientists make a portal to another dimension, and accidentally let in many alien monsters that start killing everyone.

In the first game, Half-Life, made in 1998, you play through this disaster and try to escape.

In 2004, the sequel, Half-Life 2, was released. Half-Life 2 was followed by two expansions, Half-Life 2: Episode One and Half-Life 2: Episode Two.

A related game, Portal, was released in 2007 and takes place in the same universe. Portal, Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode One, Half-Life 2: Episode Two, and Team Fortress (an unrelated game) were put together into one package for sale in 2007. This package is known as The Orange Box.

[[Frank Oz]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, American voice actors, American television actors, English voice actors, English television actors, Muppets, Puppeteers, People from Hereford

Frank Oz (born Richard Frank Oznowicz on May 25, 1944) is an English-American puppeteer and filmmaker. He is known for his work on The Muppets, Star Wars, and Sesame Street. He also directed some popular films, such as Little Shop of Horrors and Dirty Rotten Scoundrels. His most popular puppets are Yoda and Cookie Monster. He played Cookie Monster, Bert and Grover on Sesame Street and he did Miss Piggy, Fozzie Bear, Animal and Sam the Eagle on the Muppets.

[[Gingerbread man]]

CATEGORIES: Cookies

Gingerbread men are cookies made of gingerbread shaped like people. 

In America, they are most popular at Christmastime. Ingredients include ginger, molasses, spices, flour, butter, eggs, etc. The dough is rolled out on a flat surface, and the gingerbread man is made with a cookie cutter. The cookies can be frosted and decorated with various trims such as raisins and silver dragees.

These cookies can be made with different decorations such as chocolate chips, jelly beans, chocolate sauce etc. They can also be made in different sizes.

[[Electron crystallography]]

CATEGORIES: Technology, Chemistry, Molecular biology, Physics

Electron crystallography is a method to determine the arrangement of atoms in solids using a transmission electron microscope (TEM).

This method works in many cases where X-ray crystallography does not. The latter needs large 3-D crystals to work.

Protein structures are usually done from 2-dimensional crystals (sheets or helices), polyhedrons such as viral capsids, or dispersed proteins. Electrons can be used in these situations, whereas X-rays cannot, because electrons interact more strongly with atoms than X-rays do.

Electron crystallography is a method to determine the arrangement of atoms in solids using a transmission electron microscope (TEM). The method was invented by Aaron Klug, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for this, and his studies on virus structures and transfer RNA, in 1982.

The first electron crystallographic protein structure to be solved was bacteriorhodopsin in 1990.

Since then, several other high-resolution structures have been done by electron crystallography, including the light-harvesting complex, and the bacterial flagellum.

[[Paul Nurse]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, English biologists, English geneticists, Knights Bachelor, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, People from Norwich, Presidents of the Royal Society, British Nobel Prize winners

Sir Paul Nurse PRS (Paul Maxime Nurse, born Norwich, 25 January 1949) is a British geneticist and cell biologist.

He was awarded the 2001 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, with Leland Hartwell and Timothy Hunt, for their discoveries about cell division.

They discovered cycle of cell division is regulated by cyclin and cyclin dependent kinases.

Sir Paul is the current President of the Royal Society and Chief Executive and Director of the UK Centre for Medical Research and Innovation.

He is also Emeritus Professor and Head of the Laboratory for Yeast genetics and Cell Biology at the Rockefeller University, New York City.

Nurse was awarded the Royal Society's Copley Medal in 2005.

[[Dysnomia]]

The term Dysnomia can refer to three different concepts:

[[Kevin DuBrow]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2007 deaths, Singers from Los Angeles, California

Kevin Mark DuBrow (October 29, 1955 – November 19, 2007) was an American singer of rock music. He is best known as the lead singer of the heavy metal band Quiet Riot from 1975, when the band started, until 2007, when he died.

On December 10, 2007, media reported that DuBrow had been found dead on the afternoon of November 25, 2007. He died because he took an accidental overdose of cocaine.

[[Fighting game]]

CATEGORIES: Fighting games, Types of video games, Video game genres

A fighting game is a video game in which two or more players battle for the winning spot, usually by fighting to the death or K.O.. Most fighting games have a selection of characters with different abilities. Some popular fighting games are Mortal Kombat, Street Fighter, and Soul Calibur.

[[Push-button]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic switches

A push-button is a switch in the shape of a small button or knob. When it is pushed it completes an electrical circuit that controls something. For example a doorbell rings when a person pushes a button, or numbers are displayed on a calculator  or even when you are playing a machine game at an arcade.

[[Heavyweights]]

CATEGORIES: Disney movies, 1995 movies, English-language movies, 1995 comedy movies, American comedy movies

Heavyweights is a 1995 Disney movie directed by Steven Brill. Heavyweights is about a fat camp for children that is taken over by fitness expert Tony Perkis (Ben Stiller).

[[Charlie Brown]]

CATEGORIES: Comics

Charlie Brown is the main character in the comic strip Peanuts by Charles M. Schulz.

[[Stan and Jan Berenstain]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2005 deaths, 2012 deaths, Writers from Pennsylvania, American illustrators, Deaths from cancer

Stan and Jan Berenstain were American authors and illustrators. They are best known for their books about the "Berenstain Bears" and "Blair Investigates". 

Stanley Melvin Berenstain (September 29, 1923 – November 26, 2005) was born in West Philadelphia. Janice Marian Berenstain (July 26, 1923 – February 24, 2012) was also born in Philadelphia. Both served in World War II. 

On November 26, 2005, Stanley Berenstain died of cancer. He was 82. Jan died February 24, 2012, from a stroke.

[[Svante Arrhenius]]

CATEGORIES: Nobel Prize in Chemistry winners, Physicists, Chemists, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, Swedish scientists, 1859 births, 1927 deaths

Svante August Arrhenius (19 February 1859 – 2 October 1927) was a Nobel Prize-winning Swedish scientist who made discoveries in physics, chemistry and earth science.

Originally he was a physicist, but he won the 1903 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, and was a founder of physical chemistry.

Later in life, he turned to other scientific problems. He was the first person to predict that emissions of carbon dioxide, from processes like the burning of fossil fuels, would cause global warming.

[[Tivoli-Neu]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Austria, Innsbruck, 2000 establishments in Europe

The Tivoli-Neu is a football stadium in Innsbruck, Austria. It is the homeground of FC Wacker Innsbruck and the Swarco Raiders Tirol, an American Football team. The stadium was one venue of the UEFA Euro 2008.

[[Denmark-Norway]]

CATEGORIES: Nordic countries, 1536 establishments, 1814 disestablishments, History of Denmark, History of Norway, 16th century establishments in Europe, 1810s disestablishments in Europe

The Kingdom of Denmark-Norway was a union between the two kingdoms Denmark and Norway, which lasted from 1536 to 1814. During this time, the capital of both countries was Copenhagen, and they shared the same military. The kingdom also possessed colonies in Greenland, Iceland, Africa, the Caribbean and India.

[[Sony Vegas]]

CATEGORIES: Technology

VEGAS Pro is a non-linear video editing software developed by MAGIX, previously by Sony Creative Software and Sonic Foundry. The Film Paranormal Activity was edited using the software and has won many awards.

The software is only for Windows computers and PCs only and cost 600 dollars. 

[[William Henry Bragg]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1942 deaths, English physicists, English mathematicians, Nobel Prize in Physics winners, Knights Bachelor, People from Cumbria, British Nobel Prize winners

Sir William Henry Bragg GBR (2 July 1862 – 12 March 1942) was a British physicist, chemist, mathematician and active sportsman.

Bragg shared a Nobel Prize with his son William Lawrence Bragg – the 1915 Nobel Prize in Physics.

[[Christine of France]]

CATEGORIES: 1606 births, 1663 deaths, Regents, House of Bourbon, House of Savoy, Dukes and Duchesses of Savoy, French princesses

Christine of France (Christine Marie; 10 February 1606 – 27 December 1663) was the second daughter of Henry IV of France and Marie de Medici. A sister of Louis XIII, she was married to the future Victor Amadeus I, Duke of Savoy in 1619 aged fourteen. She was said to be volatile and frivolous. Educated at the French court, she introduced French culture into Savoy. Her husband succeeded to the Savoyard throne in 1637 and thus Christine became Duchess of Savoy through marriage. At the death of Victor Amadeus I in 1637, Christine was created regent in the name of her son Francis Hyacinth. However, at the death of Francis Hyacinth in 1638, the throne went to her second surviving son who became Charles Emmanuel II. Officially regent till 1648, she maintained huge influence within the Savoyard government at the time which only ended at her death in 1663.

[[Victor Amadeus I, Duke of Savoy]]

CATEGORIES: 1587 births, 1637 deaths, Dukes and Duchesses of Savoy, Princes and Princesses of Piedmont, Princes and Princesses of Savoy

Victor Amadeus I (8 May 1587 – 7 October 1637) was the Duke of Savoy from 1630 to 1637. He was also titular King of Cyprus and Jerusalem.  He was also known as the Lion of Susa.http://www.sabaudia.org/v2/dossiers/maisondesavoie/vic-amedee1.php https://web.archive.org/web/20110727234957/http://www.sabaudia.org/v2/dossiers/maisondesavoie/vic-amedee1.php

[[Alex Rider]]

CATEGORIES: Young adult novels, Series of books

Alex Rider is a series of spy books. It is written by British author Anthony Horowitz. The series is about a teenage spy named Alex Rider. The series is aimed at young adults. There are ten books in the series, but short stories and other books have been published too. The novels are published by Walker Books in the United Kingdom. The first novel, Stormbreaker, was published in the United Kingdom on 4 September 2000 and was adapted into a movie in 2006. Over 10 million books in the Alex Rider series have been sold worldwide.

[[UPC-Arena]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Austria, Graz, 1997 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Austria

[[Jim Parsons]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Actors from Houston, Texas, LGBT people from Texas, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Gay men, Golden Globe Award winning actors, LGBT actors

James Joseph "Jim" Parsons (born March 24, 1985) is an American actor. Parsons is best known for playing the role of Sheldon Cooper in the television series, The Big Bang Theory. In 2010, he won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor In a Comedy Series and in 2011, he won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor - Television Series - Musical or Comedy. Both of these awards were given to him for his role in The Big Bang Theory.

According to The New York Times, Parsons is gay.

[[Johnny Galecki]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Actors from Illinois, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, People from Limburg (Belgium)

John Mark "Johnny" Galecki (born April 30, 1975) is an Belgian-born American actor. Galecki is best known for playing the role of David Healy on Roseanne and Leonard Hofstadter on The Big Bang Theory. 

[[Litefoot]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American rap musicians from California, Singers from Los Angeles, California, Native American people

Gary Paul Davis (born March 1, 1969 in Upland, California), known by his stage name Litefoot, is an American rapper and actor. He is of Cherokee and Chichimeca descent. He was the first Native American person to rap and he called his style of music, Tribalistic Funk. 

David is also an actor and acted in the movies The Indian in the Cupboard in 1995, Mortal Kombat: Annihilation in 1997, Kull the Conqueror in 1997 and Adaptation in 2002.

[[Bridesmaid]]

CATEGORIES: Culture

A bridesmaid is a member of the bride's group in a wedding. A bridesmaid is usually a young woman, and often a close friend or sister.  She helps the bride on the day of a wedding or marriage ceremony. Traditionally, bridesmaids were chosen from unmarried young women who were old enough to be married.

The main bridesmaid may be called the chief bridesmaid or maid of honor if she is unmarried, or the matron of honor if she is married. A junior bridesmaid is a girl who is clearly too young to get married, but who is included as an honorary bridesmaid.

[[Wivenhoe]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex

Wivenhoe is a town near Colchester, in Essex, England. It has a local football team called Wivenhoe town F.C. 

[[Witham]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex

Witham is a town near the A12 road in Essex, England. In 2001 there were 22,470 people living in Witham.

[[Harwich]]

CATEGORIES: Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom, Tendring, Towns in Essex

Harwich is a port town near the A120 road in Essex, England. In 2011 there were 17,684 people living in Harwich.

[[Harlow]]

CATEGORIES: Essex boroughs, Towns in Essex

Harlow is a former Mark One New Town and local government district in the west of Essex, England. Situated on the border with Hertfordshire, it occupies a large area of land on the south bank of the upper Stort Valley, which has been made navigable through other towns and features a canal section near its watermill. Old Harlow is a village-size suburb founded by the early medieval age and most of its high street buildings are early Victorian and residential, mostly protected by one of the Conservation Areas in the district. In Old Harlow is a field named Harlowbury, a de-settled monastic area which has the remains of a chapel, a scheduled ancient monument.

The M11 motorway passes through the east of the district, entirely to the east of the town. Harlow has its own commercial and leisure economy. It is also an outer part of the London commuter belt and employment centre of the M11 corridor which includes Cambridge and London Stansted to the north. 

[[Thaxted]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex, Uttlesford

Thaxted is a town in Essex, England. In 2001 there were 2,576 people living in Thaxted.

[[Halstead]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex, Civil parishes in Essex

Halstead is a town and civil parish in Braintree district, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 11,053 people living in Halstead.

[[Coggeshall]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex

Coggeshall is a town near the A120 road, in Essex, England. In 2001 there were 4,327 people living in Coggeshall.

[[Alice in Wonderland (2010 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 movies, 2010 3D movies, 2010s adventure movies, 2010s fantasy movies, American adventure movies, American family movies, American fantasy movies, British adventure movies, British family movies, British fantasy movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Tim Burton, Disney movie remakes, 2010s feminist movies

Alice in Wonderland is a 2010 British-American fantasy adventure movie with Mia Wasikowska, Johnny Depp, Helena Bonham Carter, Anne Hathaway, Crispin Glover, Michael Sheen, Matt Lucas, Barbara Windsor, Christopher Lee, Alan Rickman, Michael Gough and Stephen Fry.

It is based on the Alice in Wonderland book written by Lewis Carroll. The score is by Danny Elfman.

[[Closing credits]]

CATEGORIES: Movie industry

Closing credits (or end credits) are shown at the end of a movie or television show.  They usually say who the actors were in the movie.  They also include who helped make the movie, such as the director and the producer.

[[2010 Winter Olympics closing ceremony]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 Winter Olympics

The closing ceremony of the 2010 Winter Olympics took place on February 28, 2010.  It was held at the BC Place Stadium in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

[[Humanitarian aid]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights, Altruism

Humanitarian aid is aid given with respect of human dignity with a spirit of human nature to people in war, disaster including natural disaster and to refugees according to laws of war and international human rights law. To this end International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs exist.

[[Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights, United Nations

Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs is an organization of the United Nations for humanitarian aid started in 1991.

[[Three Days Grace]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s music groups, 1992 establishments in Canada, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Canadian hard rock bands, Post-grunge bands, Musical groups established in 1992

Three Days Grace is a Canadian alternative rock band. They formed in 1992 in Norwood, Ontario as a post-grunge band and were originally called Groundswell. There are four members in the band: Adam Gontier, Barry Stock, Neil Sanderson and Brad Walst. The band was named "Number One Rock Artist of the Year" by Billboard. 

Gontier resigned from the band on January 9, 2013 due to a "non-life threatening" health issue and was replaced by My Darkest Days lead singer Matt Walst.

[[Three Days Grace (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, Debut albums, Three Days Grace albums, Heavy metal albums

Three Days Grace is the first studio album by Canadian rock band, Three Days Grace. It was released on July 22, 2003. The producer of the album was Gavin Brown. The album peaked at #69 on the U.S. Billboard 200 and #9 on the Canadian Albums Chart.

[[One-X]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Three Days Grace albums

One-X is the second studio album by Canadian rock band, Three Days Grace. It was released on June 13, 2006. The producer of the album was Howard Benson. The album peaked at #5 on the U.S. Billboard 200 and #2 on the Canadian Albums Chart. The songs "Riot" and "Animal I Have Become" were featured in the video game, WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2010.

[[Life Starts Now]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Three Days Grace albums

Life Starts Now is the third studio album by Canadian rock band, Three Days Grace. It was released on September 22, 2009. The producer of the album was Howard Benson. The album was certified Platinum in Canada and was also certified Gold in the US. The album peaked at #3 on the U.S. Billboard 200 and at #2 on the Canadian Albums Chart.

[[Sindh Qalanders]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Pakistan, Field hockey

Sindh Qalanders is a field hockey team for the Sindh Province in Pakistan.  They play in the Pakistan Hockey Federation.

[[Amsterdam Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in the Netherlands, Amsterdam

The Amsterdam Museum is a museum in Amsterdam.  Before 2011 it was called the Amsterdams Historisch Museum. It is in the old orphanage between Kalverstraat and Nieuwezijds Voorburgwal.

[[Lawrence Bragg]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1971 deaths, British Nobel Prize winners, English physicists, Knights Bachelor, Nobel Prize in Physics winners, People from Adelaide, Scientists from South Australia, Australian Nobel Prize winners

Sir William Lawrence Bragg CH OBE MC FRS (31 March 1890 – 1 July 1971) was an Australian-born British physicist and X-ray crystallographer.

Bragg was always known as Sir Lawrence Bragg, and his father was Sir William Bragg. Lawrence Bragg was educated in Adelaide, Australia and in England. He was awarded the Military Cross in World War I.

Lawrence Bragg discovered (1912) the Bragg law of X-ray diffraction, the basis of X-ray crystallography. He was joint winner (with his father, Sir William Bragg) of the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1915.

To date, Lawrence Bragg is the youngest Nobel Laureate. He was the director of the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, when the discovery of the structure of DNA was made by James D. Watson and Francis Crick in February 1953.

He was elected an FRS in 1921. He was knighted by George VI in 1941, and received both the Copley Medal and the Royal Medal of the Royal Society.

[[Hoverfly]]

CATEGORIES: Flies, Mimicry

Hoverflies, sometimes called 'flower flies' or 'syrphid flies', are the insect family Syrphidae. Hoverflies mimic wasp stripes, and are usually smaller than wasps. Thus to a bird they may look scarcely worth eating, and dangerous. 

As their common name suggests, they are often seen hovering or sucking nectar at flowers. The adults of many species feed mainly on nectar and pollen, while the larvae (maggots) eat a wide range of foods.

In some species, the larvae are saprotrophs, eating decaying plant and animal matter in the soil or in ponds and streams. In other species, the larvae are insectivores and prey on aphids, thrips, and other plant-sucking insects.

Aphids alone cause tens of millions of dollars of damage to crops worldwide every year. Hoverflies are important natural enemies of these pests, and can be used in biological control. Some adult syrphid flies are important pollinators. Some orchids mimic aphid alarm scent (pheromones), which attracts hoverflies. The hoverflies then pollinate the orchids.

About 6,000 species in 200 genera have been described. Hoverflies are common throughout the world and can be found on most continent except Antarctica.

Hoverflies are harmless to most other animals despite their mimicry of the black and yellow stripes of wasps. They are a classic example of Batesian mimicry. The Batesian mimic is a sheep in wolf's clothing: it looks like something dangerous or which tastes disgusting, but in reality it is good to eat. Hover flies look roughly like little wasps, and their warning colouration is well-known to birds.

Unlike adults, the maggots of hoverflies feed on a variety of foods. Predatory species benefit farmers and gardeners, because aphids destroy crops. Hoverfly maggots are often used in biological control.

[[Atomkraft]]

CATEGORIES: British record labels, 1979 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1988 disestablishments in the United Kingdom

Atomkraft are an English heavy metal band who were part of the New Wave of British Heavy Metal movement. They formed in 1979 and disbanded 1988. Their "Total Metal" approach is somewhere between fellow NWOBHM bands such as Motörhead and Venom, punk rock bands such as The Dickies, and early Exodus or Slayer.

[[James Wisniewski]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, American ice hockey players, Anaheim Ducks players, Carolina Hurricanes players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Islanders players, Sportspeople from Michigan, Living people, American Hockey League players, Ontario Hockey League players, Ice hockey defencemen

James Joseph Wisniewski (born February 21, 1984 in Canton, Michigan) is an NHL ice hockey defenceman that is currently an unrestricted agent. He was selected by the Chicago Blackhawks with the 156th overall pick in the 2002 NHL Draft.

Wisniewski also played for the Chicago Blackhawks for 4 seasons, the Anaheim Ducks for 2 seasons, the New York Islanders for 1 season and the Montreal Canadiens for 1 season before his rights were traded to the Columbus Blue Jackets for a conditional seventh-round draft pick in 2012 for the Canadiens. The draft pick will become a fifth-rounder if Columbus actually signs Wisniewski.

[[Tony Dolan]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1964 births, English musicians

Tony "Demolition" Dolan (also known as The Demolition Man) is an English musician and actor, most known as bassist and vocalist of heavy metal bands Atomkraft and Venom.

[[Mark LaVarre]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, American ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Living people, Sportspeople from Illinois

Mark LaVarre (born February 21, 1965 in Evanston, Illinois) is a retired American professional ice hockey right winger who played a career total of 78 games in the NHL. He played his entire NHL career with the Chicago Black Hawks. He was drafted by the Chicago Black Hawks with the 119th overall pick in the sixth round of the 1983 NHL Draft.

[[Mike Eagles]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, American Hockey League players, Billings Bighorns players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from New Brunswick, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Living people, Ontario Hockey League players, Quebec Nordiques players, Washington Capitals players, Winnipeg Jets (1979–96) players

Michael Bryant Eagles (born March 7, 1963 in Sussex, New Brunswick) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey left winger who played a career total of 853 games in the NHL. He played 4 seasons with the Quebec Nordiques, 2 seasons with the Chicago Blackhawks, 5 seasons with the Winnipeg Jets and 6 seasons with the Washington Capitals. He was drafted by the Quebec Nordiques with the 116th overall pick in the 1981 NHL Draft.

[[Superman's Dead]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 1996 songs

"Superman's Dead'" is a 1996 alternative rock/post-grunge song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the first single from their second studio album Clumsy, which was released in 1997. The song was written by Raine Maida and Mike Turner.

The song is about how much TV that children watch and also the content of it. The song looks at the dark expectations that are garnered from media images.

The song is one of the most popular song's from Our Lady Peace and is also a definitive example of Our Lady Peace's staple sound with the main thing being Raine Maida's voice.

[[Naveed (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 1995 songs

"Naveed'" is a 1995 alternative rock/post-grunge song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the first single from their debut studio album Naveed, which was released in 1994. The song was written by Raine Maida.

[[Supersatellite]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 1995 songs

"Supersatellite'" is a 1995 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the fourth single from their debut studio album Naveed, which was released in 1994. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.

The song was inspired by a book from Ken Carey.

[[Hope (Our Lady Peace song)]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 1994 songs

"Hope'" is a 1994 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the third single from their debut studio album Naveed, which was released in 1994. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.

The meaning of the song is about a girl named Hope who going into insanity and thinks she's a sunflower so she climbs on top of a piano and reaches for the sun.

[[Starseed (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 1994 songs

"Starseed'" is a 1994 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the second single from their debut studio album Naveed, which was released in 1994. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.

[[The Birdman]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 1994 songs

"The Birdman" is a 1994 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the first single from their debut studio album Naveed, which was released in 1994. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.

[[Life (Our Lady Peace song)]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 2000 songs

"Life" is a 2000 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the second single from their fourth studio album Spiritual Machines, which was released in 2000. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by both Arnold Lanni and Raine Maida. The song was nominated for "Best Single" at the 2002 Juno Awards.

[[In Repair (Our Lady Peace song)]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 2000 songs

"In Repair" is a 2000 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the first single from their fourth studio album Spiritual Machines, which was released in 2000. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.

[[Thief (Our Lady Peace song)]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 1999 songs

"Thief" is a 1999 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the third single from their third studio album Happiness... Is Not a Fish That You Can Catch, which was released in 1999. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.

[[Is Anybody Home?]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 2000 songs

"Is Anybody Home?" is a 2000 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the second single from their third studio album Happiness... Is Not a Fish That You Can Catch, which was released in 1999. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni.

[[One Man Army (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 1999 songs

"One Man Army" is a 1999 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the first single from their third studio album Happiness...Is Not a Fish That You Can Catch, which was released in 1999. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni. The song is sometimes mistakenly called "Falling".

[[Clumsy (Our Lady Peace song)]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 1997 songs

"Clumsy" is a 1997 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the second single from their second studio album Clumsy, which was released in 1997. The song was written by Raine Maida and Mike Turner and was produced by Arnold Lanni. The song was featured on the soundtrack to the movie, I Know What You Did Last Summer.

[[4 AM (Our Lady Peace song)]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 1998 songs

"4 AM" is a 1998 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the fourth single from their second studio album Clumsy, which was released in 1997. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Arnold Lanni. They thought of the name 4 AM because they wrote the song at 4:00 AM and Raine Maida's father, Anthony Maida has the initials "AM".

[[Right Behind You (Mafia)]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 2001 songs

"Right Behind You (Mafia)" is a 2001 alternative rock/post-grunge song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the third single from their fourth studio album Spiritual Machines, which was released in 2000. The song was written by Raine Maida and Mike Turner and was produced by both Arnold Lanni and Raine Maida.

[[Somewhere Out There (Our Lady Peace song)]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 2002 songs

"Somewhere Out There" is a 2002 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the first single from their fifth studio album Gravity, which was released in 2002. The song was written by Raine Maida. The song was the most successful song on the album and was also the most internationally successful single ever released by the band.

[[Innocent (Our Lady Peace song)]]

CATEGORIES: Our Lady Peace songs, 2002 songs

"Innocent" is a 2002 alternative rock song by the Canadian alternative rock band Our Lady Peace and is the second single from their fifth studio album Gravity, which was released in 2002. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by Bob Rock. 

[[Suspension (chemistry)]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

In chemistry, a suspension is a mixture of two or more components. In a suspension, very small pieces of solid are mixed in a liquid but do not dissolve.   If left still, the solid pieces will separate from the liquid and either fall to the bottom or rise to the top. Sand in water and flour in water are examples of suspensions. Suspensions may separate quickly or stay suspended for a long time, depending on what they contain.

If a liquid is suspended in another liquid, it is called an emulsion. Milk is an emulsion. If a liquid is suspended in a gas it is an aerosol. Mist is an aerosol.

[[New Wave of British Heavy Metal]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy metal

The New Wave of British Heavy Metal (NWOBHM) was a heavy metal movement that started in the late 1970s, in  Britain.  It was well known around the world by the early 1980s.  The movement developed as a reaction in part to the decline of early heavy metal bands such as Deep Purple, Led Zeppelin and Black Sabbath

Some NWOBHM bands are Saxon, Motörhead, Diamond Head, and Iron Maiden

[[Blossoms in the Dust]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 movies, 1940s drama movies, MGM movies, Movies directed by Mervyn LeRoy, American drama movies

Blossoms in the Dust is an 1941 drama movie that was produced by Irving Asher and Mervyn LeRoy and was directed by Mervyn LeRoy. Blossoms in the Dust was released on July 25, 1941 in North America. The movie won an Academy Award for Best Art Direction-Interior Decoration, Color and was also nominated for Best Actress in a Leading Role, Best Cinematography, Color and Best Picture.

[[Dreidel]]

CATEGORIES: games, Hanukkah

A Dreidel (סביבון,דרעידעל) is a four-sided top which is played in the Hanukkah season by Jewish people. It is game of luck which uses candy, coins or other betting tokens. 

[[Misery]]

Misery is a feeling of great unhappiness, suffering and/or pain.

Misery may also refer to:

In entertainment:

Places:

In music:

[[Is Anybody Out There]]

CATEGORIES: Maroon 5 songs, 2011 songs

"Is Anybody Out There" is a song recorded by American pop group Maroon 5. The song was recorded in Europe at Coca Cola Music Studios on March 21, 2011. The song set a world record for being the first song in music history to be written, produced, and recorded within a 24-hours.

[[Walter Horton]]

CATEGORIES: Blues musicians, Musicians from Mississippi, 1917 births, 1981 deaths, Chicago blues musicians, Blues harp players

Walter Horton (April 6, 1917 – December 8, 1981) was an American blues harp player. He is also known as Big Walter Horton or "Shakey" Horton.

[[Wedding Crashers]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 comedy movies, 2005 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s sex comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American sex comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about weddings

Wedding Crashers is a 2005 American romantic comedy movie that was produced by Peter Abrams, Toby Kiccumshot, Robert L. Levy, Cale Boyter, Andrew Panay and Richard Brener and was directed by David Dobkin. Wedding Crashers was released on July 15, 2005 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 75% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 64 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Superbad (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, 2000s buddy movies, 2000s sex comedy movies, 2000s teen comedy movies, American sex comedy movies, American teen comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about virginity

Superbad is a 2007 American teen sex comedy movie. It was produced by Judd Apatow, Evan Goldberg, Seth Rogen and Shauna Robertson and was directed by Greg Mottola. Superbad was released on August 17, 2007 in North America. The movie received positive reviews with a 87% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 76 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Basseterre]]

CATEGORIES: National capitals in North America, Saint Kitts and Nevis

Basseterre b, is the capital city of the Federation of Saint Christopher and Nevis, also called St Kitts and Nevis, in the West Indies. Basseterre port is at 17, on the south western coast of Saint Kitts Island.  It is one of the chief commercial depots of the Leeward Islands. The city is in the parish of Saint George Basseterre and the southern part of the parish of Saint Peter Basseterre.  In 2000 about 15,500 people lived in the city.

Basseterre is one of the oldest towns in the Eastern Caribbean.

[[Shenton Way]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Singapore

Shenton Way is a major road in Singapore. It is part of the Central Business District (CBD) area that is found at the south of Singapore. Together with Raffles Place, it forms part of Singapore's first CBD area. This road is a one way street that starts at the junction of Cross Street, Central Boulevard and Raffles Quay and ends at Keppel Road. The road was named after Sir Shenton Thomas, the Governor of Singapore in 1934–1946, to commemorate his decision to stay in the city during the Japanese Occupation of Singapore.

This road was officially opened in 1951 and became Singapore's version of Wall Street in the 1970s when many business started building their offices there.

[[Sylvia Likens]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 1965 deaths

Sylvia Likens (January 3, 1949 - October 26, 1965) was a 16-year-old murder victim from Indiana. She was tortured for three months by Gertrude Baniszewski (née Van Fossan), Gertrude's children, and other young people from their neighborhood, and eventually murdered on October 26, 1965. Her parents, carnival workers, had left Likens and her sister Jenny in the care of the Baniszewski family three months before her death in exchange for $20 a week. Baniszewski, two of her children, Paula and John, and two neighborhood youths, Coy Hubbard and Richard Hobbs, were charged and convicted of the crime. Her torture and murder were described by the prosecutor in Baniszewski's trial as "the most terrible crime ever committed in the state of Indiana".

[[The Tsar's Bride]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, Operas

The Tsar's Bride (Tsarskaya nevesta in Russian) is an opera by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov.  It was the tenth opera the composer wrote.  The words (libretto) were written by Il’ya Tyumenev who based the story on a book called “The Tsar’s Bride" by Lev Mei.  The opera was composed in 1898.  The first performance took place in 1899 at the Moscow theater of the Private Opera of S.I. Mamontov.

[[Bubble sort]]

CATEGORIES: Searching and sorting algorithms

Complex

Bubble sort is a simple sorting algorithm. It is simple to understand, so it is usually taught to new students. It is not as efficient as some other sorting algorithms.

Bubble sort's name comes from the fact that each item in the list “bubbles” up to where it should go, like bubbles in water.

[[Maundy Thursday]]

CATEGORIES: Christian holidays, Easter

Maundy Thursday, also known as Holy Thursday, Covenant Thursday, Great & Holy Thursday, and Thursday of Mysteries, is the Christian feast or holy day falling on the Thursday before Easter that commemorates the Last Supper of Jesus Christ with the Twelve Apostles as described in the Canonical gospels. It is the fifth day of Holy Week, and is preceded by Holy Wednesday and followed by Good Friday.

[[Holy Saturday]]

CATEGORIES: Christian holidays, Easter

Holy Saturday (from the Latin: Sabbatum Sanctum) is the day after Good Friday. It is the day before Easter and the last day of Holy week, in which Christians prepare for Easter. This day commemorates the day that Jesus Christ's body laid in the tomb.

[[Dysaethesia Aethiopica]]

CATEGORIES: Pseudoscience

Dysaethesia Aethiopica was a term to describe a mental illness which was believed to be why Afro-American slaves were lazy.

American physician Samuel A. Cartwright described the condition in 1851. Today, dysaethesia aethiopica is considered an example of pseudoscience. Many people think it is an example of scientific racism. 

Cartwright wrote that the illness caused people to break and mishandle everything they touched. They walked about as if they were in a daze, or half asleep. They often argued with people in charge and caused disturbances. They did not feel pain, and did not react when physically punished. It affected people who did not have white (or European) people to look after them.

[[Ilya Bryzgalov]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, American Hockey League players, Anaheim Ducks players, Edmonton Oilers players, Russian ice hockey goaltenders, Living people, Minnesota Wild players, Philadelphia Flyers players, Phoenix Coyotes players, Stanley Cup champions

Ilya Nikolayevich Bryzgalov (Илья Николаевич Брызгалов in Russian; born June 22, 1980 in Togliatti, Russian SFSR, URS) is a former Russian professional ice hockey goaltender that played for the Minnesota Wild of the National Hockey League (NHL).

Bryzgalov has also played for the Anaheim Ducks/Mighty Ducks of Anaheim for 5 seasons, the Phoenix Coyotes for 4 seasons, the Philadelphia Flyers for 2 seasons, and the Edmonton Oilers for 20 games. He was drafted by the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim with the 44th overall pick in the 2000 NHL Draft. He won the Stanley Cup with the Anaheim Ducks on June 6, 2007.

On March 4, 2014, the Oilers traded Bryzgalov to the Minnesota Wild for a fourth-round draft pick.

[[Philip Henrik Hansteen]]

CATEGORIES: 1817 births, Norwegian politicians, Year of death unknown

Philip Henrik Hansteen (1817 – ?) was a Norwegian judge.

Hansteen was born in Moss, and graduated there as a cand.jur. (Candidate of Law) in 1840. From 1840 to 1842 he was a deputy judge at the Moss District Court in Moss. He was a judge in what was Norway's last trail that ended in pillory, making one embarrassed in public. He later worked as a "district stipendiary magistrate" of the Sør-Østerdal District Court from 1854 to 1869. He later worked at the Solør District Court from 1869 to 1879. In 1879 he became a Supreme Court Assessor for the rest of his life.

[[Zephyr]]

Zephyr may refer to:

[[Scientific racism]]

CATEGORIES: Race, Pseudoscience

Scientific racism is the use of science to support racism. In the 19th century, scientists divided humankind into different groups called "races".

For instance, the group of black people was called "Black race" or "Negroid race". Many scientists said that white people were superior to (better than) black people. In this way, scientists supported slavery and Jim Crow laws.

In the 19th century, some scientists said that Jews were a race. People like Houston Steward Chamberlain wrote that Jews were a danger to other people. Adolf Hitler read some of their books. He ordered the Holocaust in which about 6 million Jews were murdered.

Today, scientists agree that there is only one human race. Modern genetic research has shown that the idea of different races was wrong.360 Scientists also say that the "belief in races" is a very bad thing that has caused much damage.

[[Dease Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in British Columbia

Dease Lake is a small Canadian city in British Columbia, Canada. Dease Lake is in the Northern Interior of British Columbia. Dease Lake is only a few hours from the Yukon border. Near Dease Lake is the Dease Lake Indian Reserve No. 9 which is under the governance of the Tahltan First Nation band government. Dease Lake is known for being a destination for hunting and other wilderness activities.

[[Osoyoos, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Osoyoos is a Canadian town in British Columbia, Canada. Osoyoos is in the southern part of the Okanagan Valley in British Columbia and is also near the Washington border. The population of Osoyoos was 5,203 at the 2010 consensus. Osoyoos is pronounced "OH-SOY -OOSE" and is also historically pronounced "SOY-OOSE". NHL player Chuck Kobasew was born in Osoyoos.

[[Fort Nelson, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Fort Nelson is a Canadian town in British Columbia, Canada. Fort Nelson is in the newly formed Northern Rockies Regional Municipality and is also in the northeastern corner of British Columbia. The population of Fort Nelson was 4,514 at the 2006 census. Around Fort Nelson is Fort Nelson River, Muskwa River and Prophet River. The forests in Fort Nelson are part of Canada's boreal forest.

[[Total Metal]]

CATEGORIES: Compilation albums

Total Metal is the compilation album by heavy metal band Atomkraft. It contains songs from albums published by Neat Records.

[[Gliding]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft, Animals

Gliding is when an object or animal goes through the air without active flight. All gliders use an aerofoil to slow their rate of descent. Glider planes have wings, and gliding animals have membranes which they stretch out. By using rising air they can prolong their stay in the air. The word 'soaring' describes this, and is also used for the sport of gliding. 

Air will rise if it is heated by the ground or if it is deflected by mountains. Improvements in aerodynamics, in instruments and in the understanding of the weather have allowed flights over great distances at high speeds. The world record distance is now over 3000 km.

[[Parasomnia]]

CATEGORIES: Sleep disorders, Psychology

Parasomias are sleep disorders that interrupt sleep. They can be broadly classified:

[[Tom Glavine]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, American Roman Catholics, Atlanta Braves players, Living people, Major League Baseball broadcasters, New York Mets players, National League All-Stars

Tom Glavine (born March 25, 1966) is a former baseball player who played pitcher. He won more than 300 games in his career and has won the second-most games in National League history (behind his former teammate Greg Maddux). He won one World Series with the Atlanta Braves in 1995, and was the World Series Most Valuable Player (MVP). Most of his career was with the Braves (from 1987 to 2002 and in 2008), but he also played with the New York Mets from 2003 to 2007.

[[Skrillex]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, American adoptees, Electronic musicians, Grammy Award winners, Living people, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Atlantic Records artists

Sonny John Moore (born 15 January 1988) is an American electronic music producer, DJ and singer-songwriter. He is better known by his stage name, Skrillex.

[[Chess Records]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music, American record labels, Blues labels, Music in Chicago, 1950 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Illinois

Chess Records was an American record label from Chicago, Illinois. It was founded by the brothers Leonard and Phil Chess. The label was important for blues, R&B, soul, gospel music and early Rock and roll. The label soon was very successful because it recorded music the major labels did not. The label was originally at 2120 S. Michigan Avenue. The site is now home of Willie Dixons Blues Heaven Foundation.

A critic said, that without Chess Record today's music would sound different. Another calls Chess Records "America's greatest blues label".

[[Physiotherapy]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

Physiotherapy is also called "physical therapy". It attempts to treat what limits a person's abilities to move and do things in their daily life.

It is the treatment of disease, injury, deformity or disability to improve the quality of life. Physiotherapists use exercise, hands-on techniques (including manual therapy, dry needling and trigger point therapy), patient education and various other methods.

Physiotherapists are well known for their treatment of musculoskeletal injuries such as ankle sprains, muscle injuries and tendon pain. Musculoskeletal physiotherapists are often clinic-based, however are often also working with sporting teams and also work in hospitals.

However, physiotherapists are also crucial for many conditions that you may not have realised. neurophysiotherapy plays an important role in the recovery of neurological conditions such as stroke patients and traumatic brain injury patients. Physios also play an important role in cardiopulmonary rehabilitation, such as after heart surgery and in respiratory conditions such as emphysema.

Physios also play a major role in treating children, including those with cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, Down syndrome, and other chromosome-related conditions.

[[List of dances]]

CATEGORIES: Dances, Lists

List of dances:

[[Kesennuma, Miyagi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Miyagi Prefecture

Kesennuma  is a Japanese city. It is part of Miyagi Prefecture. Kesennuma is in the northeastern part of the prefecture and faces two coasts: the Pacific coast, and Sanriku coast. Kesennuma borders the town of Minamisanriku to the south. Across the border to the north in Iwate Prefecture, it borders the cities of Ofunato and Rikuzentakata.

The city was heavily damaged on March 11, 2011 by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami and by large fires. Between 1 March and 31 August 2011, many people left Kesennuma. The population went down by about 2,500 people, or 5%. 

[[Volkswagen Transporter]]

CATEGORIES: Front wheel drive vehicles, Buses, Vans, Volkswagen automobiles

The Volkswagen Transporter is a range of vans and minibuses produced by Volkswagen since 1950. Before 1990 they were air-cooled with the engine in the rear, after 1990 the engine was moved to the front and water-cooled.

[[Kett's Rebellion]]

CATEGORIES: 1549, Rebellions in Europe, 16th century in England, 16th century rebellions, 1540s in Europe

Kett's Rebellion was a fight in Norfolk during the reign of Edward VI of England. The rebellion was led by Robert Kett of Wymondham, Norfolk. It started in July 1549.

Kett's Rebellion started in Wymondham after a small group of peasants (poor people) got together to protest against barons, who had stolen the common land, leaving the poor people to die of hunger. The leader was Robert Kett. The peasants marched 16 kilometres into Norwich and gathered on Mousehold Heath. They attracted the support of the poorer people of Norwich.

Hundreds of peasants were killed and 300 were captured and executed in Norwich. Robert Kett was captured, held in the Tower of London and then hanged at Norwich Castle on 7 December 1549.

[[Rhythm game]]

CATEGORIES: Music video games, Video game genres

Rhythm game, or rhythm action, is a type of music-themed action video game. These games mostly focus either on dancing or simulating the playing of musical instruments. Players must press buttons in time with commands from the game, which are in time with the rhythm of a song. Doing so will cause the game's protagonist or avatar to dance or play their instrument correctly, thus achieving a greater score. The game can be played with a hand-held controller, though different control devices have been made to play rhythm games, such as guitar- and drum-shaped controllers for musical instrument games, and pressure-sensitive pads (called dance mats) that the player must step on for dancing games. The Kinect for the Xbox 360 allows the player to use their whole body to control the game by tracking their movements. Some games have a multi-player mode, where players can play as members of a band or dance crew, or compete against each other.

The 1996 title PaRappa the Rapper was the first influential rhythm game. The basic design of the game became a pattern that later rhythm games followed. In 1997, Konami's Beatmania started popularity for rhythm games in Japan. The company's music division, Bemani, released many music games over the next several years. The most successful of these was dance mat game Dance Dance Revolution, which was also the only one to achieve large-scale success outside of Japan. The game's style was imitated by many other games, until the release of Harmonix's Guitar Hero. The game was inspired by similar, earlier Japanese games, but Harmonix added rock music aimed at a Western audience. The success of the game revived the genre and two hugely successful franchises were born in Guitar Hero and the later Rock Band. The success of both expanded the console video game market and its demographics. By 2008, rhythm games were considered to be one of the most popular video game genres, behind other action games. However, because there were so many spin-offs from the core titles in 2009, there was a nearly 50% drop in sales for music games, causing them to scale-back plans for further expansion in 2010.

[[Earth Day]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays

Earth Day is a day that is supposed to inspire more awareness and appreciation for the Earth's natural environment. It takes place each year on April 22. It now takes place in more than 193 countries around the world.  During Earth Day, the world encourages everyone to turn off all unwanted lights. On Earth day we should give something to our mother land like we can plant trees.

==History==  

It was founded by United States Senator Gaylord Nelson as an environmental teach-in first held on April 22, 1970. U Thant, the Secretary-General of United Nations at that time, has recognized it. While the first Earth Day focused on the United States, an organization launched by Denis Hayes, who was the original national coordinator in 1970, took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 countries. Its name and concept were created by John McConnell in 1960 at a UNESCO conference in San Francisco.

[[Parables of Jesus]]

CATEGORIES: Parables of Jesus, Christian genres

The parables of Jesus can be found in Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, and in some of the gospels not in the Bible. They are found mostly in the three synoptic gospels. They are a key part of the teaching of Jesus: they form about one third of his recorded teachings. Christians place emphasis on these parables, since they are believed to be the words of Jesus.

Jesus' parables are seemingly simple and memorable stories, often with imagery, and each conveys a message. Scholars have commented that although these parables seem simple, the messages they convey are deep, and central to the teachings of Jesus.

Many of Jesus' parables refer to simple everyday things, such as a woman baking bread (parable of the Leaven), a man knocking on his neighbor's door at night (parable of the Friend at Night), or the aftermath of a roadside mugging (parable of the Good Samaritan); yet they deal with major religious themes, such as the growth of the Kingdom of God, the importance of prayer, and the meaning of love.

In Western civilization, these parables formed the prototype for the term parable and in the modern age, even among those who know little of the Bible, the parables of Jesus remain some of the best known stories in the world.

[[Parable of the Barren Fig Tree]]

CATEGORIES: Parables of Jesus

The Parable of the Barren Fig Tree (Luke 13:6–9) written in the New Testament is a parable of Jesus.  It is a parable about a fig tree which does not produce fruit, unlike the parable of the budding fig tree.

[[Parable of the Budding Fig Tree]]

CATEGORIES: Parables of Jesus, Christian eschatology

The Parable of the Budding Fig Tree is a parable of Jesus.  It is written in the New Testament in Matthew 24:32-35, Mark 13:28-31 and Luke 21:29-33.  The parable compares the Kingdom of God with a budding fig tree, the opposite of the barren fig tree.

[[Counting the cost]]

CATEGORIES: Parables of Jesus

Counting the cost is the name of a pair of parables Jesus told.  The two parables are written in the New Testament in Luke 14:25-33.

[[Parable of Drawing in the Net]]

CATEGORIES: Parables of Jesus

The Parable of Drawing in the Net is a parable of Jesus written in the New Testament in Matthew 13:47–52.  It is a parable about the final judgment.  It is the seventh and last parable in the chapter which began with the Parable of the Sower.

[[Parable of the Faithful Servant]]

CATEGORIES: Parables of Jesus

The Parable of the Faithful Servant (or Parable of the Door Keeper) is a parable of Jesus written in the New Testament in Matthew 24:42-51, Mark 13:34-37, and Luke 12:35-48.

[[Parable of the Friend at Night]]

CATEGORIES: Parables of Jesus

The Parable of the Friend at Night (Importunate Neighbour), is a parable of Jesus written in the New Testament in Luke 11:5-8.  A man refuses to help his neighbour during an emergency at midnight.  His neighbour persists in asking until he changes his mind.

[[Onon River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Russia

The Onon gol (Mongolian: Онон гол, Russian: Онон) is a river in Mongolia and Russia. It is 818 km long. Its watershed is 94,010 km2. It starts at the Khentii Mountains, on the Eastern slopes. 298 km of the river is in Mongolia. It has a confluence (the place where two rivers join together) with the Ingoda River. When they meet, it makes the Shilka River. People believe that Genghis Khan was born near the upper Onon and he grew up there. The rivers Onon—Shilka—Amur makes one of the world's ten longest rivers (their lengths, in order: 818 km, 560 km, 2,874 km).

[[Entscheidungsproblem]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

The Entscheidungsproblem (German, "decision problem") is a famous problem of mathematics. David Hilbert formulated the problem in 1928: Is there an algorithm that will take a formal language, and a logical statement in that language, and that will output "True" or "False", depending on the truth value of the statement? The algorithm does not tell how it reaches the answer, nor prove it, as long as the answer is always correct.

In 1936 and 1937, Alonzo Church and Alan Turing showed independently, that there can be no answer to the Entscheidungsproblem. They showed that it is impossible for an algorithm to decide whether statements in arithmetic are true or false. For this reason, there can be no solution for the Entscheidungsproblem . This was proven by Alan Turings "Turing Machine" which was created in the 1930s.

[[Bessie Coleman]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1926 deaths, American aviators, African-American people, People from Waxahachie, Texas

Elizabeth "Bessie" Coleman (January 26, 1892 – April 30, 1926) was the first female African American pilot ever to hold an international pilot license. She fought discrimination to follow her dream of becoming a pilot.  She became a skilled barnstormer and aviation educator.

[[Willie Dixon]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1992 deaths, American blues singers, Musicians from Mississippi, Chicago blues musicians, People from Vicksburg, Mississippi

William James "Willie" Dixon (July 1, 1915 – January 29, 1992) was an American blues musician, singer, songwriter and bass player. He was one of the founders of Chicago blues. He wrote a lot of songs which are still standards of Chicago blues. (i.e. "Little Red Rooster", "Hoochie Coochie Man", "Evil", "Spoonful", "Back Door Man", "I Just Want to Make Love to You", "I Ain't Superstitious", "My Babe", "Wang Dang Doodle", and "Bring It On Home") The songs are from the 1950s when Dixon worked as producer for Chess Records. He also played upright bass on many of the label's records.

[[Legion of Honour]]

CATEGORIES: France, Legion of Honour, 1802 establishments, 1800s establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in France

The Legion of Honour (Ordre national de la Légion d'honneur) is the highest French award.

It was established by Napoleon Bonaparte on 19 May 1802.

The Order is the highest decoration in France and is divided into five degrees: Chevalier (Knight), Officier (Officer), Commandeur (Commander), Grand Officier (Grand Officer) and Grand Croix (Grand Cross).

The order's motto is Honneur et Patrie ('Honour and Country'), and its seat is the Palais de la Légion d'Honneur on the left bank of the River Seine in Paris.

[[Imperial College London]]

CATEGORIES: Universities in London, Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, 1907 establishments in England

Imperial College London (IC) is a large university in central London. It specialises in business, engineering, medicine and science.

Imperial College was a constituent college of the University of London. It became fully independent in 2007, the 100th anniversary of its founding.

Imperial is among the best universities. It ranks 2nd in the 2015 QS World University Rankings and 9th in the 2015 Times Higher Education World University Rankings. Imperial ranked 22 in the 2014 Shanghai world rankings.

Imperial's faculty and alumni include 15 Nobel laureates, 2 Fields Medalists, 70 Fellows of the Royal Society, 82 Fellows of the Royal Academy of Engineering and 78 Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences.

[[University of London]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 establishments, 1830s establishments in England, Universities in London, London Borough of Camden

The University of London is a federal university made up of 31 affiliates: 19 separate university institutions, and 12 research institutes. 

Its headquarters, Senate House, is in Malet Street in the Bloomsbury area of Camden. This is near University College London and the British Museum.

The University of London is the largest university in the UK by number of full-time students, with 135,090 campus-based students and over 45,000 in the University of London International Programmes. 

The constituent colleges are responsible for the teaching, the research or the individual students and staff of the constituent colleges; the university is not.  The university is an administrative body responsible for standards, degree examinations and certification. 

The university was first established by a Royal Charter in 1836, which brought together in federation London University (now University College London) and King's College (now King's College London).

Graduates of the University of London may use the post-nominal letters 'Lond.' or 'Londin.' (both from Londiniensis) after their degree abbreviations.

The university's biggest colleges are Birkbeck, Goldsmiths, King's College London, the London Business School, Queen Mary, Royal Holloway, SOAS, LSE and UCL.

[[Friedrich III of Germany]]

CATEGORIES: 1831 births, 1888 deaths, Cancer deaths in Germany, Crown Princes and Princesses of Prussia, Deaths from throat cancer, German emperors, House of Hohenzollern, Kings and Queens of Prussia, People from Potsdam

Friedrich Wilhelm Nikolaus Karl von Hohenzollern   (New Palace, Potsdam 18 October 1831 - New Palace, Potsdam 15 June 1888) was the only son of Wilhelm I.

After his father's death on 9 March 1888 Friedrich Wilhelm became King of Prussia and German Emperor as Friedrich III, but he was already suffering from throat cancer and died after just 99 days on the throne.

On 25 January 1858 he married Princess Victoria of the United Kingdom, eldest child of Queen Victoria and Albert the Prince Consort. They had seven children. The oldest, Friedrich Wilhelm, followed him as King and Emperor.

Friedrich Wilhelm III died of throat cancer in Potsdam. He is buried next to his wife in the Mausoleum of the Friedenskirche in Sanssouci Park, Potsdam.

==References== 

[[King's College London]]

CATEGORIES: Universities in London, City of Westminster, 1829 establishments in Europe, 1820s establishments in England

King's College London (King's or KCL) is a large university in London, and a college of the federal University of London.

University College London (1826) was founded before it. However, King's (1829) was the third oldest university in England to get its royal charter.

In 1836 King's became, with University College, one of the two founding colleges of the University of London.

King's is arranged into nine Schools of Study, spread across four Thames-side campuses in central London and one in Denmark Hill, South London.

King's is one of the largest centres for graduate and post-graduate medical teaching and biomedical research in Europe. It is home to six Medical Research Council centres, the most of any British university.

King's has around 18,600 full-time students and 5,030 staff and had a total income of £508 million in 2009/10, of which £144 million was from research grants and contracts.

There are 12 Nobel Prize winners amongst King's alumni and former faculty. King's is ranked 5th nationally and 19th in the world in the 2015 QS World University Rankings, 7th nationally and 27th in the world in the 2015 The Times Higher Education World University Rankings and 7th nationally and 55th in the world in the 2015 Academic Ranking of World Universities. In September 2010, The Sunday Times selected King's as its "University of the Year".

King's is a member of the European University Association and the Russell Group. It forms part of the 'Golden Triangle' of British universities.

[[Ganggangsullae]]

CATEGORIES: Dances

Ganggangsullae (Hangul: 강강술래) is a 5,000-year-old traditional Korean dance. It was first used to bring a good harvest and has become a cultural symbol for Korea. The females in Jeollanam-do usually dance this the most. Chuseok, the Korean style holiday a bit like the American Thanksgiving, is often known as the special day for this dance.

[[Easter Bilby]]

CATEGORIES: Easter traditions, Australian culture

The Easter Bilby is an Australian alternative to the Easter Bunny. Bilbies are an endangered species of Australian marsupials. Bilby shaped chocolates are sold in many Australian shops to raise money to help protect the bilbies. 

Author Rose-Marie Dusting wrote a book in 1979 called Billy, the Aussie Easter Bilby. Some of the money from each book sold goes to helping the bilbies.

The Foundation for Rabbit-Free Australia began to use the Easter Bilby concept in 1991. They wanted to show the damage that rabbits do to the Australian environment. The ideas was taken up by an Easter egg company, Darrell Lea. They give a portion of their profits to the foundation.

Australian children's book author and illustrator Irena Sibley produced three Easter Bilby books between 1994 and 2000 including the best selling The Bilbies' First Easter.

[[John Richard Hicks]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1989 deaths, British economists

EconomicsSir John Richard Hicks (8 April 1904 – 20 May 1989) was a British economist. He contributed to the fields of consumer demand theory in microeconomics. In 1937, he developed the IS/LM model  which summarizes a Keynesian view of macroeconomics.  His book Value and Capital (1939) significantly extended general-equilibrium and value theory.  The compensated demand function is named the Hicksian demand function in memory of him.

He was made a Knight Bachelor in 1964.

In 1972 he received the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences (jointly)  for his pioneering contribution to general equilibrium theory and welfare theory.

Hicks died on 20 May 1989 at his home in the Cotswold village of Blockley at the age of 85.

[[Elizabeth Cotten]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1987 deaths, American guitarists, Singers from North Carolina, Musicians from North Carolina, Piedmont blues, Blues guitarists, Grammy Award winners

[[Chuck E. Cheese]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 establishments in  the United States, 1970s establishments in California, American fast food restaurants, Companies based in Texas, San Jose, California

Chuck E. Cheese is a franchise of arcades and restaurants. Their restaurants have small rides, pizza (a central focus), and arcade / skill games. It was previously called Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza Time Theatre (1977–1991).

In most of their stores, they operate animatronic robot characters which sing songs and play instruments.

Created in 1977 in San Jose, California by Atari founder Nolan Bushnell, it started out as Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza Time Theatre. In 1984, CEC got bought out by Then-competitor ShowBiz Pizza Place from Topeka, Kansas and changed their corporate name to "ShowBiz Pizza Time". In 1989, Brock Hotel Management(then owners of SPT) sold it's "Monterrey's Tex-Mex Cafe" brand to them and spun off SPT into a separate company. In 1991, all ShowBiz and Pizza Time stores re-branded as "Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza" and in 1998 SPT changed their corporate name to "CEC Entertainment". In 1999, CECE bought out their primary competitor, Discovery Zone and in 2014 they bought the "Peter Piper's Pizza" chain. In 2013, CECE got bought by Apollo Global Management as was / is put up for sale.

CECE's headquarters are in Irving, Texas and have 590 CEC store locations worldwide.

In September 2020, it was announced that Chuck E. Cheese is developing a live-action movie and an animated television series.

[[Rob Halford]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, English LGBT people, Gay men, LGBT musicians, Musicians from Birmingham, Musicians from Staffordshire

Robert John Arthur "Rob" Halford (born 25 August 1951) is an English singer-songwriter. He was born in Sutton Coldfield and raised in Walsall. He is best known as the lead vocalist for the Grammy Award-winning heavy metal band Judas Priest. He is nicknamed "Metal God". He is also credited as being the first openly gay mainstream heavy metal star when he came out as gay in 1998.

Rob almost exclusively now works with producer Mike Exeter when creating new music having met him whilst working on the Redeemer of Souls album with Judas Priest.

[[Order of the Indian Empire]]

CATEGORIES: Order of the Indian Empire, British India, 1878 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1947 disestablishments in India, 1870s establishments in India, 1947 disestablishments in the United Kingdom

The Most Eminent Order of the Indian Empire is an order of chivalry founded by Queen Victoria in 1878. The Order includes members of three classes:

No appointments have been made since 1947, the year of Indian independence and the Partition of India. In 2010 the last surviving knight, The Maharaja of Dhrangadhra, died and the order became dormant .

The motto of the Order is Imperatricis auspiciis, (Under the auspices of the Empress), a reference to Queen Victoria, the first Empress of India. The Order is the junior British order of chivalry associated with the Empire of India; the senior one is The Most Exalted Order of the Star of India.

[[Garden State Parkway]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in the United States, Transport in New Jersey

The Garden State Parkway (or Garden State Pkwy) is a toll highway (which means that people must pay to drive on it) that goes through New Jersey from the south end of the state at Cape May to the north end of the state at Montvale, New Jersey. It is 172.4 miles long, and in 2008, was reported to be the busiest toll highway in the United States.

[[List of revocations of appointments to orders and awarded decorations and medals of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Holders of revoked orders, decorations, and medals of the United Kingdom, Lists of people, United Kingdom-related lists

Anyone who behaves in a way that might bring an order, decoration or medal into disrepute may have his award revoked (cancelled).

[[Order of the Star of India]]

CATEGORIES: Order of the Star of India, British India

The Most Exalted Order of the Star of India is an order of chivalry founded by Queen Victoria in 1861. The Order includes members of three classes:

No appointments have been made since the Partition of India in 1947.  The last living knight, The Maharaja of Alwar, died in 2009 and the order became dormant.

The motto of the Order is Heaven's light our guide. The "Star of India", the emblem of the Order, also appeared on the flag of the Viceroy of India.

The Order is the senior order of chivalry of the Empire of India; the junior order is The Most Eminent Order of the Indian Empire, and there was also, for women only the Imperial Order of the Crown of India.  It is the fifth-most-senior British order of chivalry, following The Most Noble Order of the Garter, The Most Ancient and Most Noble Order of the Thistle, The Most Illustrious Order of St Patrick, and The Most Honourable Order of the Bath.

[[Josh Hamilton]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, American baseball players, Cincinnati Reds players, Living people, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim players, Sportspeople from Raleigh, North Carolina, Texas Rangers players

Joshua Holt Hamilton (born May 21, 1981, in Raleigh, North Carolina) is an American professional baseball player who is currently a free agent. He has played for the Cincinnati Reds, Texas Rangers, and Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim of Major League Baseball (MLB). In the 2010 season he was named American League MVP. He chose to play for the Angels after they offered him a 5-year contract, worth $125 million. 

On April 27, 2015, the Angels traded Hamilton back to the Rangers.

[[Run batted in]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball statistics

Runs batted in or RBI is a statistic used in baseball and softball to credit a batter when the outcome of his at bat results in a run being scored, except in certain situations such as when an error is made on the play.

[[Base on balls]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball rules

A base on balls (BB) is given to a batter and against a pitcher in baseball statistics when a batter receives four pitches that the umpire calls balls. It is also known as a walk.

[[Martin St. Louis]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, American Hockey League players, Art Ross Trophy winners, Calgary Flames players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, New York Rangers players, Stanley Cup champions, Tampa Bay Lightning players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Martin St. Louis (maʁtɛ̃ sɛ̃ lwi; born June 18, 1975) is a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger. He played in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Calgary Flames, Tampa Bay Lightning and the New York Rangers as well as the HC Lausanne of the National League A (NLA).

St. Louis played college hockey at the University of Vermont for the Catamounts where he also played on the same team as former Boston Bruins goaltender Tim Thomas and former NHL player Éric Perrin. He has also played 2 seasons with the Calgary Flames and 13 seasons with the Tampa Bay Lightning.

On March 5, 2014, the Lightning traded St. Louis to the New York Rangers for New York captain Ryan Callahan, a 2015 first-round draft pick, and a conditional 2014 second-round pick.

St. Louis is married to his wife Heather Coragol and they have three sons, Ryan, Lucas and Mason.

[[Campden tablets]]

CATEGORIES: Beer, Wine

Campden tablets are used by people making their own beer, wine, or cider. The tablets kill yeast, making better yeast to be added later for better drinks. 5 of them in 1 pint of water makes a cleaning liquid that can be used to clean the equipment. They are made from sulfur. They were invented in Gloucestershire in the 1920s, but Boots Co. made them better. They can also be used to get rid of chlorine in tap water, making it safer to drink. 

[[Meguro]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture

Meguro is one of the 23 special wards of Tokyo, Japan. 

The municipality calls itself "Meguro City" in English.

As of December 31, 2007, the ward has an estimated population of 259,968 and a density of 17,685 persons per km². The total area is 14.70 km².

The ward was founded on March 15, 1947.

[[Wilhelm scream]]

CATEGORIES: Movie terminology, Sound

The Wilhelm scream is a movie and television sound effect first used in 1951 for the movie Distant Drums.  The effect became popular again (its use often becoming an in-joke) after it was used in Star Wars and many other movies as well as television shows and video games. The scream is often used when someone is shot, falls from a great height, or is thrown from an explosion.

The sound is named for Private Wilhelm, a character in The Charge at Feather River, a 1953 western in which the character is shot with an arrow.  This was believed to be the third movie to use the sound effect.  It was the first use of the sound from the Warner Brothers sound library.

[[Vitacura]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Vitacura is a commune and city of Santiago Province, Chile. According to the Chilean census on 2002, Vitacura has an area of 28.3 and 81,499 inhabitants.

[[Verandah]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements

A veranda or verandah is a porch or long, open room with a roof over it. It can be an open area with a roof that is built around a building at the center. It usually has a line of columns or pillars holding up the roof. There is often a railing around the outside. Verandahs often cover the whole front and sides of a building.

[[Shinagawa, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture, 1947 establishments in Japan

Shinagawa is one of the 23 special wards of Tokyo, Japan. It is sometimes called Shinagawa City in English.

As of 2008, the ward has an estimated population of 344,461 and a density of 15,740 persons per km². The total area is 22.72 km².

[[Ass to mouth]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual acts

Ass to mouth is a common term that describes one partner removing his penis from the anus, and inserting it into his partner's or another person's mouth.

[[Amalie Arena]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 establishments in Florida, Sports buildings in Florida, Sports in Tampa, Florida

The Amalie Arena is an arena in Tampa, Florida, that has been used for ice hockey, basketball, and arena football games, as well as concerts.

It is home to the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League and the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League.

[[Piedmont blues]]

CATEGORIES: Piedmont blues

Piedmont blues (also called East Coast Blues) is a blues music style from the East Coast of the USA. The name came from the Piedmont, a hilly coastal area between Richmond, Virginia and Atlanta, Georgia. But the style is also played in Maryland, Delaware, West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Florida.

The main instruments are guitar, vocals, drums and bass. The Piedmont style is played on acoustic instruments. The main difference to the Delta blues is the ragtime based rhythm. The style is influenced by ragtime, country string bands, traveling medicine shows and popular song of the early 20th century. East Coast Piedmont Blues blended both black and white, rural and urban song elements in the diverse urban centers of the Southeast and mid-Atlantic region. In contrast to Delta blues, the Piedmont blues were influenced by white music.

In the early twentieth century artists such as Blind Boy Fuller, Blind Blake, Blind Willie McTell, Rev. Gary Davis and Sonny Terry made Piedmont blues popular. Women also played the Piedmont guitar style, including Etta Baker and Elizabeth Cotten, whose “Freight Train” is one of the most recognized Piedmont tunes. Before the Second World War Piedmont blues was a style that was very popular with the African-Americans of the South. The heyday was the 1920s and 1930s.

[[Sportverein Austria Salzburg]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Salzburg

[[Tim Hunt]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British Nobel Prize winners, English biochemists, Fellows of the Royal Society, Knights Bachelor, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, People from Cheshire

Sir Richard Timothy Hunt FRS (born 19 February 1943 in Neston, Cheshire) is an English biochemist. He is usually known as Tim Hunt.

Hunt shared the 2001 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his work on cell division.

[[Christ Church, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, Cathedrals in England, 1546 establishments in England

Christ Church  is one of the largest colleges of the University of Oxford. The college was founded by Henry VIII in 1546. 

As well as being a college, Christ Church is also the cathedral church of the diocese of Oxford, namely Christ Church Cathedral, Oxford. 

[[Roman Wallner]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Roman Wallner (born 4 February 1982 in Graz, Styria) is an Austrian footballer. He plays for FC Wacker Innsbruck as striker.

[[Radha]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism

Radha is the Goddess of love and the Supreme Goddess of All. In the Gaudiya Vaishnava sect of the Vaishnava traditions in Hinduism, she is the childhood friend and lover of Krishna. In Manipuri Vaishnavism, she appears to be the most prominent figure, which is testified in the Manipuri Rasa Leela dance.

[[Franz Schiemer]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Franz "Fränky" Schiemer (born March 21, 1986, in Haag am Hausruck, Upper Austria) wasan Austrian footballer who played as a defender for FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga.

[[Lake Geneva]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of France, Lakes of Switzerland, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, Canton of Geneva, Geneva

Lake Geneva (Lac Léman, Genfersee, or Genfer See) is the second largest lake in Central Europe. The lake forms the border between France and Switzerland. About three fifths are in Switzerland. In total, it is about 580 km3 in size. At its deepest point it is 310 m deep, which makes it France's deepest lake. The biggest contributing river is the Rhone, other important tributaries are the Dranse, the Venoge and the Aubonne. The Rhone traverses the lake, and exits at Geneva. On average, its waters take 11.4 years to traverse the lake. Other than Geneva, important Swiss cities at the lakeshore are Lausanne, Montreux and Vevey. The biggest French city at the lakeshore is Thonon-les-Bains, the best known is Évian-les-Bains.

There are six small islands in the lake:

The Pierres du Niton are two erratic stones in the lake in Geneva. They were deposited there during the last ice age.

[[Audi A6]]

CATEGORIES: Audi automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Audi A6 is an automobile produced by Audi. It replaced the Audi 100 in 1994, and entered its fourth generation in 2011.

It is available in both sedan and station wagon bodystyles. It is also available in SUV bodystyle, called Audi Q7 quattro.

[[King Diamond]]

CATEGORIES: Danish singers, Heavy metal singers, People from Copenhagen, 1956 births, Living people

King Diamond (born Kim Bendix Petersen, Copenhagen, Denmark, on June 14, 1956) is a Grammy Award-nominated heavy metal musician.  As a vocalist, he is known for his extensive vocal range, in particular his usage of falsetto. He is the lead vocalist for both bands Mercyful Fate and King Diamond.

[[Volkswagen Eos]]

CATEGORIES: Volkswagen automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Volkswagen Eos is a car produced by Volkswagen since 2006. It replaced the in 2001 discontinued Volkswagen Golf Cabriolet.

[[Jesus College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1571 establishments, 1570s establishments in Europe, 16th century establishments in England

Jesus College  is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. 

The college was founded by Elizabeth I on 27 June 1571 for the education of clergy, though students now study a broad range of secular subjects. 

A major driving force behind the establishment of the college was Hugh Price (or Ap Rhys), a churchman and lawyer from Brecon in Wales. The college continues to be associated informally with Wales to this day. 

The oldest buildings, in the first quadrangle, date from the 16th and early 17th centuries; a second quadrangle was added between about 1640 and about 1713, and a third quadrangle was built in about 1906. Further accommodation was built on the main site to mark the 400th anniversary of the college, in 1971, and student flats have been constructed at sites in north and east Oxford.

The life of the college was disrupted by the English Civil War. Little happened at the college during the 18th century, and the 19th century saw a decline in numbers and academic standards. 

Reforms of Oxford University after two Royal Commissions in the latter half of the 19th century led to removal of many of the restrictions placed on the college's fellowships and scholarships. This meant the college was no longer mostly Welsh students and academics. Students' academic achievements rose in the early 20th century as fellows were appointed to teach in new subjects. Women were first admitted in 1974 and now form a large part of the undergraduate population.

There are about 475 students. The Principal of the college is Lord Krebs, the son of the Nobel Prize winner Hans Krebs. Former students include Harold Wilson (twice British Prime Minister), Norman Washington Manley (Chief Minister of Jamaica) and T.E. Lawrence ("Lawrence of Arabia"). 

The university's Chair (professorship) of Celtic is attached to the college.

[[Nosferatu]]

CATEGORIES: Silent movies, Movies based on books, 1922 movies, Cult movies, 1920s drama movies, 1920s horror movies, German-language movies, Ghost movies, Historical movies, German horror movies, Movies set in Germany, 1920s thriller movies, Vampires in movies, Movies directed by F. W. Murnau

Nosferatu eine Symphonie des Grauens (translation: Nosferatu: A Symphony of Horror) is a 1922 German silent horror movie by F. W. Murnau. It was based on the Dracula novel by Bram Stoker.

The movie was shot in 1921 and was released in Germany in 1922 and in the US in 1929. It is about a vampire or "Nosferatu" named Count Orlok (starring Max Schreck) who lives in a castle on top of a hill. The movie is in the public domain in America but not in Germany.

The movie was a commercial failure and caused the company Prana Film to be shut down due to copyright infringement. The movie was the only movie by Prana Film.

The movie got a strong cult following. Not only this, the movie has received overwhelmingly positive reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes it got a "Certified Fresh" label: 98% of critics gave the film a positive review with a "fresh" rating, based on 46 reviews.

In 2010, it was ranked twenty-first in Empire magazine's "The 100 Best Films of World Cinema".

[[King Diamond (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s music groups, 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, Danish heavy metal bands

King Diamond are a Danish heavy metal band. It was formed by King Diamond after the split up of his band Mercyful Fate.

[[Lego Duplo]]

CATEGORIES: Lego

Lego Duplo (also called Lego Preschool, Explore or simply just DUPLO) is another type of Lego toys. The difference is that they are bigger than regular Lego and that they are meant for ages 1½-6, because they are easier to handle than regular Lego. Lego Duplo were launched in 1969.

[[Obi-Wan Kenobi]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1977, Fictional war veterans, Star Wars characters

Obi-Wan Kenobi, also known as Ben Kenobi, is a fictional character in the Star Wars universe. He is one of several primary characters and one of the protagonist in the Star Wars series. He is a Jedi Master. 

With Anakin Skywalker/Darth Vader, R2-D2, and C-3PO, he is one of the few major characters to appear in all of the six Star Wars movies. He is portrayed in the original trilogy by Alec Guinness and in the prequel trilogy by Ewan McGregor and voiced by James Arnold Taylor in Star Wars: The Clone Wars series and Star Wars Rebels series.  

== References == 

[[Eric Singer]]

CATEGORIES: American drummers, Musicians from Cleveland, Ohio, American rock musicians, American heavy metal musicians, 1958 births, Living people

Eric Doyle Mensinger (born May 12, 1958 in Cleveland, Ohio, USA), better known as Eric Singer, is a hard rock and heavy metal drummer for the rock band Kiss and formerly for singer Alice Cooper. In December 1991, Eric Singer officially became the drummer for Kiss after the death of Eric Carr.

[[Martin Erat]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, American Hockey League players, Arizona Coyotes players, Czech ice hockey players, Living people, Nashville Predators players, Phoenix Coyotes players, Red Deer Rebels players, Saskatoon Blades players, Washington Capitals players, Memorial Cup winners

Martin Erat (born August 28, 1981 in Třebíč, Czechoslovakia) is a former Czech ice hockey right winger that played for the Arizona Coyotes of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Nashville Predators and the Washington Capitals. Martin also has an older brother named Roman who plays in the Czech Extraliga.

[[Portal 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 video games, Cooperative video games, Half-Life series, MacOS games, Platform games, PlayStation 3 games, Puzzle video games, Windows games, Xbox 360 games

Portal 2 is a first-person shooter puzzle video game made by Valve Corporation. It is the sequel to the video game Portal. The gameplay is similar to the first game, but it adds new stories, puzzles, and characters. Unlike the first game, it also has a co-op campaign, where two players play as robots built by GLaDOS to solve puzzles that could never be solved by humans.

[[Thriller (genre)]]

CATEGORIES: Movie genres, Fiction genres

A thriller is a genre found in literature, movies and television. It uses suspense, where the audience is made to wonder what is going to happen next. Thrillers often have a horror or crime theme. Some examples of thriller movies are Psycho, Silence of the Lambs, Vertigo, Rear Window, Argo and The Birds.

[[Over the Limit (2011)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in professional wrestling, Sports in Seattle, Washington, WWE Over the Limit, 2011 in the United States, 2010s in Washington (U.S. state), 21st century in Seattle, Washington

Over the Limit (2011) is a future professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event to be made by WWE, which will happen on May 22, 2011 at the KeyArena in Seattle, Washington. It will be the second Over the Limit event.

[[Balkan Wars]]

CATEGORIES: Wars of independence, 1912, 1913, 1910s in Europe

Second Balkan War:

Support

 Balkan League:

Support

The Balkan Wars were a series of wars fought in the Balkan Peninsula in 1912 (First Balkan War) and 1913 (Second Balkan War). 

The First Balkan War was fought by Greece, Serbia, Montenegro and Bulgaria (the Balkan League) against the Ottoman Empire. The main objective of the Balkan League was to annex the European territories of the Ottoman Empire, because large numbers of the people of the Balkan League lived under Ottoman rule. The war was a success and the Ottoman Empire lost almost its entire European territories.

The Second Balkan War was fought by Greece, Serbia, the Ottoman Empire and Romania against Bulgaria. Because Bulgaria felt that Greece and Serbia got more lands than they deserved, Bulgaria declared war on Greece and Serbia, which repelled the attacks. The Ottoman Empire and Romania declared war on Bulgaria, because they wanted to gain Bulgarian territories, and by the end of the Second Balkan War Bulgaria had lost almost all its gains from the First Balkan War.

[[Derecho and tornado outbreak of April 4–5, 2011]]

CATEGORIES: Tornado outbreaks, Tornadoes in the United States, Derechos, April events, 2011 in the United States, 2010s in Illinois, History of Iowa, History of Indiana, 2010s in Ohio, 2010s in Pennsylvania, 2010s in Tennessee, 2010s in New Jersey, 2010s in Maryland

The April 2011 derecho and tornado outbreak was a large scale event where tornadoes and derechoes, or widespread straight-line winds, damaged parts of 3 states resulting in 9 fatalities. The event happened from April 4 to April 5th.

[[36 Crazyfists]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Metalcore bands, Nu metal bands, Post-hardcore bands, American heavy metal bands, Musicians from Alaska, People from Anchorage, Alaska

36 Crazyfists is an American heavy metal band from Anchorage, Alaska. 36 Crazyfists has four members in the band; the current band members are Brock Lindow, Steve Holt, Mick Whitney, and Kyle Baltus. The name of the band comes from the Jackie Chan movie, Jackie Chan And The 36 Crazy Fists. The band now originates in Portland, Oregon.

[[Sound effect]]

CATEGORIES: sound

A sound effect or audio effect is a sound used for movies, television, apps, music, or other types of media. There are lots of sound effects that we hear everyday. One of the techniques used to make a sound is banging or hitting a wall, a table, or desk.

[[WWE Over the Limit]]

CATEGORIES: WWE Over the Limit

Over the Limit was a professional wrestling event that was held yearly by WWE, and aired live only on pay-per-view (PPV). The first one was held in 2010, taking the place of Judgment Day in the May slot of WWE's pay-per-view calendar. The last event took place on May 20, 2012 at the PNC Arena in Raleigh, North Carolina. It was replaced by WWE Battleground in 2013.

As is the case with most lower level PPV's made by WWE, the event was held only in arenas in the United States. Championship bouts were scheduled on every card, with the lower level title matches on the undercard and the top level featured on the main card. Under the Brand Extension, WWE assigns its performers to either Raw or SmackDown which cause matches to be set up between wrestlers on the same show.

[[Osamu Tezuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 1989 deaths, Japanese manga artists, Cartoonists, People from Osaka Prefecture

Osamu Tezuka (手塚 治虫, Tezuka Osamu, November 3, 1928 – February 9, 1989) was a famous Japanese cartoonist, manga artist, animator, producer and Doctor of Medicine, although he never practiced medicine. He was born in Osaka Prefecture. He created Astro Boy, Kimba the White Lion and Black Jack. He is often credited as the "Father of Anime", and is often considered the Japanese equivalent to Walt Disney, who was a major inspiration for Tezuka.

Tezuka began what was known as the manga revolution in Japan with his New Treasure Island published in 1947. His legendary output would spawn some of the most influential, successful, and well received manga series including the children mangas Astro Boy, Princess Knight and Kimba the White Lion, and the adult oriented series Black Jack, Phoenix, and Buddha, all of which won several awards.

Tezuka died of stomach cancer in 1989. His death had an immediate impact on the Japanese public and other cartoonists. A museum was constructed in Takarazuka dedicated to his memory and life works, and Tezuka received many posthumous awards. Several animations were in production at the time of his death along with the final chapters of Phoenix, which were never released.

Osamu Tezuka:

,"Manga is virtual. Manga is sentiment. Manga is resistance. Manga is bizarre. Manga is pathos. Manga is destruction. Manga is arrogance. Manga is love. Manga is kitsch. Manga is sense of wonder. Manga is … there is no conclusion yet."

[[Shrek 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 animated movies, 2004 computer-animated movies, 2004 comedy movies, Sequel movies, Shrek, American comedy movies, Movies about animals, DreamWorks Pictures movies, American animated movies, Movies composed by Danny Elfman, Movies composed by Harry Gregson-Williams, Movies composed by John Powell, Screenplays by Joe Stillman, Movies directed by Kelly Asbury

Shrek 2 is a 2004 animated comedy movie and is the second movie in the Shrek movie series. It was directed by Andrew Adamson, Kelly Asbury and Conrad and stars Mike Myers as Shrek, Eddie Murphy as the donkey, Cameron Diaz as Fiona, Antonio Banderas as Puss in Boots, Julie Andrews as Fiona's mother, Rupert Everett as Prince Charming, John Cleese as Fiona's father and Jennifer Saunders as Fairy Godmother. Like the first movie, this one is a parody of fairy tales. It was followed by Shrek the Third.

[[Automobili Turismo e Sport]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One constructors

ATS (Automobili Turismo e Sport, which roughly translates in English to "Tourism and Sports Cars") was an Italian car maker and briefly, a constructor in Formula One. The team ran in F1 in 1963, and made cars from 1963 to 1965. The company was founded by Carlo Chiti and Giotto Bizzarrini, intended to compete directly with Ferrari. 

The two most well-known cars were the ATS 2500 GT, a sports car, and The Tipo 100, a Formula One car, which was a virtual copy of the Ferrari 156, which was a Formula One car in 1961. Unfortunately, with the cars being frequently withdrawn and technical problems through the season, the F1 team was shut down after 1963. In fact, out of the 10 entries ATS qualified for (Five races, two cars per race), only two cars were classified at the end of the race, albeit very slow, with Giancarlo Baghetti being classified at 23 laps down (23 laps behind the eventual race winner, Jim Clark). By contract, Phil Hill (with no relation to Graham Hill) finished seven laps down.

[[Alan Douglas Borges de Carvalho]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian footballers, 1989 births, Living people, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Alan Douglas Borges de Carvalho (born 10 July 1989 in Barbosa, São Paulo, Brazil) is a Brazilian footballer who plays for the Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga. His name as a player is simply Alan. He plays as a striker.

He started his career for Guaraní FC in Campinas, his hometown. At the age of 16 he joined Londrina EC and in 2008 he went to Fluminense Rio de Janeiro. From Fluminense he went to Europe and signed with F.C. Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga.

Under coach Huub Stevens he played only a few matches. In the era of Ricardo Moniz he became a regular player of the starting team. During the match versus Rapid Vienna in September 2011 he suffered a severe injury. He healed in April 2012.

[[Framlingham]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Suffolk Coastal

Framlingham is a small town in the Suffolk Coastal local government district of Suffolk, England.

Framlingham Castle is a large hill-top castle found in the town.  It has a population of 3,114 at the 2001 census. There used to be a railway station there but it is now closed.

[[Westerfield]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Suffolk Coastal

Westerfield is a small village near Ipswich in Suffolk.  It is about two miles north of the centre of Iswich. The village is served by Westerfield railway station on the Ipswich-Lowestoft East Suffolk Line. The village is home to two pubs, as well as the church, shown adjacent. 

The area of the Village south of the railway is inside the borough of Ipswich, although the area North of the railway is inside Suffolk coastal. The railway is around 500 metres from the centre of the village The railway service provides Ipswich, Felixstowe and Woodbridge, and further afield.

The village holds a Scout fete, and a church fete, each year. These fetes include traditional games, incorporating many locals from in and around the local area.

The Village used to be home to a local primary school, as well as a small post office. Despite this the village is still home to a nice village hall, that is home to the 1st Westerfield scout group, as well as a Beaver and Cub group. 

Despite this there are speeding issues along Westerfield road, driving through the centre of the village. 

[[Cocculus carolinus]]

CATEGORIES: Vines, Epiphytes

Cocculus carolinus otherwise known as Carolina Coralbead, Redberry Moonseed or the Carolina snailseed. It is indigenous to several states along the South to Midwest. It gets its name from the bright red color of the marble like berry that protrudes from the leaves of the plant.

[[Solar time]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy

Solar time relates to the amount of time which has passed according to orbit of the sun. A solar day is the amount of time it takes an object to go around the sun.

[[Mark St. John]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2007 deaths, Guitarists

Mark Leslie Norton (February 7, 1956 – April 5, 2007), better known as Mark St. John, was a guitarist known for his brief work with the rock band Kiss. He was only with Kiss a short time, but he was featured on the album Animalize, the second album of the "unmasked" period. St. John's only video appearance with Kiss is in the video for the hit single "Heaven's on Fire". After leaving Kiss, he formed a band called White Tiger. Mark St. John died on the morning of April 5, 2007, of a cerebral hemorrhage.

[[Bruce Kulick]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American rock guitarists, Musicians from New York City, American heavy metal musicians, Kiss

Bruce Howard Kulick (born December 12, 1953 in New York) is an American musician. He is  best known as lead guitarist for the rock band Kiss  from September 1984 to August 1996. 

[[Ragdoll]]

CATEGORIES: Colorpoint cat breeds

The ragdoll is a cat breed that is large, with blue eyes, and a semi-longhair soft and silky coat of fur. It is usually mostly white, with light to dark marks. 

The ragdoll was first bred by an American breeder named Ann Baker from a Persian-like cat (without a pedigree) and a Birman cat with the Siamese colorpoint gene. It is similar in appearance to the Himalayan, which was bred directly from the Persian and Siamese. 

The Ragdoll is gentle, easy going, and affectionate. The breed was named "Ragdoll" because they often go limp and relax like a rag or cloth doll when it is picked up. The original mother cat that the breed was created from was involved in a car accident, but contrary to popular belief, this is not why the breed goes limp when picked up (injuries from an accident are not passed on to offspring genetically).

Ragdoll is a breed that enjoys being around humans and it may follow its owner around the house. Due to its soft nature, it is strictly recommended to be an indoor only cat. 

In addition to the colorpoint pattern, Ragdolls may also have mittens (white paws).

[[Srinivasa Ramanujan]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 births, 1920 deaths, Indian mathematicians

Srinivasa Ramanujan Aiyangar (December 22, 1887 – April 26, 1920) was an Indian mathematician. He is considered to be one of the most talented mathematicians in recent history. His father's name was K.Srinivasa iyengar and mother's name was Komalatammal. On 1st October 1892 Ramanujan was enrolled at local school. He did not like school so he tried to avoid attending. He had no formal training in mathematics. However, he has made a large contribution to number theory, infinite series and continued fractions.

He was mentored by G. H. Hardy in the early 1910s. After getting his degree at Cambridge, Ramanujan did his own work. He compiled over 3500 identities and equations in his life. Some of the identities were found in his "lost notebook". When the notebook was discovered, mathematicians proved almost all of Ramanujan's work. His discoveries have led to many advancements in mathematics. His formulas are now being used in crystallography and string theory.

In 2011, Ramanujan's birthday was made an annual "National Mathematics Day" by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.

[[North South MRT line]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 establishments in Singapore, Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) lines

The North South MRT line is the first Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) line in Singapore to be built. It is 45 km long with 26 stations, and it is being operated by SMRT Trains. It would usually take one hour to travel from one end of the MRT line to the other. This line is coloured red on the MRT Rail map.

This line joins the Central area of Singapore to the Northern and Southern areas of Singapore. To transfer to the East West MRT line, a commuter can transfer at Jurong East, Raffles Place or City Hall. Transferring to the North East MRT Line is done at Dhoby Ghaut with a linkway. Bishan MRT Station, Dhoby Ghaut MRT Station and Marina Bay MRT Station can transfer a commuter to the Circle MRT Line. Transfer to the Downtown line is provided at Newton MRT Station.

[[Shrek the Third]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, 2007 animated movies, 2007 computer-animated movies, Shrek, Arthurian movies, American comedy movies, Sequel movies, American animated movies, Movies composed by Harry Gregson-Williams, Pregnancy movies, Paramount movies

Shrek the Third (also known as Shrek 3) is a 2007  animated movie and is the third movie in the Shrek movie series.

It was directed by Chris Miller and Raman Hui and stars Mike Myers as Shrek, Cameron Diaz as Fiona, Eddie Murphy as the donkey, Antonio Banderas as Puss in Boots, Julie Andrews as Fiona's mother, John Cleese as Fiona's father, Rupert Everett as Prince Charming, Eric Idle as Merlin and Justin Timberlake as Arthur. It is about Shrek trying to get a new king for far far away because the other King died. Like the first two movies, this movie is parody of fairy tales.

[[SMRT Trains]]

CATEGORIES: MRT Singapore

SMRT Trains Limited (新加坡地铁有限公司) is a rail operator in Singapore and a wholly owned subsidiary of SMRT Corporation. It was first known as Mass Rapid Transit Corporation (MRTC) when the company was founded in 6 August 1987. It was renamed Singapore MRT Limited before becoming its current name, SMRT Trains in 2004.

[[Symphony X]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, Power metal bands, Progressive metal bands

Symphony X are an American progressive metal band from Middletown, New Jersey.

Founded in 1994 by guitarist Michael Romeo, their albums The Divine Wings of Tragedy and V: The New Mythology Suite have given the band considerable attention within the progressive metal community.

[[Major League Baseball Rookie of the Year Award]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball awards, Baseball lists, Lists of sportspeople

In Major League Baseball, the Rookie of the Year Award is given each year to one player from each league as voted on by the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA). The award was start in 1940 by the Chicago chapter of the BBWAA.  They selected a winner every year from 1940 through 1946. The award became national in 1947; Jackie Robinson, the Brooklyn Dodgers' first baseman, won the first award. One award was presented for both leagues in 1947 and 1948; since 1949, the honor has been given to one player each in the National and American League. At first, the award was known as the J. Louis Comiskey Memorial Award, named after the Chicago White Sox owner of the 1930s. The award was renamed the Jackie Robinson Award in July 1987, 40 years after Jackie Robinson broke the baseball color line.

Of the 128 players named Rookie of the Year, 14 have been selected for the National Baseball Hall of Fame—Jackie Robinson, five American League players, and eight others from the National League. The award has been shared twice: once by Butch Metzger and Pat Zachry of the National League in 1976; and once by John Castino and Alfredo Griffin of the American League in 1979. Members of the Brooklyn and Los Angeles Dodgers have won the most awards of any team (with 16).  This is twice the total of the New York Yankees (eight), who have won the most in the American League. Fred Lynn and Ichiro Suzuki are the only two players who have been named Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable Player in the same year. Fernando Valenzuela is the only player to have won Rookie of the Year and the Cy Young Award in the same year. Sam Jethroe is the oldest player to have won the award, at age 32, 33 days older than 2000 winner Kazuhiro Sasaki (also 32). Buster Posey of the San Francisco Giants and Neftali Feliz of the Texas Rangers are the 2010 winners.

[[Testament (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 establishments in the United States, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, Atlantic Records artists, Musicians from Berkeley, California, Death metal bands, Musical groups established in 1983, Musical groups from California, Speed metal bands, Thrash metal bands

Testament is an American thrash metal band from Berkeley, California, formed in 1983. They are often credited as one of the most popular bands of the 1980s thrash metal scene. In the 1983 years since its inception, Testament has had numerous lineup changes, and guitarist Eric Peterson has been the only constant member, although the band currently features three original members.

[[Demonic (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums

Demonic is the seventh studio album by American heavy metal band Testament. It was released in 1997. The lyrics deal with occult themes more like their 1980s efforts instead of the political topics covered on more recent releases.March 2009

Musically, Testament takes a slower, almost death metal oriented approach with grinding guitar riffs and Chuck Billy's vocal work consisting primarily of death growls.

This album also marked the first time, as Testament, that the band used the old Legacy pentagram graphic.

[[Rainbow (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s music groups, 1990s music groups

Rainbow (also known as Ritchie Blackmore's Rainbow or Blackmore's Rainbow) were an English hard rock band, controlled by guitarist Ritchie Blackmore from 1975 to 1984 and 1994 to 1997. It was originally established with former Elf members, though over the years Rainbow went through many line-up changes with no two studio albums featuring the same line-up. In addition to lead singers Ronnie James Dio, Graham Bonnet, Joe Lynn Turner and Doogie White, the project consisted of numerous backing musicians. The band started out combining mystical lyric themes with neo-classical metal, but went in a more streamlined commercial style following Dio's departure from the group.

Rainbow was ranked #90 on VH1's 100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock.

[[New Taiwan dollar]]

CATEGORIES: Currency of Asia, Economy of Taiwan

The New Taiwan dollar (新臺幣 or 新台幣) (currency code TWD and common abbreviation NT$), or simply Taiwan dollar, is the official currency of Taiwan. It was used since 1949, when it replaced the Old Taiwan dollar. It was first printed by the Bank of Taiwan, it has been printed by the Central Bank of the Republic of China since 2000.

[[Crown of thorns]]

CATEGORIES: Euphorbiaceae

The crown of thorns (also known as  Christ plant, or Christ thorn, called Corona de Cristo in Latin America) is a woody, succulent species of Euphorbia native to Madagascar. The species name commemorates Baron Milius, once governor of Réunion, who introduced the species to France in 1821. It is suspected that the species was introduced to the Middle East in ancient times, and legend associates it with the crown of thorns worn by Jesus.

[[Joseph Romm]]

CATEGORIES: Scientists from New York, American physicists, Writers from New York, Green thinkers, 1960 births, Living people, American bloggers

Joseph J. Romm (born June 27, 1960) is an American physicist, writer and environmentalist. He has an interest in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and global warming. He is also interested in energy security through energy efficiency and green energy technologies.

Romm's 2006 book was Hell and High Water: Global Warming — the Solution and the Politics — and What We Should Do.

In December 2008, Romm was elected a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.  In March 2009, Rolling Stone magazine named Romm as one of "100 People Who Are Changing America".  In September 2009, Time magazine named him one of its "Heroes of the Environment".

[[A Child of Our Time]]

CATEGORIES: Oratorios

A Child of Our Time is an oratorio by Michael Tippett.  It was composed between 1939 and 1941.

[[Spiritual (music)]]

CATEGORIES: African-American history, Christian music, Songs, Folk music, Slavery

Spirituals (or Negro spirituals) are the songs which were sung by the black slaves in the United States in the 18th and 19th centuries.  The words to many Negro spirituals have Christian themes.  This is because Black slaves in the United States turned to religion, as a way to cope with the pain of slavery.February 2015 Negro spirituals combine traditional West African musical style with the style of Christian hymns from Europe.

[[Stamford, Lincolnshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lincolnshire, Civil parishes in Lincolnshire

Stamford is a town and civil parish in Southern Lincolnshire, a county in England. It is on the River Welland and is located in the borough of South Kesteven. The town centre is 92 miles (148 km) north of London, the capital city.

The town is located very close to the borders with Cambridgeshire, Rutland and Northamptonshire. The town is in Lincolnshire, but has a Peterborough post code, a city in Cambridgeshire.

It is a very old town. Many 17th and 18th-century buildings and old timber-framed buildings still stand in the town. It also has five medieval churches.

There are over 600 listed buildings in the town and surrounding area.

The Sunday Times rated the town the best place to live in a survey in 2013.

[[University of Concepción]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Chile, Concepción, 1919 establishments, 1910s establishments in South America, 20th-century establishments in Chile

The University of Concepción is a university in Concepción, Chile. It is the oldest university in the south of Chile.

[[Jotunheimen]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges, Mountains of Norway

Jotunheimen is a large mountain range in Norway. It is named after Jötunheimr. Its highest peak, Galdhøpiggen (2469 metres) is the highest mountain in Scandinavia.

[[Catholic University of the Most Holy Conception]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Chile, Concepción, 1991 establishments in South America, 1990s establishments in Chile

The Catholic University of the Most Holy Conception is a university located in Concepción, Chile. It is one of the universities in the south of Chile.

[[R2-D2]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1977, Star Wars characters, Star Wars Anthology characters, Star Wars Skywalker Saga characters

R2-D2 (phonetically spelled Artoo-Detoo, and called "R2" for short), is a fictional character in the Star Wars universe. An astromech droid, R2-D2 is a major character throughout all seven Star Wars films. Along with his droid companion C-3PO, he joins or supports Anakin Skywalker, Luke Skywalker, and Obi-Wan Kenobi in various points in the saga. R2-D2 was played by Kenny Baker.

[[Illinois Senate]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Illinois, State upper houses in the United States

The Illinois Senate is the upper chamber in the Illinois General Assembly, the legislative branch of the government of the state of Illinois. Created in 1818 by the constitution of the first state, the Illinois senate is comprised 59 senators elected from individual legislative districts determined by population. According to Illinois' 1970 constitution, senators are divided into three groups, each group having a two-year term at a different part of the decade between censuses, with the rest of the decade being taken up by two four-year terms. Depending on the election year, roughly one-third, two-thirds, or all Senate seats may be contested. In contrast, the Illinois House of Representatives is made up of 118 members with its entire membership elected to two-year terms. House districts are formed by dividing each Senate district in half.

[[Star anise]]

CATEGORIES: Flowering plants, Spices

Star anise (Illicium verum) is a spice plant which tastes like anise. The star shaped fruits are harvested before they start getting ripe.

Japanese star anise (Illicium anisatum), a similar tree, is not edible because it is "highly toxic"; instead, it may be burned as incense in Japan.

[[Thubten Zopa Rinpoche]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhist lamas, Nepalese people, 1946 births, Living people

Thubten Zopa Rinpoche (born 1946) is a lama from Nepal. He took his monks vows at Dungkar Monastery in Tibet and has received teachings from many high lamas. Lama Zopa is the co-founder, with Lama Yeshe, of Kopan Monastery and the FPMT. Since the 1984 death of Lama Yeshe, Lama Zopa has served as the FPMT's spiritual director. Zopa's books are published by Wisdom Publications. Free books and a vast online collection of his teachings are available from the Lama Yeshe Wisdom Archive. There is an extensive biography of him in the book 'The Lawudo Lama' https://web.archive.org/web/20120514203703/http://wisdompubs.org/Pages/display.lasso?-KeyValue, by Jamyang Wangmo.

[[Simon Cziommer]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, German footballers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Sportspeople from Lower Saxony

Simon Cziommer (born 6 November 1980 in Nordhorn) is a German footballer. He plays for the Dutch club Vitesse.

[[Kopan Monastery]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhism, Buddhist buildings

Kopan Monastery is a Tibetan Buddhist monastery near Boudhanath, on the outskirts of Kathmandu, Nepal. It belongs to the FPMT, an international network of Gelugpa dharma centers, and once served as its headquarters.

The monastery was established by the FPMT founders, Lamas Thubten Yeshe and Thubten Zopa Rinpoche, who bought the property from Nepal's royal astrologer in 1969. Its name comes from the name of the hill on which it was built. 

Kopan has become famous for teaching Buddhism to visiting Western foreigners. The first of what would become annual month-long (November-December) meditation courses was held in 1971. These courses generally combine traditional Lam Rim teachings with informal discussion, several periods of guided meditation, and a vegetarian diet.

[[Las Condes]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Las Condes is a commune and city in Santiago Metropolitan Region, Chile. At the 2002 census, 249,893 people lived there.

[[Volkswagen Crafter]]

CATEGORIES: Vans, Buses, Volkswagen automobiles

The Volkswagen Crafter is a series of vans and buses which is a rebadged Mercedes Sprinter. It replaced the Volkswagen LT in 2006. In 2016, a new Crafter was unveiled but now it's Volkswagen's own van and no longer a rebadged Sprinter.  

[[Red Bull Brasil]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in São Paulo (state), Football clubs owned by Red Bull, 2007 establishments, 2000s establishments in Brazil

Red Bull Brasil, also known as RB Brasil, is a Brazilian association football club from Campinas, São Paulo. The club was founded in 2007 by initiative of energy drink-maker Red Bull GmbH. Red Bull Brasil plays in the top tier of Campeonato Paulista, the São Paulo state league. In 2017, Red Bull Brasil makes their second appearance in the fourth tier of Campeonato Brasileiro (the first was in 2015).

[[Great American Interchange]]

CATEGORIES: Zoology, South America, History of Panama, North America, Gondwana, Laurasia

The Great American Interchange was an important zoogeographic event about three million years ago. Land and freshwater fauna migrated between North America and South America.

The migration happened during the Pliocene, 3.6–2.6 million years ago (mya). The volcanic Isthmus of Panama rose from the seafloor and bridged the two continents.

The land bridge in what is now Panama joined the Neotropic (roughly South America) and Nearctic (roughly North America) ecozones to form the Americas.

The interchange is visible from both stratigraphy and nature. Its most dramatic effect is on the distribution of mammals, but weak-flying or flightless birds, reptiles, amphibians, arthropods and even freshwater fish also migrated.

The differences in the fauna of North and South America had been known for some time. Both Humboldt and Darwin discussed it. The interchange as a concept was first fully laid out in 1876 by the "father of biogeography", Alfred Russel Wallace. Wallace had spent 1848–1852 exploring and collecting specimens in the Amazon Basin. Others who made significant contributions to understanding the event in the century that followed include Florentino Ameghino and George Gaylord Simpson.

Similar interchanges occurred earlier in the Cainozoic, when the former Gondwana continents of  India and Africa made contact with Eurasia, about 50 and 30 mya respectively.

[[Eomaia]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals, Fossils, Cretaceous, China

Eomaia ('dawn mother') is an early fossil eutherian mammal. It is exceptionally well-preserved for a 125 million-year-old specimen. 

It was discovered in rocks of the Yixian Formation, Liaoning Province, China. These strata date to the Lower Cretaceous about 125 million years ago (mya). 

The fossil is 10 in length and virtually complete. It weighed between 20. Although the fossil's skull is squashed flat, its teeth, tiny foot bones, cartilages and even its fur are visible.

Eomaia is a eutherian. The eutherians are the placental mammals plus some extinct mammals which had not developed a placenta. 

What distinguishes the Eutheria from metatherians, a group that includes modern marsupials, are various features of the feet, jaws and teeth.

However Eomaia is not a true placental mammal as it lacks some features that are specific to placentals.

Eomaia has:

Its discoverers sampled 268 characters from all major Mesozoic mammal clades and principal eutherian families of the Cretaceous period. As a result, they claimed Eomaia is at the root of the eutherian "family tree" with a few other fossils.

The Eomaia fossil shows clear traces of hair. However this is not the earliest clear evidence of hair in the mammalian lineage, as fossils of the docodont Castorocauda, discovered in rocks dated to about 164 mya, also have traces of fur.

[[East West MRT line]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 establishments in Singapore, Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) lines

The East West MRT line was the 2nd Mass Rapid Transit line in Singapore. The line is currently 49.2 km long with 35 stations. It is the longest MRT line in Singapore and it is operated by SMRT Corporation. It takes about 1 hour to travel from end to end and this line is coloured green on MRT system maps.

The MRT line joins central Singapore to the western and eastern parts of the island, with another branch to Changi Airport from Tanah Merah. Transferring to the North South line is done at Jurong East, City Hall and Raffles Place stations while transfer to the North East Line at Outram Park station is possible using a linkway. For Circle Line at Paya Lebar station and Buona Vista using an underpass and linkway. The Downtown Line will interchange with the East West Line at the Bugis, Tampines and Expo MRT stations.

[[Red Bull Arena (Leipzig)]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Saxony, Football stadiums in Germany, Leipzig, Sport in Saxony, 1956 establishments

[[Stolen base]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball statistics, Baseball rules

In baseball, a stolen base is when a baserunner advances to the next base while the pitcher is throwing the ball to home plate.  In baseball statistics, stolen bases are displayed as SB. It is possible to steal second base, third base, or home plate, but not to steal first base.

If the defense does not try to put the baserunner out (for example, if the catcher does not even look his way), the play is called defensive indifference (also called fielder's indifference).  No stolen base is credited to the runner in this case.  Defensive indifference is usually only scored instead of a stolen base when the game is in a late inning and the team with the stealing baserunner is down by more than one run.  MLB Rule 10.07(g) defines defensive indifference.

[[Pasadena Star-News]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in California, Pasadena, California, 1884 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in California

The Pasadena Star-News is the local daily newspaper for Pasadena, California. The Star-News is a member of the Los Angeles Newspaper Group, since 1996. It is also part of the San Gabriel Valley Newspaper Group, along with the San Gabriel Valley Tribune and the Whittier Daily News. 

Ridder Newspapers bought the Star-News in 1956; Bernard J. Ridder took over as Publisher. Ridder merged with Knight to form Knight Ridder in 1974. The paper was sold in 1989 to a company owned by William Dean Singleton; the Thomson Corporation bought majority control of the paper a year later. Thomson sold the Star-News to Singleton's MediaNews Group in 1996.

The Pasadena Star-News was first published in 1884. The paper was in a building at the corner of Colorado Blvd. and Oakland Avenue for years.  This building is now being used by Technique at Le Cordon Bleu College of Culinary Arts and 24 Hour Fitness.

The newspaper also published the Rose Magazine.

[[4319 Jackierobinson]]

CATEGORIES: Asteroids

4319 Jackierobinson (1981 ER14) is a main-belt asteroid discovered on March 1, 1981 by Schelte J. Bus at Siding Spring Observatory. It was found during the U.K. Schmidt-Caltech Asteroid Survey. It was named after Jackie Robinson, the first African-American major league baseball player of the modern era.

[[Baseball-Reference.com]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball, Baseball statistics, Websites

Baseball-Reference.com is a website that lists statistics for every player in Major League Baseball history. The site is often used by large media companies and baseball broadcasters as a source of information.

[[Ryan Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, American Hockey League players, Anaheim Ducks players, Buffalo Sabres players, Living people, Sportspeople from Michigan, St. Louis Blues players, Vancouver Canucks players, Vezina Trophy winners, American ice hockey goaltenders

Ryan Miller (born July 17, 1980) is an American ice hockey goaltender. He currently plays for the Anaheim Ducks of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Buffalo Sabres, Vancouver Canucks, and St. Louis Blues.

On July 1, 2014, Miller signed a three-year, $18 million contract with the Vancouver Canucks.

[[Oreo]]

CATEGORIES: Cookies

The Oreo is a cookie sandwich or cream biscuit. It is made by  the Nabisco division of Mondelēz International. The cookie has a sweet, white filling of "creme" or "cream". The creme is in between two circle-shaped chocolate or golden cookie pieces.

Oreos come in many different flavours like chocolate, vanilla, red velvet, caramel coconut, chocolate marshmellos and many more.

Oreo is thought of to be named after a plant genus called Oreodaphne.

[[1939–40 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1939, 1940, 1930s in North America, 1940s in North America

The 1939–40 NHL season was the 23rd season for the National Hockey League. 

[[North East MRT line]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in Singapore, Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) lines

The North East MRT Line (NEL) is the third Mass Rapid Transit line in Singapore. The line is 20 km long with 16 stations and operated by SBS Transit. Travelling from one end of this line to the other end takes about half an hour. This line is coloured purple in the rail map.

The line joins central Singapore to the north-eastern part of the island. Transfer to the North South Line is done at Dhoby Ghaut station, East West Line at Outram Park station, Circle Line at Serangoon and Dhoby Ghaut and Downtown MRT Line at Chinatown and Little India stations.

This line is the first MRT line in Singapore to be completely underground (running in a tunnel all the way between HarbourFront and Punggol). It is also the first (and so far, the only) line where trains get their power from overhead wires above the track, instead of a third rail beside the track.

All the trains on the North East Line are automated (computer-controlled) and do not have an operator driving the train at the front. It is one of the world's first rapid transit lines that does not need drivers and is one of three such lines in the MRT network today. The others are the Circle Line and the Downtown Line.

[[List of Singapore MRT stations]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations, Rail transport lists

The following lists all rail stations of the Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) system in Singapore, with underground stations listed in italics. There are 122 stations in operation. Many more are in various stages of planning and construction (as shown in the latest system map).

[[At bat]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball statistics

In baseball, an at bat (AB) or time at bat is used for certain statistics.  These statistics include batting average, on base percentage, and slugging percentage. It is a more narrow definition of a plate appearance. A batter starts with an at bat every time he faces a pitcher; however, the batter gets "no time at bat" in the following cases:

Section 10.02.a.1 of the official rules of Major League Baseball defines an at bat as:

"Number of times batted, except that no time at bat shall be charged when a player: (1) hits a sacrifice bunt or sacrifice fly; (2) is awarded first base on four called balls; (3) is hit by a pitched ball; or (4) is awarded first base because of interference or obstruction..."

[[Cal Ripken, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: American baseball players, National Baseball Hall of Fame members, Baltimore Orioles players, Sportspeople from Maryland, 1960 births, Living people

Calvin Edwin "Cal" Ripken, Jr. (born August 24, 1960), nicknamed "Iron Man", is a former Major League Baseball shortstop and third baseman. He played his whole 21-year baseball career for the Baltimore Orioles (1981–2001).

Ripken is perhaps best known for breaking New York Yankees first baseman Lou Gehrig's record for consecutive games played.  The record had been called too hard to break. He beat the 56-year-old record when he played in his 2,131st straight game on September 6, 1995 between the Orioles and the California Angels in front of a sold-out crowd at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. Ripken hit a home run in the game the night before that tied Gehrig's record and another home run in his 2,131st game. Fans later voted this game as Major League Baseball's "Most Memorable Moment" in MLB history. Ripken played in an 501 more straight games over the next three years.  His streak ended at 2,632 games when he removed his name from the lineup for the final Orioles home game of the 1998 season.  His record 2,632 straight games lasted over seventeen seasons, from May 30, 1982 to September 20, 1998.

A 19-time All-Star and member of the 3000 hit club, Ripken is considered one of the best shortstops and third basemen to ever play the game. At 6' 4" (1.93 m), 225 lbs. (102.27 kg), he led the way for taller, larger shortstops to be successful in that position.  When voted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2007, he was a first ballot inductee with the third highest voting percentage (98.53%) in Hall of Fame history, behind Tom Seaver (98.84%) and Nolan Ryan (98.79%).

He is a best-selling author and the President and CEO of Ripken Baseball, Inc. The company's goal is to grow the love of baseball from a more grassroots level.  Established in 2001, Ripken Baseball represents Cal and his brother Bill's business and philanthropy dealings and focuses on several subsidiaries: Ripken Management and Design, Youth Camps and Clinics, Cal Ripken, Sr. foundation, Ripken Professional Baseball, with three minor-league teams—the Aberdeen IronBirds (affiliated with the Orioles); the Augusta GreenJackets (affiliated with the San Francisco Giants); and the Charlotte Stone Crabs (affiliated with the Tampa Bay Rays)—and Ironclad Authentics.

[[Battle of Finnburg]]

CATEGORIES: Battles of the Ancient World, 5th century

The Battle of Finnburg was a battle between the Frisians and the Danes.  It was mentioned in two early medieval writings, the Finnesburg Fragment and Beowulf. These may describe a real or a completelymythical event. 

[[Moose River Plains Wild Forest]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of New York, Forests

The Moose River Plains Wild Forest is a 50000 forest in Adirondack Park, which is in the Hamilton and Herkimer counties in the U.S. state of New York. It is designated a Wild Forest by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.

[[Caspar Wessel]]

CATEGORIES: Danish scientists, Norwegian people, Norwegian mathematicians, 1745 births, 1818 deaths

Caspar Wessel (June 8, 1745 – March 25, 1818) was a Danish-Norwegian mathematician.

He was born in Jonsrud, Vestby, Akershus, Norway. In 1763, having completed secondary school, he went to Denmark for further studies (since Norway didn't have any university in 1763). In 1778 he got the degree of candidatus juris, which is one law degree. In 1794 he was hired as a surveyor; in 1798, a Royal inspector of Surveying.

As surveying is related to mathematics, he later studied the geometrical importance of complex numbers. His most important paper, Om directionens analytiske betegning, (On the Analytical Representation of Direction) was published in 1799 by the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters. Since it was in Danish, it was not noticed by many people. Later, Jean-Robert Argand and Carl Friedrich Gauss's paper showed the same results.

One of the more important, but missed ideas shown in Wessel's Om directionens analytiske betegning was vectors. Wessel's main thing he wanted to show in the paper was not this, but he felt that the concept of numbers, with length and direction would be needed. Wessel's thoughts on addition was: "Two straight lines are added if we unite them in such a way that the second line begins where the first one ends and then pass a straight line from the first to the last point of the united lines. This line is the sum of the united lines". Today, the same idea is used when adding vectors.

His paper was printed in a French translation in 1899. It was released in English in 1999 as "On the analytic representation of direction" (ed. J. Lützen et al.).

Johan Herman Wessel, Wessel's brother was a famous person in Denmark-Norway.

[[Global Handwashing Day]]

CATEGORIES: Hygiene

Global Handwashing Day is a campaign to encourage people around the world to wash their hands with soap.  It takes place on October 15 of each year.  The campaign's goal is to raise awareness of handwashing with soap as a key way to prevent diseases with hygiene. 

The holiday was made at the annual World Water Week 2008, which was held in Stockholm from August 17 to 23.  Out of this week came the Public Private Partnership for Handwashing (PPPHW). The Global Handwashing Day took place for the first time on October 15, 2008, the date appointed by United Nations General Assembly to go along with the year 2008 as the International Year of Sanitation.

The theme for Global Handwashing Day’s inaugural year was Focus on School Children. The members pledged to get the maximum number of school children handwashing with soap in more than seventy countries.

[[500 home run club]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball statistics

In Major League Baseball (MLB), the 500 home run club is a term given to the group of batters who have hit 500 or more regular-season home runs in their careers. On August 11, 1929, Babe Ruth became the first member of the club. Ruth ended his career with 714 home runs.  This record stood from 1935 until Hank Aaron broke it in 1974. Aaron's ending career total, 755, stayed the record until Barry Bonds set the current mark of 762 during the 2007 season. Albert Pujols is the most recent to reach 500 home runs; he hit his 500th home run on April 22, 2014. Twenty-six players are members of the 500 home run club.

Of these 26 players, 14 were right-handed batters, 10 were left-handed, and 2 were switch hitters (meaning they could bat from either side of the plate). The San Francisco Giants are the only franchise to have four players reach 500 home runs while on their roster: Mel Ott while the team was in New York, Willie Mays, Willie McCovey, and most recently Bonds. Four 500 home run club members—Aaron, Mays, Eddie Murray, and Rafael Palmeiro—are also members of the 3,000 hit club. Sheffield's 500th home run was his first career home run with the New York Mets, the first time that a player's 500th home run was also his first with his franchise. Alex Rodriguez, at 32 years and 8 days, was the youngest player to hit 500.  Ted Williams, at 41 years and 291 days, was the oldest.

Being a member of the 500 home run club is sometimes described as a guarantee of entry into the Baseball Hall of Fame.  Some believe the milestone has become less meaningful in recent years. Four club members who are now eligible for election to the Hall of Fame—Bonds, Sammy Sosa, Mark McGwire and Palmeiro—have not been elected. Eligibility requires that a player has "been retired five seasons" or be dead for at least six months. Some believe the milestone has become less important with the large number of new members; 10 players joined the club from 1999 to 2009. Also, several of these recent members have had ties to performance-enhancing drugs. Some believe that by not electing McGwire to the Hall, the voters were starting a "guideline" on how they would treat players from the "Steroid Era". Since then, Bonds and Sosa have also failed to earn election. Most recently, Palmeiro became the first club member to be dropped from the Hall of Fame ballot, failing to earn enough votes (5% of votes cast) in the 2014 election to stay on the ballot. 

[[Whittier Daily News]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in California, Whittier, California

The Whittier Daily News is the local daily newspaper for Whittier, California. The Daily News is a member of the Los Angeles Newspaper Group, a division of MediaNews Group. It is also part of the San Gabriel Valley Newspaper Group, along with the San Gabriel Valley Tribune and the Pasadena Star-News. 

Thomson Newspapers purchased the newspaper in 1982. Thomson sold the Daily News to William Dean Singleton's MediaNews Group in 1996.

[[San Gabriel Valley Tribune]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in California, Companies based in Los Angeles

The San Gabriel Valley Tribune is the daily newspaper in West Covina, California.  It serves the San Gabriel Valley. The Tribune is a member of the Los Angeles Newspaper Group, a division of MediaNews Group. It is also part of the San Gabriel Valley Newspaper Group, along with the Pasadena Star-News and the Whittier Daily News. 

The newspaper chain Brush-Moore bought the Tribune in 1960.  Thomson Newspapers purchased Brush-Moore in 1967. Thomson sold the Tribune to Singleton's MediaNews Group in 1996.

[[Barrow A.F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1901 establishments in England

Barrow A.F.C. are an English football team.  The club was founded in 1901.  It is based in the town of Barrow-in-Furness in Cumbria, England.  After they were promoted at the end of the 2007–08 season, they began playing in the Conference National. The club spent over fifty years in the Football League between 1921 and 1972, and have since spent their time in the top two levels of non-league football. Barrow have twice won non-league football's highest cup competition, the FA Trophy - in 1990 and 2010, becoming the only non-league club to have won the trophy at both old and new Wembley stadia.

The club colours are blue and white.  The combination of these has varied over time.  It has led to their nickname "The Bluebirds". Attendances at the club's Holker Street field vary - the home record of 16,874 was set against Swansea City in the FA Cup Third Round in 1954.  But during the 1990s and 2000s, the average remained between 800 and 1,500. Average attendance stood at 1,590 during the 2008-09 season.

The club won their second FA Trophy title on the 8th May 2010 after beating Stevenage Borough 2-1 in the final at Wembley Stadium.

[[District 9]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 science fiction movies, 2009 thriller movies, American science fiction movies, American thriller movies, Multilingual movies, New Zealand movies, South African movies, American independent movies, Movies set in South Africa

District 9 is a 2009 science fiction thriller movie directed by Neill Blomkamp. It was written by Blomkamp and Terri Tatchell, and produced by Peter Jackson and Carolynne Cunningham. The movie stars Sharlto Copley, Jason Cope, and David James. The movie won the 2010 Saturn Award for Best International movie, which is awarded by the Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films, and was nominated for four Academy Awards in 2010, including Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Visual Effects, and Best Editing.

The plot is based on a 2005 short movie, Alive in Joburg, also directed by Blomkamp and produced by Sharlto Copley and Simon Hansen, pivots on the themes of xenophobia and social segregation. The title and plot of District 9 were based on real-life events that took happened in District Six, Cape Town during the apartheid era. The movie was produced for $30 million and shot on location in Chiawelo, Soweto, showing fictional interviews, new stories, and videos from surveillance cameras in a part-mock documentary style format. A viral marketing campaign began in 2008, at the San Diego Comic-Con, while the theatrical trailer appeared in July 2009. Released by TriStar Pictures, the movie opened to critical acclaim on August 14, 2009, in North America and made $37 million in its first weekend. Lots of people thought that the movie was a sleeper hit for its not very famous cast and modest-budget production, while having success and being popular while it was in theaters.

[[Eyre Coote (British Army officer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1762 births, 1823 deaths, Irish politicians, British Army generals, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Knights of the Bath, Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, Former members of the Order of the Bath, Governors-General of Jamaica

Eyre Coote (20 May 1762 – 10 December 1823) was a British soldier and politician who was born in Ireland.

He was known as General Sir Eyre Coote until 1816; GCB 1815 - 1816.

[[Pilum]]

CATEGORIES: Blades, Ancient Rome

A pilum was a type of spear. It was used by the Roman army. Pila were generally 2 metres long. They were made up of a wooden shaft and an soft iron point.

[[Tree frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Tree frogs are frogs that spend most of their life in trees. 

There are several lines of Neobatrachia which have evolved into tree frogs. These groups are only distantly related, but they have evolved for a long time in similar conditions. The result is that, today, there are species from different groups that look very much like each other. This is convergent evolution. It goes so far that in almost all cases, where one group occurs, the other does not. Their current distribution shows that the last common ancestor of both groups lived before the dinosaurs disappeared. 

They do not normally descend to the ground, except to mate and spawn. Some build foam nests on leaves and rarely leave the trees as adults. In some species the eggs develop directly into adults; in others the tadpole stage is spent in the water pool of a large tropical tree leaf.

Many tree frogs can change their colour for better camouflage. Others are poisonous (poison dart frog), and display warning colouration.

Tree frogs are usually tiny, as their weight has to be carried by the branches and twigs of their habitat. While some reach 10 cm (4 in) or more, they are typically smaller and more slender than terrestrial frogs.  

Typical for "tree frogs" are the well-developed discs at the finger and toe tips; the fingers and toes themselves as well as the limbs tend to be rather long, resulting in a superior grasping ability. The genus Chiromantis is most extreme in this respect: it can oppose two fingers to the other two, resulting in a vice-like grip.

[[Madagascar (soundtrack)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums

Madagascar is the soundtrack to the 2005 Dreamworks film of the same name. It was released on May 24, 2005 by Geffen Records. It contains Hans Zimmer score, and songs from the movie.

[[Deportivo Cali]]

CATEGORIES: Colombian football clubs

Asociación Deportivo Cali is a Colombian sports club in Cali, Colombia. It is famous for its football (soccer) team. Basketball, volleyball and swimming clubs are also sponsored by Deportivo Cali. Deportivo Cali is one of the best association football teams in Colombia and South America, having won nine national championships in 1965, 1967, 1969, 1970, 1974, 1996, 1998, 2005-II and 2015-I.

Estadio Deportivo Cali is the new stadium for Deportivo Cali can fit 55,000 people. It is the biggest football stadium in Colombia. Estadio Deportivo Cali was officially inaugurated on November 19, 2008. The old stadium, Estadio Olímpico Pascual Guerrero could fit capacity for 50,000 people.

Adidas, Honda, Aguardiente Blanco del Valle, and Tigo ae the four largest sponsors of Asociación Deportivo Cali.

[[Jeff Bezos]]

CATEGORIES: Businesspeople from New Mexico, Businesspeople from Seattle, Washington, People from Albuquerque, New Mexico, 1964 births, Living people, American inventors, American company founders, Amazon (company)

Jeffrey Preston Bezos (born Jeffrey Preston Jorgensen; January 12, 1964) is the founder of Amazon.com, Inc. He was also the chairman, president, and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Amazon.com. However, Bezos said in a blog post he would soon step down from this position and become Executive Chair of the Amazon Board.

[[Final Cut Pro X]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Final Cut Pro X (Final Cut Pro 10) is a video editing software developed by Apple Inc. that was Announced on April 12, 2011. It is an updated version of the non-liner editing software Final cut Pro 7. 

It was released on June 21, 2011 for sale in the Mac App Store and is the controversial successor to Final Cut Pro

[[Laurussia]]

CATEGORIES: Supercontinents

Laurussia was a minor supercontinent which formed in the Devonian period. It is often called the Old Red Sandstone Continent or Euramerica.

Laurussia included much of what is now northern Europe, Greenland and North America. 

[[Independent State of Croatia]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 disestablishments in Europe, Former countries in Europe, 1941 establishments in Europe, Puppet states

The Independent State of Croatia (Nezavisna Država Hrvatska, NDH) was a fascist/nazi puppet-state  during World War II. It was established in April 1941, after the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was split up by Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy. Geographically it encompassed most of modern-day Croatia as well as all of Bosnia and Herzegovina and parts of Slovenia and Serbia.

The NDH was ruled by Ante Pavelić and his Ustaše — a racist, terrorist and saboteur organization  — which were followers of the Pure Party of Rights founded by Ante Starčević at the end of 19th century. The NDH had a program, formulated by Mile Budak, to purge Croatia of Serbs, by “killing one third, expelling the other third and assimilating the remaining third”. The first part of this programme was begun during WWII by a planned genocide in Jasenovac concentration camp and other places all over NDH.

[[Astro Boy]]

CATEGORIES: Manga, Fictional robots

Astro Boy (鉄腕アトム, Tetsuwan Atomu, lit. "Iron Arm Atom") is a Japanese manga series first published in 1952 and television program first broadcast in Japan in 1963. The story follows the adventures of a robot named Astro Boy and a selection of other characters along the way.

Astro Boy is the first, most popular Japanese television series that embodied the aesthetic that later became familiar worldwide as anime. It originated as a manga in 1952 by Osamu Tezuka, revered in Japan as the "God of Manga".

[[RB Leipzig]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Germany, Football clubs owned by Red Bull, German football clubs, Leipzig, Sport in Saxony

RB Leipzig (RasenBallsport Leipzig e.V.) is a German football club from Leipzig.

[[Arboreal]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology, Botany

Arboreal is an adjective in biology for an animal which lives in the trees.

All forests have had animals living in them. Those animals have adaptations which enable them to live and move about in trees. The earliest one known is Suminia, a synapsid of the late Permian, about 260 million years ago. 

[[Lamrim]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhism

Lamrim (Tibetan: "stages of the path") is a Tibetan Buddhist text which presents the stages in the complete path to enlightenment as taught by Buddha. In Tibetan Buddhist history there have been many different versions of lamrim, presented by different teachers of the Nyingma, Kagyu and Gelug schools. However, all versions of the lamrim are elaborations of Atiśa's 11th Century root text A Lamp for the Path to Enlightenment.

There is a project to expand the Lamrim Teachings with several translated texts.

[[Norbulingka Institute]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhism

The Norbulingka Institute was founded in 1988, by the present 14th Dalai Lama at Sidhpur, near Dharamsala, India. The institute helps to preserve the Tibetan language and culture.

The institute is named after Norbulingka, the traditional summer residence of the Dalai Lamas, in Lhasa, Tibet.  The main building is a replica of the Norbulingka palace in Lhasa

[[Mobile genetic elements]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, DNA

Mobile genetic elements (MGE) are a type of DNA that can move around within the genome. They include:

The total of all mobile genetic elements in a genome may be referred to as the mobilome.

Barbara McClintock was awarded the 1983 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine "for her discovery of mobile genetic elements".

[[Lineage (evolution)]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology

When talking in terms of evolution, a lineage describes how a species developed from the species before it. The species adapted to its environment. Lineages are parts of the tree of life. Very often, genetic information is used to determine the lineage of a species.

[[Dietrich Stobbe]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2011 deaths, People from former German territories, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany

Dietrich Stobbe (25 March 1938 – 19 February 2011) was a German politician from Weepers, East Prussia.

Stobbe served as Mayor of West Berlin from 2 May 1977 till 23 January 1981. From 1 November 1978 till 31 October 1979 he was also President of the Bundesrat.

Stobbe was a member of the Social Democratic Party (SPD).

He died on the 19 February 2011 at the age of 72 after long illness.

[[Herald Sun]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Australia

The Herald Sun is a morning tabloid newspaper based in Melbourne, Australia. It is published by The Herald and Weekly Times, a part of News Limited, which is a part of News Corporation. It can be bought in Melbourne, Regional Victoria, Tasmania, the Australian Capital Territory and border regions of South Australia and Southern New South Wales. The Herald Sun shares many articles with other News Corporation daily newspapers, especially those from Australia.

The Herald Sun is the biggest selling daily newspaper in Australia. It sells about 515,000 copies each day and is read by 1,500,000 people.

[[Klaus Schütz]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2012 deaths, People from Heidelberg, Politicians from Baden-Württemberg, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany

Klaus Schütz (17 September 1926 in Heidelberg – 29 November 2012 in Berlin) was a German politician of the Social Democratic Party (SPD).

[[Rabiu Afolabi]]

CATEGORIES: Nigerian footballers, 1980 births, Living people

Rabiu Afolabi (born 18 April 1980 in Osogbo, Nigeria) is a Nigerian soccer player. He plays for F. C. Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga as defender.

[[Scots-Irish]]

Scotch-Irish or Scots-Irish may refer to;

[[Ulster Scots people]]

CATEGORIES: Irish people

Ulster Scots are an ethnic group in Ireland, descended from Lowland Scots and English from the border of those two countries, were "Border Reivers".  These people first began to occupy Ireland in large numbers with the Plantation of Ulster, ordered by James I of England on land taken from the Irish nobility, mostly in the Province of Ulster. The term "Ulster-Scots" refers to both these colonists of the 17th century and, less commonly, to the Gallowglass who began to arrive from what is now northwest Scotland centuries earlier.

Ulster-Scots were largely descended from colonists from Galloway, Ayrshire, and the Scottish Borders Country, although some descend from people further north in the Scottish Lowlands and the Highlands. Ulster-Scots emigrated in significant numbers to the United States and all corners of the British Empire — Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa — and to a lesser extent to Argentina and Chile in South America. 

Scotch-Irish is a traditional term for Ulster Scots who later emigrated to what is now the United States;  "Scots-Irish" is a more recent form of the American term, the term has usually been Scotch-Irish in America, as evident in Merriam-Webster dictionaries, where the term Scotch-Irish is recorded from 1744, while Scots-Irish is not recorded until 1972.  and is not to be confused with Irish-Scots, i.e., recent Irish immigrants to Scotland.

[[Dharamshala]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhism, Cities in India

Dharamshala is a city in northern India. It is the winter seat of government of the state of Himachal Pradesh and the district headquarters of the Kangra district.

McLeod Ganj, a village within Dharamshala municipality, is the home of the Dalai Lama and the exiled Tibetan government. It is a popular place for Indian and foreign tourists, including students studying Tibet.

[[Venerable Order of Saint John]]

CATEGORIES: Order of St John

The Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem (L'Ordre très vénérable de l'hôpital de Saint-Jean de Jérusalem), is a royal order of chivalry established in 1831 and found today throughout the Commonwealth of Nations, Hong Kong, Ireland and the United States of America.  Its world-wide mission is "to prevent and relieve sickness and injury, and to act to enhance the health and well-being of people anywhere in the world." It is often simply called the Order of St. John, or as the Venerable Order of Saint John (VOSJ) to distinguish it from other similarly named orders.

The order's approximately 25,000 confrères, supported by 4,000 employees and 250,000 volunteers, are mainly Anglicans, though those of other Christian denominations or other religions are accepted into the order, and honorary membership is presented to distinguished adherents of other religions. Membership in the order is by invitation only, except via appointment to certain government or ecclesiastical offices in some realms.  People may not petition for admission. It is perhaps best known through its service organizations, St. John Ambulance and St John Eye Hospital Group, the memberships and work of which are not limited to any denomination or religion.

[[Jasenovac concentration camp]]

CATEGORIES: Concentration camps, War crimes, Croatia, Nazi Germany

Jasenovac concentration camp was the largest death camp and concentration camp in the Independent State of Croatia (ISC) during World War II.  The camp was created by the Ustaše regime in August 1941 and destroyed in April 1945.  Most of the people killed at Jasenovac were ethnic Serbs, who the ISC saw as their main racial enemy. The camp also held Jews, Roma, and a number of Croat and Bosniak Yugoslav Partisans.

Jasenovac was a complex of five sub-camps  covering over 240 on both banks of the Sava River.  The largest camp was at Jasenovac, about 100 southeast of Zagreb. The complex included large grounds at Donja Gradina directly across the Sava River; a children's concentration camp in Sisak; and a Stara Gradiška concentration camp.

The camp's history website says, "We cannot be sure of the exact number of victims of the Ustasha camp in Jasenovac. According to research completed so far, the number can be estimated at between 80,000 and 100,000".

[[Geshe Sonam Rinchen]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhism

Geshe Sonam Rinchen was born in Kham in Eastern Tibet in 1933. In 1945, he joined Dhargyey Monastery, and entered Sera monastery in Lhasa in 1952, where he studied until he was forced to leave Tibet in 1959.

In India he completed his studies for the degree of Geshe Lharampa which he received in 1980. He also received the degree of Acarya from the Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies in Sarnath. He was appointed resident teacher at the Library of Tibetan Works and Archives in Dharamsala, India in 1978, where he teaches Buddhist philosophy and practice, mainly to westerners. He has also taught in Japan, Australia, Great Britain, South Korea, Ireland, New Zealand and Switzerland.

[[Geshe Acharya Thubten Loden]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhist lamas, People from Victoria (Australia), Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Geshe Acharya Thubten Loden leads the Tibetan Buddhist Society in Australia. Geshe Loden established the Peaceful Land of Joy Meditation Centre in Victoria, and has written many books. In 2011, he was named Hume Citizen of the Year.

[[Foundation for the Preservation of the Mahayana Tradition]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhism

The FPMT (Foundation for the Preservation of the Mahayana Tradition) is a group of Buddhist centers focusing on the Gelugpa tradition of Tibet. Founded in 1975 by Lama Thubten Yeshe and Lama Thubten Zopa Rinpoche, who began teaching Buddhism to Western students in Nepal, the FPMT has grown to encompass 150 teaching centers, projects, and social services in 33 countries. Since the death of Lama Yeshe in 1984, the FPMT's spiritual director has been Lama Zopa Rinpoche.

[[Gerhard Tremmel]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, German association football goalkeepers, Sportspeople from Munich

[[Macropodiformes]]

CATEGORIES: Macropods, Marsupials of Australia

Macropodiformes is one of the three suborders of the large marsupial order Diprotodontia. Kangaroos, wallabies and allies, bettongs, potaroos and rat kangaroos are all in this suborder.

[[Smoke (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 movies, American drama movies

Smoke is an American independent movie released in 1995. It was produced by Hisami Kuroiwa, Harvey Weinstein and Bob Weinstein. It was directed by Wayne Wang and Paul Auster. Auster also wrote the screenplay.

[[Yew]]

CATEGORIES: Conifers

A Yew is a coniferous tree. The name is most used for species of the genus Taxus, or for other members of the coniferous family Taxaceae.

[[Wichita Falls, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas, 1872 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Texas

Wichita Falls is a city in Wichita Couty, Texas, United States. The population of Wichita Falls was 107,000 in 2006. The mayors of Wichita Falls are Glenn Barham, Linda Ammons, Michael Smith, Dorothy Roberts Burns, Rick Hatcher, Tim Ingle and Mary Ward. Wichita Falls was founded on Sept. 27, 1872 when the Choctaw Indians settled the area in the early 18th century and then white settlers arrived in the 1860s to form cattle ranches.

[[Diastole]]

CATEGORIES: Cardiology, Blood pressure, Anatomy of the cardiovascular system

Diastole (daɪˈæstəliː) is the time during a heart beat when the heart fills with blood after a contraction. The contraction of the heart is called systole and is the opposite of diastole. The term diastole comes from the Greek word διαστολη. This means expanding or opening.

[[Systole]]

CATEGORIES: Blood pressure, Cardiology, Anatomy of the cardiovascular system

Systole is the last stage of a heart beat. It happens right after diastole, when the heart refills with blood. During systole, the heart's two ventricles contract (squeeze).  (The ventricles are the largest parts of the heart, which pump blood to the body and lungs.) 

During systole, the heart muscle gets an automatic electrical signal that tells the heart to contract (squeeze). This makes the blood flow out of the heart.   

[[Cassini]]

Cassini could mean:

[[Halite]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals

Halite is the mineral a lot of people call "rock salt". It is a different form of sodium chloride (NaCl). It looks like it is made out of cubes.

[[Psychoactive drug]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

A psychoactive drug, psychopharmaceutical, or psychotropic is a chemical substance that crosses the blood-brain barrier. Its action affects the central nervous system. It can affect the brain and change perception, mood, consciousness, cognition and behaviour. Hypnotics are often prescribed to help people sleep. Sometimes they are also used in rituals, or as illegal drugs. These drugs enable their users to change their consciousness. This can also help students when they are preparing their examinations. Certain therapies also use such substances. 

Psychoactive substances change the consciousness and mood of their user. The people using them may have pleasant feelings, such as euphoria or they may be more alert. For this reason, many psychoactive substances are abused: They are used outside the aims of the treatment. This may lead to the user developing a  psychological and physical dependence ("addiction"). It will get more difficult to interrupt the cycle of abuse. 

Drug rehabilitation aims to break this cycle of dependency; this is done with psychotherapy, support groups and even other psychoactive substances: Acamprosate or naltrexone are examples of substances used to treat alcoholism, methadone or buprenorphine maintenance therapy in the case of opioid dependency.  However, the reverse is also true in some cases, that is certain experiences on drugs may be so unfriendly and uncomforting that the user may never want to try the substance again.  This is especially true of the deliriants (e.g. datura) and dissociatives (e.g. salvia divinorum).

In part because of this potential for abuse and dependency, the ethics of drug use are the subject of a continuing philosophical debate. Many governments worldwide have placed restrictions on drug production and sales in an attempt to decrease drug abuse. Ethical concerns have also been raised about over-use of these drugs clinically, and about their marketing by manufacturers.

[[Mangalore]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Settlements in Karnataka

Mangalore is a city in the state of Karnataka, India. It is the capital city of Dakshina Kannada district. It is a port city. It is located on the Arabian Sea. It is the largest city in the Tulu Nadu region.

People in Mangalore speak many languages like Kannada, Tulu, Konkani and Beary.

[[West Coast of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the United States

The West Coast of the United States is a term that generally refers to the states of California, Oregon, Washington, and Alaska. It also sometimes include the state of  Hawaii, even though it has little in common geologically with the continental states. Almost 50 million people live in these states. The region includes the cities of Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Anchorage, Portland and San Diego.

[[Stryper]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s music groups, 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, American heavy metal bands, Glam metal bands, Christian metal bands, American hard rock bands, American rock bands, Christian rock bands, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California, Enigma Records artists

Stryper is a Christian glam metal band from Orange County, California. The group's lineup consists of Michael Sweet (lead vocals, guitar), Oz Fox (guitar), Tim Gaines (bass guitar), and Robert Sweet (drums). In 2004 Gaines left the band and was replaced by Tracy Ferrie (bass guitar) but rejoined in 2009.

Formed in 1983 as Roxx Regime, they would change their message and name to Stryper to go on to be the first Christian rock band to be recognized by the mainstream. In 1983 they were signed by Enigma Records and released their first album The Yellow and Black Attack. By the mid-1980s, Stryper saw their most successful period starting with the release of To Hell with the Devil which achieved Platinum sales status. Stryper would go on to release two more Gold albums before breaking up in 1992. In 2003 Stryper came out of retirement for a reunion tour and subsequently signed a multi-album contract with Big3 Records in 2005.

The name "Stryper" derives from the King James Version of the Bible. "But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities:

the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed." The reference, Isaiah 53:5, is frequently included as part of their logo. Stryper's drummer, Robert Sweet, also created a backronym for their name: "salvation through redemption, yielding peace, encouragement and righteousness".

[[Christian metal]]

CATEGORIES: Christian metal

Christian metal, also known as white metal,  is a form of heavy metal music which a Christian band makes to praise Jesus. Christian metal is typically performed by professed Christians, sometimes principally for Christians who listen to heavy metal music. It is often produced and distributed through various Christian networks.

Christian metal bands exist in all the subgenres of heavy metal music, and the only common link between most Christian metal bands are the lyrics. The Christian themes are often melded with the subjects of the genre the band is rooted in, regularly providing a Christian take on the subject matter. It has been argued that the marginal yet transnational Christian metal subculture provides its core members an alternative religious expression and Christian identity, and that the music serves the purpose of offering a positive alternative or counterbalance to secular metal music which is known for its generally dark and negative message.

Christian metal emerged in the late 1970s as a means of evangelism to the wider heavy metal music scene, and was pioneered by the American Resurrection Band and Swedish Jerusalem. Los Angeles' Stryper achieved wide success in the 1980s, otherwise the genre was mostly ignored by the mainstream. California's Tourniquet and Australia's Mortification led the movement in the 1990s. The metalcore groups Underoath, Demon Hunter, As I Lay Dying, and Norma Jean (dubbed by Revolver Magazine as "The Holy Alliance") brought some mainstream attention to the movement in the first decade of the 21st century, achieving ranks in the Billboard 200.

[[Jerusalem (rock band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s music groups, 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Glam metal bands, Christian metal bands, Hard rock bands, Christian rock bands, Musical groups from Gothenburg

Jerusalem is a Swedish Christian rock band, founded in 1975 by Ulf Christiansson. It was one of the first bands to combine Christian lyrics with a hard rock sound.

[[Neobatrachia]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

Neobatrachia is a suborder of the Anura, which contains all frogs and toads. It is the most advanced (derived or apomorphic) and by far the largest of the three suborders. Its over 5,000 species make up over 96% of all living anurans. 

[[Hydrosphere]]

CATEGORIES: Physical geography

The hydrosphere is the total mass of water on, under, and over the surface of a planet. It is part of physical geography. The oceans, rivers, and lakes are all part of the hydrosphere. Some electricity is made by the hydrosphere.

The total mass of the Earth’s hydrosphere is about 1.4 × 1024 grams, which is about 0.023% of the Earth’s total mass. Around 2 × 1019 grams of this is the Earth’s atmosphere. In addition, 71% of the Earth’s surface, an area of 361 million square kilometers, is covered by ocean.

[[Bohuslav Martinů]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1959 deaths, 20th century composers, Czech composers

Bohuslav Martinů (born Polička, Bohemia, 8 December 1890; died Liestal, Switzerland, 28 August 1959) was a Czech composer. He wrote an enormous amount of music, including six symphonies, 15 operas, 14 ballet scores and many orchestral, chamber, vocal and instrumental works. His music is often inspired by his native country.

[[Gallipoli Campaign]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 in Europe, 1916 in Europe, Battles involving Australia, Battles involving France, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving India, Battles involving New Zealand, Battles involving the United Kingdom, Battles of World War I, British Empire, Ottoman Empire

The Gallipoli Campaign  was an Allied attack on the Gallipoli peninsula during World War I. The campaign took place between April 25, 1915 and January 9, 1916. The Allies, the British Empire and French forces, were fighting the Ottoman Empire.

The reason for the campaign was to break the stalemate on the Western and Eastern Front and to help the Russians.

The campaign started with a naval attack along the Dardanelles.  Naval mines sank or damaged several ships and soon the Turks fought back and stopped the Allies from entering the Sea of Marmara. It was decided that if the Russians were to receive any British help, a land invasion was necessary.

On April 25, 1915, Allied forces landed at various locations along the Gallipoli peninsula.  Many British soldiers were landed in the wrong places resulting in heavy casualties. The British landed at Cape Helles and the ANZACs landed at a place later known as Anzac Cove. However, the Allies did not push on. Instead, they were told to dig trenches and wait for a Turkish attack. There was trench warfare until an evacuation of all Allied troops was finally ordered. The campaign is widely viewed as an Allied failure.

The British historian A.J.P. Taylor wrote this of the Gallipoli campaign: "The Gallipoli expedition was a terrible example of an ingenious strategical idea carried through after inadequate preparation and with inadequate drive."

Mustafa Kemal Atatürk led the Turkish defenders. It was the only big victory in the war, and he became a hero. Years after the war ended, he became the first president of Turkey. He paid tribute to the ANZAC soldiers who died there.

[[Sparassodont]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Metatheria, Mammals of South America

The Sparassodonta were an order of carnivorous metatherian mammals. They are all now extinct.

The sparassodonts were native to South America. They were once thought to be true marsupials, but are now classified as a sister taxon to them. 

A number of these mammalian predators closely resemble placental predators that evolved separately in Eurasia. They were first described by Florentino Ameghino, from fossils found in the Santa Cruz beds of Patagonia.

[[Rudi Hiden]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, 1909 births, 1973 deaths, Association football goalkeepers, Austrian football managers, French football managers, French footballers

Rudi Hiden (Josef Rudolf Hiden, born 9 March 1909 in Graz, Styria, Austria – died 11 September 1973 in Vienna) was an Austrian–French footballer. He was goalkeeper. After his career as player he became football coach.

[[Brahmavar]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Karnataka

Brahmavar is a town in India. It is in Udupi district of Karnataka State. It is near to the capital of the Tulu Nadu kingdom. It is on National Highway 17.

[[AB III]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums

AB III is the third studio album by American rock band Alter Bridge. It was released on October 8, 2010 in Germany and Australia, since then released worldwide through late 2010 and early 2011. It received critical acclaim, and debuted at #17 in the Billboard 200 with more than 28,000 copies sold.

It contains one of Alter Bridge most successful songs, "Isolation" which peaked at #1 at the Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks chart.

[[Macaw]]

CATEGORIES: True parrots

A macaw is a New World parrot. Some of the species are large birds, the largest of the parrots. Macaws are native to Mexico, Central America, South America, and formerly the Caribbean.

Macaws, like all parrots, are unusually intelligent birds. The usual thing for parrots is to pair for life. They stay together even out of the mating season. They often fly in formation, one above the other.

[[Harrison Bergeron]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century American short stories

"Harrison Bergeron" is a science fiction short story by Kurt Vonnegut. It was first published in 1961. The story is set in a future where the United States government thinks everyone should be equal, so the government gives people "handicaps". People who are strong must carry heavy weights, and people who are smart must wear a radio that sends out signals that distract them.

Harrison Bergeron is a boy who is very talented. He gets rid of his handicaps and dances with a ballerina on national television. The government kills him for doing this. His parents are watching, but are too distracted by their handicaps to understand what is going on.

Some conservatives have thought the story has a conservative point of view, although Vonnegut was not a conservative.

[[The Cramps]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in New York (state), 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2009 disestablishments in the United States, American punk bands, Enigma Records artists, Musical groups disestablished in 2009, Musical groups established in 1976, Musical groups from New York City

The Cramps were an American punk rock band, formed in 1976 and active until 2009. The band split after the death of lead singer Lux Interior. They were part of the early CBGB punk rock movement that had emerged in New York. The Cramps are widely recognized as one of the prime innovators of psychobilly, and they inspired many of the early gothic rock bands.

[[Young Bond]]

CATEGORIES: James Bond, Fiction books, Young adult novels, Series of books

Young Bond is a series of young adult spy books. It is written by English author Charlie Higson. There are five books in the series. The series is about the fictional spy James Bond (who was originally invented by Ian Fleming) as a teenager. The series is set in the 1930s and Bond's school is Eton College. The books are published by Puffin Books in the United Kingdom.

The first novel in the series is SilverFin. It was published in 2005 and, since then, the series has become very successful.

The official website for the books is www.youngbond.com.

The series has received many positive reviews, with many people liking the tension and the action. The Guardian newspaper said that SilverFin is "a well-crafted page-turner with substance".

[[G. L. Pridgen]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Businesspeople from North Carolina, Politicians from North Carolina, US Republican Party politicians, American military people

Gaston Layton Pridgen, known as G. L. Pridgen (born ca. 1944), is a Republican member of the North Carolina General Assembly and the North Carolina House of Representatives. In the House of Representatives, he represents the 46th District, including constituents in Hoke, Robeson and Scotland  counties. A retired telecommunications technician from Laurinburg, North Carolina, Pridgen also has experience in the United States Military.

[[Foreigner (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in New York (state), 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, Atlantic Records artists, American hard rock bands, Musical groups established in 1976, Musical groups from New York City

Foreigner is a British-American rock band, originally formed in 1976 by veteran English musicians Mick Jones, ex-King Crimson member Ian McDonald along with American vocalist Lou Gramm. Foreigner have sold more than 70 million albums worldwide,February 2012 (including over 37.5 million in the United States alone).

[[Stonewall riots]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 in the United States, 1960s riots, 1960s in New York (state), History of Manhattan, Law enforcement in the United States, LGBT in the United States, Police misconduct, Riots in the United States

The Stonewall riots were a series of riots in New York City from 28 June to 6 July in 1969. They happened after the police raided the Stonewall Inn, a gay bar in Greenwich Village. After this, many LGBT+ people protested being persecuted by the police.  They are seen as the start of the Gay Rights Movement.

[[Glycerol]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Glycerol (or glycerin, glycerine) is a simple organic molecule. It is a colorless, odorless, thick liquid that is widely used during the last step of preparing prescription drugs. Glycerol has three hydrophilic (water-loving) hydroxyl (oxygen-hydrogen) groups that are responsible for its solubility in water and its hygroscopic nature (which means it attracts water from the air). The glycerol backbone is central to all lipids known as triglycerides. It is used is in making nitroglycerin.

[[Arthur C. Clarke Award]]

CATEGORIES: Literary awards, Science fiction awards, Lists of books

The Arthur C. Clarke Award is a prize for excellent science fiction writing. It is a British award for a science fiction novel from the year before. To win, a the novel must be published first in the United Kingdom. The winner gets money as a prize. The prize amount increases each year. It is a number of pounds sterling equal to the year of the prize (£1987 for the first prize in 1987, and £2011 for the most recent prize).

The science fiction author Arthur C. Clarke gave money to start the prize. The first prize was given in 1987.  A group of judges choose the winning book. Judges come from the British Science Fiction Association, the Science Fiction Foundation and a third group. Now, that third group SF Crowsnest. The Serendip Foundation manages the prize.  Recently, the award has been presented on the first night of the SCI-FI-LONDON film festival.

[[Pat Cadigan]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American science fiction writers, Writers from New York, Writers from Massachusetts, People from Schenectady, New York

Pat Cadigan is an American science fiction author. Her work is part of the cyberpunk movement. Her novels and short stories all share a common theme of exploring the relationship between the human mind and technology.  

[[Iris (goddess)]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

Iris was known as the goddess of the rainbow and another messenger for the gods in Greek mythology. 

She is depicted as a beautiful golden goddess, with wings (for flight), sandals, a staff, and a tunic. There is often much art, such as vases and murals, shown of her because she is worshiped and very beautiful. She was also seen briefly in Homer's Legacies.

Iris is generally seen as Hera's personal servant and messenger. Iris is very swift and fast and she generally travels by rainbow. It is even said that the reason the rainbow comes and goes so fast is because Iris only uses it for travel and since she is so fast, it is only in the sky for a small amount of time. 

She is seen today in both Roman, and Greek mythology, as an important figure to Greece, and the gods. In Greek mythology it is believed that if you throw a drachma (Greek currency) into a rainbow you can communicate with anyone anywhere (like the Skype of ancient times).

Her parents are Thaumas (marine titan) and Elektra (cloud nymph). Her husband is Zephryus (west wind). In some versions of Greek mythology, Iris is the mother of Pothos.

[[Mike Weinberg]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, 1993 births, Living people

Michael Andrew Weinberg (born February 16 1993) is an American former child actor. He starred in Home Alone 4 as Kevin McCallister. He is the younger brother of Matt Weinberg.

[[SC Wiener Neustadt]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Lower Austria

[[Redding, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, County seats in California, Settlements in Shasta County, California

Redding is a city in Northern California in the Western United States. It is the county seat of Shasta County and is located at the northern end of the state's great Central Valley at the base of the Shasta Cascades, about 110 miles south of the Oregon border on Interstate 5 and 140 east of the Pacific Ocean on State Highway 299.

The population was 90,322, according to the 2010 census.

[[Dental formula]]

CATEGORIES: Teeth, Mammals

A dental formula is a summary of a mammal's teeth.

Almost all mammals have four kinds of teeth:

Teeth numbers and form have adapted to different feeding methods. Over time, different mammal groups have evolved distinct dental features, in the number and type of teeth, and in the shape and size of the chewing surface.

The number of teeth of each type is written as a dental formula for one side of the mouth, or quadrant, with the upper and lower teeth shown on separate rows. The number of teeth in a mouth is twice that listed as there are two sides.

In each set, incisors (I) are indicated first, canines (C) second, premolars (P) third, and finally molars (M), giving I:C:P:M. So for example, the formula 2.1.2.3 for upper teeth indicates 2 incisors, 1 canine, 2 premolars, and 3 molars on one side of the upper mouth.

The deciduous dental formula is notated in lowercase lettering preceded by the letter d: e.g. di:dc:dm. An animal's dentition for either deciduous or permanent teeth can thus be expressed as a dental formula, written in the form of a fraction: I.C.P.M / I.C.P.M.

Since the teeth are always listed in the same order, the letters can be dropped, thus:

Both felines and horses have a large diastema, or gap, between their front teeth and their back teeth. This is a natural feature in many types of mammal.

[[Scania OmniLink]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Buses

The Scania OmniLink is a bus produced by Scania since 1998. It replaced the Scania CL113.

It is powered by a six-cylinder diesel engine with a displacement of 9 litre.

[[Lux Interior]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2009 deaths, Singers from Ohio

Erick Lee Purkhiser (October 21, 1946 – February 4, 2009), better known as Lux Interior, was an American singer. He was a founding member of punk the band The Cramps.

[[Poison Ivy (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, American guitarists, American punk musicians, Living people, Musicians from California

Kristy Marlana Wallace (born February 20, 1953) is an American guitarist, songwriter, arranger, producer, and sometimes a vocalist. Wallace is better known by the stage names of Poison Ivy and sometimes Poison Ivy Rorschach. She was a co-founder of the American garage punk band The Cramps.

She was married to Lux Interior for 37 years until he died on February 4, 2009.

[[Horror punk]]

CATEGORIES: Punk rock

Horror punk (sometimes referred to as horror rock) is a dark style of music mixing gothic and punk rock sounds with morbid imagery. Often, song topics are taken from horror films, horror punk bands create an atmosphere by telling tales through their songs. It is closely related to an often overlaps with the death rock movement; while death rock tends to lean more towards the goth sound, horror punk leans towards a doo-wop sound.

The Misfits are recognized as the first band of the horror punk subgenre. Misfits first horror punk recording sessions can be traced back to 1977. In 1982, the Misfits released their first full-length album, Walk Among Us. Influenced by the Misfits, another early punk band TSOL released a horror punk album called Dance with Me in the early 1980s. 

The genre, with the exception of artists like Jack Grisham (on the left) and Michale Graves (on the right), is generally  apolitical.

Horror hardcore is a term coined by Dwid Hellion that refers to a hybrid of horror punk and hardcore punk. The Misfits' third album, Earth A.D., and the early work of Glenn Danzig's subsequent band Samhain inaugurated the style. Septic Death and Integrity also performed this subgenre. 

Horror metal is a term which originated in the 1980s to describe Ripper's first album. Since then, a number of bands playing several different styles of metal have fallen under this banner, including Necrophagia and the Vision Bleak.

[[Psychobilly]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music

Psychobilly is a style of rock music that mixes elements of punk rock, rockabilly, and other genres. Some psychobilly songs include thrash metal or country music styles. Psychobilly is commonly played with a simple guitar/bass/drum/vocal arrangement, with many bands consisting of only three members. Often the guitarist or bassist will be the lead vocalist.

The first psychobilly band was the Meteors, a band from London, UK. 

Psychobilly band members and fans often shave part of their heads.

[[Slim Harpo]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1970 deaths, Blues harp players, Blues guitarists, American guitarists, American blues musicians, Musicians from Louisiana

James Moore, known as Slim Harpo, (January 11, 1924 — January 31, 1970) was a famous blues musician born in Lobdell, Louisiana, USA. He played in the style called Swamp blues.

As a child he learned to play the guitar and the harmonica. He started playing in the 1940's and in 1948 became a full time musician, using the name "Harmonica Slim". He changed his name to "Harpo Slim" in the 1950's. 

He had several hit recordings including, "King Bee" in 1957, "Raining in my Heart" in 1961 and "Scratch My Back" in 1966.

The Rolling Stones recorded "King Bee" on their first album. 

Harpo Slim died from a heart attack in 1970.

[[Barnyard (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, THQ games, Nintendo GameCube games, PlayStation 2 games, Game Boy Advance games, Windows games, Wii games, Video games based on movies, Party video games

Barnyard is a 2006 party game based on the animated movie of the same name. It has been released for the Nintendo GameCube, PlayStation 2, Game Boy Advance, PC, and the Wii.

[[Paleolithic diet]]

CATEGORIES: Nutrition, Diets

The modern diet known as the paleolithic diet (abbreviated as 'paleo diet' or 'paleodiet') is a way of eating. It is also called the 'caveman diet', 'Stone Age diet' or 'hunter-gatherer diet'.

It is based on the wild plants and animals which humans ate in the Paleolithic era. This was a period about 2.5 million years long: it ended around 10,000 years ago, when people began farming. The term "Paleolithic diet" may also refer to what people actually ate back then instead of the diet today.

Meat, fish, vegetables, fruit, roots, and nuts make up most of the modern Paleolithic diet. It does not include grains, legumes, dairy products, salt, refined sugar, and processed oils. The diet is much lower in carbohydrates than is usual today, and much higher in protein.

Walter L. Voegtlin first made the modern Paleolithic diet popular in the 1970s.

Authors and researchers recommended and changed the diet in several books and academic journals.

Paleolithic nutrition is based on the idea in evolution that modern humans are genetically adapted to the way their Paleolithic ancestors ate, and that human genetics have not changed much since people began growing their own food. Therefore a good way of eating today would be like how people ate then.

The basic idea is that the diet is healthy because our body is adapted to make use of it. Two studies of the Paleolithic diet in humans have shown good things for people's health.

This way of eating is somewhat controversial among nutritionists.

and anthropologists.

Some argue that if hunter gatherer societies did not suffer from certain diseases, this was because they ate food with fewer calories, or for other reasons. They also say it may not be how people really ate in the Paleolithic era.

[[Alligator Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels, Blues labels, Blues music, Music in Chicago, 1971 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Illinois

Alligator Records is an independent blues record label from Chicago, Illinois, USA. It was founded by Bruce Iglauer in 1971. For his work maintaining Chicago Blues Iglauer was honoured "Chicagoans-of-the-Year 2001"

[[Pikes Peak]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Colorado, Mountains of the United States

Pikes Peak is a 14,115-foot mountain near Colorado Springs, Colorado, United States. It is one of the world's most famous mountains and can be seen from over 100 miles on clear days. It was named after Zebulon Pike who explored the area in 1806. The summit of the peak can be reached either by car or railway. The spectacular view from the top is what inspired Katharine Lee Bates to write "America The Beautiful" in 1893, and there is a plaque with the words to the song at the summit as well. It is also the home of the second oldest car race in the United States.

[[Specialty Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels, Blues labels, Companies based in Los Angeles

Specialty Records was an American record label from Los Angeles. It was founded as Juke Box Records in 1946, but renamed by its owner Art Rupe when separated from some of his former partners. Speciality is known for its rhythm and blues, blues, gospel and early rock and roll music which the label recorded. Specialty also had two music publishing companies, Venice Music and Greenwich Music. During the 1960s Speciality stopped the recordings and only sold the old records. In 1968, because of  interest in the early days of rock and roll, Rupe started the label again and reissued much of the old material.

Art Rupe was famous for being one of the most honest men in recording business. He paid and recorded his musicians well and he never paid for being played in the radio. On Speciality you can hear some of the wildest rhythm and blues of this time because Rupe gave a lot of freedom to his musicians.

In 1991 the label was sold to the Concord Music Group which has reissued albums by a number of Specialty's original artists.

[[Rap metal]]

CATEGORIES: Fusion music genres, Heavy metal subgenres, Hip hop genres

Rap metal is a subgenre of rap rock which fuses vocal and usually instrumental elements of hip hop music with heavy metal. Rap metal is often confused with rap rock and rapcore.

[[Slav defence]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

The Slav defence is an important reply to 1d4. It is popular with top players. The Slav usually begins:

Other fourth moves for White are 4.e3, 4.cxd5 and 4.Qb3.

[[Funk rock]]

CATEGORIES: Fusion music genres, Rock music

Funk rock (also typed as funk-rock) is a music genre that fuses funk and rock elements.

Its earliest incarnation was heard in the late 1960s through the mid-1970s by acts such as the Jimi Hendrix Experience (last two albums), Eric Burdon and War, Trapeze, Parliament-Funkadelic, Betty Davis and Mother's Finest. In the 1990s acts such as Prince, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Rage Against the Machine and Faith No More revived the genre.

[[Funk metal]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy metal subgenres, Fusion music genres

Funk metal is a subgenre of funk rock that fuses elements of heavy metal and funk. Allmusic has claimed that, "Funk metal evolved in the mid-'80s when alternative bands like the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Faith No More, Infectious Grooves, Mordred and Fishbone began playing the hybrid with a stronger funk underpinning than metal."Faith No More have also been described as funk metal that dabbled in rap-metal.

Rage Against the Machine's mix of funk and metal not only included rap, but also elements of punk rock. Primus, a band that has never had a clear genre, have been called things such as "thrash metal-funk meets Don Knotts, Jr.Living Colour have been cited by Rolling Stone as "Black-funk-metal pioneers."

Certain bands not from an alternative background, such as Bang Tango and Extreme, have also frequently incorporated funk into their musical style.

[[Fishbone]]

CATEGORIES: African-American people, American rock bands, American heavy metal bands, American punk bands, Reggae bands, Funk bands, Soul bands, Alternative rock bands, 1979 establishments in California, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California

Fishbone is an American alternative rock band formed in 1979 in Los Angeles, which plays a fusion of ska, punk rock, funk, and other musical styles. Critics considered Fishbone to be one of the most distinctive and varied bands of the late '80s. With their hyperactive, self-conscious diversity, goofy sense of humor, and sharp social commentary, the group gained a large cult following during the late '80s, yet they never became mainstream.

[[Provincial Assembly of the Punjab]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Pakistan

The Provincial Assembly of the Punjab is a unicameral legislature of elected representatives of the province of Punjab, which is located in Lahore in  eastern Pakistan. The Assembly was established under Article 106 of the 1973 Constitution of Pakistan as having a total of 371 seats, with 66 seats reserved for women and eight reserved for non-Muslims.

[[Provincial Assembly of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Pakistan

The Provincial Assembly of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is the unicameral legislative body of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in Pakistan. It was established under Article 106 of the Constitution of the Pakistan. The assembly has 124 elected members. There are 99 regular seats, with 22 seats reserved for women and 3 seats for Non-Muslims.

The assembly elects a Chief Minister of the Province. He selects a Cabinet of Ministers to run the various government departments.

[[Asian Development Bank]]

CATEGORIES: Banks, 1966 establishments in Asia

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is a regional development bank established on 19 December 1966, which is headquartered in Tokyo, Japan. The company also maintains 31 field offices around the world to promote social and economic development in Asia. The bank admits the members of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UNESCAP, formerly the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East or ECAFE) and non-regional developed countries. From 31 members at its establishment, ADB now has 68 members.

The ADB was modeled closely on the World Bank, and has a similar weighted voting system where votes are distributed in proportion with members' capital subscriptions. ADB releases an annual report that summarizes its operations, budget and other materials for review by the public. The ADB-Japan Scholarship Program (ADB-JSP) enrolls about 300 students annually in academic institutions located in 10 countries within the Region. Upon completion of their study programs, scholars are expected to contribute to the economic and social development of their home countries.

ADB is an official United Nations Observer.

As of 31 December 2018, Japan and the United States each holds the largest proportion of shares at 15.571%. China holds 6.429%, India holds 6.317%, and Australia holds 5.773%.

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is a regional development bank established on 22 August 1966 to facilitate economic development of countries in Asia.  The President of the Asian Development Bank is Abhist Vejjajiva

[[San Bernardino, California]]

CATEGORIES: 1869 establishments in California, County seats in California, San Bernardino, California

San Bernardino is a city in San Bernardino County, California.  It is one of the main cities in Southern California's Inland Empire region east of Los Angeles. It has a population of 209,924.

San Bernardino has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Koeppen climate classification).

On 2 December 2015, 14 people were killed in a mass shooting.

[[Group of 24]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations

The Group of 24 (G24), a chapter of the G-77, was established in 1971 to coordinate the positions of developing countries on international monetary and development finance issues and to ensure that their interests were adequately represented in negotiations on international monetary matters.

[[Clacton-on-Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Tendring, Towns in Essex

Clacton-on-Sea is a medium-sized seaside town in Tendring, Essex, England. It has about 55,000 inhabitants. Many people in the town are elderly. The A133 road runs into Clacton-on-Sea.

[[Great Dunmow]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex, Uttlesford

Great Dunmow is a town near the A120 road in Uttlesford, Essex, England.

[[Braintree]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex

Braintree is a town in Essex, England, near the A120 road.

[[Maldon]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex, Civil parishes in Essex

Maldon is a town and civil parish on the A414 road, in Essex, England. In 2001 there were 14,034 people living in Maldon.

[[Woodbridge]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Suffolk Coastal

Woodbridge is a town near the A12 road in Suffolk Coastal, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 7,368 people living in Woodbridge.

[[Harrogate]]

CATEGORIES: Spa towns in the United Kingdom, Towns in North Yorkshire

Harrogate is a spa town in North Yorkshire, England. About 76,000 people live there. It is famous for its traditional roman baths, the beautiful Valley Gardens and the traditional tea room , Betty's. 

[[Kettering]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Northamptonshire

Kettering is a town near the A14 road, in Northamptonshire, England.

[[Andover, Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hampshire

Andover is a town near the A303 road in Hampshire, England.

[[Appleby-in-Westmorland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cumbria, Eden, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Appleby-in-Westmorland is a  market town and civil parish. It is in Eden, Cumbria, in North West England. It has a population of 3,048. It is in the historic county of Westmorland, of which it is the traditional county town. 

The town's name was simply Appleby, until the local government changes of 1974. The council changed the town's name, to preserve the historic county name.

[[Kendal]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Kendal is a town near the M6 motorway in Cumbria, England.

[[Workington]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria, Allerdale

Workington is a town in Allerdale, Cumbria, England. Workington is connected by the A66 road and the A596 road. In 2001 there were 24,295 people living in Workington.

[[Barrow-in-Furness]]

CATEGORIES: Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom, Towns in Cumbria

Barrow-in-Furness is a town in south Cumbria (England), connected by the A590 road. The old town and seaport form about half of the modern Borough of Barrow-in-Furness.

Before 1 April 1974, Barrow was in Lancashire.

[[Register]]

The word register can have several meanings.  Very often it means: something that is written down so that there is a record (written proof) of something.  It may, for example be a list of names. 

It can also be used as a verb: to register, i.e. to write something down in an official register (e.g. a special book), e.g. to register a birth, marriage or death.  

Registration is the act of registering or being registered.

[[Ulverston]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Ulverston is a town on the A590 road, in Cumbria, England.

[[Hartlepool]]

CATEGORIES: Hartlepool

Hartlepool is a town near the A689 road in County Durham, England.

[[Haverhill]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk

Haverhill is a town in St Edmundsbury, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 22,010 people living in Haverhill.

[[Knaresborough]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Yorkshire

Knaresborough is a town in North Yorkshire, England. It is east of Harrogate. In 2001 there were 14,761 people living in Knaresborough.

[[Honiton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Devon

Honiton is a town in Devon, England, near the A30 road.

[[Dartmouth]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Devon, Civil parishes in Devon, South Hams

Dartmouth is a town and civil parish on the A379 road, in South Hams, Devon, England. In 2001, there were 5,512 people living in Dartmouth. Dartmouth got its name from being at the mouth of the River Dart.

[[Tavistock]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Devon, West Devon

Tavistock is a town in Devon, England, 24 north of Plymouth. Tavistock is a market town in West Devon, England on the River Tavy. 11,018 people live there. It was in existence in the year 961, when the Abbey of Tavistock was founded by a rich Anglo-Saxon nobleman. The most famous person from Tavistock is Sir Francis Drake.

Tavistock is on the edge of Dartmoor, on the A386 road. In the centre of the town is Bedford Square, around which are St Eustachius's Church and the ruins of the Abbey, the Town Hall, and the Pannier Market buildings behind the Town Hall.

[[Choir (disambiguation)]]

Choir can refer to

[[Ode]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry forms, Writing

An ode is a type of lyric poem.  The word comes from the Ancient Greek.  An ode is a poem which is written in praise of something or someone, saying how wonderful they are. 

Very often an ode will have the title "Ode to..." followed by the name of the thing or person that it describes, e.g. John Keats wrote a poem "Ode to a Nightingale".

Odes were written by the poets of Ancient Greece as well as by the Romans.  Horace was particularly famous for his odes, and many English odes written centuries later were based on Horace's lyrical verses.

[[Newton Abbot]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Devon

Newton Abbot is a town near the A380 road, in Teignbridge, Devon, England. In 2001 there were 23,580 people living in Newton Abbot.

[[Hitchin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hertfordshire

Hitchin is a town near the A1 road, in Hertfordshire, England. In 2011 approximately 33,350 people lived there.

[[Nutritionism]]

CATEGORIES: Nutrition

Food contains nutrients. The diet of a person is made of different kinds of food. Nutritionism is the idea that only the nutritients found in different foods determines their value for the diet. The value of a diet can be calculated by adding up the values of all nutritients of the individual food items. According to nutritionism, people only eat to stay healthy. In general, the term has a negative connotation. 

[[Bodmin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cornwall, Anglicanism, Civil parishes in Cornwall

Bodmin is a town on the A30 road, in Cornwall, United Kingdom. It is in the centre of the county southwest of Bodmin Moor.

The neighbouring parishes are Cardinham, Lanhydrock, Lanivet and Helland.

In 2001 there were 12,881 people living in Bodmin.

In the Middle Ages Bodmin was one of the most important towns in Cornwall and the site of a monastery founded by Saint Petroc. The parish church of Bodmin was built in the 15th century and is the second largest church in the county after Truro Cathedral.

[[Battle of Polygon Wood]]

CATEGORIES: Battles of World War I, 1917 in Belgium, September events

The Battle of Polygon Wood was a small battle that took place in World War I.

It happened during the second part of the Battle of Passchendaele. Most of the battle was fought in an area named Polygon Wood, near Ypres, Belgium.

[[Royston]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hertfordshire, Civil parishes in Hertfordshire, North Hertfordshire

Royston is a town near the A 505 road in North Hertfordshire, Hertfordshire, England. In 2001 there were 14,570 people living in Royston. Royston is a very historic town as it has the meridian of time running through it. We also have the Roy stone. Royston was originally called Roysia but the arrival of the stone  lead to a change of the towns name. There is also a historic cave which is imagined to be a religious work as it has a lot of religious images around it. There are many schools in Royston including Roysia, Greneway and Meridian which are called Rsat (Royston Schools Academy Trust) These three schools are about to link together to become one. 

[[Prosthesis]]

CATEGORIES: Limbs and extremities, Disability, Bionics

A prosthesis is a device made to replace a missing human body part. They are used by people who are missing body parts due to accidents, health problems (amputees) or being born without them. Originally, prostheses were simply pieces of wood (for example, wooden legs), but now they are made of lighter materials.  

Currently available prostheses can help return mobility to those with transtibial (below the knee), transfemoral (above the knee), transradial (below the elbow), and transhumeral (above the elbow) amputations. There is still much research to be done before artificial limbs can function with the same versatility as a natural limb; as a result many of the currently available prosthetic limbs are tailored to a specific activity or need. 

[[Saffron Walden]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex, Uttlesford

Saffron Walden is a town near the M11 motorway, in the Uttlesford district of Essex.

It is a market town 12 north of Bishop's Stortford, 15 south of Cambridge and 43 north of London. 

It has a rural appearance and some buildings of the medieval period. 

The population was 15,504 at the 2011 census.

[[Leiston]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Suffolk Coastal

Leiston is a town near the A12 road, in Suffolk, England.  

Along with the nearby hamlet of Sizewell, Leiston forms the Leiston-cum-Sizewell civil parish.

[[Southwold]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Port cities and towns of England

Southwold is a town on the A1095 road, in the county of Suffolk, England. It is a seaside town and has beach huts.

[[Halesworth]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Halesworth is a town on the A144 road, in Suffolk, England.

[[Stowmarket]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Stowmarket is a town near the A14 road, in Suffolk, England.

[[Thetford]]

CATEGORIES: Breckland, Towns in Norfolk

Thetford is a town near the A11 road, in Breckland District, Norfolk, England.

[[Hemorrhoid]]

CATEGORIES: Gastroenterology

Hemorrhoid or haemorrhoid (also commonly called piles) are vascular structures (similar to veins) in the anal canal which help with stool evacuation. We only speak of hemorrhoids (or piles) when they become swollen or inflamed. But Hemorrhoids are a normal part of the anatomy and everyone has these structures. They act as a cushion that is made of complex tissue. Their job is to aid the passage of stool. Hemorrhoids are very common. Nearly three out of four adults will have hemorrhoids from time to time.

[[Daventry]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Northamptonshire

Daventry is a town on the A45 road, in the county of Northamptonshire, England.

[[Wellingborough]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Northamptonshire

Wellingborough is a town in Northamptonshire, England. In 2001 there were 72,519 people living in the town. The town is near the A45 road.

Wellingborough is an Anglo-Saxon town. It and was settled in the sixth century by the Saxons. It was first known as Wendeling burh - "the stronghold of Waendel's people".  

[[Dormitory]]

CATEGORIES: Rooms

A dormitory, also known as dorm, is a residence hall consisting of sleeping quarters or entire buildings primarily providing sleeping and residential quarters for large numbers of people, often in boarding.

[[Annie Edson Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1838 births, 1921 deaths, People from New York

Annie Edson Taylor (October 24, 1838 – April 29, 1921) was an American school-teacher and adventurer.  She was the first person to go over Niagara Falls in a barrel without dying.  She did this on her 63rd birthday, October 24, 1901.

[[Horse fly]]

CATEGORIES: Flies

A horse fly is a type of insect and a member of the family Tabanidae (order Diptera). More specifically they are any member of the genus Tabanus. These stout flies are as small as a housefly or as large as a bumblebee. Their metallic or iridescent eyes meet dorsally in the male and are separate in the female. Gad-fly, a nickname, may refer either to the fly’s roving habits or to its mouthparts, which resemble a wedge-shaped miner’s tool. 

The bites of the female fly often carry parasites onto the victim (such as a horse). The resulting sore can be extremely distressing to the animal.

[[Blues Music Award]]

CATEGORIES: Music awards, Blues music

The Blues Music Awards are presented by the Blues Foundation, an organization to promote the blues music. The Blues Foundation started the awards in 1980 under the name W. C. Handy Awards. In 2006 they were renamed Blues Music Awards. The Blues Music Award is one of the highest honors a blues musician can get in the USA.

Like the Grammys the Blues Music Award is given in different categories. The nominees are chosen by a group of people who are connected with Blues music. 

[[Beaconsfield]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Buckinghamshire

Beaconsfield is a town near the M40 motorway in Buckinghamshire, England. A new service station has opened on the motorway called Beaconsfield service station. It has a population of 12, 081 as of 2011.

[[Berkhamsted]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hertfordshire

Berkhamsted is a town and civil parish near the A41 road in Dacorum, Hertfordshire, England. In 2001 there were 16,498 people living in Berkhamsted.

[[Bridport]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Dorset, West Dorset

Bridport is a town near the A35 road in Dorset, England.  It is near the coast at the western end of Chesil Beach.

In 2006 West Dorset district was named 10th best place to live in the UK. The town is twinned with Saint-Vaast-la-Hougue, France.

[[Aspatria]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria, Allerdale

Aspatria is a town near the A596 road, in Allerdale, Cumbria, England.

[[Keswick]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cumbria

Keswick is a town near the A66 road in Cumbria, England.

[[Thirsk]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Yorkshire

Thirsk is a town near the A1 road in North Yorkshire, England. There is a museum about James Herriot.

[[Bolton, Cumbria]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Bolton is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 416 people living in Bolton. It has a church called All Saints Church. It is three miles north of Appleby-in-Westmorland.

[[Tadcaster]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Yorkshire

Tadcaster is a town near the A64 road in North Yorkshire, England. In 2001 there were 6,039 people living in Tadcaster.

[[Redcar]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Yorkshire, Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom

Redcar is a town near Middlesbrough in North Yorkshire, England.

[[Whitehaven]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cumbria

Whitehaven is a town on the A595 road in Cumbria, England. Whitehaven was Built on shipping and mining, but these have now declined.

[[Cockermouth]]

CATEGORIES: Allerdale, Civil parishes in Cumbria, Towns in Cumbria

Cockermouth is a town near the A66 road in Cumbria, England, in the Borough of Allerdale. In 2011 there were 8,761 living in Cockermouth.

[[Maryport]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria, Allerdale

Maryport is a town on the A596 road in Allerdale, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 11,275 people living in Maryport.

The Romans built the fort Uxellodunum in Alauna (which is now called Maryport) around the year 122, to help defend the western end of Hadrian's Wall.September 2012

[[Louth]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lincolnshire

Louth is a town near the A16 road in Lincolnshire, England. In 2001 there were 15,930 people living in Louth.

[[Skegness]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lincolnshire, Civil parishes in Lincolnshire

Skegness is a town and civil parish on the A52 road and A158 road in East Lindsey, Lincolnshire, England. In 2001 there were 18,910 people living in Skegness.

It is known for being bracing, which means that it often has high winds. This is due to its exposed position on the North Sea.

Skegness is known as the home of Butlins, a theme park.

[[Bungay]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk

Bungay is a town on the A143 road in Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 4,895 people living in Bungay.

[[Okehampton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Devon, West Devon

Okehampton is an old market town on Dartmoor near the A30 road in West Devon, England. In 2001, there were 5,846 people living in Okehampton. Okehampton is the ideal place to explore Dartmoor with the highest Tor on Dartmoor (Yes Tor) being a short distance from the town. 

Heritage railway services are operated from Okehampton railway station. The station was formerly on the Southern Railway main line from Exeter to Padstow.

[[Launceston]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cornwall, Civil parishes in Cornwall, Market towns in England

Launceston is a town near the A30 road in Cornwall, England. In 2001 there were 7,135 people living in Launceston. The parish church is dedicated to St Mary Magdalen. Launceston was the former capital of Cornwall until it was replaced by Bodmin in 1835.

Launceston is just over one mile (1.6 km) west of the River Tamar which marks the border between Cornwall and Devon and is often referred to as the "gateway to Cornwall".

The Norman ruler of Cornwall built a castle here which is now in ruins.

[[Wadebridge]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cornwall, Civil parishes in Cornwall

Wadebridge is a town on the A39 road in Cornwall, England. In 2001 there were 6,351 people living in Wadebridge. The town is situated on the south bank of the River Camel a few miles inland from the north coast of Cornwall. It is well known for the road bridge across the river which was built to replace the dangerous ford in the Middle Ages.

The showground for the Royal Cornwall Show is near Wadebridge.

[[Liskeard]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cornwall, Civil parishes in Cornwall

Liskeard is a town near the A38 road in Cornwall, England. In 2001 there were 8,656 people living in Liskeard. The parish church is dedicated to St Martin and Liskeard railway station is on the railway line from Plymouth to Penzance.

[[Helston]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cornwall, Civil parishes in Cornwall

Helston is a town on the A394 road in west Cornwall, England. In 2001 there were 9,780 people living in Helston. The annual Furry Dance (known outside Cornwall as the Flora Dance) is said to originate from the medieval period and is held on May 8th each year. Another traditional celebration, the Hal-an-Tow, is reputed to be of Celtic origin.

[[Falmouth]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cornwall, Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom, Civil parishes in Cornwall

Falmouth (meaning mouth of the River Fal) is a town on the south coast of Cornwall. The A39 road links Falmouth with North Devon. In 2001 there were 20,775 people living in Falmouth. Falmouth harbour is a large natural harbour and Carrick Roads are nearby. Carrick Roads are the estuary of the River Fal.

The MP for Falmouth is Sarah Newton, a Tory. The school there is Falmouth School. 

[[Deal, Kent]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent

Deal is a town on the A258 road in Kent, England. In 2011, there were over 30,000 people living in Deal.

In 1989, 11 military bandsmen were killed when the PIRA bombed the Royal Marine Depot.

[[Atherstone]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Warwickshire

Atherstone is a town near the A5 road, in Warwickshire, England. In 2001, there were 8,338 people living in Atherstone.

[[Warwick]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Warwickshire

Warwick is a town near the M40 Motorway in Warwickshire, England. In 2001 there were 25,434 people living in Warwick.

[[Carnforth]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lancashire

Carnforth is a town near the M6 motorway in Lancashire, England. In 2001 there were 5,350 people living in Carnforth.

[[Ashburton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Devon

Ashburton is a town near the A38 road in Devon, England. In 2001 there were 3,909 people living in Ashburton.

[[Exmouth]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Devon

Exmouth ˈ is a town on the A376 road in Devon, England. In 2001, there were 32,972 people living in Exmouth.

[[South Molton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Devon, North Devon

South Molton is a town near the A361 road in North Devon, Devon, England. In 2001 there were 4,093 people living in South Molton.

[[Newmarket]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Newmarket is a town near the A14 road in Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 14,995 people living in Newmarket.

[[Swanley]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent

Swanley is a town inside the M25 motorway in Kent, England. In 2001 there were 20,986 people living in Swanley.

[[Sevenoaks]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent

Sevenoaks is a town near the M25 motorway in Kent, South East England. In 2001 there were 18,588 people living in Sevenoaks. 

[[Needham Market]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Mid Suffolk

Needham Market is a town and civil parish in Mid Suffolk, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 4,495 people living in Needham Market. The town is near the A14 road.

[[Wymondham]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Norfolk

Wymondham is a town near the A11 road and Norwich in Norfolk, England. In 2001 there were 12,539 people living in Wymondham.

[[Biggleswade]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bedfordshire, Civil parishes in Bedfordshire

Biggleswade is a town and civil parish near the A1 road in Bedfordshire, England. In 2012 there were 15,383 people living in Biggleswade. There is a train station that goes to London. The local upper school is called Stratton Upper School. Other famous people that have lived in Biggleswade are Pam Rhodes and Dan Albone. The town has lots of Cafés and Hair Dressers. Biggleswade has a parish church and the other churches are in Biggleswade Churches Together. Biggleswade has a radio station, Biggles FM.

[[Blandford Forum]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Dorset

Blandford Forum is a historic Georgian town in Dorset, England. In 2001 there were 8,745 people living in Blandford Forum.  There is a church in the centre of the town. It is on the River Stour.

There are three Primary Schools:  Archbishiopwake Primary School, Milldown Primary and Blandford St Mary.  There is also a Secondary School called The Blandford School.

[[Dorchester]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Dorset

Dorchester is the county town of Dorset, England. In 2001 there were 16,171 people living in Dorchester.

[[Hornsea]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in the East Riding of Yorkshire

Hornsea is a town in the East Riding of Yorkshire, England. In 2001 there were 8,243 people living in Hornsea.

[[Bracknell]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Berkshire

Bracknell is a town in Berkshire, England. In 2001 there were 50,131 people living in Bracknell.

[[Skipton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Yorkshire

Skipton is a town in North Yorkshire, England. In 2001, 14,313 people lived in Skipton.

[[Grange-over-Sands]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Grange-over-Sands is a town in Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 4,042 people living in Grange-over-Sands. It is located near the A590 road.

[[Aylsham]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Norfolk

Aylsham is a town near the A140 road in Norfolk, England. In 2001 there were 3,884 people living in Aylsham.

[[Maghull]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Merseyside

Maghull is a town near the M58 motorway in Merseyside, England. In 2001 there were 22,225 people living in Maghull.

[[Withernsea]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in the East Riding of Yorkshire

Withernsea is a town on the A1033 road in the East Riding of Yorkshire, England. In 2001 there were 5,980 people living in Withernsea.

[[Buntingford]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hertfordshire

Buntingford is a town near the A10 road in Hertfordshire, England. In 2001 there were 4,820 living in Buntingford.

[[Buckingham]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Buckinghamshire

Buckingham is a town in Buckinghamshire, England. It is to the west of Milton Keynes and to the north of Aylesbury. In 2001, 11,572 people were living in Buckingham.

[[Attleborough]]

CATEGORIES: Breckland, Towns in Norfolk

Attleborough is a town near the A11 road in Breckland District, Norfolk, England. In 2001 there were 9,702 people living in Attleborough.

[[Eye, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Eye is a town in Suffolk, England. In 2001, the town had a population of  2,000 people. Eye is near the A140 road.

[[Brigg]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lincolnshire

Brigg is a small market town in North Lincolnshire, England. In 2001, it was shown that the population of Brigg was 5,076 in 2,213 households.

[[Market Rasen]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lincolnshire, West Lindsey

Market Rasen is a town and civil parish in West Lindsey, Lincolnshire, England. In 2001 there were 3,230 people living in Market Rasen.

[[Gainsborough]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lincolnshire, West Lindsey, Civil parishes in Lincolnshire

Gainsborough is a town and civil parish in West Lindsey, Lincolnshire, England. In 2001 there were 16,869 people living in Gainsborough.

[[Tyldesley]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Greater Manchester, Villages in England

Tyldesley is a village in Greater Manchester, England. Tyldesley has a library.

[[Basildon]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex

Basildon is a large town in Essex, England. Basildon was recorded to have a population of 1,159 in 1931. It was then expanded when it became a new town in the late 1940s. It now has a population of over 100,000.

[[Wickford]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex

Wickford is a town in Essex, England near Basildon. Wickford has a railway station.

[[Baldock]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hertfordshire

Baldock is a town near the A1 road in Hertfordshire, England. There is a service station on the A1 called Baldock service station.

[[Lymington]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hampshire

Lymington is a town on the A337 road in Hampshire, England. Lymington has a hospital.

[[Palearctic]]

CATEGORIES: Ecozones

The Palearctic (or 'Palaearctic') ecozone is one of the eight dividing the Earth's surface.

The Palearctic is by far the largest ecozone. It includes the terrestrial ecoregions of Europe, Asia north of the Himalayan foothills, northern Africa, and the northern and central parts of the Arabian Peninsula. 

[[Holarctic]]

CATEGORIES: Ecozones

The Holarctic ecozone refers to the habitats found throughout the northern continents of the world as a whole.  

This region is divided into the Palearctic and the Nearctic. The palearctic is Northern Africa and all of Eurasia, with the exception of Southeast Asia and the Indian subcontinent. The Nearctic is North America north of southern Mexico.  

These are further subdivided into a variety of ecoregions.  Many ecosystems, and the animal and plant communities that depend on them, are found across multiple continents in large portions of this ecozone.  

The continuity of these ecosystems results from the shared glacial history of this ecozone. Also, during glacial periods, mammal fauna was able to cross from Asia to North America via the Bering Strait. 

[[Moodabidri]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Karnataka

Moodabidri is a town in India. It is in the Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka state. It is 37 km away from the district headquarters, Mangalore. People there speak Tulu, Konkani and Kannada. This place consist of many notable tourist spots like Thousand Pillar Temple , Kadalakere Nisarga Dhama, Hanuman Temple, Soans farm, Butterfly park, Beluvai, Satynarayana temple etc. This place is famous for its heritage and monuments . Many jain basadi's (temples of Jain religion) are the places to visit.

[[Afrotropic]]

CATEGORIES: Ecozones

The Afrotropic is one of the Earth's eight ecozones. The zone was formerly known as the Ethiopian Zone.

The zone includes Africa south of the Sahara, the southern and eastern parts of the Arabian Peninsula, the island of Madagascar, southern Iran, extreme southwestern Pakistan, and the islands of the western Indian Ocean. Almost all this land was part of the ancient southern supercontinent of Gondwana, which started to break up 150 million years ago.

[[York Cottage]]

CATEGORIES: Royal residences in the United Kingdom

York Cottage was the home of King George V and Queen Mary when they were Duke and Duchess of York.  It is currently used as the Estate Office for Sandringham House.  Some of the building is also used as flats for estate employees and holiday accommodation.

King George V and his wife, Queen Mary, lived in the house after their marriage in 1893. 

[[Midhurst]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Sussex

Midhurst is a town in West Sussex, England. In 2001 there were 4,889 people living in Midhurst.

[[Newcastle-under-Lyme]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Staffordshire, Market towns in England

Newcastle-under-Lyme, known locally as just Newcastle, is a market town in the ceremonial county of Staffordshire in England, near to the city of Stoke-on-Trent. It is located in the Borough of Newcastle-under-Lyme, near to the borders with Shropshire and Cheshire. 

In 2011, the town had a population of 75,082 people.

The "Newcastle" part of the town's name comes from the town being the location of a new castle in the 12th century. The "Lyme" part of the name could refer to the Lyme Brook, a stream of the River Trent, or the Forest of Lyme that covered the area with lime trees in the Middle Ages.

The town is home to Newcastle-under-Lyme School, an independent school. The school was established in the 17th century.

In the 18th century, Newcastle was an important coaching town, located on the main road from Liverpool and Manchester to Birmingham and London.

[[Fort Belvedere, Surrey]]

CATEGORIES: Surrey, Royal residences in the United Kingdom

Fort Belvedere is a country house on Shrubs Hill in Windsor Great Park, England, very near Sunningdale, Berkshire, but actually over the border in the borough of Runnymede in Surrey. It is a former royal residence - from 1750 to 1976 - and is most famous for being the home of King Edward VIII. Fort Belvedere is still owned by the Crown, and is now occupied by private tenants.

[[Matlock, Derbyshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Derbyshire

Matlock is a town on the A6 road in Derbyshire, England. In 2001 there were 9,496 people living in Matlock. Matlock gives its name to the lead based mineral named Matlockite.

[[Koteshwara]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in India

Koteshwara is a village in India. It is in Udupi district of Karnataka state. It is near Kundapur town.

[[Radiated tortoise]]

CATEGORIES: Turtles

The radiated tortoise is a type of tortoise. It has vibrant yellow streaks down its bumpy black shell.  It lives in southern and hotter parts of Madagascar. It can stay alive up to about 50 years in the wild and about 100 years in captivity.

[[Tring]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Buckinghamshire

Tring is a town near the A41 road and Aylesbury in Buckinghamshire, England. In 2001 there were 12,027 people living in Tring.

[[Clitheroe]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lancashire

Clitheroe is a town near the A59 road in Lancashire, England. In 2001 there were 14,697 people living in Clitheroe.

[[Australasian ecozone]]

CATEGORIES: Ecozones, Australasia, Vanuatu

The Australasian zone is an ecological region which fits the geographic region of Australasia. That means Australia, New Guinea and neighbouring islands. The northern boundary is the Wallace Line. 

The ecozone includes Australia, the island of New Guinea (including Papua New Guinea and the Indonesian province of Papua). 

The smaller islands include the eastern part of the Indonesian archipelago, including the island of Sulawesi, the Moluccan islands (the Indonesian provinces of Maluku and North Maluku) and islands of Lombok, Sumbawa, Sumba, Flores, and Timor, often known as the Lesser Sundas.  

The Australasian ecozone also includes several Pacific island groups, including the Bismarck Archipelago, Vanuatu, the Solomon Islands, and New Caledonia. New Zealand and its surrounding islands are a distinctive sub-region of the Australasian ecozone.  The rest of Indonesia is part of the Indomalayan ecozone. 

The Australasian continental plate was once attached to Antarctica as part of the Gondwana supercontinent. The peculiarity of its flora and fauna is due to its long separation from the rest of the world. Apart from some birds, and until recent introductions by man, the native life had been undisturbed by invasions. The ecozone has the only two living monotremes, and has no native eutherian mammals. 

Almost all its native mammals (except the two monotremes) are marsupials. The indisputable remains of Australian placental mammals started from the Miocene, when Australia moved closer to Indonesia. After 15 million years ago (mya) bats appeared in the fossil record, and after 5-10 mya rodents did, and 1 mya rats arrived. This information is based on the fossil record. Several thousand years ago, man brought the dingo, and 200 years ago many more species. This information applies to Australia. The fauna of New Zealand, and the Pacific islands shows a different pattern. There the migrations from the Indomalayan ecozone mostly did not arrive.

Alfred Russell Wallace found the dividing line between the Australasian ecozone and the rest of the world. It runs between the islands of Lombok (Australasia) and Bali (Indomalaya).

[[A Dog of Flanders]]

CATEGORIES: 1870s books, Books about dogs, Novels

A Dog of Flanders was written in 1872 by English author Marie Louise de la Ramée.  It is about a dog named Patrasche who ends up living with an artist named Nello and his grandfather, Jeehan Daas.  

Several movies and TV series have been made based on this book. Among them are:

[[Eczema]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Skin

Eczema (from Greek ēkzema, "to boil over") is a form of dermatitis, or inflammation of the epidermis. The epidermis is the outer layer of the skin.

Eczema is a skin disease that makes your skin dry with a red or pink color to it. It becomes irritated very easily. The person's skin may start to fall off. The person may get a rash, and skin may ooze fluids (liquid will come out from the area). If a person has eczema, the person's skin might itch and turn a lighter color in the area. Eczema is common in creases of the body (i.e. on the backs of knees, on your eyelids, in between your fingers). It worsens with extreme temperatures, so it is most common during the winter and the summer. The extreme heat can make you sweat which will irritate the dry spots. The extreme cold will dry your skin out even more. It also can become irritated from a quick change in temperature. For example, if you are outside on a summer day and come into the air conditioning. 

Eczema can last for a most of a person's life, but there is a good chance you will out grow it before you are eighteen. If you do not outgrow it by the age of eighteen, the odds that you will have it for the rest of your life increase. The good thing is, even if you do not outgrow it symptoms usually lessen the older you are. The worst breakouts are usually when you are very young. Some babies are born with eczema and deal with it a lot during their first years of life. 

There are three different kinds of eczema: atopic, contact dermatitis, and neurodermatitis. No kind of Eczema is contagious. If a person's relatives have Eczema, that person is more likely to have it, too. For example, if your father grew up having eczema there is a high likelihood you will have it during your lifetime. 

There are some foods or medicines that can start eczema. A lot of children who are sensitive to dairy or gluten will find this leads to eczema flare ups. Also, if you have an allergic reaction to a food this can cause hives which can sometimes turn into an eczema irritation spot. 

There are medicines that can help eczema hurt less. There is a medicine called hydroxyzine that is commonly used to treat it. This prevents people from itching their eczema during their sleep. There is also a new product on the market called Dupixent. This is an injection one must give to themselves once every other week. It helps to lessen the dry skin and rashes that come with eczema. 

Eczema can also be treated with lotions and ointments. It can be treated with over the counter lotions such as Eucerin, Cera Ve, or a cortisone ointment. There are also prescription steroid creams that will help the eczema spots. These are typically just stronger cortisone ointments. Also, using Aquaphor on very dry spots can help them from drying out further. In some extreme cases, people might find it necessary to receive an oral steroid or steroid shot to lessen their irritation.  Bathing with hot water will make Eczema rashes worse. 

[[John Payne]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1989 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, Singers from Virginia, Actors from Virginia, People from Roanoke, Virginia

John Payne (May 28, 1912 - December 6, 1989) was an American actor and singer.

[[Plucking (glaciation)]]

CATEGORIES: Geology

Glacial plucking is when a glacier freezes into the side of a valley and it pulls rock away.

[[Stoke Fleming]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Devon, Civil parishes in Devon, South Hams

Stoke Fleming is a village and civil parish on the A379 road and Start Bay, South of Dartmouth in South Hams, Devon, England. In 2001 there were 1,012 people living in Stoke Fleming. Stoke Fleming has a Library and a primary school. 

[[Another Perfect Day]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 albums, Heavy metal albums

Another Perfect Day is the sixth album by the British heavy metal band Motörhead. The album was released in 1983 and reached number 20 in the UK charts.

[[List of capital cities by altitude]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities, Lists of cities

This is a list of national capitals ranked by altitude. The altitude of the cities affects the people and buildings of the place. In many cases, the cold climate in winter means a particular style of house with heating and a different lifestyle is needed to fit to the weather.

The first country in this list, Bolivia, is a country with many capitals - Sucre (constitutional capital) and La Paz (seat of government). If we consider La Paz as the national capital, then Bolivia will be ranked as number 1 in the List, but if you consider Sucre, then the capital of Ecuador - Quito - will be the highest national capital.

[[Swilland]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Suffolk Coastal

Swilland is a village and civil parish in Suffolk Coastal, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there ware 164 people living in Swilland. Swilland has a church called St Mary.

[[Newcastle Waters, Northern Territory]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in the Northern Territory, 1870 establishments, 1870s establishments in Australia

Newcastle Waters is a small settlement near the Stuart Highway in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is 777 km north of Alice Springs and 705 km south of Darwin. It is inside Newcastle Waters station, a large cattle station with over 45,000 head of cattle. The station covers 10,353 square kilometers. The nearest petrol station and accommodation is found 23 kilometres (14 miles) south at Elliott. 

Newcastle Waters was named by the explorer, John McDouall Stuart in 1861. He named it after the Duke of Newcastle. The waterhole Stuart discovered is now called the Longreach Hole. When the Australian Overland Telegraph Line was built, a relay station was built at Newcastle Waters in 1870. The cattle station was set up in 1883. In 1930 the government set aside an area of the station for a town site. It was an important stop for moving cattle herds through the Northern Territory. However in the 1960's as cattle were moved by trucks, the town was abandoned. The buildings in the town are now in poor condition.

[[Kupang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indonesia, East Nusa Tenggara

Kupang is the provincial capital of East Nusa Tenggara province in southeast Indonesia.

The city is in West Timor on the island of Timor, and had a population estimated in 2012 at 450,000. It is surrounded by (but is separate from) the regency of Kupang, which had a population estimated in 2009 at 394,173. It is the biggest city and port on the island of Timor.

Kupang's economy is mainly based on its cement industry and the export and import of goods from its busy port. The airport of Kupang El Tari (IATA-Code: KOE), is approximately 8 km from the city center to the east. As capital of East Nusa Tenggara, the transport and administrative links from Kupang with isolated islands are extensive.

[[Eastern Caribbean Central Bank]]

CATEGORIES: Banks, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Caribbean, 1983 establishments in North America

The Eastern Caribbean Central Bank is the central bank of a group of six independent Caribbean nations, namely:

and 2 British overseas territories

It was set up in October 1983 in order to keep the East Caribbean dollar (EC$) stable, to regulate the banking system and to help the balanced growth and development of member states. Its headquarters are in Basseterre, on the island of St. Kitts.

All of the ECCB members are also a part of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS).

[[Framlingham railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk, 1859 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1850s establishments in England, 1952 disestablishments, 1950s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1963 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 20th century disestablishments in England

Framlingham railway station is a railway station in Framlingham, Suffolk, United Kingdom. It opened in 1859, and ended passenger service in 1952. Freight service ended in 1963.

[[Westerfield railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Suffolk, Railway stations served by National Express East Anglia

Westerfield is a railway station in Westerfield Suffolk, England. The station is a junction of the Felixstowe Branch Line to Felixstowe, and the East Suffolk Line to Lowestoft. The station is 6 km (3½ miles) east of Ipswich. Westerfield is a small village north of Ipswich and the station is situated on the south side of the village. As a result patronage has never been high and it might be the fact because the location is a junction that has been partly responsible for keeping it open.

[[Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court]]

CATEGORIES: Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States, National supreme courts, International organizations, 1967 establishments, Courts (law)

The Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (ECSC) is a higher court for the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), including six independent states: Antigua and Barbuda, the Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and three British Overseas Territories (Anguilla, British Virgin Islands, and Montserrat). It has unlimited jurisdiction in each member State.

[[Pope John XIX]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 1032 deaths, Italian popes

Pope John XIX (Ioannes Undevicesimus;   -died October 1032), born Romanus, was an Italian bishop of the Roman Catholic Church and the 145th Pope from 1024 to 1032.

[[Martin Luther King, Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1984 deaths, African-American people, American Baptists, American civil rights activists, Christian ministers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, People from Atlanta, Georgia

The Reverend Martin Luther King, Sr. (born Michael King; December 19, 1899  – November 11, 1984) was an African American civil rights activist and the father of Martin Luther King, Jr.  He was a Baptist minister. His son - Martin Luther King, Junior - was a civil rights activist who went against racial segregation. His spouse, Alberta Williams King, was assassinated.

[[Pico Rivera, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California, 1958 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in California

Pico Rivera is a city in Los Angeles County, California.  It is in the southeastern part of the county, near Whittier and Montebello.  The city was formed in 1958 when the communities of Pico and Rivera came together.  Those places had been farming towns, but became residential after World War II.  At one time, there was a large factory that made Ford cars in Pico Rivera.  The city has a large Mexican-American population, with Latinos making up 88% of the population.

[[Open Door Policy]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United States, History of China

The Open Door Policy was a policy between China, the United States and several nations in Europe.  It opened trade with China to each of these nations.  Prior to that, China was a closed country.  Europe was about to fight a war to open up China by force.  This grew out of the Open Door Notes sent by United States Secretary of State John Hay to diplomats in Europe.

[[Benedict Arnold]]

CATEGORIES: 1741 births, 1801 deaths, Deaths from edema, British Army generals, American revolutionaries, People from Norwich, Connecticut, Spies, Pharmacists

Benedict Arnold V (14 January – 14 June 1801) was a general during the American Revolutionary War. He began the war in the Continental Army but later changed to the British Army. While on the American side, led the fort at West Point, New York. He planned to give the fort to the British army. He was caught in September 1780 and switched sides to the British Army.  He was made a brigadier general in the British Army.

Arnold was born in Connecticut. He started as a merchant, sailing ships on the Atlantic Ocean. He joined the Continental army outside Boston.  Soon, he became famous for cunning and bravery. His actions included these:

The Continental Congress decided to promote other people instead of Arnold, and this made him angry. Other officers claimed credit for some of Arnold's actions. When he lived in Philadelphia, Arnold was accused of corruption, but he was found innocent. Congress investigated his accounts, and found that he owed it money after he had spent much of his own money on the war effort. 

Arnold was angry about being passed over for promotion and being told to pay money even though he had already given much of his money to the army.  He decided to change sides in 1779, and he began to secretly talk to the British

In July 1780, he asked for, and got, command of West Point.  Secretly, he planned to surrender it to the British. But Arnold's contact in the British army, Major John André, was captured.  André had been carrying papers Arnold had given him that revealed the plot. Upon learning of André's capture, Arnold ran away down the Hudson River to the British ship HMS Vulture. Arnold was almost captured by the forces of George Washington, but he did get away.

Arnold was made a brigadier general in the British Army, an annual pension of £360, and a lump sum of over £6,000. During the American Revolutionary War, he led British forces on raids in Virginia, and against New London and Groton, Connecticut. In the winter of 1782, Arnold moved to London with his second wife, Margaret "Peggy" Shippen Arnold. In England, the king and the Tory political party liked him, but the Whig political party did not.  In 1787, Arnold became a merchant again became a merchant, with his sons Richard and Henry in Saint John, New Brunswick, but returned to London to settle permanently in 1791, where he died ten years later.

Because of the way he changed sides, his name quickly became a byword in the United States for treason or betrayal. Some of the memorials that have been placed in his honor show the mixed feelings people still have about him.

[[Goblin]]

CATEGORIES: Legendary creatures

A goblin is a legendary evil or mischievous creature, described as a grotesquely evil. They are attributed with various abilities, temperaments and appearances depending on the story and country of origin.

It also is a creature famous for its ugly appearance.

[[Red Forest]]

CATEGORIES: Forests of Europe, Geography of Ukraine

The Red Forest (Рудий ліс, Рыжий лес) is in the area around the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. The forest is the trees in the 10 km² around the damaged nuclear reactor. The name "Red Forest" comes from color of the pine trees that died after taking in high levels of radiation from the Chernobyl accident on April 26, 1986. The trees became reddish-brown. People took down the trees and buried them in 'waste graveyards' while cleaning up after the disaster. The Red Forest is one of the areas in the world today with the most radioactivity.

[[Fasciola hepatica]]

CATEGORIES: Parasites, Flatworms

Fasciola hepatica (also known as the common liver fluke) is a parasitic trematode (fluke or flatworm) in the phylum Platyhelminthes.

It infects the livers of various mammals, including humans. The disease caused by the fluke is called fascioliasis. It has been classified as a neglected tropical disease. 

F. hepatica is distributed worldwide, and has been known as an important parasite of sheep and cattle for hundreds of years. It causes great economic losses in sheep and cattle. Because of its size and economic importance, it has been the subject of many scientific investigations and may be the best-known of any trematode species.

[[Valentine's Day (2010 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 comedy movies, 2010 romance movies, 2010s LGBT movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, American LGBT movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, LGBT comedy movies, Movies about couples, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Warner Bros. movies

Valentine's Day is a 2010 American romantic comedy movie. It is set in Los Angeles. It stars Jessica Alba, Julia Roberts, and Jessica Biel.

The film made $52.4 million its opening weekend.

Many people think the movie is very much like the British movie Love Actually.

[[The Killer Inside Me (2010 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 crime movies, 2010 drama movies, 2010 thriller movies, 2010s crime drama movies, 2010s crime thriller movies, 2010s drama thriller movies, American crime drama movies, American crime thriller movies, American drama thriller movies, Antisocial personality disorder in fiction, BDSM in movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in Texas, Movies set in the 1950s

The Killer Inside Me is a 2010 American crime drama thriller movie based on the 1952 novel of the same name. It is set in Texas in 1952. It stars Jessica Alba and Casey Affleck.

[[Machete (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 movies, 2010s action movies, American action movies, English-language movies, Movies about drugs, Movies about murderers, Movies directed by Robert Rodriguez, Movies set in Mexico, Movies set in Texas, Movie spin-offs, American independent movies, Movies about the illegal drug trade

Machete is a 2010 American action movie. It stars Danny Trejo, Robert De Niro, Jessica Alba, Don Johnson, Michelle Rodriguez, Steven Seagal and Lindsay Lohan.

[[An Invisible Sign]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 movies, Movies based on books, English-language movies

An Invisible Sign is a drama movie starring Jessica Alba, J. K. Simmons, Chris Messina, Sophie Nyweide and Bailee Madison. Filming began in New York. An Invisible Sign is based on the book by Aimee Bender.

[[Framlingham Branch]]

CATEGORIES: Railway lines of England

The Framlingham Branch was a British rail line.  It was six miles long on a single track. It went from Wickham Market railway station on the East Suffolk Line to Framlingham.  There were three stations in between, Parham, Hacheston Halt, and Marlesford.

[[Little Fockers]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 comedy movies, American comedy movies, American sequel movies, English-language movies, Movies about dysfunctional families, Movies set in Chicago, Illinois

Little Fockers is a 2010 American comedy movie set in Chicago. It is the sequel to Meet the Parents and Meet the Fockers. It stars Robert De Niro, Ben Stiller, Jessica Alba, Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand.

[[Trippin']]

CATEGORIES: American television series, 2005 television series debuts

Trippin' is a 2005 television series about ecology. It was made by MTV.  It featured famous people like Drew Barrymore and Jessica Alba. It was hosted by Cameron Diaz.

[[John Oxley]]

CATEGORIES: 1784 births, 1828 deaths, Exploration of Australia

John Joseph William Molesworth Oxley (1784—1828) was a Royal Navy officer who became Surveyor-General of Australia, and an important early explorer. He first arrived in Sydney in 1802. He is famous for his exploration of the Lachlan River. His findings helped the later explorations of Captain Charles Sturt and Major Thomas Mitchell. He died in Sydney in 1828.

In 1901 an Australian electoral division was named Oxley after him.

[[First London]]

CATEGORIES: London bus operators, 1997 establishments in England, 2013 disestablishments in the United Kingdom

First London was a bus company operating services in Greater London. It was part of FirstGroup and operated buses under for Transport for London. It was formed in the late 1990s through the purchase of three London bus operators. First London's garages were sold off between December 2007 and July 2013 with the last closing in September 2013.

[[Le Mesge]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Le Mesge is a commune in the Somme department in Picardie in northern France.

[[Communes of the Somme department]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme, Lists of communes of France

This is a list of communes of the Somme department in France. There are 782 communes in the department.

[[Ailly-sur-Noye]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ailly-sur-Noye is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Arquèves]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Arquèves is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006, 151 people lived there.

[[Autheux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Autheux is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Barly, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Barly, Somme is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Beauquesne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Beauquesne is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Bertrancourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Bertrancourt is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Bourdon, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Bourdon, Somme is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Brocourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Brocourt is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Buire-Courcelles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Buire-Courcelles is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Buverchy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Buverchy is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Camps-en-Amiénois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Camps-en-Amiénois is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Le Cardonnois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Le Cardonnois is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Cerisy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Cerisy is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[La Chavatte]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

La Chavatte is a commune in the Somme department in Picardie in northern France.

[[Chuignolles]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Chuignolles is a commune in the Somme department in Picardie in northern France.

[[Coigneux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Coigneux is a commune in the Somme department in Picardie in northern France.

[[Contoire]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Somme

Contoire is a former commune in the Somme department in Picardie in northern France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Trois-Rivières.

[[Coulonvillers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Coulonvillers is a commune in the Somme department in Picardie in northern France.

[[Courtemanche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Courtemanche is a commune in the Somme department in Picardie in northern France.

[[Le Crotoy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Le Crotoy is a commune in the Somme department in Picardie in northern France.

[[Curlu]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Curlu is a commune in the Somme department in Picardie in northern France.

[[Levenshtein distance]]

CATEGORIES: Security, Words

Levenshtein distance is a way to calculate how different two words (or longer chains of symbols, like sentences or paragraphs) are from one another.

The simple way this works is by counting how many times you need to change one word to turn it into another word.

The three atomic 'changes' considered in this measure are: inserting a single symbol (usually a character, like letter, digit etc.), deleting a single character, and replacing (substitution) a single character with another one. Moving a character to another position in the text, swapping two characters, as well as adding, deleting or replacing longer blocks of characters (like words in a sentence) are not counted as single changes in this measure.

For example, the Levenshtein distance between "kitten" and "sitting" is 3, since the following three edits change one into the other, and there is no way to do it with fewer than three edits:

This can be used by various websites when you change your password to make sure you're not using a similar password that can decrease the security of the website. The given minimum distance between two passwords is recommended to be 5, so that means that 5 changes need to take place between your old password and your new password for certain websites to accept your new password.

This can also be used to estimate if one text is a plagiarism from the other one.

[[Communauté de communes à l'Ouest d'Amiens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

The Communauté de communes à l'Ouest d'Amiens  is a communauté de communes in the Somme department in the Picardie region of France.

[[It ain't over 'til the fat lady sings]]

CATEGORIES: Journalism, Metaphors

It ain't over 'til the fat lady sings is an English expression with a meaning similar to "Don't count your chickens before they hatch."  It is commonly used in sports journalism, most famously by Dan Cook. This happened on April 1978 after the first game between the San Antonio Spurs and the Washington Bullets (later renamed the Washington Wizards) during the National Basketball Association playoffs.  The Spurs had won the first game, but he pointed out that the series was not over yet, saying, "The opera ain't over till the fat lady sings."  (The Bullets won the series, and later the NBA title).

The "fat lady" means the fat Norwegian "Brünnhilde," singing the final tragic song, wearing a Viking helmet.  It can also refer to any female opera singer in general. The saying also means that "it's all over" when the fat lady sings.

[[Fukushima nuclear disaster]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 disasters, Nuclear accidents, 2010s in Japan, 2011 in Asia, Disasters in Japan

The Fukushima nuclear disaster is a series of ongoing equipment failures, reactor meltdowns, and releases of radioactive materials at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant, following the Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami on March 11, 2011. The plant has six separate Nuclear reactors maintained by the Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO). The accident is the second biggest nuclear accident after the 1986 Chernobyl disaster, but more complex as all reactors are involved.

At the time of the quake, reactor 4 had been de-fueled while 5 and 6 were in cold shutdown for planned maintenance. The remaining reactors shut down automatically after the earthquake, but the entire plant was flooded, including low-lying generators and electrical switchgear in reactor basements and external pumps for supplying cooling seawater. The connection to the electrical grid was broken. All power for cooling was lost and reactors started to overheat. There was a partial core meltdown in reactors 1, 2, and 3; hydrogen explosions destroyed the upper part of the buildings housing reactors 1, 3, and 4; an explosion damaged the containment inside reactor 2; fires broke out at reactor 4. Despite being initially shutdown, reactors 5 and 6 began to overheat. Spent nuclear fuel rods stored in pools in each reactor building overheated as water levels in the pools dropped.

Fears of radiation leaks led to a 20 km (12 mi) radius evacuation around the plant while workers suffered radiation exposure and were temporarily moved out at various times. Grid power was restored to parts of the plant on 20 March, but machinery for reactors 1 through 4, damaged by floods, fires and explosions, was still not working. Flooding with radioactive water through the basements of units 1–4 continues to prevent access to carry out repairs. Measurements in areas of northern Japan 30–50 km from the plant showed radioactive caesium levels high enough to cause concern. Food grown in the area was banned from sale. It was suggested that worldwide measurements of iodine-131 and caesium-137 indicate that the releases from Fukushima are of the same order of magnitude as the releases of those isotopes from the Chernobyl disaster in 1986;

Tokyo officials said that tap water should not be used to prepare food for children. Plutonium contamination has been detected in the soil at two sites in the plant. Two workers hospitalized as a precaution on 25 March had been exposed to between 2000 and 6000 mSv of radiation at their ankles when standing in water in unit 3. Radiation levels varied widely over time and location.

The nuclear emergencies at Japan's Fukushima I and other nuclear facilities raised questions about the future of nuclear power. Platts, an energy news website, said that "the crisis at Japan's Fukushima nuclear plants has prompted leading energy-consuming countries to review the safety of their existing reactors and cast doubt on the speed and scale of planned expansions around the world". Following the Fukushima nuclear disaster, the International Energy Agency halved its estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be built by 2035.

[[Robert Cormier]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2000 deaths, Writers from Massachusetts, American children's writers

Robert Edmund Cormier (January 17, 1925 – November 2, 2000) was an American author, columnist, and reporter. His literature includes negative feelings and ideas. His most popular books include I Am the Cheese, After the First Death, We All Fall Down and The Chocolate War. All of those novels won awards. Many people tried to keep his first book, The Chocolate War out of libraries because they thought it was bad for children. His books often show abuse, mental illness, violence, revenge, betrayal and conspiracy. In most of his novels, the good characters fail.

[[Ralph Darling]]

CATEGORIES: 1772 births, 1858 deaths, Governors of New South Wales, British Army officers

General Sir Ralph Darling (1772—1858) was an officer in the British Army and the Governor of New South Wales from 1825—1831. Darling was the first governor to work with an Executive Council, made up of the lieutenant-governor, chief justice, colonial secretary and the archdeacon. These four people and another three people that Darling could select would make up the Legislative Council. Darling was expected to follow their advice in governing New South Wales.

[[Chicago Blues Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Music in Chicago, June events, 1964 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Illinois

The Chicago Blues Festival is a blues festival in Chicago held every year in June since 1984. The festival is hosted by the City of Chicago Mayor's Office of Special Events. It is held at Petrillo Music Shell and four other stages in Grant Park at the waterfront of Lake Michigan. The festival is free and it is the largest free blues festival in the world. Most of the musicians come from Chicago.

Chicago was very important for the development of Blues. Many people from the south went to Chicago to find a better life and the brought their musical tradition with them. In the clubs of the South Side a new style, known as Chicago blues, developed. Many musicans made the city famous for it´s blues music scene.

This years festival will be held from June 10th-12th in the Grant Park. Artist are among others

[[Milton Keynes Central railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Milton Keynes, Railway stations in England

Milton Keynes Central is a railway station in Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, England. It is on the West Coast Main Line between Euston station in London and Glasgow.  It is about 80 northwest of London.

[[Right to petition]]

CATEGORIES: Rights, Human rights

The right to petition is when a country allows people to gather — electronically or not — and voice an opinion or problem they think should be corrected without arrest or punishment by the government.

[[Albanian]]

Albanian may mean:

[[Ishinomaki Line]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Japan, Rail transport in Asia, 1912 establishments in Asia, 1910s establishments in Japan

The Ishinomaki Line is a railroad line in Miyagi Prefecture, Japan. It is part of the JR East system. The line runs from Kogota Station in Misato to Onagawa Station in Onagawa. It connects the Tōhoku Main Line to the central coast of Miyagi Prefecture. It connects with the Rikuu East Line and Tōhoku Main Line at Kogota Station, the Kesennuma Line at Maeyachi Station and the Senseki Line at Ishinomaki Station, both in Ishinomaki, Miyagi.

The line color is pink. 

The line is outside the area where Suica cards can be used. Riders should only use Suica between Kogata and Ishinomaki stations. Past those stations, there may be a special way to pay the fare using Suica.

The line was damaged by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.

[[Onagawa, Miyagi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Japan, Settlements in Miyagi Prefecture

Onagawa is a town in Miyagi Prefecture. Fishing is an important business in this town. The JR East Ishinomaki Line stops here at Onagawa Station. The town was badly damaged by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.

[[Ishinomaki]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Miyagi Prefecture

Ishinomaki is a city in Miyagi Prefecture, Japan.

As of January 1, 2010, about 164,294 people lived there. That was 295.83 people per km². The total area is 555.35 km².

Ishinomaki was one the cities most seriously affected by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. Between 1 March and 31 August 2011, many people left Ishinomaki. 6,500 fewer people, or 4%, lived there.

[[Ibrahim Sekagya]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Ugandan people, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Living people

Ibrahim Sekagya (born 19 December 1980 in Kampala) is an Ugandan football player. He plays plays for Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga. He is a defender.

[[Oakwood tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Piccadilly Line stations, Tube stations in Enfield, Grade II listed buildings in London, Grade II listed railway stations, Railway stations opened in 1933, Charles Holden buildings

Oakwood is a London Underground station on the Piccadilly Line. It is the second most northerly station on the line, between Southgate and Cockfosters stations, and is in Travelcard Zone 5.  The station is on the edge of the Oakwood area of Enfield (N14) and is at the junction of Bramley Road (A110) and Chase Road (the other end of Chase Road is close to Southgate tube station).

[[Liberty Mutual]]

CATEGORIES: American financial companies, 20th-century establishments in Massachusetts, 1912 establishments in the United States, Insurance companies, Companies based in Massachusetts, Boston, Massachusetts

Liberty Mutual Group, normally known as Liberty Mutual, is a worldwide insurance company. It was started in 1912. The head office is based in Boston, Massachusetts. It employs over 45,000 people in over 900 offices around the world.

They are the third largest property and casualty insurer in the United States based on 2010 written premium. Liberty Mutual rank 77th on the Fortune 100 list of largest corporations in the U.S. based on 2019 revenue. As of December 31, 2019, they had $43.2 billion in annual consolidated revenue.

The company sells a lot of different insurance products, like car insurance, home insurance and business insurance. It also owns other insurance companies (completely or partly) in countries like Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China (including Hong Kong), Colombia, India, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Thailand, Turkey, Venezuela, and Vietnam.

The current head of the business (CEO) is Edmund (Ted) F. Kelly.  He was appointed CEO in 1998.

[[Southgate tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Piccadilly Line stations, Tube stations in Enfield, Grade II* listed buildings in London, Art Deco buildings, Railway stations opened in 1933, Charles Holden buildings

Southgate is a London Underground Piccadilly Line station. It is in Southgate, between Arnos Grove and Oakwood stations. It is in Travelcard Zone 4.

[[Bounds Green tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Piccadilly Line stations, Transport in Haringey, Railway stations opened in 1932, Charles Holden buildings, 1932 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1930s establishments in England

Bounds Green tube station is a London Underground station. It is at the junction of Bounds Green Road and Brownlow Road, in North London.

The station is on the Piccadilly Line, between Wood Green and Arnos Grove stations. It is on the boundary between Travelcard Zone 3 and Zone 4.

[[Wood Green tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Piccadilly Line stations, Tube stations in Haringey, Railway stations opened in 1932, Charles Holden buildings

Wood Green is a London Underground station on the Piccadilly Line. The station is between Turnpike Lane and Bounds Green stations and is in Travelcard Zone 3. It is located at junction of Wood Green High Road and Lordship Lane. It serves Wood Green Shopping City and the nearby Haringey Council administrative complex as well as a densely populated residential area.

[[Macquarie River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of New South Wales

The Macquarie River is one of the main inland rivers in New South Wales. It begins in the central highlands of New South Wales near the town of Oberon.  The river flows northwest past the towns of Bathurst, Wellington, Dubbo, Narromine, and Warren to the Macquarie Marshes. The Macquarie Marshes then drain into the  lower Barwon River and then into the Darling River

Burrendong Dam is a large dam (capacity 1,190,000 Megalitres) near Wellington which holds the waters of the Macquarie River and its tributaries the Cudgegong River and the Turon River to stop floods and provide water for irrigation. The dam made Lake Burrendong.

[[Turnpike Lane tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Piccadilly Line stations, Transport architecture in London, Tube stations in Haringey, Railway stations opened in 1932, Charles Holden buildings

Turnpike Lane tube station is a station at Turnpike Lane on the Piccadilly Line of the London Underground, between Manor House and Wood Green stations, and in Travelcard Zone 3.

[[Manor House tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Piccadilly Line stations, Transport in Hackney, Tube stations in Haringey, Railway stations opened in 1932, Charles Holden buildings

Manor House tube station is a station on the Piccadilly line of the London Underground, on the boundary between Travelcard Zone 2 and Zone 3. It straddles the border between the London Boroughs of Hackney and Haringey, the postal address and three of the entrances being in the former, and one entrance in the latter.

[[Janemba]]

CATEGORIES: Dragon Ball characters

Janemba is the penultimate villain in the Dragon Ball Z movies, before Hirudegarn. He appears in the twelfth movie of the series.

[[Patpong]]

CATEGORIES: Bangkok

Patpong is an entertainment district and a red light district in Bangkok, Thailand. A busy night market aimed at tourists is also located in Patpong. 

[[Fairuz Fauzy]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Malaysian sportspeople, GP2 Series drivers, Kuala Lumpur

Mohamed Fairuz Fauzy (born October 24, 1982 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia) is a race car driver.

[[Gas chromatography]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory techniques

Gas chromatography is a type of chromatography. The sample that is going to be tested  is first turned into a gas, and then carried through a column by a nonreactive 'carrier' gas such as helium or other inert gas such as nitrogen.  As the sample is carried through the column it is separated into its individual components.  To achieve this the column is housed inside an oven, where the temperature is controlled to allow the individual components to exit the column at different times.

[[Validity]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

Validity is an idea that is used in everyday language and in logic. In ordinary language it means correct or in the right form.

An argument is valid if it seems appropriate, well-grounded and can be defended. A contract is valid if it is enforceable in law. In other words, it applies legally to a particular situation. A bank-note is valid if it can be exchanged and used for purchase, and a passport is valid if it lets the holder come in and go out of a country. A will is valid if correctly made, and certified by an appropriate court. In all these cases, valid refers to the soundness in some situation. Logical uses of this idea are similar, but phrased much more exactly.

[[King Duncan]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in Shakespeare's plays

King Duncan was the King of Scotland in William Shakespeare's play  Macbeth. He was seen as a nice king. He was friends with Macbeth.  He was murdered by Macbeth so that Macbeth can become king.

[[Tom Prichard]]

CATEGORIES: American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Texas, 1959 births, Living people

Thomas Prichard (born August 8, 1959 in Pasadena, Texas) is an American professional wrestler who once worked for WWE. He is probably best known for his tag teams: The Heavenly Bodies and The Bodydonnas (under the name Zip). He was managed by Jim Cornette and Sunny. His brother is Bruce Prichard, better known as Brother Love.

He was fired by WWE in 2012.

[[Dirac equation]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

The Dirac equation is an equation from quantum mechanics. Paul Dirac formulated the equation in 1928. The equation describes the behaviour of fermions (e.g. electrons and quarks), and takes special relativity into account. The equation showed the existence of antimatter. 

[[Bloody Sunday (1920)]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 in the United Kingdom, 1920s in Ireland, 20th century in Dublin, Irish War of Independence, Massacres in Europe, November events, Police misconduct

 Bloody Sunday was a day of violence in Dublin, Ireland, United Kingdom, on November 21, 1920. It happened during the Irish War of Independence. In total, 31 people were killed. This included fourteen British people, fourteen Irish civilians and three republican prisoners.

[[Bloody Sunday]]

Bloody Sunday can refer to several events:

[[Max Cavalera]]

CATEGORIES: Sepultura members, Brazilian singers, Heavy metal guitarists, Songwriters, 1969 births, Living people, People from Belo Horizonte

 Massimiliano Antonio "Max" Cavalera (born August 4, 1969) is a Brazilian singer, guitarist, and songwriter. He was the lead singer and rhythm guitarist for the heavy metal band Sepultura, before forming Soulfly in the late 1990s. Cavalera was also involved in a short-lived side project, Nailbomb, and is currently performing with Soulfly and another project, Cavalera Conspiracy.

[[Derrick Green]]

CATEGORIES: Sepultura members, Heavy metal musicians, American rock guitarists, African-American people, Vegetarians, Singers from Cleveland, Ohio, Musicians from Ohio, 1971 births, Living people

Derrick Leon Green (born January 20, 1971) is an American singer. He is the lead singer for the Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura. Allmusic said about the singer: "There was a time when the idea of Sepultura recording without Max Cavalera seemed unthinkable. But the incendiary Green turned out to be a fine replacement."

[[Khattak Dance]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani culture

Khattak (خټک اتڼ xaˈʈak, رقص خٹک) is a swift martial sword-dance performed by professional dancers of tribes of Pashtuns in Pakistan and some eastern parts of Afghanistan. It It was performed by warriors before going to wars as a war-preparation exercise and is known to be the only dance with swordplay. 

[[Acetone]]

CATEGORIES: Ketones

Acetone, or propanone, is an organic compound with the chemical formula (CH3)2CO. This clear, mobile, easy-to-burn liquid is the simplest example of the ketones. Acetone can be mixed with water. It is an important solvent, often to clean things in the laboratory. Common uses of acetone in the home are as the active ingredient in nail polish remover and as paint thinner. It is a common building block in organic chemistry.

[[Srbosjek]]

CATEGORIES: Croatia, World War II

Srbosjek (literally "Serb cutter" in Croatian, often referred to as "cutthroat") is the colloquial Croatian term for a type of knife  used for agriculture

[[Binghamton, New York]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in New York, Cities in New York

Binghamton is a city in the U.S. state of New York.  It is near Pennsylvania, and sits along the Susquehanna River.  In 2010, 47,376 people lived in the city, while 251,725 people lived in the metropolitan area.  In the past, Binghamton was known for making cigars, shoes, and computers.  IBM started in the Binghamton area.  Today, the area is home to Binghamton University.

Binghamton is home to the Binghamton Senators hockey team and the Binghamton Mets baseball team.

[[Classification of Indian cities]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India

The Status of Indian cities has two  Government of India ranking systems used to pay workers more in some cities. There are two allowances; Compensatory City Allowance (CCA) to pay more because it is more expensive to buy things in cities. CCA is divided into categories A-1, A, B-1 and B-2. House Rent Allowance (HRA) is the second additional payment. It is divided into categories A-1, A, B-1, B-2 and C. This plan was first based on the recommendations of the Fifth Pay Commission of India (1997). City statuses were later changed based on the results of the 2001 Census of India.

The following list classifies several Indian cities based on their CCA and HRA statuses. 

[[Markus Schopp]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Markus Schopp (born 22 February 1974 in Graz, Austria) is a retired Austrian football midfielder. Now he is assistance coach of the Austrian U21 team and analyst for the pay TV group SKY.

[[Fufu]]

CATEGORIES: Vegetables

Fufu (pounded yam or cassava) is a food dish which first came from West Africa, but is enjoyed by many people across the world. Its taste somewhat resembles that of mashed potatoes with butter.

[[Life processes]]

CATEGORIES: Life

Biology is the science that deals with living things. In general:

Many things that appear to be one organism are in fact several living together. An example is lichen. Lichen is a symbiosis between a blue-green algae and fungi. Organisms that live together may not reproduce together, but their life processes bound up together. They help each other to live.

[[Cinco de Mayo]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, May events

Cinco de Mayo  (Spanish for "fifth of May") is a holiday celebrating Mexican heritage inkling

and pride, and is held on May 5. It is celebrated in the United States and in some parts of Mexico, mostly in the state of Puebla. Cinco de Mayo  is not Mexico's Independence Day, the most important national holiday in Mexico.

In the Mexican state of Puebla, Cinco de Mayo  is celebrated because the Mexican army won the Battle of Puebla from the French army on May 5, 1862. This was a surprising victory. The army was under the leadership of  General Ignacio Zaragoza Seguín.

[[Holloway Road tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Piccadilly Line stations, Tube stations in Islington, Railway stations opened in 1906

Holloway Road is a station on the London Underground. It is on the Piccadilly Line between Caledonian Road and Arsenal stations, and in Travelcard Zone 2. The station opened on 15 December 1906.

[[Caledonian Road tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Piccadilly Line stations, Tube stations in Islington, Railway stations opened in 1906

Caledonian Road is a station on the Piccadilly Line of the London Underground, between King's Cross St. Pancras and Holloway Road, and in Travelcard Zone 2. It was opened on 15 December 1906 by the Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway.

[[Mérida State Symphony Orchestra]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s music groups, Orchestras, Non-profit organizations, Mérida (state)

The Mérida State Symphony Orchestra (Spanish: Orquesta Sinfónica del Estado Mérida or OSEM) is a symphony orchestra based in the Venezuelan city of Mérida. A non-profit organization, it was founded in 1991 by the Venezuelan pianist and educator José Antonio Abreu.

[[Patriot Day]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays

Patriot Day is a day of remembrance in the United States. It happens on September 11 of each year. It remembers the 2,977 killed in the September 11, 2001 attacks. Most Americans call this day "Nine-Eleven (9/11)," "September Eleventh," or something similar.

The day was officially created on October 25, 2001. The U.S. House of Representatives Joint Resolution 71 was approved by a vote of 407–0. The Resolution asked that the President would designate September 11 of each year as "Patriot Day."  President George W. Bush signed the resolution into law on December 18, 2001 (as Public Law 107-89). On September 4, 2002, President Bush proclaimed September 11, 2002 as Patriot Day. 

On this day, the American flag is to be flown at half-staff at individual American homes, at the White House, and on all U.S. government buildings, home and abroad. The President also asks Americans to observe a moment of silence beginning at 8:46 A.M. (Eastern Daylight Time). This is the time the first plane struck the North Tower of the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001.

[[Saint Walburga]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, 710s births, 770s deaths, Missionaries

Saint Walpurga or Walburga (Wealdburg; c. 710 – February 25, 777 or 779), also spelled Valderburg or Guibor, was an English missionary to the Frankish Empire. She was canonized (made a saint) on 1 May ca. 870 by Pope Adrian II. 

Walpurga's feast day is on 25 February. The day of her canonization, 1 May, was also celebrated during the high medieval period. Especially in the 11th century under Anno II, Archbishop of Cologne. Walpurgis Night is the eve of May Day, celebrated in folklore in Europe with dancing.

[[Senegal bushbaby]]

CATEGORIES: Lorisoidea, Mammals of Africa

The Senegal bushbaby (Galago senegalensis), also known as the Senegal galago, lesser galago, or lesser bushbaby is a small, nocturnal primate which lives in trees. They prefer  dry woodland regions and savannah regions. At the end of the night, group members use a special rallying call and gather to sleep in a nest made of leaves, in a group of branches, or in a hole in a tree.

They are small primates (130mm and 95-300 grams) with woolly thick fur that ranges from silvery gray to dark brown. They are good jumpers.

Bush babies have 1-2 babies per litter, with gestation period being 110—120 days.

[[Eichstätt]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bavaria

Eichstätt, (ˈaɪçʃtɛt, formerly also Eichstädt or Aichstädt) is a city in the state of Bavaria, Germany. It is the capital of the District of Eichstätt. It lies along the Altmühl River, at 48. 13,078 people lived in the town in 2002.

[[Lar gibbon]]

CATEGORIES: Old World monkeys, Mammals of Asia

The lar gibbon (Hylobates lar) is also known as the white-handed gibbon. It is a primate in the Hylobatidae or gibbon family. It is one of the better-known gibbons. It is often seen in zoos.

The fur coloring of the lar gibbon is not fixed. It can range from black and dark-brown to light brown sandy colors.

Lar gibbons are diurnal (they are active during the day).  They are arboreal, living in rainforests. Family groups live in a firm territory. They protect it from other gibbons by their calls.

In the wild, lar gibbons live about 25 years.

[[Lion-tailed macaque]]

CATEGORIES: Old World monkeys, Mammals of Asia

The lion-tailed macaque (Macaca silenus) is an Old World monkey.

It lives in the Western Ghats mountains of India.

The hair of the Lion-tailed macaque is dark-brown or black.

There is a black tuft at the end of the tail, similar to a lion's tail. 

With a head-to-tail length of 45 to 60 cm and a weight of 3 to 10 kg, it is one of the smaller macaques.

It is a diurnal animal, active during the day.

It lives in the rainforest dweller.

It is a good climber and spends most of its life in the upper branches.

Unlike other macaques, it avoids humans.

The lion-tailed macaque is one of the rarest primates.

Many zoos take part in breeding programs to help this species survive. 

368 of these Macaque are reported to live in zoos.

[[Sadie Frost]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Actors from London, English movie actors, English television actors, Movie producers from London, People from Islington

Sadie Frost (born 19 June 1965) is an English actress. She runs fashion label Frost French.

Frost starred in a Jelly Tots advertisement at the age of 3. She won a scholarship to the Italia Conti Academy.

But after an early eating disorder, she gave up acting at 13. She attended Hampstead School.

As an actress, Frost has acted in: Press Gang and Casualty. Frost and her first husband Gary Kemp starred together in the 1990s film The Krays. Frost and Kemp were married for 5 years. They divorced on 19 August 1995.

In 2004, she wrote and presented a short lived series What Sadie did next... for E4. In 2005, she appeared in Eating with...Sadie Frost on BBC2. In March 2006, Frost flew to South Africa to part-fund an orphanage for the Homes of Hope project.

She met Jude Law when they were both working on the film Shopping. They married on 2 September 1997 and had three children.

Frost and Law divorced on 29 October 2003.

[[Brian Blessed]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Actors from Yorkshire, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Television personalities from Yorkshire

Brian Blessed, OBE (born 9 October 1936) is an English actor.

[[Leif Erikson Day]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays

Leif Erikson Day is a holiday that happens on October 9. It honors Leif Ericson, the Norse explorer who brought the first Europeans known to be in North America.

[[Guelders]]

CATEGORIES: States of the Holy Roman Empire, History of Belgium, History of Germany, Gelderland, North Rhine-Westphalia, 1096 establishments, 1795 disestablishments

Guelders or Gueldres (Gelre, Geldern) is the name of a historical county. This became a duchy (lands ruled by a duke or duchess) of the Holy Roman Empire, in the Low Countries.

[[Ian McDiarmid]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish movie actors, Scottish stage actors, Scottish television actors, 1944 births, Living people, Scottish theatre directors

Ian McDiarmid (məkˈdɜrmɨd) is a Scottish theatre actor and director. He was born 11 August 1944. He has also made some appearances on movie and television .

Worldwide, he is most famous for his role as Emperor Palpatine in the Star Wars live action movie series. He was in both the original and prequel trilogies. McDiarmid has been in 47 movies since 1976.

McDiarmid was born in Carnoustie in Tayside. McDiarmid went to the University of St Andrews, to study psychology. Soon after, he decided he wanted a career in the theatre instead, and took acting training courses at the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama in Glasgow. In 1968, McDiarmid got a gold medal for his acting work.

McDiarmid was cast by George Lucas in Return of the Jedi as Emperor Palpatine, the main villain. Sixteen years later, he came back to the role as a younger Senator and Chancellor in the Star Wars prequel movies. He said that it helped to be much younger than his character the first time he played the part. The prequels had him play two faces to his character: He created an pleasant and likeable character in Palpatine's public face. Darth Sidious is the Chancellor's Sith alter ego.

[[Richard Briers]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Surrey, Deaths from emphysema, Disease-related deaths in England, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors

Richard David Briers, CBE (14 January 1934 - 17 February 2013) was an English actor whose career has contained theatre, television, film and radio. Briers was born in Raynes Park, Surrey, England.

In 1961, Briers got the lead male role in Marriage Lines in the 1960s. It was in the next decade when he played Tom Good in the BBC sitcom The Good Life that he made a household name. In the 1980s he starred in Ever Decreasing Circles. He from 2000 to 2002 came back to the spotlight with a leading role in Monarch of the Glen. Briers was the first narrator and voice actor for the show Enid Blyton's Noddy.

Richard Briers was made OBE in 1989, and CBE in 2003. 

Briers was a heavy smoker until he quit in 2003. He was diagnosed with emphysema in 2008.

[[Simon Callow]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, English LGBT people, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, English theatre directors, Gay men, LGBT actors, 1949 births, Living people

Simon Phillip Hugh Callow, CBE (born 15 June 1949) is an English actor, writer and theatre director.

Callow was born in Streatham, London, UK, to Yvonne Mary Guise and Neil Francis Callow. 

He attended the London Oratory School.

Callow is one of the most prominent gay actors in Britain. 

For a while Callow lived with director Daniel Kramer.

[[Elgin, Moray]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Scotland

Elgin (ˈɛlɡɪn; Eilginn) is a old cathedral city and Royal Burgh in Moray, Scotland.

The town was first to the south of the River Lossie on the higher ground above the flood plain.

Elgin is first documented in the Cartulary of Moray in 1190.

In August 1040, Macbeth's army beat Duncan I at Bothganowan (Pitgaveny), near Elgin.

David I made Elgin a royal burgh around 1130, after his defeat of Óengus of Moray.

During David's reign, the castle was built at the top of what is now Lady Hill.

Edward I of England travelled twice to Elgin. During his first visit in 1296 he was impressed by what he saw. 

In the 19th century the old medieval town of Elgin was swept away, and many new buildings were added to the town centre.

[[Paoli/Thorndale Line]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in the United States, Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority

The Paoli/Thorndale Line is SEPTA Regional Rail line that runs from Philadelphia to Thorndale in Chester County, Pennsylvania.

[[Trois-Rivières]]

CATEGORIES: 1634 establishments in North America, Trois-Rivières, Quebec, Establishments in Canada

Trois-Rivières (tʁwa ʁivjɛʁ) is a city in Quebec, Canada.

It is where the Saint-Maurice and Saint Lawrence Rivers meet. 

It was first created on July 4, 1634.

It was the second permanent settlement in New France, after Quebec City in 1608.

The city's name is French for three rivers.

It is called because the Saint-Maurice River, which is divided by two small islands at the river 's opening, has three mouths at the Saint Lawrence River.

[[Devin Setoguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, American Hockey League players, Calgary Flames players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, ECHL players, Ice hockey people from Alberta, San Jose Sharks players, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, Minnesota Wild players, Prince George Cougars players, Saskatoon Blades players, Winnipeg Jets players

Devin Setoguchi (born January 1, 1987 in Taber, Alberta) is an Canadian professional ice hockey right winger that currently plays for the Minnesota Wild. Setoguchi also played 4 seasons in the WHL; 3 for the Saskatoon Blades and 1 for the Prince George Cougars. Setoguchi is of Canadian-Japanese origins. He was drafted by the San Jose Sharks with the 8th overall pick in the 2005 NHL Entry Draft. Setoguchi went on to play 4 seasons with the Sharks before being traded along with Charlie Coyle and a first round pick in the 2011 NHL Entry Draft to the Minnesota Wild for Brent Burns and second round pick in the 2012 NHL Entry Draft.

[[Nickelodeon on CBS]]

CATEGORIES: Columbia Broadcasting System, Nickelodeon, Children's television series

Nick on CBS was a Saturday morning children's programming block for CBS that began on September 16, 2000, replacing CBS Kidshow. This Saturday morning block presented programming from Nick Jr., which at a time shared common ownership with CBS under Viacom. When the block first properly aired, it was hosted by Face from Nick Jr.

On September 14, 2002, Nick Jr. on CBS was re-branded as Nick on CBS, and airing both Nickelodeon and Nick Jr. shows. The Nickelodeon shows were removed in 2005 in favor for a return to an exclusively-Nick Jr. block. The block's continuity was provided by segments featuring Piper O'Possum.

At the beginning of New Year's Eve 2005, Viacom split into two different companies, with CBS Corporation becoming its own standalone company and Nickelodeon going to new Viacom. Nick Jr. on CBS ended on September 9, 2006 and was replaced by KOL Secret Slumber Party on CBS on September 16, 2006, as part of a multi-year partnership between CBS and Cookie Jar Entertainment.

All programming during the block, as is standard for Saturday morning network programming, was labelled as meeting E/I requirements, as tennous as some of the claims of educational content may have been. This is part of the reason why some of Nickelodeon's most popular programs (most notably SpongeBob SquarePants and The Fairly OddParents) did not appear on the block, even during the more open-formatted Nick on CBS era.

[[Jackie Cooper]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, 1922 births, 2011 deaths

Jackie Cooper (September 15, 1922 – May 3, 2011) was an American actor, television director and producer. He started working as a child actor. He died in a Beverly Hills Hospital after a sudden illness.

He was born in Los Angeles in 1922 as John Cooper, Jr. As a child, he appeared in the Our Gang television series as "Skippy". In 1931, at the age of nine, he was nominated for a "Best Actor" Academy Award. He became the youngest actor ever nominated for Best Actor. He was best known later in life as the Daily Planet editor Perry White in the Superman movies of the 1970s and 80s.

[[Black and Tans]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s in Ireland, Irish War of Independence, 1920 in the United Kingdom, 1921 in the United Kingdom

The Black and Tans was a group of soldiers who suppressed the revolution in Ireland from 1920 to 1921. It was mainly made of British veterans from World War I. They were called the Black and Tans because of the light khaki trousers and black/dark green tunics that they wore. Its main purpose was to target the Irish Republican Army. However, it also did many attacks on the Irish civilian population.

[[Cape Helles]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms of Turkey, World War I, Capes

Cape Helles is a rocky area at the south-westernmost end of the Gallipoli peninsula, Turkey. It was the scene of fighting between Turkish and British troops during the Gallipoli Campaign, 1915. It is now the site a memorial for this campaign.

[[Katerina Kazelis]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Big Brother contestants, Swedish singers, People from Malmo

Katerina Kazelis (4 March 1977 in Malmö, Sweden) is a Swedish singer and Big Brother 2011 housemate of Serbian and Greek origin. Before entering the Big Brother house on February 20, 2011 she was a school teacher. Kazelis has been nominated each week except for two when she won immunity after winning a Big Brother task, however, she also survived each elimination round since week one in the house. On May 8, Kazelis was evicted from the Big Brother house.

Kazelis has become the most talked about housemate of the 2011 season of the show after several outburst and also her outspoken ways about her fellow housemates.

On June 6, Kazelis released her first music single called "Make You One Of Mine", during Nyhetsmorgon on TV4 the same day Kazelis revealed that a music video had been made and that she will release her debut music album later in 2011.

[[Parabola]]

CATEGORIES: Conic sections

The parabola (from the Greek παραβολή) is a type of curve. Menaechmus (380–320 BC) discovered the parabola, and Apollonius of Perga (262 BC–c190 BC) first named it.

A parabola is a conic section. If a cone is dissected by a plane which is parallel to one of the surfaces of the cone, the result is a parabola. The point where the parabola reaches its maximum or minimum is called the "vertex." At this point the curvature of the parabola is greatest.

Each parabola has a focal point. Any ray that enters the parabola and is parallel to the axis of symmetry will pass through this point after being reflected by the curve. Because of this fact, parabolas are important in devices such as satellite dishes, or magnifying mirrors. Parabolas are often used to approximate curves that are more difficult to model by themselves.

[[Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of India, Hyderabad, India

The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (abbreviated to GHMC) is an urban planning agency that oversees Hyderabad, India. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation is also the local government for the City of Hyderabad.

[[Nizam of Hyderabad]]

CATEGORIES: Nizams of Hyderabad

Nizam  was the title of the native sovereigns of Hyderabad State, India, since 1719. They belonged to the Asaf Jahi dynasty. The dynasty was founded by Mir Qamar-ud-Din Siddiqi, a viceroy of the Deccan under the Mughal emperors from 1713 to 1721. After Aurangzeb's death in 1707, the Mughal Empire fell apart and the viceroy in Hyderabad said he was independent. From 1798 Hyderabad was one of the princely states of British India, but it kept local control.

Seven Nizams ruled Kingdom of Hyderabad for two centuries until Indian independence in 1947. The Asaf Jahi rulers used money to support free Education, literature, architecture, art, culture and cuisine. The Nizams ruled the state until September 1948 after independence from the British.

[[Christian Schwegler]]

CATEGORIES: Swiss footballers, 1984 births, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Living people

Christian Schwegler (born 6 June 1984 in Ettiswil) is a Swiss footballer. He plays for Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga as defender.

He started with FC Luzern in the Swiss Challenge League (2nd division) and went on to Arminia Bielefeld in Germany but after one half of the season he went back to Switzerland. There he played for BSC Young Boys Bern. In 2009 he signed with FC Red Bull Salzburg where he played regularly as right defender. He is known for his long throw-ins (up to 35 meters).During the match versus SV Mattersburg on 27th March 2010 he shot his first goal for Salzburg. In the first half of the 2010/11 season he was injured and could not play the rest of the year.

Christian Schwegler has a younger brother who is also a professional footballer playing for Eintracht Frankfurt in the German Bundesliga.

[[Chien-Ming Wang]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1980 births, Washington Nationals players, Taiwanese people, New York Yankees players

Chien-Ming Wang (born March 31, 1980) is a Taiwanese Major League Baseball player. He plays for the Cincinnati Reds.  He is a pitcher.  Before he played for the Nationals, Wang played for the New York Yankees. He got 19 wins in the year of 2006 and 2007 and became the first Asian to be the win champion.

However, after his injury in 2008, he started to pitch horribly as he attained an era of 9.64 along with 1 win and 6 losses in the 2009 season. He then got injured again and the New York Yankees did not renew his contract after. He became a free agent.

In 2010, the Washington Nationals signed Wang and helped him recover from his injuries. He did not attend any games in this season.

Wang pitched his first game on July 29, 2011 and ended the season with 11 starts, recorded 4–3 with a 4.04 ERA.

On March 15, 2012, Wang was once again injured. When he recovered, his starting position has been replaced by Ross Detwiler and he pitched as a relief pitcher and sometimes a starter pitcher. But he still did not do well this season.

[[Fiat Seicento]]

CATEGORIES: Fiat automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Fiat Seicento is a car produced by Fiat. It replaced the Fiat Cinquecento in 1998. It was replaced by the new Fiat 500 in 2007, but production of the Seicento continues until 2010.

[[Shiogama, Miyagi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Miyagi Prefecture

Shiogama is a city in Miyagi Prefecture, Japan. The city was seriously affected by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. However, between 1 March and 31 August 2011, less than 1% of the people left the city.

[[Business alliance]]

CATEGORIES: Business

A business alliance is an agreement between businesses, most of the time to help lower cost and improve service for the customer. Alliances are often connected by an agreement with shared risk and opportunity for all business involved. They are usually managed by a project team. An example of this is code sharing in airline alliances.

There are five basic types of alliances:

[[Peace Sells]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 songs, Megadeth

"Peace Sells" is a song by the American thrash metal band Megadeth from the 1986 album Peace Sells... but Who's Buying?, written by Dave Mustaine. It, along with Wake Up Dead from the same album, has been a staple at Megadeth concerts. Lyrically, it deals with negative stereotypes about "metalheads", all of which Mustaine claims are untrue. VH1 has ranked "Peace Sells" at #11 on their list of the 40 greatest metal songs of all time.

[[A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, Collections of Derby Museum and Art Gallery, British paintings

A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery is an 18th-century oil painting by Joseph Wright of Derby. The painting shows a teacher talking about the sun and planets to his class. Wright later created his similar An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump (National Gallery, London) in 1768.

Wright's The Orrery, caused a great debate, because in the past, only religious events were used to express awe. Wright used science to do so. In an age of much new technology, he treated religious events and scientific miracles.  In the orrery demonstration, the shadows created by the lamp mimic the sun, and it is a part of the display of heliocentrism. He used a single candle to make his painting dramatic. In two later paintings, the lighting is normal.

One person called Wright "a very great and uncommon genius in a peculiar way". The Orrery was painted without payment. Wright expected that Washington Shirley, 5th Earl Ferrers, an amateur astronomer, will buy the painting, because Shirley had his own orrery, and Wright's friend Peter Perez Burdett was staying with him. Figures are considered to be portraits of Burdett and Ferrers. In the picture, Burdett is taking notes and Ferrers is seated with his son next to the orrery. Ferrers purchased the painting for £210, but the 6th Earl sold it at an auction. It is now held by Derby Museum and Art Gallery as its permanent display.

Some people say that John Whitehurst was the model for the teacher. However, other people say the figure is similar to "a painting of Isaac Newton by Godfrey Kneller".

[[Frankfurt Parliament]]

CATEGORIES: 1848 in Europe, 1849, 1840s in Germany, Democracy movements, Parliaments, Politics of Germany, Revolutions, Frankfurt

The Frankfurt Parliament (Frankfurter Nationalversammlung, literally Frankfurt National Assembly) was the first freely elected parliament for all of Germany. Session was held from May 18, 1848 to May 31, 1849 in the Paulskirche, Frankfurt|Paulskirche at Frankfurt am Main. It was elected during the "March Revolution" in the states of the German Confederation.

The assembly produced the so-called Paulskirche Constitution (Paulskirchenverfassung, actually Verfassung des Deutschen Reiches) which proclaimed a German Empire based on the principles of parliamentary democracy. This constitution fulfilled the main demands of the liberal and nationalist movements of the Vormärz and provided a foundation of human rights. The parliament also proposed a constitutional monarchy headed by a hereditary emperor (Kaiser). The Prussian king Friedrich Wilhelm IV did not accept the office of emperor when it was offered to him. He argued such an offer was an offence against the rights of the princes of the individual German states. In the 20th century, however, major elements of the Frankfurt constitution became models for the Weimar Constitution of 1919 and the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany of 1949.

[[Frederick William IV of Prussia]]

CATEGORIES: 1795 births, 1861 deaths, People from Berlin, House of Hohenzollern, Knights of the Garter, Kings and Queens of Prussia

King Frederick William IV of Prussia (Friedrich Wilhelm IV. von Preußen) (15 October 1795 – 2 January 1861) was the eldest son and successor of Frederick William III of Prussia. He reigned as King of Prussia from 1840 to 1861.

[[Honeydew (melon)]]

CATEGORIES: Melons

Honeydew, also known as honey melon or green melon, is a type of melon in the cultivar group muskmelon. Cucumis melo Inodorus group, which includes crenshaw, casaba, Persian, winter, and other mixed melons.

[[Angkor Wat]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Asia, Buddhist buildings, Hinduism, World Heritage Sites in Asia, Hindu temples, Buildings and structures in Asia, 12th-century establishments in Asia, Establishments in Cambodia

Angkor Wat (ᜩ᜴ᜱ᜴ᜨᜳᜫ᜴ᜩᜲᜨ᜴ᜱ᜴) is a temple complex at Siem Reap, Cambodia, built for the Hindu king Suryavarman II in the early 12th century as his state temple and capital city. Before long it became a Buddhist site. It is the world's largest religious building. Angkor fell into decline after the 14th Century.

[[Paranthropus robustus]]

CATEGORIES: Australopithecines

Paranthropus robustus was originally discovered in Southern Africa in 1938. The development of P. robustus, namely in cranial features, seemed to be aimed in the direction of a "heavy-chewing complex". Because of the definitive traits that are associated with this robust line of australopithecine, anthropologist Robert Broom erected the genus Paranthropus and placed this species into it.

[[Australopithecus garhi]]

CATEGORIES: Australopithecines

Australopithecus garhi is a gracile australopithecine species discovered in Ethiopia. The remains of this hominin are believed to be a human ancestor species, and perhaps the ancestor of the human genus Homo. The fossils were found in 1996 in the Bouri Formation. This is in the Middle Awash of Ethiopia's Afar Depression.

[[Alexander Sulzer]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, American Hockey League players, Buffalo Sabres players, Florida Panthers players, German ice hockey players, Living people, Nashville Predators players, Sportspeople from Bavaria, Vancouver Canucks players, Ice hockey defencemen

Alexander Sulzer (born May 30, 1984) is a German professional ice hockey defenceman currently playing for Düsseldorfer EG of the Deutsche Eishockey Liga (DEL). Sulzer has also played in the NHL for the Nashville Predators, Florida Panthers, Vancouver Canucks, Buffalo Sabres and the DEL for the Hamburg Freezers and DEG Metro Stars. He was traded to the Florida Panthers on February 25, 2011 for a conditional draft pick in the 2011 NHL Draft.

[[World Nuclear Industry Status Report]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear energy

The World Nuclear Industry Status Report is a yearly report about the global challenges facing the nuclear power industry. The reports show that the share of nuclear-generated electricity in the overall global energy production has decreased in the 2000s. Nuclear power now accounts for about 13 percent of the world’s electricity generation and 5.5 percent of primary energy.

[[Cowboys from Hell]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 albums, 2010 albums

Cowboys from Hell is Pantera's fifth album and their first Atco Records album. It was recorded at The Dallas Sound Lab in Irving, Texas and released on July 24, 1990. This was their first commercially successful album, exposing the band's groove metal style to mainstream audiences.

[[Mycle Schneider]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Energy, People from Cologne

Mycle Schneider (born 1959 in Cologne) is a German energy consultant, and lead author of The World Nuclear Industry Status Reports. In 1997 he received the Right Livelihood Award.

[[Attempted Italian colonization of America]]

CATEGORIES: History of Italy

An attempted Italian colonization in America was done in 1608 by the Grand Duke of Tuscany, Ferdinando I.

[[Caesars Palace]]

CATEGORIES: Las Vegas, Nevada, Gambling, Buildings and structures in Nevada, Entertainment venues

Caesars Palace is a luxury hotel and casino on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada. Caesars Palace is owned and operated by Caesars Entertainment Corp. Caesars is on the west side of the Strip, between the Bellagio and the Mirage.

Caesars has 3,960 rooms. There are five towers in the hotel: Augustus, Centurion, Roman, Palace, Octavius and Forum. The Forum tower features guest suites with 1000 of space. It is the only venue in Las Vegas to host a World Series of Poker Circuit Event.

[[Ukrainian Americans]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the United States

[[Homo cepranensis]]

CATEGORIES: Hominids

Homo cepranensis is a proposed name for a human species, known from only one skull cap discovered in 1994. The fossil was discovered by archeologist Italo Biddittu and was nicknamed "Ceprano Man" after a nearby town in the province of Frosinone, 89 kilometers Southeast of Rome, Italy.

The age of the fossil is estimated to be between 350,000 to 500,000 years old.3 An adjacent site, Fontana Ranuccio, was dated to 487,000 +/- 6000 years and Muttoni et al. suggest that Ceprano is most likely 450,000 years old. The cranial features on the bone seem to be intermediate between those found on Homo erectus and those of later species such as Homo heidelbergensis which dominated Europe long before Homo neanderthalensis. There is yet not enough material to make a complete analysis of the individual.

[[Homo antecessor]]

CATEGORIES: Hominids

Homo antecessor is an extinct human species dating from 1.2 million to 800,000 years ago, that was discovered by Eudald Carbonell, Juan Luis Arsuaga and J. M. Bermúdez de Castro. H. antecessor is one of the earliest known human varieties in Europe. 

The best-preserved fossil is a maxilla that belonged to a 10-year-old individual found in Atapuerca, Spain. At the site were numerous examples of cuts where the flesh had been flensed from the bones, which indicates that H. antecessor could have practised cannibalism.

[[Right Livelihood Award]]

CATEGORIES: Awards

The Right Livelihood Award, widely known as the Alternative Nobel Prize, is a major international award to honour those "working on practical and exemplary solutions to the most urgent challenges facing the world today". The prize was started in 1980 by Jakob von Uexkull, and is presented each year in early December. An international jury, invited by the five regular Right Livelihood Award board members, decides the awards in such fields as environmental protection, human rights, sustainable development, health, education, and peace. The prize money is shared among the winners, usually numbering four, and is EUR 200,000.

The prize has been awarded to a diverse group of people and organisations, including Mycle Schneider, Amory Lovins, Astrid Lindgren, Bianca Jagger, Mordechai Vanunu, and Petra Kelly.

[[Dorothy Wise]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1995 deaths, Sportspeople from Washington, Cue sports, People from Spokane, Washington

Dorothy Wise (1914–1995) is an American professional pool player. She was born in Spokane, Washington. When she first started playing pool professionally, there were very few national tournaments for women. She won many local and state tournaments, so she called herself the world champion. The first national tournament for women happened in 1967. She won and kept winning for the next five years. She lost the title in 1972. She played in the final against 13-year-old Jean Balukas.

She became a member of the Billiard Congress of America Hall of Fame in 1981. She was the first woman to be made a member.

Dorothy learned to play pool from her husband, Jimmy Wise. He managed billiard parlors (where people play pool) in several cities around the western United States. He watched Dorothy win the first national championship in 1967, but died later that year.

[[Joe Balsis]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 1995 deaths, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Joe Balsis was an American professional pool player. He was born in Minnersville, Pennsylvania. He was Armed Services Champion in 1944. Between 1965 and 1975 Balsis was in the finals of the U.S. Open five times. He won in 1968 and 1974. He won the Billiard Room Proprietor's Association tournament in 1965 and the World All-Around championship in Johnston City, Illinois in 1966. He is a member of the Billiard Congress of America Hall of Fame.

[[Rudolph Wanderone]]

CATEGORIES: Cue sports, 1913 births, 1996 deaths, People from New York City

Rudolph Wanderone (January 19, 1913 – January 15, 1996) was an American professional pool player. He never won a world championship. 

His first nickname was "Brooklyn Fats" and then "New York Fats." Wanderone named himself "Minnesota Fats" after the character in the movie The Hustler. Wanderone was the host of a national television show, "Celebrity Billiards," during the 1960s. He is a member of the Billiard Congress of America Hall of Fame.

[[Steve Mizerak]]

CATEGORIES: People from Perth Amboy, New Jersey, Sportspeople from New Jersey, 1944 births, 2006 deaths

Steve Mizerak (October 12, 1944, in Perth Amboy, New Jersey, USA – May 29, 2006) was an American professional pool player. He was a world champion during the 1970s and early 1980s. He won the U.S. Open four times: each year from 1970 to 1973. He also won the PPPA World Open title in 1982 and 1983. In 1986, he was in the movie The Color of Money. He is a member of the Billiard Congress of America Hall of Fame.

[[Gelug]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhism

The Gelug or Gelug-pa, is a school of Tibetan Buddhism founded by Je Tsongkhapa (1357–1419), a philosopher and Tibetan religious leader. The first monastery he established was at Ganden, and to this day the Ganden Tripa is the nominal head of the school, though its most famous person is the Dalai Lama. There are others Gelug Masters, like Trijang Rinpoche and Ling Rinpoche.

Tsongkhapa was a big promoter of the Kadampa (Bka'-gdams-pa) teachings and the mahāyāna principle of universal compassion as the fundamental spiritual orientation. He combined this with a strong emphasis on the cultivation of in-depth insight into the doctrine of emptiness as taught by the Indian masters Nāgārjuna (2nd century) and Candrakīrti (7th century). Tsongkhapa said that these two aspects of the spiritual path, compassion and insight into wisdom, must be rooted in a big wish for liberation driven by a genuine sense of renunciation. He called these the "Three Principal Aspects of the Path", and said that it is on the basis of these three that one must embark on the profound path of vajrayāna Buddhism.

The central teachings of the Gelug School are the Stages of the Path (lamrim), based on the teachings of the Indian master Atiśa (c. 11th century) and the systematic cultivation of the view of emptiness. This is combined with the yogas of highest yoga tantra deities such as Guhyasamāja, Cakrasaṃvara, Yamāntaka and Kālacakra, where the key focus is the direct experience of the union of bliss and emptiness.

[[Audie Murphy]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1971 deaths, Actors from Texas, American military personnel of World War II, American movie actors, Aviation deaths in the United States, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, United States Army Medal of Honor recipients

Audie Leon Murphy (June 20, 1925 in Kingston, Hunt County, Texas – May 28, 1971 in Brush Mountain near Roanoke, Virginia), was an American actor and soldier who fought during World War II. He was given the Medal of Honor.

[[6-plus-6-instruments]]

CATEGORIES: Musical instruments

thumb|upright=1.7|right|250px|A Janko keyboard.May 2020

6-plus-6-instruments are musical instruments having each 12 tones. Their keys or cords are in two rows. In each row the tone distance is a whole-tone distance. The distance between both rows is a half-tone distance. So there is the same fingering in all 6 scales where the base tone is in the same row. If there is a third row, which is the same like the first row, there is the same fingering in all 12 scales, e. g. on a piano with a Janko keyboard.

[[Belper]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Derbyshire

Belper is a town on the A6 road, in Derbyshire, England. In 2001 there were 20,548 people living in Belper.

[[Oakham]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in England, Settlements in Rutland

Oakham is a town in Rutland, England. In 2001 there were 9,975 people living in Oakham.

[[Melton Mowbray]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Leicestershire

Melton Mowbray is a town in Leicestershire, England. It's Market days date back over 1000 years.

[[Sleaford]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lincolnshire

Sleaford is a town in Lincolnshire, England. In 2001, 14,494 people lived in Sleaford.

[[Coalville]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Leicestershire

Coalville is a town near the M1 motorway in Leicestershire, England. Coalville only dates back 175 years.

[[Rugeley]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Staffordshire

Rugeley (pronounced Rooj-lee) is a market town in Staffordshire in the West Midlands of England. It is 7.9 miles (12.7 km) north of the cathedral city of Lichfield and 9.8 miles (15.8 km) southeast of Stafford, the county town. The 2011 census revealed that just over 24,000 people live in Rugeley.

It is on the north-eastern edge of Cannock Chase and is next to the River Trent.

The Trent & Mersey Canal flows through the town.

Although the town is in Staffordshire, it is in the Walsall postcode area, a town in the West Midlands, and the WS15 postcode district.

The town has two railway stations, Rugeley Town and Rugeley Trent Valley. Rugeley Trent Valley is on the West Coast Main Line and provides long-distance trains to London, Birmingham and Crewe. Rugeley Town is on the Chase Line and provides direct local trains to Walsall and Birmingham.

Rugeley used to have its own newspaper, the Rugeley Times. It was published from Bow Street in the town. However, the paper was sold to the Staffordshire Newsletter.

[[Swaffham]]

CATEGORIES: Breckland, Towns in Norfolk

Swaffham is a town on the A1065 road in Breckland District, Norfolk, England. In 2001 there were 6,935 people living in Swaffham.

[[Cromer]]

CATEGORIES: North Norfolk, Port cities and towns of England, Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Towns in Norfolk

Cromer is a town in Norfolk, England. In 2001 there were 7,749 people living in Cromer.

[[Bridlington]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in the East Riding of Yorkshire

Bridlington is a town in the East Riding of Yorkshire, England. In 2001 there were 33,837 people living in Bridlington.

[[Wicki-Hayden note layout]]

CATEGORIES: Keyboard instruments

In music, the Wicki-Hayden note layout has the same advantage over the traditional keyboard layout as the 6-plus-6-system: There is the same fingering in all 12 scales. It is used for the Hayden duet concertina. Kaspar Wicki patented it in 1896 in Switzerland.  Brian Hayden, a concertina player, refined this layout and patented it again in 1986 in Great Britain.

[[Concertina]]

CATEGORIES: Keyboard instruments

A concertina is a musical instrument that makes sounds using air pushed and pulled through reeds using a bellows. The fingers push buttons at both ends of the instrument.

The Anglo concertina has the bass notes at the left side and makes other tones pushing than pulling a button.

The English concertina makes the same tone pushing and pulling a button.

The duet concertinas have the bass notes at the left side and make the same tone pushing and pulling a button.

The Hayden duet concertina has the same fingering for all scales. It has a shifted 6-plus-6 keyboard layout.

[[Army of the Pharaohs]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop bands, Musical groups from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1998 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Pennsylvania

Army of the Pharaohs is a hip-hop supergroup from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The supergroup was formed in 1998 by Jedi Mind Tricks' Vinnie Paz. Currently the group has 15 members.

[[Skullcandy]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments in the United States, American technology companies, Park City, Utah

Skullcandy is an American company. It makes headphones and earphones. Skullcandy is a privately held company. It is based in Park City, Utah. It was founded in 2003 by Rick Alden.

Skullcandy sponsors professional athletes in snowboarding, skiing, skateboarding, wakeboarding, motocross, and biking. They are partners with the X Games, Zumiez Couch Tour, South by Southwest, and the Vans Warped Tour.

[[Amor Prohibido]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 albums, Selena albums

Amor Prohibido (Forbidden Love) is the name of Selena's fifth studio album. Amor Prohibido is known as one of the biggest-selling Latin album of all time, being certified by the RIAA for shipping 2 million copies. The album had four number-one singles on the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks chart, the only Spanish album by a female to do so.

[[Milden]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Milden is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 106 people living in Milden. It has a church called St Peter.

[[Kersey]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

[[Newton, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Newton is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 497 people living in Newton.

[[Long Melford]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Long Melford is a village and civil parish north of Sudbury in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 3,433 people living in Long Melford.

[[Lindsey]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Lindsey is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 187 people living in Lindsey.

[[Polstead]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk

Polstead is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 808 people living in Polstead. It is famous for the Red Barn Murder that happened there in 1827. It includes the hamlets of Mill Street, Polstead Heath, Hadleigh Heath, Bower House Tye and Whitestreet Green.

[[Great Waldingfield]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Great Waldingfield is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 1,457 people living in Great Waldingfield.

[[Little Waldingfield]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Little Waldingfield is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 350 people living in Little Waldingfield.

[[Assington]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Babergh, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk

Assington is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 371 people living in Assington.

[[Chelsworth]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Chelsworth is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, 146 people lived in Chelsworth.

[[Semer]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk

Semer is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 158 people living in Semer.

[[Raydon]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Raydon is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 487 people living in Raydon.

[[Freston, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Freston is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 122 people living in Freston.

[[Hintlesham]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Hintlesham is a village and civil parish on the A1071 road in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 564 people living in Hintlesham.

[[Higham, Babergh]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Higham is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 132 people living in Higham.

[[Cliburn]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Cliburn is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 204 people living in Cliburn. It has a church called St Cuthbert's Church.

[[Hitcham, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Hitcham is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 596 people living in Hitcham.

[[Morland]]

CATEGORIES: Eden, Civil parishes in Cumbria, Villages in Cumbria

Morland is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 380 people living in Morland.

[[Bildeston]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Babergh, Villages in Suffolk

Bildeston is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 1,011 people living in Bildeston.

[[Aldham]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Babergh, Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Aldham is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2005, there were 200 people living in Aldham.  It is around eight miles west of Ipswich.

[[Little Cornard]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Little Cornard is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 305 people living in Little Cornard.

[[Worldwatch Institute]]

CATEGORIES: Environmental organizations, Organizations in Washington, D.C., 1974 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Washington, D.C.

The Worldwatch Institute is an environmental organization based in Washington, D.C.  It helps to tell people who make policy and the public about the world economy and the environment. 

Worldwatch Institute publications include The State of the World report, which is about urgent global environmental problems and new ideas for fixing them.

[[Quantum gravity]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

Quantum gravity is an area of research in physics. Right now, physics is able to describe gravity of real-life sized objects using general relativity. Physicists can also describe the universe on a microscopic scale with quantum mechanics. The goal of quantum gravity is to develop a theory which contains both general relativity and quantum mechanics. However, combining the theories of the big and the small is very difficult in practice. 

Physicists are working on a number of ways to write down a theory of quantum gravity. One approach is to search for a unified field theory. Physicists also try to develop theories at an even more fundamental level, like string theory, loop quantum gravity, or other methods, to find out why our current theories of gravity and quantum mechanics cannot be combined.

[[Metroad 5, Sydney]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Australia

Metroad 5 is a metroad. It is 47km long. It is the only metroad in Sydney to be fully freeway standard. It starts from Campbelltown at the Narellan Road (Metroad 9) interchange and ends at General Holmes Drive near Sydney Airport. The suburbs Metroad 5 passes include Liverpool and Campbelltown. The South Western Motorway and the M5 Freeway are part of the metroad. Some of the exits are Campbelltown Road, Westlink M7 (Metroad 7), Hume Highway, Moorebank Avenue, Heathcote Road, Henry Lawson Drive, The River Road, Fairford Road (Metroad 6), Belmore Road, King Georges Road (Metroad 3) and Marsh Street. The M5 East Freeway Tunnel is a major tunnel in Metroad 5.

[[Wonderama]]

CATEGORIES: American children's television series, English-language television programs

Wonderama was a long-running children's television program. It appeared on Metromedia-owned stations from 1955 to 1986. The show was made at  WNEW-TV in New York City.

Wonderama also was run in five other markets in which Metromedia owned television stations, including WTTG in Washington D.C., KMBC-TV in Kansas City, KTTV in Los Angeles, WXIX-TV in Cincinnati and WTCN-TV in Minneapolis – Saint Paul. The show ran three hours long, and later two hours on Sunday mornings.

[[Sonny Fox]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, Television personalities from New York City, Businesspeople from New York City

Irwin "Sonny" Fox (June 17, 1925 – January 24, 2021) was an American television host, executive, and broadcasting consultant. He was the fourth full-time host of the children's television program, Wonderama.

Fox died on January 24, 2021 from COVID-19 in Los Angeles, aged 95.

[[Unsportsmanlike conduct]]

CATEGORIES: Sports

Unsportsmanlike conduct (or unsporting behaviour, or ungentlemanly conduct) describes a kind of action by professional sportspeople. It is when a player or team acts during the game in a way  that is not professional or is offensive. It is different to cheating or breaking the rules. Unsportsmanlike conduct is something most players and fans dislike. The official rules of many sports include a rule so that a referee can call unsportsmanlike conduct on a team or player. There may be a fine or penalty.

[[The Color of Money (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 movies, 1980s drama movies, 1980s sports movies, Academy Award winning movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Martin Scorsese, Sequel movies, Sports drama movies

The Color of Money is a 1986 American sports drama movie about pool players. It was released in 1986. The movie stars Paul Newman, Tom Cruise, and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. Martin Scorsese was the director. It is the sequel to The Hustler. Newman won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his performance, his first Oscar win after eight nominations, seven of them for Best Actor.

[[Love Will Tear Us Apart]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 songs

"Love Will Tear Us Apart" is a song by the British post-punk band Joy Division.

[[Unknown Pleasures]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 albums, Debut albums, Punk albums

Unknown Pleasures is English post-punk band Joy Division's first album. It was released in 1979 through Factory Records. Martin Hannett produced the record at Strawberry Studios, Stockport, England

[[Closer (Joy Division album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 albums, Punk albums

Closer is the second and final album by post-punk band Joy Division. It was released on 1980, two months after the suicide of lead singer Ian Curtis.

[[Asphalt]]

CATEGORIES: Building materials, Hydrocarbons

Asphalt, or bitumen,  is a sticky, black and highly viscous liquid or semi-solid, composed almost entirely of petroleum.  It is present in most crude petroleums and in some natural deposits. It is the material which made the La Brea tar pits.

Its main use is in road construction. Mixed with "aggregate" (sand, gravel, crushed stone, etc.) it makes a good road surface. It has various other names: pitch, tarmac, blacktop, asphalt concrete, asphalt pavement (US), all mean roughly the same thing.

Asphalt which is liquid is often called tar. Tar is also used for plant resin. Solid asphalt is often called pitch. 

Although  a block of asphalt or pitch can look like a solid, it still flows, but very slowly. There have been a few "pitch experiments" to see how long it takes for a drip to form and drop off a block of apparently solid pitch.

[[Rikuzentakata, Iwate]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, 1955 establishments in Japan, Settlements in Iwate Prefecture

Rikuzentakata is a city in Iwate, Japan.

The 2010 census counted 23,302 people living in the city. (2005 showed 24,709). The city was founded on January 1, 1955. Much of the city was heavily damaged by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.

[[Daniel Ricciardo]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Australian racecar drivers, People from Perth, Western Australia, Sportspeople from Western Australia

Daniel Ricciardo (born 1 July 1989 in Perth, Western Australia) is an Australian racing driver. He won the British Formula Three Championship in 2009. He currently races in  Formula 1 for McLaren.

[[Alpheton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Alpheton is a village and civil parish on the A134 road in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 242 people living in Alpheton.

[[Monks Eleigh]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Monks Eleigh is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 425 people living in Monks Eleigh.

[[Ashby-de-la-Zouch]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Leicestershire, Civil parishes in Leicestershire

Ashby-de-la-Zouch is a town and civil parish in Leicestershire, England. In 2001 there were 12,758 people living in Ashby-de-la-Zouch.

[[Beverley]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in the East Riding of Yorkshire

Beverley is a town and civil parish in the East Riding of Yorkshire, England. In 2001 there were 17,549 people living in Beverley.

[[Scunthorpe]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lincolnshire

Scunthorpe is a town near the M180 motorway and the M181 motorway in Lincolnshire, England. The ending of the name in thorpe meaning new village in Norse, show it was a Viking settlement.

Scunthorpe is often referred to as an Industrial Garden town.

Scunthorpe has a population of approximately 80,000 people

Scunthorpe is famous for its steelworks.

The football team is called Scunthorpe United https://www.scunthorpe-united.co.uk/

[[Downham Market]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Norfolk

Downham Market is a town and civil parish in Norfolk, England. In 2001 there were 6,730 people living in Downham Market.

[[Robert Blake (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, actors from New Jersey

Robert Blake (born Michael James Vincenzo Gubitosi September 18, 1933 in Nutley, New Jersey, U.S.), is an American actor.

[[Bourne]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lincolnshire

Bourne is a town and civil parish in Lincolnshire, England. In 2001 there were 11,933 people living in Bourne.

[[Edenbridge]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent

Edenbridge is a town and civil parish in Kent, England. In 2001 there were 7,808 people living in Edenbridge.

[[Newby]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Eden

Newby is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 164 people living in Newby.

[[Colby, Cumbria]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Cumbria, Villages in Cumbria, Eden

Colby is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001, there were 120 people living in Colby.

[[Long Marton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria, Eden

Long Marton is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 704 people living in Long Marton.

[[Kirkby Thore]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria, Eden

Kirkby Thore is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 731 people living in Kirkby Thore.

[[Foxearth]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Essex, Villages in Essex

Foxearth is a village and civil parish in Braintree district, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 303 people living in Foxearth.

[[East Grinstead]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Sussex

East Grinstead is a town          and civil parish in West Sussex, England. In 2001 there were 23,942 people living in East Grinstead. It is the home town of the 1990s pop group Right Said Fred. It is on the Meridian Line.

[[Petworth]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Sussex

Petworth is a town and civil parish in West Sussex, England. In 2001 there were 2,775 people living in Petworth.

[[Evesham]]

CATEGORIES: Worcestershire, Towns in Worcestershire

Evesham is a town and civil parish in Worcestershire, England. In 2001 there were 22,304 people living in Evesham.There are many coffee shops and a wonderful park the locals keep tidy

[[Diss]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Norfolk, Towns in Norfolk

Diss is a town and civil parish in Norfolk, England. In 2001 there were 6,917 people living in Diss.

[[Frome]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset, Civil parishes in Somerset

Frome is a town and civil parish in Somerset, England. In 2001 there were 24,510 people living in Frome.

[[Cancion Nacional Chilena]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Chile, National anthems

Cancion Nacional Chilena is the national anthem of Chile until 1847. It was written by Bernardo de Vera y Pintado and composed by Manuel Robles.

[[Wincanton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset

Wincanton is a town near the A303 road in Somerset, England. In 2001 there were 4,639 people living in Wincanton.

[[Coordination complex]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds, Transition metals

A coordination complex is an inorganic chemical compound where a central atom (usually a metal) has an electron shell which permits it to combine with one or more molecules. These molecules, called ligands, have at least one pair of free electrons for binding.

[[Encyclopédie]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century books, Encyclopedias

Encyclopédie, ou dictionnaire raisonné des sciences, des arts et des métiers (Encyclopedia, or a Systematic Dictionary of the Sciences, Arts, and Crafts) was a general encyclopedia published in France between 1751 and 1772. The full title was Encyclopédie, ou Dictionnaire raisonné des sciences, des arts et des métiers, par une société de gens de lettres, mis en ordre par M. Diderot de l'Académie des Sciences et Belles-Lettres de Prusse, et quant à la partie mathématique, par M. d'Alembert de l'Académie royale des Sciences de Paris, de celle de Prusse et de la Société royale de Londres. 

The Encyclopédie was the first encyclopedia to include contributions from many people, and it was the first to include applied science and engineering. Still, the Encyclopédie is famous above all for representing the thought of the Enlightenment. According to Denis Diderot in the article "Encyclopédie", the Encyclopédie's aim was "to change the way people think."

The Encyclopédie was conceived as a translation of Ephraim Chambers's Cyclopaedia (1728). In 1743, the translation was given by the Parisian book publisher André Le Breton to John Mills, an Englishman living in France. In May 1745, Le Breton announced the work as available for sale, but Mills had not done the work. Le Breton beat Mills with a cane. Mills sued for assault, but Le Breton was set free because he was justified. For his new editor, Le Breton chose mathematician Jean Paul de Gua de Malves. In August 1747, Gua de Malves was fired for being a poor leader. Le Breton then hired Diderot and Jean d'Alembert as the new editors. Diderot would remain editor for the next twenty-five years, seeing the Encyclopédie through to completion.

[[Denis Diderot]]

CATEGORIES: 1713 births, 1784 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary thrombosis, French art critics, French atheists, French critics, French philosophers, French writers

Denis Diderot (dəni didʁo; 5 October 1713 – 31 July 1784) was a French philosopher, art critic and writer. He was a known figure during the Enlightenment. He is best known for serving as co-founder, chief editor and contributor to the Encyclopédie along with Jean le Rond d'Alembert. 

Diderot died from pulmonary thrombosis in Paris, aged 70.

[[2 Baruch]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books

2 Baruch is a text that was written in the late first century, or the early second century CE. It was  probably written after the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem, in 70 CE, and before the second Roman-Jewish War, 132-135 CE. It is attributed to Baruch ben Neriah and is included in some editions of the Old Testament and the Peshitta, but neither Jews nor Christians regard it as scripture. The Syrian Orthodox Church includes it in the Bible. The text has 87 sections and is also known as Syriac Apocalypse of Baruch and Letter of Baruch to the Nine and a Half Tribes.

[[Rhysling Award]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction awards, Fantasy, Poetry, Literary awards, Horror

The Rhysling Awards are a prize given each year for the best poem from science fiction, fantasy, or horror.  Most awards for writing are named for the creator of the award, the subject of the award, or an important person. The Rhyslings are named for a character in a science fiction story: the blind poet Rhysling, in Robert A. Heinlein's short story The Green Hills of Earth. Two awards are given: "Best Long Poem", for poetry of 50 or more lines, and "Best Short Poem", for works of 49 or fewer lines.

The members of the Science Fiction Poetry Association (SFPA) choose several possible winners (nominees) for each year's Rhysling Awards.  Each member may name one work that should win in each category.  All of the nominees are published in a book called The Rhysling Anthology. Members of the Association then vote on the final winners. Since 2005, the Awards have been presented in July at a ceremony at Readercon. The "Best Short Poem" category allows very short poems to be entered. However, the SFPA also has the Dwarf Stars Award for poems from one to ten lines.

[[Northbourne]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Kent, Villages in Kent

Northbourne is a village and civil parish near Deal in Kent, England. In 2001 there were 793 people living in Northbourne.

[[Huntshaw]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Devon, Villages in Devon, Torridge

Huntshaw is a village and civil parish in Torridge, Devon, England. In 2001 there were 120 people living in Huntshaw.

[[East Bergholt]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

East Bergholt is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 2,689 people living in East Bergholt.

[[West Bergholt]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Essex, Villages in Essex

West Bergholt is a village and civil parish in Colchester district, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 3,294 people living in West Bergholt.

[[Wormingford]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Essex, Villages in Essex

Wormingford is a village and civil parish in Colchester district, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 459 people living in Wormingford.

[[Stanstead, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Stanstead is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 316 people living in Stanstead.

[[Civil parishes in England]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in England

In England, a civil parish is a unit of local government.  Civil parishes are the lowest tier of local government, below districts and counties. It is an administrative parish, in comparison to an ecclesiastical (church) parish.

The parish council can decide to call itself a town, village, neighbourhood or community; and in a limited number of cases has city status granted by the monarch. Civil parishes only cover part of England; about 35% of the population.

There are currently no civil parishes in Greater London, and before 2008 their creation was not permitted within a London Borough.

[[Cavendish, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk

Cavendish is a village and civil parish in St Edmundsbury, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 922 people living in Cavendish.

[[Belstead]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Belstead is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 189 people living in Belstead.

[[Rose Green]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Rose Green is a hamlet in Lindsey, Babergh, Suffolk, England.

Rose Green has five listed buildings.

[[Flinders Ranges]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of South Australia, Mountain ranges of Australia

The Flinders Ranges are a group of mountains in South Australia. They have been listed as one of Australia's outstanding national landscapes. The were named "Flinders Range" in 1839 by explorer Edward John Eyre who was searching for an overland route from Adelaide to Port Lincoln. The ranges were home to the Adnyamathanha, an indigenous Australian people, for thousands of years. Their paintings and rock carvings can be found throughout the area. A large area is protected by the Flinders Ranges National Park. Important towns in the Flinders Ranges include Hawker, Quorn, Wilpena Pound and Leigh Creek.

[[Glaucoma]]

CATEGORIES: Ophthalmology, Diseases

Glaucoma is a disease that causes damage to the eye. If a person who has glaucoma does not get help from a doctor, they will not be able to see.

This disease happens because of increased pressure in the eye. The pressure causes damage to the optic nerve. This can cause loss of vision, and may also be painful.

Sometimes, it is hard for a person to know that they have glaucoma. The vision can be lost very slowly. When sight is lost from glaucoma, it cannot be recovered.

There are two kinds of glaucoma, the kind that happens very fast, and the kind that happens slowly, over a long time.

Glaucoma is the second most common cause of blindness in the world.

[[Tax resistance]]

CATEGORIES: Taxation, Civil disobedience

Tax resistance is when people do not pay a tax because they are angry at how the government uses the money.

Some people are tax resisters because they feel bad about helping the government do bad things (like war). Some people are tax resisters to protest. Some people are tax resisters to try to cause a government to fall (like Mohandas Gandhi did in India).

[[Observation deck]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements

No sources

An observation deck is a place up high where people can see things. They are usually on buildings or mountains.

[[List of highest mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Geography-related lists, Mountains

This is a list of the highest mountains in the world. There are at least 109 mountains on Earth that are higher than 7200 above sea level. Most of these are in central or southern Asia. It is hard to measure how tall a mountain is, so these measurements may not be exact. It is also hard to figure out if two peaks close to each other are part of the same mountain or are two different mountains.

[[Aye-aye]]

CATEGORIES: Lemuriformes, Mammals of Africa

The aye-aye (Daubentonia madagascariensis) is a lemur which lives  in rain forests of Madagascar, a large island off the southeast coast of Africa.(madagascar) 

This solitary animal is nocturnal (most active at night). The aye-aye spends most of its time in trees. During the day, it sleeps in a nest  in the fork of a tree. It builds the nest out of leaves and twigs. 

The aye-aye has rodent-like teeth and a special thin middle finger to get at the insect grubs under tree bark. It fills the same ecological niche as  woodpeckers do elsewhere. It taps on trees to find grubs, then gnaws holes in the wood using its forward slanting incisors. Then it sticks in its middle finger to pull the grubs out. 

Lemurs are primates, and so are related to monkeys, apes, and me

[[Merlin]]

CATEGORIES: Arthurian legend, Characters in written fiction

Merlin is a legendary character. He is best known as the wizard in the Arthurian legends. He was King Arthur's guide. Merlin is always a mysterious figure. He rarely gives his reasons for the things he does.  Merlin was probably first written about in Welsh legend. His story is based on parts of several different real and fictional characters. Merlin is usually said to be one with nature, being the source of his enormous power. The Lady of the Lake enchanted him.

[[Peter Schöttel]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian footballers, 1967 births, Austrian football managers, Players of the Austrian national football team, Living people

Peter Schöttel (born 26 March 1967 in Vienna, Austria) is a Austrian footballer, who played for SK Rapid Wien and the Austrian football team as defender.

[[Vim]]

CATEGORIES: Free software, Computer programming, Linux software

Vim is a text editor made by Bram Moolenaar. Moolenaar publicly released Vim on November 2, 1991.

Vim stands for Vi IMproved. Vim is an improved version of the vi text editor, an editor created by Bill Joy in 1976. Vim is free, and the source code is publicly available on GitHub. It is available in multiple languages, and it works on multiple operating systems, including Windows, Linux, and macOS. Vim can be used from either a command-line interface or a graphical user interface.

While Vim can be hard to use, there are built-in commands new users can learn from reading the Vim user manual, running the :help command in Vim, or using the vimtutor command in a terminal.

Vim is widely popular because it allows users to perform many functions on a document (save, search, scroll, etc.) by pressing as few keys as possible. However, many critics argue that these keystrokes are confusing.

One can customize Vim using a .vimrc file. To add new features like keyboard shortcuts, one can use Vim script, Vim’s built-in programming language. Many Vim plugins and extensions are also available online for free.

There is an Internet turf war between programmers that prefer Vim and programmers that prefer Emacs, another common text editor.

[[Grito de Dolores]]

CATEGORIES: National Days, 1810, 19th century in Mexico, 1810s in North America

The Grito de Dolores ("Cry of Dolores")  was the call issued by Father Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla, a Catholic priest, on 16 September, 1810  in the small town of Dolores (Therefore the Grito "de Dolores").  It is also called the Grito de la Independencia or the Cry of  Independence against the traditional Spanish Government, which had become catastrophically distorted by the Napoleonic invasion of the Peninsula in the preceding two years.

[[Criollo (people)]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in South America, History of South America, 16th-century establishments

The Criollos (singular: Criollo) were a social class in the caste system of the overseas colonies established by Spain in the 16th century, especially in Latin America. The name was used for people of pure or mostly Spanish blood, but who were born in the colony.

The Criollo class was seen as lower than the Peninsulares. Peninsulares were the people who lived in the colony, but were born in Spain. Criollos were higher status/rank than all other castes. Examples of other castes are people of mixed descent, Amerindians, and enslaved Africans.

The term Criollo is often translated into English as Creole.  However, the word "creole" is also used for many ethnic groups around the world who have no historic connection to Spain or to any colonial system.

[[Grumman G-21 Goose]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft, Grumman aircraft

The Grumman G-21 Goose is an amphibious aircraft, which means it can land and take off on water. It was designed as an eight-seat "commuter" plane for businessmen in the Long Island area. The Goose was Grumman’s first monoplane to fly. It was also Grumman's first twin-engined aircraft as well as their first aircraft to provide commercial service. During World War II, the Goose was used to transport the US military (including the Coast Guard). It served with many other air forces. During battles, the Goose took on an increasing number of combat and training roles. It was also used after the war.

[[List of FIFA country codes]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA, Football-related lists, Lists of countries, Country codes

There are currently 211 FIFA members, each one with a different country code.

[[The Lady Killer]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, CeeLo Green albums

The Lady Killer is the third studio album by American singer Cee Lo Green. It was released November 5, 2010, on Elektra Records. Salaam Remi, ELEMENT, The Smeezingtons, Fraser T. Smith, Paul Epworth, and Jack Splash produced the album. This was during 2009 to 2010.

The album was listed at number nine on the US Billboard 200 chart in its first week. It sold 41,000 copies in the week after its debut. Its first single, "Fuck You" did well internationally. The album has sold 337,700 copies in the United States. It has been certified platinum in the United Kingdom. Upon its release, The Lady Killer received positive reviews from most music critics. They praised it for its production, classicist soul music approach, and Green's singing.

[[Comparison of IOC, FIFA, and ISO 3166 country codes]]

CATEGORIES: Nations at the Olympics, FIFA, ISO 3166, Country codes

This table compares IOC, FIFA, and ISO 3166 country codes.

[[ISO 3166]]

CATEGORIES: ISO 3166

ISO 3166 is a standard made by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and it uses short codes to name all countries and some other places. People from all over the world can use the same codes; this is helpful because different languages have different names for many countries. For example, the country English-speakers call Spain is called España by Spanish-speakers. The ISO 3166 has three codes for Spain: ES, ESP, and 724. No other country has any of these codes.

[[Dolores Hidalgo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Municipalities of Mexico, Guanajuato (state)

Dolores Hidalgo is the name of a city and the municipality around it in the north-central part of the Mexican state of Guanajuato. The full name is Dolores Hidalgo Cuna de la Independencia Nacional, which is Spanish for "Dolores Hidalgo Cradle of National Independence".

It is at 21.17, at about 1,980 meters (6,480 feet) above sea level. In the census of 2005 the city had a population of 54,843 people. The larger area of the municipality had 134,641 inhabitants. The city is directly in the middle of the municipality, which is 1,590 km² (613.9 sq mi) in size. It also includes many small communities, the largest of which is Río Laja.

==History== 

Before Mexico became independent, the city was a small town known simply as Dolores. It was here that Father Miguel Hidalgo spoke his famous cry for the independence of Mexico (the Grito de Dolores). This was in the early hours of September 16, 1810, in front of his parish church. After Mexico achieved independence, the town was renamed Dolores Hidalgo in his honor. The central square of the town, in front of Father Hidalgo's historic church, is a popular tourist spot.

[[Cavendish]]

Cavendish may refer to:

[[Edmund Kirby Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1824 births, 1893 deaths, American academics, Confederate Army generals, People from Florida

Edmund Kirby Smith (May 16, 1824 – March 28, 1893) was a United States Army officer and academic. He was a general for the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War.  Near the end of the war, he commanded all the Confederate soldiers west of the Mississippi River.  He surrendered his army (gave up the fight) on May 26, 1865 at New Orleans.  This was weeks after Robert E. Lee had surrendered at Appomattox.  Kirby Smith was from Saint Augustine, Florida.   

[[General officer]]

CATEGORIES: Military ranks, Generals

A general officer is an officer who is at a high military rank, usually in the army, and in some places, the air force. "General" is used in many countries around the world, and when a country uses a different word, there is another title that is of equal rank. Admiral is the corresponding rank in a navy.

Usually an army has more than one "general officer" rank, and usually "general" is the highest of the general officer ranks.

[[Wilby]]

There is more than one place called Wilby in England:

[[The King of Rome]]

CATEGORIES: Collections of Derby Museum and Art Gallery, Birds

The King of Rome was a racing pigeon. It won a race from Rome, in Italy, to England. The race was in 1913. It was 1001 long. Dave Sudbury wrote a song about the pigeon. The song was recorded by June Tabor.

[[Cath Kidston]]

CATEGORIES: Breast cancer survivors, British fashion designers, English businesspeople, Writers from Hampshire, Writers from London, 1958 births, Living people

Catherine Isabel "Cath" Kidston (born 6 November 1958) is a British fashion designer, businesswoman and writer.

She owns the company Cath Kidston Limited. The company sells home furnishings and other goods. They sell in shops, online and by mail order. The company was valued at £75000000 in February 2010.

Kidston is known for designing floral patterns. She has written several books.

[[Password]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography, Computer security

A password is a way of authentication. It can be used as a means to identify a person. Since the password is the only way to identify a person, it has to be kept secret. A password can be static. This means it will remain the same unless the user changes it, or it rarely changes. Or a password can be dynamic. A dynamic password changes regularly and does not remain the same.  One type of a dynamic password is a one-time pad that can only be used once. 

Passwords were first used in the military. This was to be able to tell who was a friend and who was an enemy when it was dark.

Modern passwords are made of characters, letters and numbers. Sometimes a password will require a minimum number of characters. Usually this is from six to eight.  Some websites allow only the use of letters and numbers, but no other characters on the keyboard. Other websites advise using a combination of letters and numbers to increase the "strength" of a password. Websites also advise changing a password once a year or more often to prevent hacking. A person may be able to guess a password if it is too easy. While being typed, each letter of a password is shown as * or •. 

Other ways of verifying the identity of a person include using fingerprint scanners and face detection.

Encryption is the translation of data to achieve data security. To read an encrypted string a secret key or password must be provided to decrypt it. 

In systems that uses login based actions, the password can be converted to the original string if the key is provided. Hashing is a one-way function and is irreversible.  

[[Diary of a Wimpy Kid (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books

Diary of a Wimpy Kid is an ongoing series of currently fifteen books written by Jeff Kinney. The series is about a middle school student named Greg Heffley. The books are written in the style of Greg's diary. They contain many drawings, all with no color.

[[Folate]]

CATEGORIES: B vitamins

Folic acid (also known as vitamin B9, vitamin Bc or folacin) and folate, as well as pteroyl-L-glutamic acid, pteroyl-L-glutamate, and pteroylmonoglutamic acid are forms of the water-soluble vitamin B9. Folic acid is itself not biologically active, but its biological importance is due to tetrahydrofolate and other derivatives after its conversion to dihydrofolic acid in the liver.

[[Thiamine]]

CATEGORIES: B vitamins

Thiamine (or thiamin) is vitamin B1. It is a water-soluble vitamin of the B complex. Its phosphate derivatives take part in many cellular processes. Thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) is a coenzyme in the catabolism of sugars and amino acids. 

Lack of thiamine causes beriberi.

[[Jure Francetić]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1942 deaths, Croatian people, Military people killed in action, Murderers, World War II people

Jure Francetić (1912 - 1942) was an Ustashe Commissioner of Bosnia and Herzegovina, war criminal, responsible for the massacre of Bosnian Serbs and Jews.

[[Red huckleberry]]

Red huckleberry (Vaccinium parvifolium) is a species of Vaccinium, a flowering plant. It grows in North America. There, it is often found in forests from southeastern Alaska and British Columbia, through western Washington and Oregon to central California. In the Oregon Coast Range, it is the most-seen Vaccinium.

[[Ōkuma, Fukushima]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fukushima Prefecture

Ōkuma is a Japanese town in Fukushima Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[José Martí]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 births, 1895 deaths, Cuban people, People from Havana

José Julián Martí Pérez (January 28, 1853 – May 19, 1895) was a Cuban patriot, freedom fighter and poet. Although he never lived to see Cuba free, he is considered the national hero.

[[Rock cycle]]

CATEGORIES: Geology

The rock cycle is the process by which rocks of one kind change into rocks of another kind.

There are three main kinds of rocks: igneous rock, metamorphic rock, and sedimentary rock.  Each of these rocks can change into the other kinds by physical processes: cooling, melting, heat, weathering/erosion, compacting (squeezing tightly together), cementing, and pressure.

When heated deep under ground, rocks become magma (liquid rock). Above ground, it is called lava. Sediment, the particles from rock erosion and weathering, is the basis for sedimentary rock of the future.

Igneous rock is hardened magma, which can happen above or below ground. It can melt into magma, erode into sediment, or be pressed tightly together to become metamorphic.

Metamorphic rock is igneous or sedimentary rock that has been heated and squeezed. It can erode into sediment or melt into magma. It is formed under extreme pressure and temperature deep inside mountain chains.

Sedimentary rock is compacted sediments which can come from any of the other rocks, plus remains of living things. It can erode back into sediment, or be pressurized into metamorphic rock and can be melted to magma , which forms igneous rocks .

These processes can occur in different orders, and the cycle goes on forever. Earth has several processes for changing rocks. Wind and water can create sediment from rocks, and movement of one tectonic plate against another creates enormous heat and pressure which affects rocks greatly. Subduction converts all kinds into magma, which eventually rejoins the cycle as igneous rocks.

[[Herbert Prohaska]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, 1955 births, Austrian football managers, Austria national football team managers, Living people

Herbert Prohaska (born 8 August 1955 in Vienna, Austria) is a retired Austrian football player. He is among Austria's greatest football players of all time. His nickname "Schneckerl", Viennese dialect for curly hair, comes  from his curly haircut in his younger years. He works as analyst for the Austrian television and writes for Austrias most popular newspaper.

[[Won Gyun]]

CATEGORIES: Korean people, 1540 births, 1597 deaths

General Won Gyun(korean:원균, hanja: 元均, January 6 1540 - June 19 1597) was korean Josun dynastys General politicians.

[[Twicket]]

CATEGORIES: Lancashire, 2011 in sports, 2011 in the United Kingdom, 2010s in England

Twicket was a village cricket match. It was shown live on the Internet. It could be watched form anywhere on the world. That happened on Easter Monday, 25 April 2011. The organisers did that to show that very fast broadband is useful. Very fast broadband helps community groups to upload content to the web. The organisers says Twicket was the first village cricket match ever to be streamed online.

Twicket is a made up word. The "Tw" is from Twitter. The "icket" is from  Cricket.

There were reports about Twicket on BBC television news, on BBC Radio London, on TalkSport, and on Radio New Zealand.

It was written about by The Guardian, and Metro.

It was mentioned on Twitter by Stephen Fry, the BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones and Jonathan Agnew. Agnew is the BBC's cricket correspondent.

[[Dustin Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, American ice hockey players, Los Angeles Kings players, Living people, Sportspeople from New York, American Hockey League players, Stanley Cup champions, People from Ithaca, New York

Dustin James Brown (born November 4, 1984 in Ithaca, New York) is an NHL ice hockey right winger that plays for the Los Angeles Kings where he is the current team captain. He was picked by the Kings with the 13th overall pick in the 2003 NHL Entry Draft. He also played in the OHL with the Guelph Storm.

He was on the Team USA's men's ice hockey team in the 2010 Winter Olympics where they won the silver medal.

[[Mexican War of Independence]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in Mexico, 1810s in North America, Wars of independence, Rebellions in North America, 19th century rebellions, 19th century in Spain, 1820s in North America

The Mexican War of Independence (1810–1821) was a war between the people of Mexico and the Spanish colonial government. It started on 16 September 1810 since Mexican-born Spaniards (criollo people), Mestizos and Amerindians wanted their independence from Spain.

The idea of Mexican independence went back to the years after the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire. Martín Cortés led a revolt against the Spanish government.

After the Conspiracy of the Machetes failed in 1799, the War of Independence really started with the Grito de Dolores in 1810. Spain was busy fighting for its independence against the invading First French Empire during the Peninsular War and most of Latin America revolted.

[[Joe Sakic]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Canadian ice hockey centres, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Colorado Avalanche players, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Lethbridge Broncos players, Living people, People from Burnaby, Quebec Nordiques players, Stanley Cup champions, Swift Current Broncos players

Joseph Steven Sakic (born July 7, 1969 in Burnaby, British Columbia) is a Canadian retired ice hockey centre Sakic played 20 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played with the Quebec Nordiques/Colorado Avalanche organizations. Sakic was able to win the Stanley Cup in 1996 and 2001.

He retired from playing professional ice hockey on July 9, 2009. The Colorado Avalanche retired his jersey number #19 with a "C" to represent his lengthy service as team captain on October 1, 2009. Sakic was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame along with Adam Oates, Pavel Bure and Mats Sundin in 2012.

He was a fan favourite in his hometown of Burnaby and even had a street named "Joe Sakic Way" in his honour. In British Columbia he is affectionately known as "Burnaby Joe".

[[Ron Francis]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Canadian ice hockey centres, Carolina Hurricanes players, Hartford Whalers players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Stanley Cup champions, Ontario Hockey League players

Ronald Michael Francis, Jr. (born March 1, 1963 in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey centre that played 24 seasons and 1,805 career games in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Hartford Whalers, Pittsburgh Penguins, Carolina Hurricanes and Toronto Maple Leafs organizations. He won a Stanley Cup in 1990 and in 1991 with the Penguins. His jersey number #10 was retired and raised to the rafters of the Hartford Civic Center on January 6, 2006 and is also retired by the Carolina Hurricanes. His picture could be seen on the Pittsburgh Penguins Ring of Honor at the Mellon Arena before the team relocated to Consol Energy Center. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 2009.

[[Alexander Mogilny]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, American Hockey League players, Buffalo Sabres players, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, New Jersey Devils players, Russian ice hockey players, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vancouver Canucks players

Alexander Gennadevitch Mogilny (born February 18, 1969) is a Russian retired professional ice hockey right winger. He played 17 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Buffalo Sabres, New Jersey Devils, Toronto Maple Leafs and Vancouver Canucks organizations. He won a gold medal at the 1988 Winter Olympics with the Soviet Union hockey team. He won a Stanley Cup in 2000 with the Devils. He was named a member of the Buffalo Sabres Hall of Fame on January 1, 2011.

[[Frank Boucher]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1977 deaths, Canadian ice hockey forwards, Eastern Hockey League players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, New York Rangers players, Ottawa Senators players, Stanley Cup champions, Ice hockey centres

François-Xavier Boucher (October 7, 1901 – December 12, 1977) was a Canadian retired professional ice hockey centre that played 14 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the New York Rangers and Ottawa Senators organizations. He won a Stanley Cup in 1928 and in 1933 with the Rangers. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1958. He was named #61 in The Hockey News' list of the 100 Greatest Hockey Players.

[[Elwin Romnes]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1984 deaths, American Hockey Association (1926–42) players, American ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, New York Americans players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Sportspeople from Minnesota, Stanley Cup champions, Ice hockey centres

Elwin Nelson "Doc" Romnes (January 1, 1909 – July 21, 1984) was a American professional ice hockey left winger and centre who played 11 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Chicago Black Hawks, New York Americans and Toronto Maple Leafs organizations. He won a Stanley Cup in 1934 and in 1938 with the Black Hawks. He also won the Lady Byng Trophy in 1936.

[[Marty Barry]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1969 deaths, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Detroit Red Wings players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Americans players, Stanley Cup champions

Martin J. "Goal-a-Game" Barry (December 8, 1904 – August 20, 1969) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He played 12 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Boston Bruins, Detroit Red Wings, Montreal Canadiens and New York Americans organizations. He won a Stanley Cup in 1936 and in 1937 with the Red Wings. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1965. He died from a heart attack on August 20, 1969.

[[Provincial Assembly of Sindh]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Pakistan, Legislatures of country subdivisions

The Provincial Assembly of the Sindh is a unicameral house of elected representatives of people of Sindh established under Article 106 of the 1973 Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.  Under this article, the total number of seats for the Assembly through direct vote is 168, of which 30 seats are reserved for women and 8 seats for non-Muslims.

[[Open Handset Alliance]]

CATEGORIES: Mobile phone companies

The Open Handset Alliance, also called OHA by many people, is a business alliance. It includes 80 companies to help improve open standards for mobile phones. Members of this include Google, HTC, Sony, Dell, Intel, Motorola, Qualcomm, Texas Instruments, Samsung, LG, T-Mobile, Nvidia, and Wind River Systems.

[[Plausible deniability]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Plausible deniability are words first used by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) during the Kennedy administration. In that case it meant not to tell senior government officials about illegal CIA activities. These officials could then defend themselves if the activities were discovered. They would be able to say quite plausibly, and perhaps truthfully, that they did not know anything about it (deniability). It meant that actions of the CIA could not be blamed on the President of the USA.

The concept is tied up with the idea of a "paper trail", whereby journalists find evidence of orders or discussions between senior officials and agents doing the forbidden acts. Interceptions of phone messages or e-mail messages may also be evidence of wrongdoing by officials. If there is no definite evidence of wrongdoing by an official, then his/her denial can be taken as sincere. The denial is "plausible" (or, at least, might be true). That achieves one of the main goals of public relations: for officials at least not to be caught red-handed doing something illegal. The effect of officials being caught red-handed can be extremely serious: see Watergate scandal.

Plausible deniability refers to the denial of blame in (formal or informal) chains of command. Senior people may give indirect and vague orders. For example, Henry II "Who will rid me of this turbulent priest?" or even less direct "Someone should do something about that". The intended message is understood. Later, when the deed is done, the higher man can say "I never intended that to happen". 

Plausible deniability is achieved when no records are kept of any instructions. It becomes impossible to find out who was responsible for the actions taken. If these activities become public, high-ranking officials may deny any knowledge of such act or any connection to the people used to carry out such acts. It usually means that it has been planned in advance, setting up the conditions to avoid responsibility for future actions or knowledge.

[[Citroën C5]]

CATEGORIES: Front wheel drive vehicles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

[[Robert Sara]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, 1946 births, Austrian football managers, Living people

Robert Sara (born 9 June 1946) is a former Austrian football player. He played as defender for FK Austria Wien and in the Austrian national team.

[[Austrian Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Football in Austria, Football competitions, 1919 establishments in Europe

The Austrian Cup (German: ÖFB-Cup) is an football (soccer) competition held by the Austrian Football Association, the ÖFB. It was played by male teams. For women there is the ÖFB-LadiesCup. Although it has a long tradition the Cup never played an important role in Austrian football.

[[Angry Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Actors from Melbourne, Australian movie actors, Australian rock singers, Australian singer-songwriters, Australian television actors, Australian television presenters, Musicians from Melbourne

Gary Stephen "Angry" Anderson AM (born 5 August 1947) is an Australian rock singer, television presenter/reporter and actor. He is best known as the vocalist with the hard rock band Rose Tattoo, and for his composition in the song Suddenly in 1987.

[[Airstone]]

CATEGORIES: Aquariums

An airstone is an article made of soft stone, porous wood, or another material that allows air to be blown through it to produce bubbles in water. The air is blown through the stone by a tube placed inside the stone and attached to an electric pump. 

An airstone can be used in an aquarium (a tank or container for keeping fish) or a tank of water where plants are growing in a hydroponics system.The airstone is used to blow bubbles into water to increase the amount of oxygen in the water. The stone may have very small holes to make fine bubbles or it may have bigger holes to make larger bubbles.

[[Prem Nazir]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 1989 deaths, Indian actors

Prem Nazir (born Abdul Khader; 7 April 1926 - 16 January 1989) was an Indian actor. He acted mainly in movies made in the Malayalam language. He started his career in the 1950s. He was one of the biggest stars in Indian cinema and is fondly remembered as Evergreen Hero. He acted in lead roles in more than 600 movies, which is a world record. He also holds three more Guinness world records. He got the Padma Bhushan, Padma Shri and Kerala State Film Awards.

[[Vermiculite]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals, Insulation

Vermiculite is a phyllosilicate mineral that is dug out of the ground in China, South Africa, Russia and Brazil. When it is dug from the ground it is a hard rock. Vermiculite gets bigger when it is heated and changes into a material that looks like worms. This was first done in the United States of America in the year 1824.

When Vermiculite has changed into small grains it is a very good material for insulation and is used to stop the escape of heat in things like ovens, furnaces and houses in cold countries. It is also very good at holding water so it is used in the soil of plants in pots and helping to grow seeds.

Because the Vermiculite grains are spongy (they can be pressed flat and then they open again) but not hard they are used inside cases or boxes to protect articles from breakage when they are being transported.

Vermiculite is also used in hydroponics as a material for the roots of plants to hold on to.

Because it does not burn Vermiculite is used with other materials in fillings in walls or ceilings (the roof of a room) to stop the spread of fire.

Although vermiculite is not a form of asbestos, it is often contaminated with asbestos. Any vermiculite insulation found in a building should be treated as containing asbestos until confirmed otherwise by a laboratory.

[[Food politics]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Food politics is a term used to refer to the political aspects of the production and distribution of food. A state can also regulate what kinds of food may be grown, and that the food grown needs to be checked before it can be sold, or that it needs to be handled in certain ways. The state can also fix prices for certain kinds of food, or it may exclude certain groups of people from consuming it. That way, children are usually not allowed to drink alcohol, or to smoke cigarettes.

[[Maurice "Rocket" Richard Trophy]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League trophies and awards

The Maurice "Rocket" Richard Trophy, sometimes known as the Maurice Richard Trophy is a trophy in the National Hockey League awarded to the leading goal scorer each year. It was first awarded in 1998. The trophy is named after hockey legend, Maurice "Rocket" Richard. The current holder of the trophy is Alexander Ovechkin of the Washington Capitals.

[[Mike Bossy]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Calder Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Laval National players, Living people, New York Islanders players, People from Montreal, Stanley Cup champions

Michael Dean Bossy (born January 22, 1957 in Montreal, Quebec) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey right winger. He played 10 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) all with the New York Islanders organization. He won the Stanley Cup 4 straight times from the 1979-80 to 1982-83 NHL seasons. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1991.

[[Brett Hull]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 1998 Winter Olympics, 2002 Winter Olympics, American Hockey League players, American ice hockey players, American Olympic silver medalists, Calgary Flames players, Dallas Stars players, Detroit Red Wings players, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, Phoenix Coyotes players, St. Louis Blues players, Stanley Cup champions

Brett Andrew Hull (born August 9, 1964 in Belleville, Ontario) is a retired professional American-Canadian ice hockey right winger that played 21 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Calgary Flames, St. Louis Blues, Dallas Stars, Detroit Red Wings and Phoenix Coyotes organizations. He won the Stanley Cup 2 times, once in 1999 with the Dallas Stars and once in 2002 with the Detroit Red Wings. He won a silver medal with Team USA at the 2002 Winter Olympics. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 2009. His father is Bobby Hull and he is the nephew of Dennis Hull. He was nicknamed "The Golden Brett" which was a play off of his father's nickname, "The Golden Jet". In his 90 games played for the University of Minnesota - Duluth, he registered 84 goals and 60 assists for 144 points. Brett Hull also had a very hard and accurate he had as great a shot as Gretsky.

[[Sonic Adventure 2]]

CATEGORIES: Dreamcast games, Sonic the Hedgehog games, 2001 video games, 3D platform games, Video game sequels

Sonic Adventure 2 is a platform video game released for the Dreamcast in 2001. This game is the sequel to Sonic Adventure. In 2002, a remake of the game, Sonic Adventure 2: Battle, was released for the Nintendo GameCube. The game was the tenth best selling GameCube game of all time.  

[[Sylvester the Cat]]

CATEGORIES: Looney Tunes characters, Animated characters, Fictional cats

Sylvester James Pussycat, Sr. is a cartoon character from the Warner Bros. cartoons. Sylvester is a tuxedo cat (bicolor) and is the main rival of Tweety Bird. He first appeared in Life with Feathers on March 24, 1945. He was created by Friz Freleng. Sylvester's name is a play on the word, Felis silvestris which is a scientific name for the wild cat species although Sylvester is a domestic cat. He was voted as #33 on TV Guide's list of 50 best cartoon characters along with Tweety. 

He has a son named Sylvester Jr. who first appeared in Pop 'im Pop on 1949. Sylvester Jr. is useually seen with Sylvester in the cartoons when Sylvester is trying to catch a baby kangaroo named Hippety Hopper who he often mistakes for a mouse to prove a point to his son.

[[Reg Fleming]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2009 deaths, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Buffalo Sabres players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Rangers players, Ontario Hockey League players, People from Montreal, Philadelphia Flyers players, Stanley Cup champions, World Hockey Association players

Reginald Stephen Fleming (April 21, 1936 - July 11, 2009) was a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger that played 13 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Montreal Canadiens, Chicago Black Hawks, Boston Bruins, New York Rangers, Philadelphia Flyers and Buffalo Sabres organizations. He won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Black Hawks in 1960. He was known for his grit and team spirit and was also involved in a number of notorious incidents which gave him a reputation around the league as a tough customer and an intense competitor and earned him the nickname, "Reggie, The Ruffian". He died on July 11, 2009 in Arlington Heights, Illinois from chronic traumatic encephalopathy (C.T.E.) which made him the first hockey player to be tested for the disease, it had only been mainly associated with boxing and American football.

[[Chico Maki]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2015 deaths, Canadian ice hockey forwards, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Stanley Cup champions

Ronald "Chico" Maki (born August 17, 1939 in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario – August 24, 2015) was a Canadian retired professional ice hockey right winger. He played a career total of 15 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played all of his NHL career with the Chicago Black Hawks. He won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Black Hawks in 1961. 

[[Tuomas Grönman]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 1998 Winter Olympics, Chicago Blackhawks players, Finnish ice hockey players, Living people, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Tacoma Rockets players, American Hockey League players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Ice hockey defencemen

Tuomas Oskar Grönman (born 22 March 1974 in Viitasaari, Finland) is a Finnish retired professional ice hockey defenceman. He played 2 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Chicago Blackhawks and Pittsburgh Penguins organizations. He also played in the SM-Liiga for TPS, Lukko and Jokerit. He won a bronze medal with Team Finland at the 1998 Winter Olympics.

[[Wayne Simmonds]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Buffalo Sabres players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Los Angeles Kings players, Living people, Philadelphia Flyers players, Nashville Predators players, New Jersey Devils players, Ontario Hockey League players, Toronto Maple Leafs players

Wayne Simmonds (born August 26, 1988 in Scarborough, Ontario) is an Canadian professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays for the Buffalo Sabres of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Los Angeles Kings, Philadelphia Flyers, Nashville Predators, New Jersey Devils.

He was drafted by the Los Angeles Kings with the 61st overall pick in the 2007 NHL Entry Draft. He also played in the OHL with the Owen Sound Attack and Sault Ste. Marie Greyhounds. He is African American and is one of a small number of black hockey players in the league.

[[Joel Ward]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, San Jose Sharks players, Minnesota Wild players, Nashville Predators players, Washington Capitals players

Joel Ward (born December 2, 1980 in North York, Ontario) is a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger that currently plays for the Washington Capitals of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Minnesota Wild for one season and the Nashville Predators for three seasons before signing a four-year contract worth $12 million with the Washington Capitals on July 1, 2011. He is African American and is one of a small number of black hockey players in the league.

[[Peter Le Lievre]]

CATEGORIES: 1812 births, 1878 deaths, Painters, Guernsey

Peter Le Lievre (1812 – 1878) was a Guernsey Artist, Wine Merchant and Militia Officer.

[[Blue plaque]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures

The Blue Plaque is a scheme for remembering the links between famous people and buildings by placing commemorative plaques on the walls.  The scheme was started by the Royal Society of Arts in London, and the very first plaques was, in fact, of red terracotta placed on the outside of a former home of Lord Byron (since demolished). 

The Society erected 36 plaques between 1866 - 1901, responsibility for them was transferred to the London County Council (1901-65) (which changed the colour of the plaques to the current blue) and later the Greater London Council (1965-86) and most recently English Heritage. Similar schemes are now operated in all the member countries of the United Kingdom.  

[[Denial Bay, South Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Australia, Bays of Australia, 1889 establishments in Australia

Denial Bay is the name for both a small bay on the coast of South Australia, and a small fishing town built at the bay. The bay was named by explorer Matthew Flinders on 7 February 1802. Flinders had hoped that bay was bigger and would have provided better access into the inland of South Australia. One of the first European settlers was a sheep farmer, William McKenzie, who built a house in the area in 1889. The town was known as Mac's Town, and in 1910 the government officially named it McKenzie. In 1940 it was named Denial Bay.

[[Burhou]]

CATEGORIES: Alderney, Uninhabited islands of the Bailiwick of Guernsey

Burhou (pronounced bu-ROO) is a small island approximately 1.4  northwest of Alderney that is part of the Channel Islands. No one lives on Burhou, and it is a bird sanctuary, so landing there is banned from 15 March to 27 July. The island's wildlife includes a colony of puffins (declining in numbers) and large numbers of rabbits.

It has no landing stage as such, but visitors use a small inlet. In rough weather it may be impossible to land.

The Guernsey botanist E.D. Marquand called it, "the most desolate and lonely of all the islands in our archipelago." He had to spend the night there, as his return journey was delayed by fog.

The 1906 book, The Channel Pilot states -

The States of Alderney member, John Beaman has political responsibility for the island.

Burhou, like many other Channel Islands (e.g. Lihou, Jethou), has the Norman suffix -hou, meaning a small island, from the Old Norse holmr. According to Dr. S.K. Kellet-Smith, "bur" refers to a storehouse - "Burhou is just the place where a fisherman would place a depository for his gear".

Signs of human occupation/visitation are much older. Flint flakes have been found on the island, and one is currently in the Alderney Museum. In 1847, F.C. Lukis found two standing stones, but these have since been lost, according to the archaeologist David Johnston.

[[Oscillation]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquake engineering, Mechanics

Something that oscillates is something that "vibrates", or repeats the same pattern. Many things in nature move back-and-forth or up-and down when pushed or struck. In time, natural oscillators slow down and stop because of friction.

[[Ortac]]

CATEGORIES: Alderney, Uninhabited islands of the Bailiwick of Guernsey

Ortac is a small uninhabited islet about 5 km West of the coast of Alderney near to the islet of Burhou. It measures about 50 by 70 metres (160 by 230 ft).

A.H. Ewen thinks that the rock's name meant "large rock at the edge" from the Norman language Or (edge) + Etac (Stack). Alexander Deschamps said that the French used to call it "the Eagle's Nest".

[[5.56mm NATO]]

CATEGORIES: Pistol and rifle cartridges, Military cartridges

The 5.56×45mm NATO round, pronounced "five-five-six", is an intermediate cartridge and the main bullet type used by guns made for NATO militaries. It was first used in the Vietnam War as the main bullet used by the US military. 

Early in the Vietnam War, the main gun used by American soldiers was the M14. Many soldiers complained that the 7.62mm NATO round used by the M14 was too heavy and that the gun kicked back too hard to shoot accurately when shooting in full-automatic fire. To solve this problem, the US military decided replace the M14 and the 7.62mm NATO by creating a new assault rifle that would shoot lighter bullets with less kickback. That gun would be the M16A1, the first standard issue gun to fire the 5.56mm NATO bullet.

Even though the M16A1 had many design flaws that would cause the gun to jam, the 5.56 bullet performed well in battle. The 5.56 did so well that the Soviet Union made its own intermediate cartridge, the 5.45 x 39mm, to compete with NATO.

Guns that use the 5.56 include the M16, the M4 carbine, the AR-15, the FAMAS, the G36, the SCAR-L, and the Mini-14.

[[Teatre Sans]]

CATEGORIES: Theatres, Buildings and structures in Spain, Palma de Mallorca, 1984 establishments in Europe, 1980s establishments in Spain

Teatre Sans is a small theatre in Palma de Mallorca, capital of the Balearic Islands, Spain, that has been opened for more than 25 years. 

The theatre is in a gothic building from the 14th-15th centuries, in the old neighbourhood of the city. In the 15th century it belonged to the island Governor who used it as a marketplace. Later it was used as lodgings. In the 20th century, it became the headquarters of the Republican party where they held political meetings, literary and cultural gatherings and some theatre plays. Later, they also began to offer lectures and talks.

In 1984, the theatre company TRIP TRUP Teatre (later Estudi Zero Teatre ESTUDI ZERO https://web.archive.org/web/20110504064911/http://www.estudizeroteatre.com/teatre_presentacio.php), rented the theatre as a place for reheasals. The theatre company ESTUDI ZERO renovated the old theatre and they are now responsible running not only the theatre, but also the drama school and the café.

The drama school, eScola d'Arts eScéNiques https://web.archive.org/web/20110504064847/http://www.estudizeroteatre.com/escola_cursos.php offers drama lessons to children and adults and it is one of the main reasons of the popularity of the theatre.

[[Parliament of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Pakistan, Parliaments, National legislatures

The Parliament of Pakistan, officially known as Majlis-e-Shoora (مجلس شوری, Council of Advisors in Urdu and Persian, although referred to as "Parliament") is the federal and supreme legislative body of Pakistan. It is bicameral federal legislature of Pakistan that consists of the Senate (upper house) and the National Assembly (lower house). According to Article 50 of the 1973 Constitution of Pakistan, the Council also includes the President of Pakistan.

[[Senate of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Pakistan, National upper houses

The Senate of Pakistan is the upper house of the bicameral Parliament of Pakistan. Elections are held every three years for one half of the senate and each senator has a term of six years. If the office of the President of Pakistan becomes vacant, or the President is unable to perform his functions, the Chairman of the Senate acts as President until a President is elected. 

[[National Assembly of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Pakistan, National legislatures

The National Assembly is the lower house of the bicameral Parliament of Pakistan.

[[Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Speakers of the National Assembly of Pakistan

The Speaker's is the highest office of the National Assembly of Pakistan. The Speaker presides over the Session composed of the people's representatives elected on the basis of universal franchise. 

[[Prime Minister of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Pakistan

The Prime Minister of Pakistan (وزیر اعظم) Wazeer-e-A'zam) officially Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, is the Head of Government of Pakistan. The current Prime Minister is Imran Khan.

The Prime Minister is elected by the National Assembly, members of which are elected by popular vote. Most commonly, the leader of the party or coalition with the most votes becomes the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is responsible for appointing a cabinet.  The President has the constitutional reserve power to remove the Prime Minister by a dissolution of the National Assembly, triggering new elections.

[[National Security Council of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan, 2004 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in Pakistan

The Prime minister Secretariat National Security Council is a consultative body that is chaired by the President of Pakistan and Prime Minister of Pakistan. It is a principal forum that is mandated for considering national security and foreign policy matters with the senior national security advisors and Cabinet officials. The National Security Council was created by then-President and former Chief of Army Staff (Pakistan) General Pervez Musharraf in April 2004 under the National Security Council Act.  The function of the Council has been to advise and assist the President and Prime minister on national security and foreign policies. 

[[Pakistani architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan, Architecture of Pakistan

Pakistani architecture includes various structures built during different time periods. With the beginning of the Indus Valley civilization around the middle of the 3rd millennium BC, for the first time in the area which encompasses today's Pakistan an advanced urban culture developed with large structural facilities, some of which survive to this day. This was followed by the Gandhara style of Buddhist architecture that borrowed elements from the architecture of ancient Greece. These remnants are visible in the Gandhara capital of Taxila.

[[Pakistani folklore]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan

Pakistan has a wide variety of folklore, mostly circulated regionally. However, certain tales have related variants in other regions of the country or in neighbouring countries. Some folktales like Shirin and Farhad are told in Pakistan, Iran, Afghanistan, Turkey, and almost all nations of Central Asia and Middle East, with all having claimed the folklore to have originated in their land. Pakistani mythology here means the myths and sacred narratives of the culturally and linguistically related group of ancient peoples who inhabited the ancient Pakistan and its borderlands.

[[Dhakeshwari Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples in Bangladesh, Dhaka, National symbols of Bangladesh

Dhakeshwari National Temple (ঢাকেশ্বরী জাতীয় মন্দির Ðhakeshshori Jatio Mondir) is a famous Hindu temple in Dhaka, Bangladesh. It is state-owned. It is Bangladesh's "National Temple". The name "Dhakeshwari" (ঢাকেশ্বরী Ðhakeshshori) means "Goddess of Dhaka".

[[Mike Grier]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, American ice hockey players, Sportspeople from Detroit, Michigan, Buffalo Sabres players, Edmonton Oilers players, San Jose Sharks players, Washington Capitals players

Michael James Grier (born January 5, 1975 in Detroit, Michigan) is a retired ice hockey right winger and left winger that played for the Boston University Terriers as well as playing for 15 seasons in the NHL with the Edmonton Oilers, Washington Capitals, San Jose Sharks and the Buffalo Sabres. He was picked by the St. Louis Blues with the 219th overall pick in the 1993 NHL Entry Draft. He is African American and is one of a small number of black hockey players in the league. He is also the first African American NHL player that was born and trained in the United States.

[[Darcy Tucker]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Colorado Avalanche players, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Kamloops Blazers players, Living people, Memorial Cup winners, Montreal Canadiens players, Tampa Bay Lightning players, Toronto Maple Leafs players

Darcy Tucker (born March 15, 1975 in Castor, Alberta) is a Canadian retired ice hockey winger. Tucker played 16 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played with the Montreal Canadiens, Tampa Bay Lightning, Toronto Maple Leafs and Colorado Avalanche.

He was drafted 151st overall by the Montreal Canadiens in the 1993 NHL Entry draft. He became known in Long Island during the 2002 Stanley Cup playoffs after Tucker delivered a hip check to New York Islanders' captain Michael Peca during game five of the first round. The hit blew out Peca's MCL and ACL on his left knee which ended his season and delayed his entry into the 2002–03 season. There was no penalty given out.

Tucker retired from playing professional ice hockey on October 1, 2010.

[[Pakistan Rangers]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Pakistan, Law enforcement agencies

The Pakistan Rangers are part of the paramilitary force command in Pakistan. 

It consists of members of the Pakistan Army under the direct control of the Ministry of the Interior of the Pakistan Government. The prime objectives of Rangers are to provide and maintain security in hot conflict and war zone areas.

[[Street Sharks]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional animals, 1994 American television series debuts, 1995 American television series endings, English-language television programs

Street Sharks was an animated television series made by DIC Entertainment. The show started on September 1, 1994 and ended on May 1, 1995. The show was about 4 half-men/half-sharks that fought crime. They became half-shark when a university professor named Dr. Paradigm tested his gene-manipulation techniques on a marlin and a lobster. Dr. Bolton, who was a fellow professor, had attempted to destroy Paradigm's work but he was transformed into an inhuman monstrosity by the evil scientist before he could escape. Paradigm would later kidnap Bolton's four sons — John (who became Ripster), Bobby (who became Streex), Coop (who became Big Slammu), and Clint (who became Jab) and would transform them into sharks. As soon as the boys transformed, they ate a hotdog stand and got away from the police that were chasing them by diving into a lake and burrowing their way into the city by eating the dirt. The brothers were going to capture Paradigm so that they could force him to return them to their original human selves and then expose Paradigm's genetic experiments.

[[Kanose, Niigata]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Niigata Prefecture

Kanose was a town in the Higashikanbara District, Niigata, Japan. In 2003, 2,753 people lived in the town.  The total area was 257.69 km². The population density was 10.68 persons per km². In April 2005, Kanose joined three neighboring villages and the four villages beacme the town of Aga. In 1964, a chemical factory in the village released methyl mercury into the Agano River and caused Niigata Minamata disease.

[[Castaway 2007]]

CATEGORIES: BBC Television programmes, British reality television series, 2007 television series debuts

Castaway 2007 was a reality television series on BBC in 2007. 15 people lived on an island for 79 days. The main change between this programme and Castaway 2000 was that the castaways were voted off one at a time.

[[Volkswagen LT]]

CATEGORIES: Vans, Buses, Volkswagen automobiles

The Volkswagen LT is a range of vans and buses produced by Volkswagen. It was introduced in 1975 and had 2 generations, the second of which was a rebadged Mercedes-Benz Sprinter and replaced the original in 1996. It was replaced by the Volkswagen Crafter in 2006, another rebadged Sprinter.

[[Royal coat of arms in Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: National coats of arms, British monarchy

The Royal Coat of Arms of the United Kingdom is the official coat of arms of the British monarch, currently Queen Elizabeth II. These arms are used by the Queen in her official capacity as monarch of the United Kingdom, and are officially known as her Arms of Dominion. Different versions are used by other members of the Royal Family; and by the British Government in connection with the administration and government of the country. In Scotland, the Queen has a separate version of the Royal Arms, a variant of which is used by the Scotland Office.

The shield is quartered, depicting in the first and fourth quarters the three passant guardant lions of England; in the second, the rampant lion and double tressure fleury-counter-fleury of Scotland; and in the third, a harp for  Ireland.

The version used by the government doe not have the helmet or lion, the version used by the government in Scotland does not have the lion or "In Defens" motto.

[[Libyan Civil War (2011)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in Africa, History of Libya, Civil wars

Minor border clashes:

Libya Mustafa Abdul Jalil

Libya Omar El-Hariri

Libya Jalal al-Digheily

Libya Abdul Fatah YounisKIA

Libya Suleiman Mahmoud

Qatar Hamad bin Ali Al Attiyah

Libya Saif al-Islam GaddafiPOW

Libya Khamis GaddafiKIA

Libya Mutassim GaddafiKIA

Libya Al-Saadi GaddafiPOW

Libya Abu-Bakr Yunis JabrKIA

Libya Massoud Abdelhafid

200,000 volunteers by war's end(NTC estimate)

International Forces: Numerous air and maritime forces (see here)

The Libyan Civil War was a civil war in Libya during the year 2011. It began in the middle of February 2011. Many Libyans were inspired by the uprisings in neighbouring countries, such as Tunisia and Egypt. They violently protested against the government. Colonel Muammar Gaddafi sent troops and tanks to break up the rebellion. Al-quaeda started bombing. and rebels began forming their own government. The war led to the death of Gaddafi in October, and of thousands of other people.

[[Jackson County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1822 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Florida Territory

Jackson County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida.  The population as of the 2000 census was 46,755.  As of 2005, 48,985 people lived there.  Its county seat is Marianna, Florida.6

[[Jefferson County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1827 establishments in Florida Territory

Jefferson County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida.  As of 2000, the population is 12,902.  The U.S. Census Bureau 2005 population for the county is 14,490.  Its county seat is Monticello, Florida.6

Jefferson County is part of the Tallahassee, Florida, Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Hans Krankl]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Austrian football managers, Austria national football team managers, Sportspeople from Vienna, Players of the Austrian national football team, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Johann "Hans" Krankl (born 14 February 1953) is a Austrian football player who played for SK Rapid Wien and the Austrian national team. He is regarded as one of the best Austrian footballers in history.

[[Lafayette County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1853 establishments in Florida

Lafayette County is a county in the state of Florida.  As of 2000, 7,022 people lived there.  It is the second least populated county in the state according to the 2000 census, because it has one more resident than Liberty County, Florida.  The U.S. Census Bureau 2005 estimate for the county is 7,773. Its county seat is Mayo, Florida. Lafayette County is a prohibition county, meaning alcohol is illegal there.6

[[Battle of Passchendaele]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 in Belgium, Battles involving Australia, Battles involving Canada, Battles involving France, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving New Zealand, Battles involving South Africa, Battles involving the United Kingdom, Battles of the Western Front (World War I), Flanders, West Flanders

German Empire Erich Ludendorff

The Battle of Passchendaele  was one of the biggest battles of the First World War. It happened between July and November 1917. Allied troops attacked the German Army in many operations. The Allies were commanded by British leaders. The battle was fought for control of a village named Passchendaele. Passchendaele is near the town of Ypres in West Flanders, Belgium. The purpose of the battle was to "wear out the enemy" and "to secure the Belgian coast and connect with the Dutch front lines". The British commander was Douglas Haig. He planned the battle in three parts. These were capturing Passchendaele Ridge, moving to capture Roeselare, and Operation Hush. In Operation Hush, marines were to land somewhere on the Belgian coast and there would be a breakout attack from Nieuwpoort and the Yser bridgehead.

[[Marion County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1844 establishments in Florida Territory

Marion County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida.  The U.S. Census Bureau 2006 population for the county is 316,183. Its county seat is Ocala.6

Marion County is part of the Ocala Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Sineu]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in the Balearic Islands

Sineu is a municipality in central Majorca, one of the Balearic Islands, Spain. The population is more than 3000 people. Sineu Fair is the oldest on the island and has more visitors than any other fair in Mallorca. Sineu’s weekly market takes place on Wednesdays. It is the only livestock market of Mallorca.

[[Georg Teigl]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian footballers, 1991 births, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Living people

Georg Teigl (born 9 February 1991 in Vienna, Austria) is a footballer from Austria. He plays for RB Leipzig and the Austrian Under 21 national team. He is a defender.

[[Free running]]

CATEGORIES: Culture

Free running is a sport that means doing jumps with difficult movements in the air and cross a tour with obstacles since in the parkour.

These jumps name ("Flips") or (Mortal Jumps).

[[Curfew]]

CATEGORIES: Law, National security

A curfew is an order which restricts people in their movements.  It is very often an order which forbids people to be out on the streets after dark.

Curfews may be made by governments in times of war or civil unrest.  This is supposed to stop violence.

Curfews may also be issued to young people.  They are told that they have to be indoors after a certain time.

The word "curfew" comes from the French phrase "couvre-feu" which means "cover the fire". It was used to describe the time when all lamps and candles had to be blown out.

[[Gateway (computer networking)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

In computer networking and telecommunications, a gateway is a component that is part of two networks, which use different protocols.  The gateway will translate one protocol into the other. A router is a special case of a gateway.

Gateways, also called protocol converters, can operate at any network layer. The activities of a gateway are more complex than that of the router or switch as it communicates using more than one protocol.

Both the computers of internet users  that serve pages to users are host nodes. The nodes that connect the networks in between are gateways. These are gateway nodes:

gateway must be implied on larger networks to interconnect them.

[[New World monkey]]

CATEGORIES: New World monkeys

New World monkeys are the families of primates which are found in Central and South America. The families are ranked together as the Ceboidea superfamily, the only living platyrrhine superfamily. They differ from the Old World monkeys and apes, which are Catarrhini.

[[Catarrhini]]

CATEGORIES: Primates

Catarrhini is one of the two subdivisions of the higher primates (the other is the New World monkeys). Catarrhines include the Old World monkeys and the apes. Apes are further divided into the lesser apes or gibbons and the great apes, consisting of the orangutans, gorillas, chimpanzees and humans. They are all native to Africa and Asia.

[[Simian]]

CATEGORIES: Primates

The simians (infraorder Simiiformes) are the "higher primates". Familiar to most people are the Old World monkeys and apes, including humans and the New World monkeys. Simians tend to be larger than the "lower primates" or prosimians. 

The simians are sister to the tarsiers: together they make up the haplorhines. The radiation occurred about 60 million years ago during the Cenozoic era. 

40 million years ago, simians from Afro-Arabia colonized South America (by what route is not known). This gave rise to the New World monkeys. The remaining simians (catarrhines) split 25 million years ago into Old World monkeys and apes.

[[Nishapur]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Razavi Khorasan Province

Nishapur is a historial city in Northeast Iran and the cultural capital of Khorassan. In 2005, about 270,940 people lived there.

[[Chairman of the Senate of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Chairmen of the Senate of Pakistan

The current Chairman (presiding officer) of the Senate of Pakistan is Farooq Naek since 12 March, 2009.

The first Chairman of the Senate was Justice Khan Habibullah Khan.

[[Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Pakistan

The Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan (جماعتِ اسلامی, Jamaat-i-Islami, "Islamic Party" Jamaat, JIP) is a Muslim religious, political party in Pakistan. It was founded on 26 August 1941 in Lahore by Muslim theologian Maulana Sayyid Abul Ala Maududi. It is the oldest religious party in Pakistan.

Founded during British rule in India, the Jamaat moved its organisation after the Partition of India to the newly-created Muslim state of Pakistan. The members who remained in India regrouped to form an independent organization.

[[Nikola Pokrivač]]

CATEGORIES: Croatian footballers, 1985 births, Living people

Nikola Pokrivač (born 26 November 1985 in Čakovec, Croatia) is a Croatian footballer who plays as defensive midfielder for Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga.

[[The Butterfly Effect]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 movies, 2004 science fiction movies, American drama movies, American science fiction movies, Movies set in the 1980s, Movies set in the 1990s, Time travel movies

The Butterfly Effect is a 2004 American psychological thriller movie. It was produced by Anthony Rhulen, Chris Bender, J.C. Spink and A.J. Dix and was directed by Eric Bress and J. Mackye Gruber. The Butterfly Effect was released on January 22, 2004 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 32% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 30 out of 100 from Metacritic.

This movie had two sequels: The Butterfly Effect 2 and The Butterfly a?Effect 3: Revelations.

[[Nature Coast]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Florida

The Nature Coast is a region of the U.S. state of Florida.  It is made up of the Big Bend (Florida) area of the western coast and includes Citrus, Dixie, Hernando, Jefferson County, Pasco County, Levy County, Taylor County, and Wakulla County counties. This area of Florida is southern culturally, with the Deep South culture reaching to Levy County with the lower southern end (Pasco, Hernando, and sometimes Citrus county) often considered part of the Tampa Bay Metropolian Area. Pasco County is sometimes considered part of the Sun Coast.

[[Digital forensics]]

CATEGORIES: Forensics

Digital forensics is a forensic science where experts look at computer devices to help solve crime. It can also include mobile phones. The experts who do digital forensics are often called "analysts" or "investigators". When an expert is asked to look at a computer it is called an "investigation".

A digital forensics investigation happens when someone is blamed for a crime that includes using a computer. The expert will look for evidence about the crime. They will try to prove whether the person is to blame or not.

Sometimes investigations are used in disputes between companies and/or people (known as civil law). These may not involve a crime. Instead the expert is asked to find out information about a person or company by looking at their computer. There is a specific word used to describe this type of investigation, it is "eDiscovery".

Another use of digital forensics is called "intrusion detection". It happens after a hacker breaks in to a computer network. After the break in an expert is often asked to look at the networked computers to try and find out how it happened.

[[Conjure One]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian musical groups, Electronic music bands, Pop music groups, People from Vancouver, Musical groups established in 1997, 1997 establishments in Canada

Conjure One is an electronic music project from Vancouver, British Columbia.

The project's most well known song is "Sleep". The only member of the project is Rhys Fulber. It started in early 1997 when Fulber decided that he was going to pursue a solo career. He has released three albums under Conjure One. Singer Sandra covered "Sleep" on her single The Way I Am.

[[Freddy vs. Jason]]

CATEGORIES: A Nightmare on Elm Street movies, Friday the 13th movies, Horror crossover movies, 2003 horror movies, Movies set in New Jersey

Freddy vs. Jason is an 2003 American horror movie. Many of the fans from both of the horror movie characters thought the movie was a great battle movie between the two killers. It was a cross-over between Jason Goes to Hell.

[[Ernie Els]]

CATEGORIES: People from Johannesburg, South African golfers, White South African people, 1969 births, Living people

Ernie Els (born 17 October 1969) is a South African professional golfer. He was born in Johannesburg. He is in the PGA.

[[Randy Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, American Christians, American League All-Stars, American photographers, Arizona Diamondbacks players, Baseball players from California, Houston Astros players, Living people, Montreal Expos players, National Baseball Hall of Fame members, National League All-Stars, New York Yankees players, San Francisco Giants players, Seattle Mariners players

Randall David "Randy" Johnson (born September 10, 1963) was a pitcher in Major League Baseball (MLB). He pitched for the Montreal Expos, Seattle Mariners, Houston Astros, Arizona Diamondbacks, New York Yankees, and San Francisco Giants. He was chosen to 10 All Star teams, and won five Cy Young Awards. He became a member of the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2015.

[[Stefan Hierländer]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, People from Carinthia (state), FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Stefan Hierländer (born February 3, 1991 in Villach, Carinthia) is an Austrian footballer. He plays with F.C. Red Bull Salzburg as midfielder in the Austrian Bundesliga.

He started in Carinthia with his local club SV Greifenburg. 2008 he went to Sampdoria Genua but came back after a few weeks. His first professional team was the second squad of SK Austria Kärnten. As SK Kärnten got no license for the 2010/11 season he signed a contract with F.C. Red Bull Salzburg. Being an offensiv midfielder he played under the new coaches Ricardo Moniz and Niko Kovac as right defender.

On July 20th, 2013 he played his 100 match in the Austrian Bundesliga. 62 of them he did for FC Red Bull Salzburg. In 2013 he played 17 matches and then got an knee injury.

[[Abadan, Iran]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran

Abadan is a  city in southwestern Iran. In the year 2006 there were 217,988 people living in there.

[[Thor (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian hard rock bands, Canadian heavy metal bands, Glam metal bands, Power metal, people from British Columbia, 1978 establishments in Canada, Musical groups established in 1978

Thor is a heavy metal band from Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

[[Ricardo Moniz]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Rotterdam

Ricardo Moniz (born 17 June 1964) is a formerFebruary 2012 Dutch footballer and now coach of Lechia Gdańsk.

[[Derek Boogaard]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2011 deaths, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Drug-related accidental deaths, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Medicine Hat Tigers players, Minnesota Wild players, New York Rangers players, People from Saskatoon, Prince George Cougars players, Regina Pats players, ECHL players

Derek Boogaard (June 23, 1982 – May 13, 2011) was a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger. He played for 6 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Minnesota Wild and New York Rangers. He was known for being an enforcer and for his physical play, this gained him the nicknames, "Boogeyman" and "The Mountie".

He was found dead in his Minneapolis apartment on May 13, 2011. He was only 28 years old.

[[Hatebreed]]

CATEGORIES: American heavy metal bands, Metalcore bands

Hatebreed is a hardcore punk band from Wallingford, Connecticut. Hatebreed was formed in 1994. They have toured with bands such as Slayer, Deftones, Slipknot, and Mastodon. They also played the main stage at Ozzfest 2006 alongside bands such as DragonForce, Lacuna Coil, Avenged Sevenfold, Disturbed, and co-headliners System of a Down.

[[Milankovich cycle]]

CATEGORIES: Earth, Climate, Celestial mechanics

A Milankovich cycle is any slow but regular change in the Earth's orbit round the Sun, and the tilt of the Earth's axis. 

The dynamics are complex. The changes affect the 'insolation' (sunlight falling on parts of the Earth). This leads to cycles of climate on Earth, at about 21,000, 41,000 years, 100,000 and 400,000 years. This whole field is still under active research.

Using applied mathematics, Milutin Milanković predicted that variations in eccentricity, axial tilt, and precession of the Earth's orbit caused climate patterns on Earth.

Similar astronomical theories had been advanced in the 19th century by Joseph Adhemar, James Croll and others. However, there was at first no reliable dated evidence. The issue was not settled until deep-ocean cores were taken and a paper published in Science in 1976. 

[[Petri Kontiola]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Finnish ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, American Hockey League players, Ice hockey centres

Petri Kontiola (born October 4, 1984 in Seinajoki, Finland) is a professional Finnish ice hockey center that currently plays in the Kontinental Hockey League for the Traktor Chelyabinsk. Kontiola also played in the NHL for a season with the Chicago Blackhawks. He was drafted by the Blackhawks with the 196th pick in the 2004 NHL Draft.

[[Aquarius (sports drink)]]

CATEGORIES: Drinks

Aquarius is a mineral sports drink manufactured by The Coca-Cola Company. It was introduced in Japan in 1983. It was the official drink of the 1992 Summer Olympics, 2008 Summer Olympics, and 2016 Summer Olympics. It was planned to be the official drink of the 2020 Summer Olympics.

[[Estopa]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish musical entertainers, Extremadura, Spanish musical groups

Estopa are a popular duo from Cornellà, Spain. The band consists of the brothers José and David Muñoz, who sing different sounds reflecting many genres, including rock, rumba and flamenco. Their first album, Estopa, has sold over 1,000,000 copies to date. Their latest album, Voces de Ultrarumba, sold more than 200,000 copies on its first day of release. Their music has made them one of the most successful rock groups in Spanish history.

[[Bulmer]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Essex, Villages in Essex

Bulmer is a village and civil parish in Braintree district, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 568 people living in Bulmer.

[[Widdington]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Essex, Villages in Essex, Uttlesford

Widdington is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 463 people living in Widdington.

[[Hebden Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Yorkshire

Hebden Bridge is a town on the A646 road in West Yorkshire, England.

[[Bawtry]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Yorkshire

Bawtry is a town in South Yorkshire, England. In 2001 there were 3,204 people living in Bawtry.

[[Fakenham]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Norfolk, North Norfolk, Towns in Norfolk

[[Sheringham]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Norfolk, North Norfolk, Port cities and towns of England, Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Towns in Norfolk

Sheringham is a town and civil parish in North Norfolk, England. In 2001, 7,143 people lived in Sheringham.

[[Willingale]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Essex, Villages in Essex

Willingale is a village and civil parish in Essex, England. In 2001 there were 483 people living in Willingale.

[[Henley-on-Thames]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oxfordshire

Henley-on-Thames is a town and civil parish in Oxfordshire, England. In 2001 there were 10,646 people living in Henley-on-Thames.

[[Wilby, Northamptonshire]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Northamptonshire

Wilby is a village and civil parish in the Borough of Wellingborough , Northamptonshire, England. In 2011 there were 624 people living in Wilby.

[[Chesham]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Buckinghamshire

Chesham is a town and civil parish in Buckinghamshire, England. In 2001 there were 20,343 people living in Chesham.

[[Thame]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oxfordshire

Thame (pron) is a town and civil parish in Oxfordshire, England, about 7 southwest of the Buckinghamshire town of Aylesbury. In 2001 there were 11,072 people living in Thame.

[[Dorking]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Surrey

Dorking is a town on the A24 road in Surrey, England. It is the setting of the 1871 novel, The Battle of Dorking.

[[Hailsham]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in East Sussex, Towns in East Sussex

Hailsham is a town and civil parish in East Sussex, England. In 2001 there were 19,658 people living in Hailsham.

[[Seaford]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in East Sussex, Towns in East Sussex

Seaford is a town and civil parish in East Sussex, England. In 2001 there were 22,826 people living in Seaford.

[[Newhaven]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in East Sussex, Towns in East Sussex

Newhaven is a town and civil parish in East Sussex, England. In 2001 there were 11,171 people living in Newhaven.

[[Jeffrey Skilling]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American prisoners, Criminals from Pennsylvania, Harvard University alumni, Businesspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Jeffrey Keith "Jeff" Skilling (born November 25, 1953 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) is an American former businessman and former president of Enron Corporation. He is best known for being involved in the Enron scandal. Skilling was ultimately convicted of multiple federal felony charges that related to Enron's financial collapse, and he is currently serving a 24-year, four-month prison sentence at the Federal Correctional Institution in Englewood, Colorado. The Supreme Court of the United States heard arguments in the appeal of the case on March 1, 2010. On June 24, 2010, the Supreme Court vacated part of Skilling's conviction and sent the case back to the lower court for further proceedings.

In 2013, the United States Department of Justice said that they had reached a deal with Skilling that resulted in 10 years being cut from his sentence. He can be released sometime in 2019.

[[Charles J. Guiteau]]

CATEGORIES: 1841 births, 1882 deaths, American lawyers, American murderers, Assassins, Criminals from Illinois, Executed American people, James A. Garfield, People executed by hanging, Writers from Illinois, 19th-century American poets, American Protestants, American criminals, American people convicted of murder, American terrorists, Assassinations, Executed people, People convicted of murder

Charles Julius Guiteau (September 8, 1841 – June 30, 1882) was the man who assassinated the 20th President of the United States, James A. Garfield. Guiteau shot Garfield twice in the back because he thought that God had commanded him to kill the president. Guiteau shot Garfield after being angry with him about not receiving credit for Garfield's victory in 1880 after he wrote a speech about Garfield but never made the speech.

Guiteau was born in Freeport, Illinois. He was a preacher, writer and lawyer. He was found guilty in a court of law. He was executed by hanging in Washington, D.C.

[[Kohima]]

CATEGORIES: Nagaland, Towns in India, Capital cities in India

Kohima is the capital town of Nagaland state in India.

[[Alton]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Staffordshire, Villages in Staffordshire

Alton is a village and civil parish in Staffordshire, England. In 2001 there were 1,243 people living in Alton. There is Alton Towers nearby.

[[Godalming]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Surrey, Towns in Surrey

Godalming is a town and civil parish in Surrey, England. In 2011, there were 21,804 people living in Godalming.

[[Retford]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Nottinghamshire

Retford is a town near the A1 road in Nottinghamshire, England.

[[Maltby]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Yorkshire

Maltby is a town and civil parish in South Yorkshire, England. In 2001 there were 17,247 people living in Maltby.

[[Mansfield]]

CATEGORIES: Mansfield

Mansfield is a town in Nottinghamshire, England. There is also the smaller settlement of Mansfield Woodhouse to the north. The town is surrounded by a pocket of steep hills within the Maun Valley. It has a population of about 67,885.

[[North Walsham]]

CATEGORIES: North Norfolk, Towns in Norfolk

North Walsham is a town in North Norfolk, England. In 2001 there were 11,998 people living in North Walsham.

[[Dereham]]

CATEGORIES: Breckland, Civil parishes in Norfolk, Towns in Norfolk

Dereham is a town and civil parish in Breckland District, Norfolk, England. In 2001 there were 15,659 people living in Dereham.

[[Grantham]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lincolnshire

Grantham is a town near the A1 road in Lincolnshire, England. Margaret Thatcher was born here, and Isaac Newton went to school here. Grantham is famous for its gingerbread.

[[Colsterworth]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Lincolnshire, Villages in Lincolnshire

Colsterworth is a village and civil parish in Lincolnshire, England. The parish contains the hamlet of Woolsthorpe-by-Colsterworth. In 2001 there were 1,508 people living in Colsterworth.

[[Dacre]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Cumbria, Villages in Cumbria, Eden

Dacre is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 1,326 people living in Dacre.

[[Dacre, North Yorkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in North Yorkshire, Villages in North Yorkshire

Dacre is a village and civil parish in North Yorkshire, England. In 2001 there were 658 people living in Dacre.

[[Culgaith]]

CATEGORIES: Eden, Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Culgaith is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 721 people living in Culgaith.

[[Tebay]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Tebay is a village and civil parish near the M6 motorway in Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 728 people living in Tebay.

[[Crosby Ravensworth]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria, Eden

Crosby Ravensworth is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 538 people living in Crosby Ravensworth.

[[St Austell]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cornwall, Civil parishes in Cornwall

St Austell is a town on the A390 road, in Cornwall, England. It is near an area of granite moorland where large quantities of china clay are produced. The district is full of disused clay pits and large mounds of waste material. The Eden Project has been built on the site of former china clay workings. St Austell's population is the largest of any town or city in Cornwall.

[[Shap]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria, Eden

Shap is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 1,221 people living in Shap.

[[Dufton]]

CATEGORIES: Eden, Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Dufton is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 169 people living in Dufton.

[[Broxted]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Essex, Villages in Essex, Uttlesford

Broxted is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 526 people living in Broxted.

[[Chickney]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Essex, Civil parishes in Essex, Uttlesford

Chickney is a village and civil parish in Uttlesford, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 38 people living in Chickney. Chickney has a church called St Mary's Church, Chickney.

[[Rainband]]

CATEGORIES: Precipitation, Tropical cyclones

A rainband is an area of rainfall where all the clouds and precipitation are stretched out in a long line or band. Rainbands can be stratiform or convective. They are caused by differences in temperature.  When seen on a weather radar, the long narrow shape is called a banded structure.  Rainbands in a tropical cyclone are curved and may even spiral around the center of the cyclone. Tropical cyclone rainbands include rain showers and thunderstorms. When this includes an eyewall and the eye, they make a hurricane or tropical storm. The size of rainbands around a tropical cyclone helps to measure the cyclone's intensity.

Rainbands that form near and ahead of cold fronts can be squall lines which can produce tornadoes. The shape of rainbands linked with cold fronts can be changed by mountains. The mountains block the winds which can then form a low-level barrier jet. Bands of thunderstorms can form when sea breeze and land breezes meet, if enough moisture is present. Sometimes sea breeze rainbands which are ahead of a cold front, can hide the location of the cold front itself. Rainbands in an extratropical cyclone can cause large amounts of rain or snow. Behind extratropical cyclones, rainbands can form downwind of large, warmer bodies of water such as the Great Lakes. If the air is cold enough, these rainbands can cause heavy snowfalls.

[[ÖFB-Frauenliga]]

CATEGORIES: Women's football in Austria

The ÖFB-Frauenliga (German for ÖFB Women's League) is the highest level of Women soccer in Austria. The most successful team was USC Landhaus Wien with 12 titels, in the last years SV Neulengbach was the best club in Austria winning all titels from 2003/04 on.

[[Middle Jurassic]]

CATEGORIES: Jurassic, Fossils

The Middle Jurassic is the second geological epoch in the Jurassic. It began 174.1 million years ago, and ended at 163.5 million years ago.

In the Middle Jurassic, Pangaea began to split apart. It began to separate into Laurasia and Gondwana, and the Atlantic Ocean formed. Tectonic activities closed the Paleo-Tethys Ocean. A subduction zone on the coast of western North America continues to create the ancestral Rocky Mountains.

[[List of Austrian women's soccer teams]]

CATEGORIES: Women's football in Austria, Lists of football teams, Austria-related lists

This is a list of Austrian women football teams as they play in the 2011/12 season in the first and second division:

[[Club des Hashischins]]

CATEGORIES: French writers, Drugs

The Club des Hashischins, the Hashish Club, (sometimes also spelled Club des Hashishins or Club des Hachichins), was a Parisian group who explored using drugs, mainly hashish, to get creative ideas. 

It was active from about 1844 to 1849. Some of the most important literary and intellectual people in Paris were members. They including Dr. Jacques-Joseph Moreau, Théophile Gautier, Charles Baudelaire, Victor Hugo, Honoré de Balzac Gérard de Nerval, Eugène Delacroix and Alexandre Dumas, père. Monthly "séances" were held at the Hôtel de Lauzun (at that time: Hôtel Pimodan) on the Île Saint-Louis.

Gautier wrote about the club in an article called the "Le Club des Hachichin" published in the Revue des Deux Mondes in February 1846. While he is often said to have started the club, in the article he says he was attending their séances for the first time that evening.

The group dressed up in Arab clothing. They drank coffee and added hashish, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, pistachio, sugar, orange juice, butter and cantharides. It was a thick, green mixture, like a jam.

Dr. Moreau wrote a book in 1846 about the cannabis and the drug taking experiments of the club. The 439 page book was called Hashish and Mental Illness - Psychological Studies. Baudelaire wrote that while the drug did give people ideas, it quickly affected their personality. They felt they could only create while under the influence of the drug.

[[Fantaisie-Impromptu]]

CATEGORIES: Solo piano pieces, Compositions by Frédéric Chopin

Frédéric Chopin's Fantaisie-Impromptu in C-sharp minor is a solo piano composition. It is one of his best-known pieces. It was composed in 1834 and was published by Julian Fontana after though even though Chopin asked him not to do so.

The structure of the piece is in A B A Coda form. Some aspects of this piece are similar to Beethoven's "Moonlight" Sonata. The opening tempo is allegro agitato. It changes to largo for the two bars after the 'A' section. The tempo for most of the 'B' section is moderato cantabile. Finally, after the 'B' section, it changes to presto. The piece on a C-sharp major rolled chord.

[[Mount Tabor, West Yorkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in West Yorkshire

Mount Tabor is a village near Halifax in West Yorkshire, England. Mount Tabor has a church.

[[Smile (Avril Lavigne song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Avril Lavigne songs

"Smile" is a song by Canadian singer-songwriter Avril Lavigne. The song was written by Lavigne with Max Martin and Shellback. It was produced by Martin and Shellback. "Smile" was released on April 11, 2011  to Australian radio stations. It was the second single from Lavigne's fourth album Goodbye Lullaby. 

[[Cominform]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 establishments, 1956 disestablishments, Communist parties, Soviet Union, Political organizations based in Europe, 1940s establishments in the Soviet Union, 1947 establishments in Europe, 1956 disestablishments in Europe, Disestablishments in the Soviet Union

Cominform was an organisation set up in 1947 to coordinate the European Communist parties. It was actually an organisation which enabled the Communist Party in the USSR to control the other Communist parties in Europe.

[[Douglas da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian footballers, 1984 births, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Living people

Douglas da Silva (born 7 March 1984 in Florianópolis, Brazil) is a Brazilian football player who is  playing for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg in Austria as defender.

[[Brazilian Portuguese]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of South America, Brazilian culture

Brazilian Portuguese is a dialect of the Portuguese language. It is different enough from the dialect of Portugal that a speaker of one does not easily understand a speaker of the other. It has 210 million speakers (87% of the Portuguese speakers).

[[Ustaše]]

CATEGORIES: World War II, War crimes, Fascism, Terrorism, Croatia, Political parties in Europe, Nationalist organizations in Europe, 1929 establishments in Europe

The Ustaše (also called Ustashas or Ustashi) was a Croatian racist, terrorist, and Nazi-like movement. It was engaged in terrorist activities before World War II. Under the protection of Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany, the Ustaše ruled a part of Yugoslavia, after Yugoslavia was occupied by Italy and Germany.  At the end of World War II, the Ustaše were defeated and expelled by the Yugoslav Partisans.

[[Kashubian language]]

CATEGORIES: Slavic languages, Languages of Europe

Kashubian or Cassubian  is a Lechitic language, a kind of Slavic language. It is spoken in the Polish region of Pomerania.

Today the language is taught in some state schools. Since 2005 it has been protected in Poland as a regional language. It is the only language in Poland with this status. The status was given by an act of Polish Parliament on January 6, 2005.

[[Żywiec]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Poland

Żywiec (pronounce: ˈʐɨvjɛt​͡s) is a city in Poland. It is in the south of Poland in the historical region called Małopolska on Soła river in Silesian Voivodeship near Bielsko-Biała. It received city rights in 1327. In 2006 in Żywiec lived 32078 people. The current mayor is Antoni Szlagor.

[[Uniformitarianism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy of science, Geology, History of science

Uniformitarianism is the idea that the same physical laws of today have always operated. It was the centerpiece of James Hutton's 1795 geology book Theory of the Earth, with proofs and illustrations.

In this work Hutton proposed that the causes acting on the world today also acted in the past. This means that the rocks of the Earth were formed by processes which we can see operating today. These processes, though very slow (gradualism), made the world what it is today. The idea is part of a wider philosophy called the philosophy of naturalism.

The term 'uniformitarianism' was invented by William Whewell in 1837 to describe Hutton's basic idea. This idea is the foundation of modern geology. 

Hutton's ideas were popularised by John Playfair in 1802 in Illustrations of the Huttonian theory of the Earth, and by Charles Lyell in his Principles of geology (1830 to 1833). The phrase "the present is the key to the past" is Lyell's most famous quotation.

Uniformitarianism in geology is opposed by catastrophism, the idea that major changes in the Earth take place through sudden and violent events.

[[Upper Sorbian language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Europe, Slavic languages

Upper Sorbian (Hornjoserbšćina) is a West Slavic language spoken by the Sorb people in Germany. The language is spoken in the province of Upper Lusatia. Today this province is part of Saxony.

There are around 40,000 speakers of Upper Sorbian living in Saxony. Upper Sorbian is a minority language in Germany according to the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.

[[Saint Seiya]]

CATEGORIES: Anime, Manga

Saint Seiya (聖闘士星矢, Seinto Seiya), also known as Saint Seiya: Knights of the Zodiac or simply Knights of the Zodiac, is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Masami Kurumada and serialized in Weekly Shōnen Jump from 1986 to 1991 and adapted into an Anime TV series by Toei Animation from 1986 to 1989.

The story follows five mystical warriors called the "Saints" (or "Knights") who fight wearing sacred armors named "Cloths", the designs of which derive from the various constellations the characters have adopted as their destined guardian symbols. These Saints have sworn to defend the reincarnation of the Greek goddess Athena in her battle against the other Olympian gods who want to dominate Earth.

[[Berks Area Reading Transportation Authority]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Pennsylvania

The Berks Area Reading Transportation Authority (BARTA) is in Reading, Pennsylvania. BARTA has 50 buses, including 46 hybrid electric buses.

[[Cornellà]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Cornellà de Llobregat is a municipality in the comarca of the Baix Llobregat in Catalonia, Spain. It is situated on the left of the Llobregat river.

[[Open Season 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, 2008 animated movies, Sequel movies, American animated movies, American comedy movies, Open Season (franchise)

Open Season 2 is a 2008 animated-comedy movie and is the second movie in the Open Season movie series, directed by Matthew O'Challaghan and Todd Wilderman and produced by Kirk Bodyfelt and Matthew O'Challaghan. The movie was released on May 24, 2008. Despite receiving mixed reviews from film critics, the film was positively welcomed from audience, just like the first film.

In the movie, Boog (Mike Epps) volunteers as the best man at Elliot (Joel McHale) and Giselle's (Jane Krakowski) wedding. However, the wilds are forced to go on an adventure when Mr. Weenie (Cody Cameron) gets captured by Bob (Mike de Seve) and Bobbie (Georgia Engel) and being forced to become a domestic pet by the pets' leader Fifi (Crispin Glover).

[[Caron]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems, Alphabetic diacritics

A caron ( ˇ ) or haček (from háček), is a diacritic. This is a special symbol that is written over some letters to show that they are pronounced differently. Some other names for the caron are: wedge, inverted circumflex, and inverted hat.

The caron is used in Baltic, Slavic and Finno-Lappic languages to show that a letter is pronounced differently than normal. Sometimes the caron is drawn over a letter to show that it used to be pronounced differently. Usually the caron shows:

The caron looks like an upside-down circumflex ( ˆ ). It looks a lot like the breve symbol, but is more pointed at the bottom. It is also used as a symbol in mathematics.

[[Roger Starr]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2001 deaths, Writers from New York City, Businesspeople from New York City, American people of World War II

Roger Starr (1918 - 2001) was an intelligence officer during World War II, businessman, active in community organizations, and New York City housing administrator. Later in life, he became a writer for the New York Times. One of his books was called "The Living End".

[[Arctic ecology]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology

Arctic ecology is the science that studies the ecology of the arctic. The arctic is all land and water north of the Arctic Circle (66 33’). This area is very cold and has little rain. In the winter there is almost no sunlight. The growing season, when farmers can grow crops, is very short.

The arctic biomes are taiga, boreal forest, and tundra. Many of the ecosystems in the arctic are fragile, and can be easily destroyed. These ecosystems are being hurt by global warming.

[[Mechanism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy of science, Engineering

A mechanism is a mechanical device for doing something. It includes the idea of tools and machines, but is used for a wider range of objects, processes and ideas. 

Palaeolithic hand axes were one of the first tools used. Simple modern mechanisms would be rope pulleys or levers. The internal combustion engine is a mechanism for turning oil into motion. A complicated example would be computers and the web.

The word "mechanism" is also used as a metaphor. The celestial mechanics  of Kepler and Newton is a way of predicting and explaining planetary motions in the Solar System. Darwin's natural selection is his proposed mechanism as to how evolution took place.

In that way, a mechanism in science or technology is an explanation of how something works or might work.

[[Super Bowl XXXV]]

CATEGORIES: Super Bowl, Sports in Tampa, Florida, 2001 in sports, 2001 in the United States, 2000s in Tampa, Florida, Baltimore Ravens, New York Giants

Super Bowl XXXV (or Super Bowl 35) was a Super Bowl game between the Baltimore Ravens and the New York Giants in the National Football League (NFL) champion for the 2000 regular season. The Ravens won against the Giants 34–7. The game was played on January 28, 2001 at the Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida. The win gave the Ravens their first Super Bowl title and the City of Baltimore their second title in 30 years.

[[Caps lock]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

Caps lock is the name of a key on a computer keyboard. When you press this key, letters that you type will be capital letters (like this, "ABC"), instead of lowercase ("abc"). The caps lock key is usually above the Shift key and below the Tab key on the left side of the keyboard. However, some people prefer it to be in other locations.

The way the caps lock key works is that once you press it, a light may come on, or you may get a message on the screen. This lets you know that text that you type will be in uppercase letters. When you press the key again, the light turns off, or another message may appear, saying that caps lock has been turned off and text you type will be back to lowercase letters.

Some keyboards and typewriters have a key called shift lock. It is a lot like the caps lock key in that letters you type will be in uppercase instead of lowercase. But shift lock also does something else: when it is on, keys which have two symbols on them, such as the number keys in the top row, will print the symbol on top, instead of the symbol on the bottom. For example, pressing the key with the number 1 on it will print the exclamation mark ("!") instead of the number 1. The caps lock key does not do this; it only affects the letter keys.

People who type a lot, such as those who use typewriters, use the shift key instead of the caps lock or shift lock keys unless they have to type many capital letters in a row. But there is also a neat trick you can do with the caps lock and shift keys: when caps lock is on, you can hold the shift key while typing and what you type will be in lowercase letters instead of capitals. This can be done on some computers, such as those running Microsoft Windows computers. 

Not all computers have a caps lock key. Some of those that don't have been made for the One Laptop Per Child program.

[[Page Up and Page Down keys]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

The Page Up and Page Down keys are two computer keys that you press to either scroll up or scroll down on documents. The page up and page down scrolling distance sometimes varies depending on which documents you are reading. If the page up of page down key is pressed together with the shift key it will highlight all the text. The page up and page down keys are sometimes called PgUp or PgDn and they are located on the right of the keyboard with page up on top and page down on the bottom.

[[Scroll lock]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

Scroll lock (or ScrLk) is the name of a key on a computer keyboard that was meant to lock all scrolling methods. The scroll lock key is rarely used and only came about because the original IBM PC keyboard had it. It was supposed to change how the arrow keys work. For example, when the scroll lock mode was turned on, the arrow keys would scroll the contents of a text window instead of moving the cursor. Today, the key doesn't do anything in most programs, and as a result, many keyboards today, especially those on laptops and mobile devices, do not have the scroll lock key.

[[Organ donation]]

CATEGORIES: Organs, Giving

Organ donation means that an organ is transferred from the body of one person to that of another person. This is done by a type of surgery called an organ transplant. The donor, the person whose organ is used, may be alive or recently dead. The person receiving the organ is called the recipient.

Organs that can be transplanted are the heart, kidney, liver, lung, pancreas, intestine, skin, and thymus. 

Tissues that can be transplanted include bone, muscle, tendon, cornea, heart, and veins. 

The most commonly transplanted organs worldwide is the kidney, followed closely by the liver, the heart. The most commonly transplanted tissues are the cornea, bones, and muscle.

There is a great demand for organs and tissues. Donors must give permission. Iran is the only country regulating donors selling one of their kidneys for payment, and there is no waiting list. There is a field of medicine called "regenerative medicine" that has made scientific advances to grow or create organs or tissues from stem cells.

[[Karakoram Highway]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Pakistan, Roads in China

The Karakoram Highway is a road that connects China and Pakistan. It runs through the Karakoram range. It is about 1300 km long, and runs from Kashgar in China, to Hasan Abdal in Pakistan. Because it runs through the mountains, it is also a popular tourist attraction.

[[Assassination of John F. Kennedy]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 in the United States, 1960s in Texas, 20th century in Dallas, Texas, Assassinations, Conspiracy theories, Deaths by firearm in Texas, John F. Kennedy, Murder in the 1960s, Murders by firearm in Texas, November events

John F. Kennedy was the 35th President of the United States. He was killed in Dealey Plaza, Dallas, Texas, on Friday, November 22, 1963. This happened while he was traveling in a Presidential motorcade with his wife Jacqueline, the Governor of Texas John Connally, and the governor's wife Nellie.

[[Renault 25]]

CATEGORIES: Renault automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles

The Renault 25 was a car made by Renault. It replaced the Renault 20 in 1983, and was replaced by the Renault Safrane in 1992.

[[Motorcade]]

CATEGORIES: Diplomacy, Security, Road transport

A motorcade (or convoy, carcade, autocade) is a number of vehicles driving in the same direction on official business. 

[[Doctors Without Borders]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations

Doctors Without Borders or Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) is a non profitable international medical humanitarian organization created by doctors and journalists in France in 1971. MSF gives emergency aid to people affected by wars, epidemics, famine, natural disasters and man-made disasters, or areas where there is no health care available. It provides this help to all people, regardless of their race, religion or political beliefs. 

In 1999 Doctors Without Borders was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. On 7 October 2015, President Barack Obama, also Nobel Peace Prize winner and at that time commander in chief, issued an apology to Doctors Without Borders for Kunduz hospital airstrike.

[[Occluded front]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology

An occluded front is a weather pattern.  It brings cold weather and leaves cold weather.  It happens when a cold front overtakes a slow-moving warm front.  The cold front is heavier than the warm front and will push it up.  The warm front slides over the cold one.   Cloud and rain form along the occluded front until temperatures become equal as the cold and warm air mix.  Some occluded fronts make tropical cyclogenesis.  

[[Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1975 deaths, Philosophers, Presidents of India, Vice Presidents of India, Knights Bachelor

Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan (5 September 1888 — 17 April 1975) was an Indian philosopher. He was famous for his work on comparative religion, comparative Eastern and Western philosophy, and was also a teacher in India and at Oxford University in the United Kingdom. He was also a statesman and served as the President of India. He was a great teacher and due to his commendable inputs in India's educational front every year on his birthday, i.e 5th september, we all celebrate Teachers day to pay tribute to our teachers who are like a guiding light in our lives.wow.

[[Tab key]]

CATEGORIES: Computers, Control characters

The tab key (short for tabulator key or tabular key) is a key on a computer keyboard, found right above the caps lock key on the far left. It is used to take the cursor to the next tab stop.

In word processor applications, the tab key usually moves the cursor to the next tab stop. In most other graphical applications, the tab key shifts the focus to the next control or widget.

[[Speedrun]]

CATEGORIES: Video game gameplay

A speedrun is Dream play-through, or a recording of this play-through of a whole video game or a part of it, in which the player tries to complete this game as fast as possible. This is done for entertainment and competition. The term is a compound of the words speed and run (run means playing the game here). It is usually used for games which do not have quickly finishing them as one of the main goals. For example, gamers do not "speedrun" a racing game. In those cases the game's standard setting for recording fast times is called a time attack or time trial mode. Speedruns are usually recorded on  video tapes (mainly where consoles are concerned), or as a digital file, by the people ("players") who make them. It is recorded for entertainment. It can also be used by others to verify that the players actually completed the game in the time they said that they did. Speedruns were created for entertainment. People who began comparing each others' playing skills through videos exchanged over the Internet started speedruns. People want verifiability to see whether a person followed the rules and thus see whether the run counts as a valid attempt to beat the record.

Speedrunning began as a small project. It was started few people who shared their runs online. However, it has become a phenomenon which is discussed in several active websites. There are many speedrun videos distributed for free on the Internet.

[[Bomis]]

CATEGORIES: American technology companies, 1996 establishments

Bomis was a Internet company created in 1996 by Jimmy Wales, Tim Shell, and Michael Davis. Bomis is best known for having supported the creation of the projects Nupedia and Wikipedia.

Bomis was popular for hosting entertainment-, sports- and adult-themed sites. When Nupedia started, Larry Sanger was hired to be the editor-in-chief for the project. But Nupedia resulted too slow to grow and too expensive to maintain, and Wikipedia was started as a side project to help Nupedia grow. In the end, Wikipedia became more popular than Nupedia; it closed in 2003 and Wikipedia was transferred to the newly created Wikimedia Foundation in 2003. Bomis closed in 2006.

[[Marco Meilinger]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian footballers, 1991 births, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Living people, People from Salzburg

Marco Meilinger (born 8 August 1991 in Salzburg) is an Austrian footballer. He plays for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg as midfielder.

[[Fernando Llorente]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish footballers, 1985 births, Living people, People from Pamplona

Fernando Llorente (born 26 February 1985 in Pamplona) is a Spanish footballer who plays for Athletic Bilbao and the Spanish National Team, as a striker. He won the FIFA World Cup with the Spanish National Team. Llorente has scored 90 goals in his career. He said no to offers from important teams such as Real Madrid. 

He has been selected by the Spanish national team 21 times and has scored 7 goals.

[[Behak Maken]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pakistan

Behak Maken is a village in the Sargodha District of the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is 17.5 km from Sargodha city and 10 km away from Dhreema, due to its geographical location, the British Royal Air Force built an air base between Chak No 92 NB and Chak No 105 NB (Godhay wala) nearby. It took on greater importance after the Independence of Pakistan for the Pakistan Air Force. The population grew rapidly. Approximately 75% of the population of this village belongs to the Maken caste or clan of this region.

[[Kobie van Rensburg]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Tenors, Musicians, South African people, Opera singers, People from Johannesburg

Kobie van Rensburg (born 23 May 1969 in Johannesburg) is a South African tenor and opera director.

[[Pectinase]]

CATEGORIES: Enzymes, Technology

A pectinase is one of a class of enzymes which are able to split pectin. Pectin is a polysaccharide in the primary cell walls of terrestrial plants. Pectinases occur normally in flowering plants. 

Pectinases are used commercially to isolate the protoplasts that occur in plants. They are also used in the production of fruit juice, for plant-based coloring agents, and in the production of wine.

[[The Forsyte Saga]]

CATEGORIES: Drama

The Forsyte Saga was a drama mini-series on PBS. Main characters including Daimen Lewis as Soames Forsyte and Gina McKee as Irene.

[[Heinrich event]]

CATEGORIES: Climate

A Heinrich event is one of the events which occurred during the coldest point of Bond Cycles in which many icebergs were discharged into the North Atlantic and melted.

Evidence for this can be found in the north Atlantic sediment cores which show poorly sorted, angular and contain rocks. These were originally in the icebergs but dropped to the bottom of the ocean when the icebergs melted.

Heinrich events are a possible trigger to the onset of mini ice ages which follow a long period of thaw. An example might be the Younger Dryas, a brief cold period from about 12.8 thousand years ago to about 11.5 thousand years ago. 

The Younger Dryas stadial is thought to have been caused by the collapse of the North American ice sheets, although rival theories have been proposed. 

[[Hubert Cecil Booth]]

CATEGORIES: 1871 births, 1955 deaths, English inventors, British engineers, People from Gloucestershire

Hubert Cecil Booth (4 July 1871 - 14 January 1955) was a British engineer. He invented the vacuum cleaner. He was born in Gloucester, England. He died in Croydon, Surrey.

In 1900, Booth saw that if you put a handkerchief between your mouth and the floor, you can inhale dust from the carpet. When he saw this, he wanted to invent something get out the dust. Finally in 1901 he patented the vacuum, with a mechanical system.

[[Dominique Strauss-Kahn]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, French economists, French lawyers, French mayors, French Ministers of Finance, Jewish French academics, Jewish French politicians, Jewish French scientists, Jewish lawyers, Managing Directors of the International Monetary Fund, Politicians from Paris, Socialist Party (France) politicians

Dominique Strauss-Kahn (born 25 April 1949) is a French politician and economist of Jewish descent. He studied economics and is a professor for economics at a university in Paris. He has held different posts in the French government, and was the head of the International Monetary Fund from 2007 to 2011. In France, his name is usually abbreviated DSK.

He is a full professor at the Paris Institute for Political Studies ("Sciences Po").He was a Professor of Economics at Paris West University Nanterre La Défense and Sciences Po, and was Minister of Economy and Finance from 1997 to 1999, as part of Lionel Jospin's Plural Left government. He belongs to the right wing of the Socialist Party (PS) (which is on the center-left of French politics). He was nominated in the 2006 primary elections of his party to become a candidate for the French presidential election in 2007. Ségolène Royal defeated him in these elections in November 2006.

On 14 May 2011, Strauss-Kahn was arrested and charged with sexually assaulting a woman in a hotel in New York. Strauss-Kahn denies all charges. A judge later approved his release on bail.

On 18 May 2011 he resigned from his post at the IMF, in order to be able to focus on his defense.

On 29 June 2011, French finance minister Christine Lagarde was elected IMF Managing director and took office on 5 July 2011.

From 1995 till 1997 he was mayor of Sarcelles.

[[Randy Roth]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, People from Washington, American serial killers

Randy Roth (born December 26, 1954) is an American murderer and thief from Washington. He was found guilty of the 1991 murder of his fourth wife, Cynthia Baumgartner Roth. Police thought he killed his second wife,  Janis Roth, in 1981 but he was never put on trial for that. He was also found guilty of stealing from the place he worked, from an insurance company, and from Social Security. He was sent to jail for first degree murder in 1992.

[[Gully]]

CATEGORIES: Soil, Erosion

A gully is an area where rain and wind wash the topsoil away, leaving a deep channel in the ground. it may also make a hill that varies in looks.

[[Abadeh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran, Fars Province

Abadeh is a  city in southwestern Iran. In the year 2006 there were 52,042 people living in there. The city is also capital of Abadehy County.

[[Voir dire]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, Trials in the United States, United States law

Voir dire (ˈ) is a name for the process of choosing jurors for a trial. It can also mean a small meeting between lawyers and a judge during a trial. It originally referred to an oath taken by jurors to tell the truth (verum dicere). In the modern court systems, voir dire is a process governed by state and federal laws. It is basically designed to find biases in jurors. It has other uses depending on the court system.

[[Rob Niedermayer]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Anaheim Ducks players, Buffalo Sabres players, Calgary Flames players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Florida Panthers players, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Living people, Medicine Hat Tigers players, New Jersey Devils players, Sportspeople from Edmonton

Robert W. Niedermayer, Jr. (born December 28, 1974 in Edmonton, Alberta) is a Canadian professional ice hockey winger that currerently plays in the NHL for the Buffalo Sabres. He has also played in the NHL for the Florida Panthers for 8 seasons, the Calgary Flames for 2 seasons, the Anaheim Ducks/Mighty Ducks of Anaheim for 6 seasons and the New Jersey Devils for 1 season. He won the Stanley Cup in 2007 while he was apart of the Anaheim Ducks. His brother Scott Niedermayer is a retired NHL player who was his teammate on the Anaheim Ducks.

[[Doric]]

Doric could mean:

[[Go-Ahead London]]

CATEGORIES: London bus operators

Go-Ahead London is made up of lots of bus companies. It first opened in August 2008.

It is the largest bus operator in London. They have 115 routes given to them by Transport For London. Here are the different names of the companies that make up Go-Ahead London:

[[Doric order]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Architectural styles

Doric order was one of the three orders of architecture in Ancient Greece; the other two orders were Corinthian order and Ionic order. The order was named after the style of columns used in buildings. It included the base, the shaft, the top (capital), and the part supported at the top; the architrave, the frieze and the cornice. Each order has its own style.

Doric was the earliest style and used by the Greeks for most of their buildings and temples, including the Parthenon. It is believed that the style was first made using wood. The style features heavy columns, a saucer shaped capital on the top, and no base.

[[Clint Malarchuk]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, American Hockey League players, Buffalo Sabres players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Ice hockey people from Alberta, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Living people, Portland Winterhawks players, Quebec Nordiques players, Washington Capitals players

Clint Malarchuk (born May 1, 1961 in Grande Prairie, Alberta) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender. He played 11 seasons in the NHL. He played 5 seasons with the Quebec Nordiques, 2 seasons with the Washington Capitals and 4 seasons with the Buffalo Sabres. He is probably best known for the serious throat injury that he received from a skate blade when Steve Tuttle of the St. Louis Blues and Uwe Krupp of the Buffalo Sabres became entangled when they were chasing the puck and they both crashed into Malarchuk's net, Tuttle's skate hit Malarchuk on the neck and severed his internal carotid artery which caused puddles of blood that collected on the ice. Malarchuk left the ice on his own two feet but he thought he was going to die so he said "All I wanted to do was get off the ice". "My mother was watching the game on TV, and I didn't want her to see me die." He knew that his mother was watching the game on TV and he had an equipment manager call and tell her he loved her. He also asked for a priest. His life was saved when the team's trainer, Jim Pizzutelli who was a former Army medic who had served in Vietnam. had reached into Malarchuk's neck and pinched off the bleeding. He did not let go until the doctors arrived to begin closing the wound. After the doctors spent 90 minutes and used over 300 stitches to close the wound he returned to practice four days later and was back in the net against the Quebec Nordiques after about a week. He said, "Doctors told me to take the rest of the year off, but there was no way", "The longer you wait, the harder it's going to be. I play for keeps". He made in time for the playoffs but the Sabres lost to the Boston Bruins 4 games to 1.

[[Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Pakistan, 1996 establishments in Asia

The Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (پاکستان تحريک انصاف; Pakistan Movement for Justice) is a political party in Pakistan.  PTI was founded by former Pakistani cricket captain and philanthropist Imran Khan (Pakistani cricketer).  The party's slogan is "Justice, Humanity and Self Esteem".

[[Kevin Spacey]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from California, Actors from New Jersey, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television directors, American television producers, American television writers, American voice actors, BAFTA Award winners, Comedians from California, Comedians from New Jersey, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT comedians, LGBT people from California, LGBT people from New Jersey, LGBT screenwriters, LGBT singers, Movie directors from California, Movie directors from New Jersey, Movie producers from California, Movie producers from New Jersey, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Screenwriters from California, Screenwriters from New Jersey, Singers from California, Singers from New Jersey, Tony Award winning actors, Honorary Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire

Kevin Spacey Fowler, GBR (born July 26, 1959), known professionally as Kevin Spacey is an American actor, director, screenwriter and producer.

[[International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT, Human rights

The International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia is held every May 17.

[[Redwood]]

CATEGORIES: Cupressaceae

The redwoods are a subfamily of conifers, the Sequoioideae. They are in the Cypress family Cupressaceae. It is most common in the coastal forests of Northern California and is possibly the largest tree in the world. There are three living genera in the subfamily. There were once more species of redwood trees, but most have become extinct.

These trees are pyrophytes: they have adapted to survive forest fires. Because fire is common in the regions where they grow, redwood trees have developed thick, fire-resistant bark. Their cones open only after a fire. Because fire control is better these days, the trees are endangered because they do not reproduce so well.

Redwood trees can grow to be very large. The largest species, Sequoiadendron giganteum, can reach up to 94.8 m tall and 17 m across. The tallest tree in the world is claimed to be a Sequoia sempervirens named Hyperion. The largest tree in the world by volume is claimed to be a Sequoiadendron giganteum named the General Sherman Tree, after William Tecumseh Sherman.

[[King Creole]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 drama movies, American drama movies, Paramount movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Michael Curtiz

King Creole is an American movie directed by Michael Curtiz, released by Paramount Pictures on July 2, 1958. The movie stars Elvis Presley, Carolyn Jones, and Walter Matthau. It is Presley's fourth movie (the third and last filmed in black & white). It was based on the 1952 novel by Harold Robbins, A Stone for Danny Fisher.

[[Rolling in the Deep]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Adele songs, Soul songs

"Rolling in the Deep" is a song by English singer-songwriter Adele. It is from her second studio album, 21. The song was written by Adele and Paul Epworth. Adele has described it as a "dark blues-y gospel disco tune". It was released as the lead single on 29 November 2010 in the Netherlands. "Rolling in the Deep'" became Adele's first number-one hit single in the United States and Canada. It was also her first top-five hit in several countries.

Critics have given positive reviews for the song. It reached number one in Belgium, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and Switzerland. It also reached top ten in Austria, Canada, Denmark, Ireland, New Zealand, and Norway. The song debuted at number two in the United Kingdom. There, it became Adele's third top-ten single.

"Rolling in the Deep" became Adele's second single to chart in the United States. After that, it became her first single to go to top of a Billboard chart. This was when it reached number one on the Hot Adult Top 40 Tracks chart in May 2011. It also became her first number one hit in the country when the song reached #1 in the Billboard Hot 100 in May 2011. As of May 2011, "Rolling in the Deep" had sold over 2 million digital copies in the US. The song is her best-selling single in the country. It has sold more copies than her previous best-selling single "Chasing Pavements".

[[Artesian aquifer]]

CATEGORIES: Aquifers, Engineering

An artesian aquifer is an underground layer which holds groundwater under pressure. This causes the water level in the well to rise to a point where the pressure is equal to the weight of water putting it under pressure. This type of well is called an artesian well. Water may even reach the ground surface if the natural pressure is high enough, in which case the well is called a flowing artesian well.

An aquifer is a geologic layer which can hold water such as sand and gravel, limestone, or sandstone, through which water flows and is stored. An artesian aquifer is trapped between rocks or clay which causes the pressure. Water returns to the aquifers when the water table at its recharge zone is at a higher elevation than the head of the well.

Fossil water aquifers can also be artesian if they are under sufficient pressure from the surrounding rocks.  This is similar to how many newly tapped oil wells are pressurized.

[[2010 Pakistan floods]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 disasters in Asia, 2010s floods, 2010s in Pakistan, August events, Floods in Pakistan, July events

The 2010 Pakistan floods began on 26 July 2010 and continued into the following month. They resulted from heavy monsoon rains in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Sindh, Punjab and Balochistan regions of Pakistan and affected the Indus River basin. Approximately one-fifth of Pakistan's total land area was underwater, approximately 796,095. According to government data, the floods directly affected about 20 million people, mostly by destruction of property, livelihood and infrastructure, with a death toll of 1,7811 in 2010

[[David Reed (American football)]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, American football wide receivers, Sportspeople from Iowa, People from Dubuque, Iowa

Brandon David Reed (born March 22, 1987 in Dubuque, Iowa) is an American football wide receiver who currently plays for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL). Reed was drafted out of the University of Utah by the Baltimore Ravens with the 156th pick in the fifth round of the 2010 NFL Draft. He won Super Bowl XLVII with the Ravens when they defeated the San Francisco 49ers 34-31.

[[Trevor Pryce]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, New York Jets players, American football defensive ends, Sportspeople from New York City

Trevor W. Pryce (born August 3, 1975 in Brooklyn, New York) is a retired American football defensive end that played 14 seasons in the National Football League (NFL). Pryce was drafted out of Clemson University by the Denver Broncos with the 28th pick in the first round of the 1997 NFL Draft. He also played in the NFL with the Denver Broncos who he won Super Bowls XXXII and XXXIII with. He also played for the Baltimore Ravens from 2006 to 2010 and the New York Jets in 2010. After the 2010 AFC Championship Game, he announced that he was retiring from professional football. He retired in 2011.

[[Ben Grubbs]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, African American players of American football, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, American football offensive guards, Sportspeople from Alabama

Benjamin Richard Grubbs (born March 10, 1984 in Eclectic, Alabama) is an American football offensive guard who currently plays for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League (NFL). Grubbs was drafted out of Auburn University by the Baltimore Ravens with the 29th pick in the first round of the 2007 NFL Draft. 

[[London Central]]

CATEGORIES: London bus operators

London Central is a major bus company in London. It was made in 1988 and became part of Go-Ahead London in 2008.

[[London General]]

CATEGORIES: London bus operators

London General is a bus company operating services in Greater London. It is a part of the Go-Ahead Group and operates buses under for Transport for London. The company was named in honour of the London General Omnibus Company, the principal operator of buses in London between 1855 and 1933.

[[Docklands Buses]]

CATEGORIES: London bus operators

Docklands Buses is a bus company operating in East London. It is part of the Go-Ahead Group and operates services for Transport for London.

[[Blue Triangle]]

CATEGORIES: London bus operators

Blue Triangle is a bus company operating services in East London. It is a part of the Go-Ahead Group and operates services for  Transport for London. It is the operator of the East London Transit service.

[[USC Landhaus Wien]]

CATEGORIES: Women's football in Austria, Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Vienna

USC Landhaus is an Austrian women soccer club from Vienna. USC Landhaus is one of the oldest and most successful women clubs in Austrias football history.

[[Wulguru, Queensland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Queensland

Wulguru is a small town about 11 km east of Townsville, Queensland. The word Wulguru comes from the Indigenous Australian tribe, Wulgurukaba, who lived in the area that is now Wulguru. During WW2 the Royal Australian Air Force built No. 3 Fighter Sector RAAF close to the Flinders Highway. This base comprised of the main rectangular bunker which was built into the hill. This building still remains today. The base had 62 buildings on the site with its own barracks, powerhouse, kitchen, showers and toilet blocks.

[[Jamote Qaumi Movement]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Pakistan

The Jamote Qaumi Movement is a political party in the Balochistan province of Pakistan.

The Jamot Qomi movememt was founded by Mir Gul Hassan Manjhoo Let to provide a political platform for the Jamot people of Balochistan in 1996 in Dera Murad Jamali.  The party was created on the basis of the political philosophy of Mir Abdul Malik Shaheed and Mir Murtaza Abro Shaheed (the pioneers of the anti-feudal movement in Kachhi Balochistan)

The manifesto of the party is:

[[Jammu Kashmir Peoples Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Kashmir, 1990 establishments in Asia

Jammu Kashmir Peoples Party (JKPP) is a political party in Azad Kashmir in Pakistan-administered Kashmir. The main center of politics of JKPP is Azad Kashmir (including Gilgit Baltistan). Jammu Kashmir Peoples Party was formed on 19 July 1990, after observing the changes in political situation of Azad Kashmir, by politicians of same school of thought, under the supervision of the founder of Azad Kashmir, Sardar Muhammad Ibrahim Khan. The purpose of JKPP's formation was to provide a platform to the people, through which they can struggle for the Independence and betterment of the society. The First Convention of Jammu Kashmir Peoples Party was held in Islamabad on 9 December, 1992. Keeping the Democratic principles in mind, The Central Council of 200 members elected the first President of the party. Since then, the party officially started its working.

[[Alex Kaleta]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1987 deaths, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Alberta, New York Rangers players

Alexander "Killer" Kaleta (November 29, 1919 – July 9, 1987) was a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger. He played 7 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Chicago Black Hawks and New York Rangers organizations. Kaleta is known for creating the hat trick tradition in hockey when he went into a Toronto shop to buy a hat but when he found one he liked he could not afford it. The shop owner made a deal with Kaleta and said that if he scored 3 goals in the next game he played he would just give him the hat free of charge. Kaleta not only scored three goals but four against the Toronto Maple Leafs.

[[Jamaat-e-Islami Kashmir]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Kashmir

The Jamaat-e-Islami Kashmir is the Indian-administered Kashmir unit of the Islamist group, the Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan. Its organisation is distinct and separate from the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, the Indian branch of the Jamaat to claim the organisation's stance that Jammu and Kashmir is not a part of the Republic of India.

[[Molecular vibrations]]

CATEGORIES: Physical chemistry

Molecular vibrations are one of three different kinds of motion for molecules that include translational motion (when the whole molecule goes in the same direction) and rotational motion (when the molecule spins like a top)

A vibrational motion for a molecule is when the bonds between atoms within a molecule move. Think of the atoms as round balls that are attached by a spring that can stretch back and forth. An example of this motion is "stretching", the simplest example of a vibration for a molecule and occurs between just two atoms. Some examples of molecules that are like this include hydrogen H2, nitrogen N2 and oxygen O2

[[Four Asian Tigers]]

CATEGORIES: Country classifications, Hong Kong, Economy of Singapore, Economy of South Korea, Economy of Taiwan

The Four Asian Tigers or Asian Dragons are the highly developed economies of Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan.  These regions were the first newly industrialized countries.  They are known because they had very high growth rates (they became rich very fast) and fast industrialization between the early 1960s and 1990s. Four economies are currently well rich economies (developed countries). 

All four Asian Tigers have a highly educated and productive work force compared to others in the region.

The economic success of South Korea and Taiwan were known as the "Miracle on the Han River" and the "Taiwan Miracle" respectively.

The four tigers has accomplished rapid economical growth in a short period of time.

All the Asian Tigers tried to export (sell) products to rich industrialized nations. They grew rich very quickly (they had double-digit economic growth) for decades. Each nation was not a democracy, and people were not very free in the early years.  All of these countries later became freer, and people now think Taiwan and Korea are liberal democracies.

[[BRICS]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations, Economics organizations, Economy of Africa, Economy of Asia, Economy of South America, Economy of Brazil, Economy of India, Economy of Russia, Economy of South Africa, China

BRICS is used to talk about the countries of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. Many economists think that all these countries are at a similar stage of economic development. When people write about these countries, they usually write "BRICS" or the "BRICS countries".

The acronym was invented by Jim O'Neill, an economist who worked for Goldman Sachs.  In 2001, he wrote an article that he called "Building Better Global Economic BRICs".

Mexico and South Korea were the only other countries with economies that are like the BRICs.  But O'Neill did not include these countries because they were considered already more developed, as they were already members of the OECD.

[[Shih Tzu]]

The Shih Tzu is a breed of dog weighing 4 with long silky hair. The breed originated in China and is among the earliest breeds. Shih Tzu were officially recognized by the American Kennel Club in 1969

[[List of civil parishes in Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of civil parishes in England, Civil parishes in Suffolk

This is a list of civil parishes in the ceremonial county of Suffolk, England.

[[Non-Aligned Movement]]

CATEGORIES: Cold War

The Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) is an international organization (group of countries) who do not want to be officially aligned with or against any major power bloc (group of countries).  In 2019, the movement had 120 members and 25 observer countries. 

The group was started in Belgrade in 1961.  It was created by Yugoslavia's President, Josip Broz Tito, India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, Egypt's second President, Gamal Abdel Nasser, Ghana's first president Kwame Nkrumah, and Indonesia's first President, Sukarno. All five leaders believed that developing countries should not help either the Western or Eastern blocs in the Cold War.  They also believed that developing countries should not be capitalist or communist, but should try to find a different way to help their people.

The Havana Declaration of 1979 said that the purpose of the organization is to help countries keep their "the national independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and security of non-aligned countries" in their "struggle against imperialism, colonialism, neocolonialism, racism, and all forms of foreign aggression, occupation, domination, interference or hegemony as well as against great power and bloc politics." This means that they wanted to govern their countries without the main capitalist powers nor the major socialist states telling them how.

The countries of the non-aligned movement are nearly two-thirds of the United Nations's members and 55% of the world population.

[[Economic development]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

updateEconomic development it is the growth of standard of living of nations from a poor economy  to a high-income economy. When the local quality of life'' is improved, there is more economic  development.

When social scientists study economic development, they look at a lot of things.  They want to know about the way  economic development is discussed by historians.  They also want to know how development is happening today.  They may  want to know why people invest more money in some places than in others.  They also want to know why people are better at making things to sell in some countries rather than others.

[[Newly industrialized country]]

CATEGORIES: Country classifications

The term newly industrialized country (NIC) is a socioeconomic classification used by political scientists and economists to talk about several countries around the world.

NICs are countries who still are not developed countries but are doing better than other developing countries.   NICs have fast growing economies, and export a lot. In NICs many things in the country change quickly as people from the country move to the cities to take jobs in factories.

NICs usually share some other common features, including:

NICs often receive support from international organizations such as the WTO and other internationl support bodies. However, as environmental, labor and social standards tend to be significantly weaker in NICs, many fair trade supporters have advocated standards for importing their products and criticized the outsourcing of jobs to NICs.

[[SV Neulengbach]]

CATEGORIES: Women's football in Austria, Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Lower Austria

SV Neulengbach is a women soccer team from Neulengbach, Lower Austria. The woman soccer team was formed in 1996 and is after USC Landhaus Wien the most successful team in Austria. It plays in the ÖFB-Frauenliga, the top league in Austrias women soccer. The second squad (SV Neulengbach Juniors) is playing in the 2. league (east division).

[[C2c]]

CATEGORIES: C2c

c2c is a British train operating company that is part of the National Express Group. It provides passenger rail services on the London, Tilbury and Southend Railway line from Fenchurch Street railway station in the City of London to the northern Thames Gateway area of southern Essex including Grays and Southend-on-Sea. This route was called the Thameside franchise, and was renamed the Essex Thameside franchise in 2009. The main route from Fenchurch Street to Shoeburyness via Basildon is 39.5 mph and the fastest timetabled journey time from Fenchurch Street to Shoeburyness is 58 mph giving an average speed of 40.7 mph, although the route can be done in 47 mph, giving an average speed of 50 mph.http://www.railperf.org.uk/fast/C2C.pdf The line currently has a maximum speed limit of 75, although the Class 357 Electrostar electric multiple unit trains which run on it are capable of a maximum speed of 100. Before July 2002, it traded under the name LTS Rail. The current director is Julian Drury.

[[Hatton Cross station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in London

Hatton Cross station is a underground station on the Piccadilly Line on the London Underground system. It is next to Hounslow West and Heathrow T4 & 123.

[[Neymar]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian footballers, 1992 births, Living people

Neymar da Silva Santos Junior, known as Neymar or Neymar Jr. (born 5 February 1992) is a professional Brazilian footballer that can play as a left or right Winger or as a Striker. He plays for Paris Saint-Germain and the Brazil national team. He is the most expensive footballer of all time with a transfer fee of 222 million euros from FC Barcelona to PSG in August 2017.

He has been compared to former Barcelona teammate Lionel Messi and also to Cristiano Ronaldo and Pelé, because of his dribbling skills, free-kicks, and goal scoring abilities. However, he has been criticized for diving.

[[Turnham Green station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in London

Turnham Green Station is a underground station on the Piccadilly Line and District Line  on the London Underground system. It is next to Chiswick Park, Gunnersbury and Stamford Brook.

Piccadilly Line services operate to this station Early Mornings and Late Evenings. If the District line is closed Piccadilly trains will stop here.

[[Fenchurch Street railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in London, 1841 establishments in Europe, 1840s establishments in England

Fenchurch Street Station is a main London Terminal. It is operated by c2c. All c2c services arrive and depart from the station. It is the main London Terminus for c2c.

[[London station group]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in London

The London station group is a group of 18 railway stations in central London. They are part of the National Rail network. Most are terminal stations, meaning that they are at the end of the railway line. The station group is shown on tickets as London Terminals.

[[Lilly Pulitzer]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2013 deaths, American fashion designers, American socialites, Deaths from natural causes, Businesspeople from Florida, Businesspeople from New York City

Lillian Pulitzer Rousseau (Lillian Lee McKim; November 10, 1931 – April 7, 2013), better known as Lilly Pulitzer, was an American fashion designer and socialite. She is known for founding Lilly Pulitzer, Inc., which makes clothes with bright, colorful patterns. Because the brand has been very popular with rich people, Lilly has been called the "Queen of Prep".

[[Space Shuttle Columbia disaster]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 in Texas, Aviation disasters in the 2000s, Space Shuttles, February events, Disasters

The Space Shuttle Columbia disaster occurred when 102 broke up when it was reentering the atmosphere on February 1, 2003. The cause of the disaster was that a piece of foam broke from the external fuel tank. This made a hole in the shuttle's wing. During its entry, hot gases entered the wing, causing it to break up. All of the people on board died when it broke up.

Parts of Columbia were found across the state of Texas. The cockpit window is now inside the 104 Pavilion at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida.

[[Fraternities and sororities]]

CATEGORIES: Fraternities and sororities

Fraternities and sororities are social groups for college students, though sometimes high schools have them too. They exist mostly in the United States and Europe. The words frater and soror are Latin for "brother" and "sister" and used to show closeness between members. They also denote whether the group is for men or women. Sororities are only for women. Fraternities are only for men. But there are some fraternities for women.

Fraternities and sororities often have groups at many different schools. Each fraternity or sorority is given two or three Greek letters to call themselves, for example, ΑΦ (Alpha Phi) or ΑΧΩ (Alpha Chi Omega). To tell the difference between groups at different schools, called chapters, each chapter is given another set of Greek letters. For example, a man in the Kappa Sigma fraternity who goes to the University of Louisiana at Lafayette is part of the fraternity's EX (Epsilon Chi) chapter. Chapters sometimes have houses on or near the campus of the college the members attend that members can live in.

Fraternities and sororities often participate in community service.

[[Bernese mountain dog]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

The Bernese mountain dog is a breed of dog from Switzerland. 

These dogs are tricolour, which means their coat of fur is made up of three colors: black, white, and tan. They are gentle, loyal, and good with children. Bernese Mountain Dogs are very large dogs, weighing from 70 to 120 pounds (32 to 54 kilograms) as adults. They were first used to pull carts and worked as all-around farm dogs.

[[Fire ecology]]

CATEGORIES: Ecosystems, Fire

Fire ecology is about the effects of fire on the ecosystems where it occurs. The results of fire are studied, and also what causes the fires. 

In many ecosystems, fire helps keep the habitat healthy. Examples of such habitats are the North American prairie and chaparral ecosystems, and the South African savanna. In these ecosystems, fire helps renew the habitat. In theses places, many plants and trees have adapted and need fire to grow well, or for their seeds to germinate and start ecological succession.

If the fires are stopped, dry wood and dead plants accumulate. Bushes and trees that catch fire easily will start growing. When this area finally does catch fire, it will make the wildfire larger and more damaging, and be harder to control.

In the United States, campaigns have made people believe that wildfires are always bad for nature. This comes from the old belief that ecosystems grow towards a stable system, and disturbances like fires stop that, and destroy the harmony of nature.  But we have since learned that in some areas, fire is needed to make the system work properly; fire also helps biodiversity of many habitats. The plants and animals in these habitats have adapted to protect themselves from fire, and sometimes must have fire to survive.

Still, fire can kill people or burn down buildings.  Now, controlled burns are sometimes done to have fire where it is needed, but don't let it go where it can cause damage to people or their property.

[[Goldman Sachs]]

CATEGORIES: Business, Banks of the United States, Companies based in New York City, 1869 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in New York (state)

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., or just Goldman Sachs is an investment banking and securities firm. They are involved with global investment banking, securities, investment management, and other financial services mainly with institutional clients. They are also known to be a primary dealer in the United States Treasury security market.

2017-Four have Goldman Sachs USD 7.830.000.000 ("deutsch 7,83 Milliarden Dollar").

[[The Province]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Canada, 1898 establishments, 1890s establishments in Canada‎

The Province is a newspaper that serves the British Columbia province in Canada. The Province was founded in 1898. The paper was bought in 1923 by a Southam family. The newspaper runs daily and is the most read newspaper in the province of British Columbia with The Vancouver Sun coming in second place. The newspaper also had a radio station named CFCB and it relinquished its licence in February of 1940 after the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation told it to.

The The province and  Vancouver Sun are both owned by Postmedia Network Inc.

[[Vancouver Sun]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Canada, Vancouver, 1912 establishments, 1910s establishments in Canada

The Vancouver Sun is a newspaper that serves the British Columbia province in Canada. The Vancouver Sun was founded in 1912. The newspaper runs daily and is the second most read newspaper in the province of British Columbia with The Province coming in first place. The newspaper has the largest newsroom in Vancouver although its staff of reporters has reduced in recent years. The Vancouver Sun is not a part of the Sun Media chain which has newspapers in Toronto, Ottawa, Winnipeg, Calgary and Edmonton.

The Vancouver Sun is owned by Postmedia.

[[Rustavi]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Georgia (country)

Rustavi (რუსთავი) is a city in Georgia. It was founded in the 4th century by Trdat of Iberia. In the 13th century, it became empty. Rustavi was rebuilt in the 20th century. Rustavi has the Rustavi Metallurgical Plant. As of 2014, the city had 125,103 people.

[[Gaur]]

CATEGORIES: Bovines, Mammals of Asia

The Gaur is a bovine species, similar to the bison. Bos gaurus (or Indian bison) is the largest living bovine. It is native to South Asia and Southeast Asia. 

The species is listed as vulnerable on the IUCN Red List since 1986. Population trends are stable in well-protected areas, and are building up in a few areas which had been neglected.

The gaur is the tallest species of wild cattle. 

The Malayan gaur is called seladang, and the Burmese gaur is called pyoung.

The domesticated form of the gaur Bos frontalis is called 'gayal' or 'mithun'.

[[Seed fern]]

CATEGORIES: Seed plants, Fossil plants, Extinct plants

The term seed ferns (Pteridospermatophyta) are several distinct groups of extinct seed plants (spermatophytes). 

The oldest fossil evidence of plants of this type is from Upper Devonian strata, and they flourished particularly during the Carboniferous and Permian periods.  

Pteridosperms declined during the Mesozoic Era and had mostly disappeared by the end of the Cretaceous, though some fossil pteridosperm-like plants seem to have survived into Eocene times in Tasmania. 

[[John Riggins]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Kansas, New York Jets players, Washington Redskins players

Robert John Riggins (born August 4, 1949 in Seneca, Kansas) is a retired American football running back who used to play for the New York Jets and Washington Redskins of the NFL. He was nicknamed "The Diesel". He won Super Bowl XVII with the Washington Redskins where he was also the MVP and is a member of the Redskins Ring of Fame. He was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1992.

[[Glossopteris]]

CATEGORIES: Seed plants, Fossil plants, Extinct plants

Glossopteris  is the largest and best-known genus of the extinct seed ferns. They were typical plants of the coal forests or coal swamps which lasted from the Pennsylvanian (later Carboniferous) to the end of the Permian.

The coal swamps were world-wide because, for that long time, the continents were close together in Gondwana. Therefore they had similar wet, tropical climates.

[[Gnetophyta]]

CATEGORIES: Gymnosperms

The Gnetophytes are a group of seed plants with three genera. Their evolutionary relationships are unclear, but it is now clear that they are related to each other.

The three genera are:

By looking at the structure of these organisms (morphology) and the DNA (molecular taxonomy), scientists have found that Gnetum and Welwitschia are more closely related to each other than to Ephedra.

[[Pulitzer]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames

Pulitzer may refer to:

[[Andy & Lucas]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish musical groups, People from Cádiz

Andy & Lucas are a Spanish flamenco band formed by Andrés Morales and Lucas González. They introduced their first CD in 2003. 

[[Warren Zevon]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2003 deaths, American rock musicians, American rock singers, American singer-songwriters, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from Chicago, Warner Bros. Records artists

Warren William Zevon (January 24, 1947 – September 7, 2003) was an American rock singer-songwriter and musician known for including his strange and somewhat critical opinions of life in his lyrics. Zevon wrote many songs that were humorous and often political

Many famous musicians have said they liked Zevon's work, including  Jackson Browne, Bruce Springsteen, Bob Dylan, and Neil Young. His most famous songs include "Werewolves of London", "Lawyers, Guns and Money", "Roland the Headless Thompson Gunner" and "Johnny Strikes Up The Band."  All of these are from his third and most famous album: Excitable Boy (1978).   Zevon has written  many songs that were recorded by other artists.  These include "Poor Poor Pitiful Me" (a top 40 hit by Linda Ronstadt), "Accidentally Like a Martyr," "Mohammed's Radio," "Carmelita", and "Hasten Down the Wind".

Zevon sometimes recorded or sang cover songs.  He liked to sing Bob Dylan's "Knockin' on Heaven's Door" and Leonard Cohen's "First We Take Manhattan". He was often a guest on Late Night with David Letterman and the Late Show with David Letterman. Letterman later sang with Zevon on "Hit Somebody! (The Hockey Song)" with Paul Shaffer and members of the CBS Orchestra.

He had a lot of problems in his life, including divorce, alcoholism, and suicide attempts.  He also had a paranoia of doctors and this killed him: he did not know he had cancer until doctors could not help him.

[[Papa John's Pizza]]

CATEGORIES: American food companies, Companies based in Kentucky, Louisville, Kentucky

Papa John's is the third largest pizza company based in the United States. Its headquarters are in Louisville, Kentucky, U.S. It was founded by John Schnatter in 1984.

[[Shrew opossum]]

CATEGORIES: Marsupials of South America

The order Paucituberculata contains the six surviving species of shrew opossum. Caenolestes is the main genus, and the group as a whole may be called 'caenolestids'.

They are small, shrew-like marsupials of the Andes mountains of South America.

20 million years ago, there were at least seven genera in South America. Today, just three genera remain. They live in inaccessible forest and grassland regions of the high Andes.

Insectivores were absent from South America until the Great American Interchange three million years ago, and are present now only in the northwestern part of the continent. Shrew opossums have lost ground to  the these and other placental invaders that fill the same ecological niches. Nevertheless, the ranges of shrew opossums and insectivores overlap broadly.

Shrew opossums are about the size of a small rat (9–14 cm long), with thin limbs, a long, pointed snout and a slender, hairy tail. They are largely carnivorous, being active hunters of insects, earthworms and small vertebrates. They have small eyes and poor sight, and hunt in the early evening and at night, using their hearing and long, sensitive whiskers to locate prey. They seem to spend much of their lives in underground burrows and on surface runways.

Largely because of their rugged, inaccessible habitat, they are very poorly known. Recent studies suggest that they may be more common than had been thought.

[[Australidelphia]]

CATEGORIES: Marsupials of Australia

The Australidelphia is a superorder of Australasian marsupial mammals.

It consists in five extant (living) orders, which contain most of the world's marsupials.

[[ÖFB Ladies Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Women's football in Austria, Football competitions

The ÖFB Ladies Cup is the Cup competition in Austrian women soccer. It was first played in the 1972/73 season under the guidance of the Vienna Football association as Ladies Cup. Since the 1992/93 season the Ladies cup is under the guidance of the ÖFB (Austrian Football Association) and is called ÖFB-Ladies-Cup. From 2004 till 2009 the competition was called ÖFB-Stiegl-Ladies-Cup, after the main sponsor of the cup, a brewery from Salzburg.

The Cup is played with 32 teams in five rounds. The ten members of the ÖFB-Frauenliga and 22 teams from the nine federal states take part. In the first round the teams were drawn after local aspects.

[[Lepidodendron]]

CATEGORIES: Fossil plants, Vascular plants, Carboniferous, Extinct plants

Lepidodendron is an extinct genus of primitive (tree-like) plant. They were the first large land plants, and a major part of the coal forest tropical flora. 

They were huge, over 30, and the trunks were often over 1 in diameter. 

Sometimes called 'giant club mosses', they are actually closer to the quillworts Isoetes than to clubmosses.

[[DuPont]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States, 1802 establishments in the United States

E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (often DuPont) is an American chemical company. Eleuthère Irénée du Pont founded it in July 1802 as a gunpowder mill. DuPont was the world's third largest chemical company based on market capitalization and ninth based on revenue in 2009. Its stock price is a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average.

In the 20th century, DuPont developed many polymers such as Vespel, neoprene, nylon, Corian, Teflon, Mylar, Kevlar, Zemdrain, M5 fiber, Nomex, Tyvek, Sorona and Lycra. DuPont developed  Freon (chlorofluorocarbons) for the cooling industry and later, more environmentally friendly refrigerants. It developed synthetic pigments and paints including ChromaFlair.

Some of DuPont's trademarked brands have become genericized. For instance, “neoprene” was originally intended to be a trademark, but quickly came into common usage.

[[Melendi]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish singers, 1979 births, Living people, People from Oviedo

Ramón Melendi Espinosa (born 21 January 1979 in Oviedo, Asturias) is a Spanish pop and rumba singer. He studied in the school, Leopoldo Alas "Clarín" with the Formula 1 pilot Fernando Alonso. He wrote a song for him called Magic Alonso.

[[Mojang]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Sweden, 2009 establishments in Europe

Mojang AB is a Swedish video game company made by Markus Persson, known for making Minecraft. It started in May 2009. It is currently the company that created and updates Minecraft but also develops some other games.

On September 15, 2014, Microsoft bought Mojang for 2.5 billion US dollars. After the deal was made, Markus Persson announced that he would leave Mojang.

[[Marsupial mole]]

CATEGORIES: Marsupials of Australia

Marsupial moles (Notoryctidae) is a family of marsupials of the order Notoryctemorphia. There are only two extant species:

[[Homininae]]

CATEGORIES: Apes, Hominids

Homininae is a subfamily of Hominidae, which includes humans, gorillas, and chimpanzees which are native to Africa.

Most importantly, it also includes extinct human relatives such as Ardipithecus, Australopithecus, and earlier species of the genus Homo. It includes all those hominid species which arose after the split from the other great apes.

[[FC Stattegg]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Women's football in Austria, Football clubs of Styria

Update

FC Stattegg is a women's football club from Stattegg, Austria. The club plays in the ÖFB-Frauenliga, the highest class in Austrian women soccer. The second squad is playing in a Styrian league.

[[Trégastel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Trégastel is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Garret FitzGerald]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2011 deaths, Former members of Dáil Éireann, Former members of Seanad Éireann, Government ministers of Ireland, Members of Fine Gael, People from Dublin, Taoisigh of Ireland

Garret Desmond FitzGerald (9 February 1926 – 19 May 2011) was an Irish politician who served twice as Taoiseach (prime minister) of Ireland, from 1981 to 1982 and again from 1982 to 1987. Elected to Seanad Éireann in 1965, and in 1969 to Dáil Éireann as a Teachta Dála (TD), he served as Ireland's foreign minister from 1973 to 1977 and as leader of Fine Gael from 1977 to 1987.

[[Allineuc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Allineuc is a commune. It is found in the Bretagne region in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Andel, Côtes-d'Armor]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Andel is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Aucaleuc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Aucaleuc is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Bégard]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Bégard is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Belle-Isle-en-Terre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Belle-Isle-en-Terre is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Berhet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Berhet (Berc'hed) is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Binic]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Binic is a former commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France. Once a commune of its own, Binic is now part of the commune of Binic-Étables-sur-Mer, following a merger on 1 March 2016.

[[Bobital]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Bobital (Bowidel, Gallo: Bobitau) is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Le Bodéo]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Le Bodéo (Bodeoù, Gallo: Le Bodéo) is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Boqueho]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Boqueho is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[La Bouillie]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

La Bouillie is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Bourbriac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Bourbriac is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Pollensa]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in the Balearic Islands

Pollensa is a village in the Balearic Islands, Spain. It is on the island of Mallorca, which is in the north. Pollensa is a popular tourist area.

It highlights the Calvary or the Puente Romano, 19th century and is on the Torrente de Sant Jordi, the Municipal Museum, the Music Festival and numerous art exhibitions.

The Port of Pollensa has a long promenade and wide beaches. La Cala de San Vicente has a set of coves with crystalline waters and a set of prehistoric caves.

[[Fotherby]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Lincolnshire, Villages in Lincolnshire

Fotherby is a village and civil parish in Lincolnshire, England. In 2001 there were 437 people living in Fotherby. 

[[Radwinter]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Essex, Civil parishes in Essex, Uttlesford

[[Brantham]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Brantham is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 2,606 people living in Brantham.

[[Glemsford]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Babergh, Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Glemsford is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 3,286 people living in Glemsford.

[[Sproughton]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk

Sproughton (pronounced Spror-ton) is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England, just to the west of Ipswich. In 2016, there were 764 people living in Sproughton.

[[Kirton]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Suffolk Coastal

Kirton is a village and civil parish in Suffolk Coastal, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 1,086 people living in Kirton.

[[Pettistree]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Suffolk Coastal

Pettistree is a village and civil parish in Suffolk Coastal, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 205 people living in Pettistree.

[[Lakenheath]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk

Lakenheath is a village and civil parish in Forest Heath, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 4,490 people living in Lakenheath.

[[Littleport]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Cambridgeshire, Villages in Cambridgeshire

Littleport is a village and civil parish in Cambridgeshire, England. In 2001 there were 7,521 people living in Littleport.

[[Brent Eleigh]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Brent Eleigh is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 174 people living in Brent Eleigh.

[[Burstall]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Burstall is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 189 people living in Burstall.

[[Lamarsh]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Essex, Villages in Essex

Lamarsh is a village and civil parish in Braintree district, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 177 people living in Lamarsh.

[[Whatfield]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk

Whatfield is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 318 people living in Whatfield.

[[Woolverstone]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Woolverstone is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 244 people living in Woolverstone.

[[Elmsett]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Babergh, Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Elmsett is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 730 people living in Elmsett.

[[Preston St Mary]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Preston St Mary is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 220 people living in Preston St Mary.

[[Chattisham]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Chattisham is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 138 people living in Chattisham.

[[Shotley]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Babergh, Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Shotley is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 2,373 people living in Shotley.

[[Wickham Market]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Suffolk Coastal

Wickham Market is a village and civil parish in Suffolk Coastal, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 2,204 people living in Wickham Market.

[[Groove metal]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy metal subgenres

Groove metal is a post-thrash  subgenre of heavy metal. It is often used to describe Pantera  and Exhorder. Groove metal is basically thrash metal. but at a slower tempo. It also has aggressive and strong vocals, heavy sounding bass riffs and heavy guitar riffs with typical heavy metal solos.

[[Petroleum coke]]

CATEGORIES: Carbon, Petroleum_products

thumb|Petroleum cokePetroleum coke is a solid that is mainly made of carbon. It is similar to coke, but it is gotten from petroleum (coke is made from coal). Petroleum coke can be used as an industrial fuel, but there are very toxic by-products based on nickel and vanadium which make this a problem. Petroleum coke is also used in the aluminum industry, and in the heat treatment of steel and iron. Petroleum coke may be kept in a pile near an oil refinery ready for sale.

[[Elmswell]]

CATEGORIES: Mid Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Elmswell is a village and civil parish in Mid Suffolk, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 3,359 people living in Elmswell.

[[Woolpit]]

CATEGORIES: Mid Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Woolpit is a village and civil parish in Mid Suffolk, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 1,968 people living in Woolpit.

[[Wetherden]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Wetherden is a village and civil parish in Mid Suffolk, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 557 people living in Wetherden.

[[Waldringfield]]

CATEGORIES: Suffolk Coastal, Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Waldringfield is a village and civil parish in Suffolk Coastal, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 460 people living in Waldringfield.

[[Stokenham]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Devon, Civil parishes in Devon

Stokenham is a village and civil parish in South Hams, Devon, England. In 2001 there were 1,949 people living in Stokenham.

[[Hatfield Peverel]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Essex, Civil parishes in Essex

Hatfield Peverel is a village and civil parish in Braintree, Essex, England. In 2001 there were 4,384 people living in Hatfield Peverel.

[[Nacton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Suffolk Coastal

Nacton is a village and civil parish in Suffolk Coastal, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 672 people living in Nacton.

[[Ousby]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cumbria, Civil parishes in Cumbria

Ousby is a village and civil parish in Eden, Cumbria, England. In 2001 there were 362 people living in Ousby.

[[Tostock]]

CATEGORIES: Mid Suffolk, Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Tostock is a village and civil parish in Mid Suffolk, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 414 people living in Tostock.

[[Kirkburton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in West Yorkshire, Civil parishes in West Yorkshire

Kirkburton is a village in Kirklees, West Yorkshire, England. In 2001 there were 23,986 people living in Kirkburton.

[[Keighley]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in West Yorkshire, Towns in West Yorkshire

Keighley (En-uk-Keighley.ogg KEETH) is a town and civil parish in Bradford, West Yorkshire, England. In 2001 there were 51,429 people living in Keighley.

[[Van Cliburn]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2013 deaths, American pianists, Cancer deaths in Texas, Deaths from bone cancer, Gay men, LGBT musicians, LGBT people from Louisiana, LGBT people from Texas, Musicians from Louisiana, Musicians from Texas, People from Shreveport, Louisiana

Harvey Lavan "Van" Cliburn Jr. (July 12, 1934 – February 27, 2013) was an American pianist.

Cliburn was born in Shreveport, Louisiana on July 12, 1934. He moved to Kilgore, Texas at age six. He died on February 27, 2013 from bone cancer in Fort Worth, Texas, aged 78.

As an honour, a street in Fort Worth, Texas was named after him.

[[Marlesford]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Suffolk Coastal

Marlesford is a village and civil parish in Suffolk Coastal, Suffolk, England. In 2001 there were 223 people living in Marlesford.

[[Ivinghoe]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Buckinghamshire, Civil parishes in Buckinghamshire

Ivinghoe is a village and civil parish in Aylesbury Vale, Buckinghamshire, England. In 2001 there were 904 people living in Ivinghoe.

[[Robert Malone]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Detroit Lions players, New York Jets players, Tampa Bay Buccaneers players, American football punters, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California

Robert Malone (born February 4, 1988 in Orange, California) is an American football punter for the New York Jets of the National Football League (NFL). 

Malone was undrafted but played college football at Fresno State University. Malone was also on the roster of the Jacksonville Jaguars but was cut before training camp because they decided to stay with their current punter at that time Adam Podlesh. Malone has also played for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 2010 and the Detroit Lions in 2012.

[[Robert Capron]]

CATEGORIES: American child actors, American movie actors, Actors from Rhode Island, 1998 births, Living people

Robert Capron (born July 9, 1998) is an American child actor,  movie producer, movie director, screenwriter, and comedian. He was in Diary of a Wimpy Kid series as Rowley Jefferson. He was in Frankenweenie in 2012.

[[Nmap]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Nmap is a computer program that is used for port scanning (finding out all the ways a computer communicates with other computers on a network). It was written by Gordon Lyon. It can also do other kinds of scanning. This is because Nmap is open source, so many people can help write it to make it better.

Nmap works on most operating systems. It works on Linux, Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, Solaris, and BSD. Most people use it on Linux, but many people use it on Windows.

[[2011 Super Outbreak]]

CATEGORIES: Tornado outbreaks, Tornadoes in the United States

In late April 2011, there was a major tornado outbreak, the worst in U.S history. 3 EF5 tornadoes dropped down along with 13 EF4 tornadoes and 23 EF3 tornadoes. That was a major tornado outbreak.

[[Brian Billick]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, National Football League coaches, Sportspeople from Ohio

Brian Harold Billick (born February 28, 1954 in Fairborn, Ohio) is a retired American football player and coach. He is a National Football League game analyst for Fox. Billick was the offensive coordinator for the Minnesota Vikings offense in 1998. He coached the 2000 Baltimore Ravens when they won Super Bowl XXXV. He was fired as head coach of the Ravens on December 31, 2007. He still remains friends with Baltimore Ravens owner Steve Bisciotti. He has said that Bisciotti did what he believed was best for the Ravens.

Billick was a studio analyst by ABC Sports. After being fired by the Ravens, he became a draft analyst for the NFL Network during the 2008 NFL Draft. He is also an analyst on NFL Total Access. He has provided on-location analysis for the NFL Scouting Combine and NFL Draft.

Billick was drafted in the 11th round of the 1977 NFL Draft by the San Francisco 49ers. However, he was cut by the 49ers and the Dallas Cowboys. He never played in the NFL.

[[Junipero Serra]]

CATEGORIES: 1713 births, 1784 deaths, Spanish Roman Catholics, Missionaries

Junípero Serra y Ferrer (November 24, 1713 – August 28, 1784) was a Franciscan friar most well known for founding the first 9 California missions. He was from Majorca in Spain. He was a teacher of philosophy in Spain and Mexico in the 1740s.

In 1768, Serra became head of the missionaries in Baja California, and started the first and only Franciscan mission there. Soon after that, he started Mission San Diego de Alcala, the first Spanish mission in Alta California (now the state of California). Serra started nine missions in Alta California.

He was head of the California missions, and was based in Monterey. There is a statue of him in Statuary Hall in the Capitol, where he represents California. He was beatified by Pope John Paul II in 1988 and canonized (made a saint) in 2015 by Pope Francis. Serra is often called the "Father of California" due to the role of the missions in establishing European rule in what is now the state of California. However, some people are now criticizing him for the way he treated Native Americans. 

[[Preludes (Chopin)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Frédéric Chopin, Solo piano pieces

Preludes, Op. 28 is a collection of 24 short musical works for solo piano, written by Frédéric Chopin between 1837 and 1838 and published in the middle of 1839, just after the composer's winter stay on the isle of Majorca with George Sand.

Chopin was greatly influenced by Johann Sebastian Bach when he wrote these preludes. Each of the works in the collection is in a different major or minor key, with not one being left out, just like Bach's 24 preludes and fugues in The Well-Tempered Clavier. But unlike Bach, Chopin arranges the preludes in order through the circle of fifths. The first prelude in the set is in C major, the next in A minor, then G major, E minor, and so on, until the last two, which are in F major and finally D minor.

The Preludes are all very different. Many are very short (they take only about one minute each to play), so the atmosphere changes quickly, and this can make the overall structure seem out of place. Artists have recorded the entire set of preludes on CDs, and they are often performed in concerts as well.

One of the well-known pieces from the Preludes is Prelude No. 15, in D-flat major and nicknamed "Raindrop". This nickname refers to the monotonous repetition of one note in the accompaniment. It reminded early music lovers of the dripping of raindrops. Another well-known number is Prelude No. 4, in E minor, with its melancholy descending chords in the accompaniment.

Besides the 24 preludes of Op. 28, Chopin would write three more preludes, Op. 45 in C-sharp minor (composed in 1841), one in A-flat major (1834), and the so-called "Devil's Trill" Prelude, in E-flat minor, which Chopin never ended up finishing.

[[Union Kleinmünchen Linz]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Women's football in Austria, Football clubs of Upper Austria, Linz

Union Kleinmünchen Linz is a women soccer club from Linz, Upper Austria. It was founded in 1980 and was the first club, which is a pure women soccer club. The colours of the team are red and white.

[[Symphony No. 6 "Pastorale" (Beethoven)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, Symphonies

Symphony No. 6 in F major, Op. 68 (Pastorale) is a symphony by Ludwig van Beethoven. The composer began making sketches for the symphony in 1806. The symphony was completed in 1808 in the village of Heiligenstadt northwest of Vienna. It was first performed in Vienna, Austria on 22 December 1808 in the Theater an der Wien with the premieres of the Symphony No. 5 in C minor, the Piano Concerto No. 4 in G major, the "Choral" Fantasy, "Ah! perfido!" (a concert aria composed in 1796), and excerpts from the Mass in C major of 1807.

There are five movements in the symphony. The movements in order are allegro ma non troppo ("Joyful Feelings Upon Arriving in the Country"), andante molto mosso ("By the Brook"), allegro ("Peasant Merrymaking"), allegro ("The Thunderstorm"), and allegretto ("The Shepherd's Song After the Storm"). The first movement is in sonata form. It is placid and cheerful. It depicts the composer's feelings as he arrives in the country. The second movement is in sonata form. Beethoven helpfully identified the bird species in the score: nightingale (flute), quail (oboe) and cuckoo (clarinet). The third movement is the scherzo movement of the symphony. It depicts the country folk dancing and it ends unexpectedly when the country folk notice that raindrops are starting to fall. The fourth movement depicts a violent thunderstorm, starting with just a few drops of rain and building to a climax. There is, of course, thunder, as well as lightning, high winds, and sheets of rain. The finale is in sonata rondo form. The first eight bars form a continuation of the introduction of which the storm was the main part; the finale proper begins in the ninth bar.

[[Australasia]]

CATEGORIES: Australasia

Australasia is one of the world's geographical regions. It is unified in natural history and geology because of its ancient origin as part of the supercontinent Gondwana. It is the geographical area which contains the Australasian ecozone.

Its islands are all south-east of the Bali–Lombok line, known as the Wallace Line, after Alfred Russel Wallace. The main political entities are Australia, Indonesia and New Zealand. The main islands are:

Australasia's region is Oceania. It includes Australia, New Zealand, the island of New Guinea, and neighbouring islands in the Pacific Ocean.

[[Salzburger AK 1914]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs of Salzburg

The Salzburger AK 1914 is a football club from Salzburg. It was founded 1914 and is the oldest football club in Salzburg.

[[Dysart, Fife]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fife

Dysart (Dìseart) is a town on the south-east coast of Scotland, between Kirkcaldy and West Wemyss in Fife. A former royal burgh, Dysart is now a suburb of Kirkcaldy. Dysart was once part of a large estate owned by the St Clair or Sinclair family. They were given burgh of barony status for the town at the end of the 15th century.

The first written record of the town was in the early 13th century. During the middle of the 15th century, the town traded with the Low Countries, and exported salt and coal. In the 16th and 17th centuries, they began to trade with the Baltic Countries. Dysart got two nicknames: "Salt Burgh" and "Little Holland".

When the coal mine, the Lady Blanche Pit, closed suddenly use of the harbour almost stopped. The town was joined with the royal burgh of Kirkcaldy in 1930. Large parts of the historic town were pulled down in the 1950s and 1960's for new housing. People living in the town were able to protect some areas, most notably the 16th century and the 18th century houses of Pan Ha' opposite the harbour. These have been repaired and preserved for future generations. Today, Dysart retains an individual character within the boundary borders of neighbouring Kirkcaldy.

[[Tattingstone]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Babergh, Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Tattingstone is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 462 people living in Tattingstone.

[[Chelmondiston]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Chelmondiston is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 1,018 people living in Chelmondiston.

[[Dinan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor, Subprefectures in France

Dinan is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France. On 1 January 2018, the former commune of Léhon was merged into Dinan.

[[Guingamp]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor, Subprefectures in France

Guingamp is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Lannion]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor, Subprefectures in France

Lannion is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Saint-Brieuc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor, Departmental capitals in France

Saint-Brieuc is a commune. It is the prefecture of the Côtes-d'Armor department in Brittany.

[[Capel St Mary]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Babergh, Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Capel St Mary is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 2,993 people living in Capel St Mary.

[[Bourseul]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Bourseul (Boursaout, Gallo: Bórsoeut) is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Stoke-by-Nayland]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Stoke-by-Nayland is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 703 people living in Stoke-by-Nayland.

[[Bréhand]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Bréhand is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Holton St Mary]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk, Settlements in Babergh

Holton St Mary is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 209 people living in Holton St Mary.

[[Thorpe Morieux]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Thorpe Morieux is a village and civil parish in Babergh, Suffolk, England. In 2001, there were 257 people living in Thorpe Morieux.

[[Recession]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

A recession is when the economy becomes less active. Prices for goods go down. People lose their jobs so unemployment increases. Inflation and interest rates go down. Many company shares lose value. One definition is that two quarters in a row when gross domestic product goes down is the start of a recession.The Great Recession happened from 2007-2009.

[[List of civil parishes in Cumbria]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of civil parishes in England, Civil parishes in Cumbria

This is a list of civil parishes in the ceremonial county of Cumbria, England.

[[Biz Markie]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Comedians from Maryland, American DJs, American rap musicians from Maryland, American television actors, Actors from Baltimore, Maryland, Singers from Baltimore, Maryland, Comedians from New York City, Singers from New York City, Actors from New York City, American rap musicians from New York, Television personalities from New York City, American movie actors

Marcel Theo Hall (April 8, 1964 – July 16, 2021) was an American rapper, beatboxer, DJ, record producer, comedian, actor and reality television personality who was better known by his stage name, Biz Markie. 

Markie was born on April 8, 1964, in Harlem, Manhattan, New York City. He was probably best known for his 1989 song, "Just a Friend". He married Tara Hall in 2005.

Biz Markie was honored as being the "Clown Prince of Hip Hop".

Markie died on July 16, 2021 in Baltimore, Maryland, from diabetes-related problems, aged 57.

[[Matt Mead]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Governors of Wyoming, Businesspeople from Wyoming, US Republican Party politicians

Matthew Hansen "Matt" Mead (born March 11, 1962) is an American politician. He was the 32nd Governor of Wyoming from 2011 to 2019. He easily won against former chairman of the Wyoming Democratic Party, Leslie Petersen in the election and became the governor.

Mead was born in Teton County, Wyoming. Mead is married to Carol L. Mintzer and they have 2 children together.

[[Herman Cain]]

CATEGORIES: African American politicians, American Baptists, Businesspeople from Tennessee, 2000 United States presidential candidates, American radio personalities, Politicians from Memphis, Tennessee, Politicians from Georgia (U.S. state), 2012 United States presidential candidates, 1945 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States

Herman Cain (December 13, 1945 – July 30, 2020) was an American businessman, politician and Baptist minister.

He managed several businesses owned by Pillsbury, such as Burger King and Godfather's Pizza, which he ran from 1986 to 1996.

He was also head of the Federal Reserve Bank in Kansas City, Missouri. Cain started working in politics in 1994. He said that President Clinton's health care plan was bad for business. Some people credit him with stopping Clinton's health care plan.

He unsuccessfully ran for president in the 2000. Cain then ran for the U.S. Senate in Georgia in 2004, but he lost.

He was going to run for president in the Republican primaries of 2012. Cain won a couple of the Republican straw polls. In December 2011, Cain left the Presidential race. This was because several women accused him of sexual harassment.

Cain is African American and was from Memphis.

Cain went to a campaign rally of President Donald Trump in Tulsa on June 20 without wearing a mask or socially distancing. He was hospitalized in Atlanta, Georgia and was diagnosed with COVID-19. He died from the infection on July 30, 2020 at the age of 74.

[[Madame de Lafayette]]

CATEGORIES: 1634 births, 1693 deaths, French novelists

Marie-Madeleine Pioche de La Vergne, countess of La Fayette (or Lafayette) was a French writer. She is commonly known as Madame de Lafayette. She was born on 18 March 1634 in Paris, and died there, on 26 May 1693. In 1678, she published the novel La Princesse de Clèves (the Princess of Clèves). This book is regarded as one of the first psychological novels.

[[Adrienne de La Fayette]]

CATEGORIES: 1759 births, 1807 deaths, French nobility

''Marie Adrienne'' Françoise de Noailles, madame de La Fayette (2 November 1759 – 24 December 1807). She was born in Paris at the family home, the Hôtel de Noailles. Known as Mademoiselle d'Ayen-she was the second daughter of the duc d'Ayen, a powerful French noble-prior to her marriage to Gilbert du Motier, marquis de La Fayette, in the chapel of the Hôtel de Noailles on April 11, 1774. The couple lived there for the first few years of their marriage. They had four children. 

[[Lake Torrens National Park]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of South Australia, Protected areas of South Australia

Lake Torrens National Park is a national park in South Australia, 345 km north of Adelaide. The park protects the area around Lake Torrens, which is a large, dry, salt lake covering an area of 5,700 square kilometres.  The lake is part of a large rift valley that also includes Spencer Gulf. Lake Torrens has been filled with water twice in the last 150 years. 

The lake filled in 2010 and attracted a large number of birds, including 150,000 Banded Stilts. This bird can only breed on islands in flooded salt lakes and have only bred in South Australia seven times in the last 70 years. The last known breeding was at Lake Eyre in 2000. During dry times the stilts live at the Coorong Lakes waiting for the salt lakes to flood.

[[Hominin]]

CATEGORIES: Hominids, Apes

Hominini is the tribe of african apes that comprises humans (Homo), and all ancestors of Homo sapiens back to the split from the apes. This branching is now dated at five to eight million years ago, with Sahelanthropus as a key fossil.

A less frequent usage includes the two species present-day of the genus Pan (the common chimpanzee and the bonobo). In this case, the subtribe Hominina is the "human" branch, including genus Homo and its close relatives, but not Pan. All species in this tribe carry the same four blood-types which can be exchanged between species.

[[Hominina]]

CATEGORIES: Hominids

Hominina is a sub-tribe of the hominid primates. It is used by some anthropologists to include the upright biped apes, including the genus Homo.

If an anthropologist wants to includes chimpanzees in the tribe Hominini, then it follows that a sub-tribe is needed to put Australopithecines and humans in. But this is not a majority view at present, and the mainstream view is:

If used, the group includes Sahelanthropus six to eight million years ago.

[[Summer Palace]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in China, Palaces

The Summer Palace is a palace in Beijing, China. It is mainly dominated by Longevity Hill (60 meters high) and the Kunming Lake. It covers an expanse of 2.9 square kilometers, three quarters of which is water. The palace is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Between 1750 and 1764 the Qing Emperor Qianlong created the Garden of Clear Ripples (Summer Palace), extending the area of the lake and carrying out other improvements based on the hill and its landscape. During the Second Opium War (1856-60) the garden and its buildings were destroyed by the allied forces. Between 1886 and 1895 it was reconstructed by Emperor Guangxu and renamed the Summer Palace, for use by Empress Dowager Cixi. It was damaged in 1900 by the international expeditionary force during the suppression of the Boxer Rising and 24 years later, it became a public park in 1924.

There are many buildings in the Summer Palace including The Cloud-Dispelling Hall, the Temple of Buddhist Virtue and the Sea of Wisdom Temple.

[[Banded stilt]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Australia, Charadriiformes

The banded stilt (Cladorhynchus leucocephalus) is a stilt bird from Australia. It is a type of water bird known as a wader.

The bird gets its name from the red-brown stripe that adults have on their chests. Younger birds do not have them. Its other feathers are pied (black and white) and the eyes are dark brown. The Banded stilt is 35–45 cm tall. It is called the "Flamingo of Australia", and the Rottnest snipe on Rottnest Island. However, it is not related to true snipes.

They spend much of their life looking for food near the ocean in river estuaries and on tidal flats, but they lay eggs in the desert when it rains there. They lay 1-5 eggs at a time.  The eggs are white, brown or black eggs.  The nests are small holes scraped in the sand or sandy clay. Banded stilts breed on islands created when dry salt lakes fill with water. They come to the lakes to eat the brine shrimp, Paratemia. The eggs of the shrimp can lie in the dry lake beds for many years until the rains fall.

In 200 years of Europen settlement in Australia, people have only recorded banded stilts laying eggs on 20 occasions. In South Australia, where the stilts are listed as a vulnerable species, they have only bred seven times in the last 70 years. In 2010 there was a huge breeding event at Lake Torrens National Park where more than 150,000 birds gathered as the lake filled for only the second time in 150 years. The eggs and chicks are often eaten by silver gulls. In 2000 when the stilts were breeding on Lake Eyre, nearly all the chicks were eaten.

[[Brief psychotic disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses

Brief psychotic disorder is a short illness of less than one month that has psychotic symptoms. This could be like having schizophrenia symptoms for only an hour, but it can be any psychotic disorder, such as delusions or hallucinations. Doctors describe three types of BPD. The first type is caused by some kind of traumatic stress. The second type has no known cause. Some psychologists believe it could be from stimulants such as caffeine, morphine or any type of drug. There is no known cure but staying away from caffeinated drinking may lower the risk of brief psychotic disorder. The third type is caused by childbirth and usually affects mothers about four weeks after having a baby.

[[Conduct disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses

Conduct disorder (CD) is a mental disorder in which a person habitually, deliberately violates the rights of others. They are typically aggressive and threaten to hit people. Habitual stealing is common; some people with CD are sex offenders. They do not feel bad or guilty about hurting people, and often enjoy doing so. Many people with CD go on to develop antisocial personality disorder. Everyone who has ASPD previously had CD. The CD affected person finds that acting out gives them attention (even though it is negative attention they are receiving) and in turn they feel it gives them a sense of importance. Some risk factors are heredity, child neglect and the loss of family member and or parent. Anti-psychotic therapy is recommended in cases where the offender is psychotic. A high proportion of people who have CD also have other mental disorders, most commonly attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, which makes the affects of CD worse.

[[Kodad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Andhra Pradesh, Towns in India

Kodad is a town in the Nalgonda district of Andhra Pradesh in India. The Madhira Institute of Technology and Science has a 40 acre campus about eight kilometres from Kodad.

[[Hox gene]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Evolutionary biology, Developmental biology

Hox genes are a group of related genes that determine the basic structure and orientation of animals. 'Hox' is short for 'homeobox'. 

Hox genes are critical for the proper placement of segment structures of animals during early embryonic development (e.g. legs, antennae, and wings in fruit flies or the different vertebrate ribs in humans).

Hox genes are a complex of genes whose proteins bind to the regulatory regions of target genes. The target genes then activate or repress cell processes to direct the final development of the organism. 

[[Can't Be Tamed]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Miley Cyrus albums

Can't Be Tamed is the third album made by American recording Artist Miley Cyrus. The album has twelve songs including three singles.

[[Brélidy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Brélidy is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Bringolo]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Bringolo is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Broons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Broons is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Brusvily]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Brusvily is a commune. It is in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Bulat-Pestivien]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Bulat-Pestivien is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

Bulat-Pestivien is twinned with Ireland Ballyferriter (Baile an Fheirtéaraigh), Ireland, since 1992.

[[Calanhel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor, France, Stubs

Calanhel is a commune. It is in Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in west France.

[[Callac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Callac is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Ploumanac'h]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Europe, Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Ploumanac'h is a village in the commune of Perros-Guirec. It is in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Castleton]]

Castleton is the name of several places in the world:

In England:

In Scotland:

In Wales:

In the United States:

In Canada:

[[George Turner (artist)]]

CATEGORIES: English painters, People from Derbyshire, 1841 births, 1910 deaths

George Turner (2 April 1841 – 29 Mar 1910) was an English landscape artist and farmer. He was also called "Derbyshire's John Constable".

[[Peace of Münster]]

CATEGORIES: 1640s in Europe, Eighty Years' War, 1648, 17th century in Spain, History of the Netherlands

The Peace of Münster is part of the Peace of Westphalia. It is the document which ends the Eighty Years' War between Spain and the Netherlands with Spain's recognition of Dutch independence. 

[[Dayton]]

Dayton may mean:

[[Communes of the Côtes-d'Armor department]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor, Lists of communes of France

The following is a list of the 373 communes of the Côtes-d'Armor ''département'' in France.

[[Calorguen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Calorguen is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Perros-Guirec]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Perros-Guirec is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Trébeurden]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Trébeurden is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Phase-shift keying]]

CATEGORIES: Radio technology

Phase shift keying is a way of transmitting information. This is done by modulating the phase of a carrier wave. In such a system, the amplitude of the wave does not carry any information; all information is present in the phase of the signal. In many cases, this allows to better use the bandwidth available. 

If we think of a wave as a wiggly line, (like a sine wave), wiggling a specific number of times a second, and we can change at which part of the wiggle it is in. Say if it is at the top of its wiggle, and we immediately change it to the bottom of its wiggle, this is called a phase shift. We can use that change to carry information.

By either changing or not changing the wave every time it gets to the top of its wiggle, we can send either ones or zeros. This is called Binary Phase Shift Keying. If we change the phase of the wave as it reaches the top, we can have this represent a 1. If we don't change it at the top, we can have this represent a 0. We can use a computer and a radio to turn text into a wave like this and then send it. A radio and a computer listening to this wave changing or not changing can figure out the original message being sent and turn it back into text.

Binary Phase Shift Keying can be used to send computer data across radio waves quite efficiently. Certain Wireless LAN standards use Phase-shift keying, which they sometimes couple with Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing, to get higher data rates.

[[Pritzker Architecture Prize]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 establishments, Pritzker Architecture Prize

The Pritzker Architecture Prize is given each year by the Hyatt Foundation. It is for talented and significant architect who has created great projects throughout his or her life. Jay A. Pritzker and his wife Cindy began the award in 1979. The Pritzker family pays for the prize. It is the top prize in architecture, and it is often called the Nobel Prize of architecture. The country, race, religion or political ideas of the architect are not important. Winners get US$100,000 and  a certificate. Winners receive a medal. The back of the medal has these words in Latin—firmitas, utilitas, venustas (English: durability, utility, and beauty). The idea comes from the Roman architect Vitruvius. Before 1987, a limited edition Henry Moore sculpture came with the prize money.

[[Jejomar Binay]]

CATEGORIES: Vice Presidents of the Philippines, 1942 births, Living people, Mayors

Jejomar "Jojo" Cabauatan Binay (born November 11, 1942), also known as Jojo Binay or VNay, is a Filipino politician. He previously served as the 15th Vice President of the Philippines from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2016. Before he became Vice President, he was Mayor of Makati City from 1986 to 1998 and again from 2001 to 2010.

He ran for President in 2016, but lost to Rodrigo Duterte.

[[Loudéac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Loudéac is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Plérin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Plérin is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Erquy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Erquy is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Lamballe]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Lamballe is a former commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune of Lamballe-Armor.

[[Quintin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Quintin is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Paimpol]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Paimpol is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Milparinka, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Milparinka is a very small town in New South Wales, Australia. About ten people live in Milparinka, which is about 296 kilometres north of Broken Hill. It is built beside a waterhole on Evelyn Creek, named by the explorer Charles Sturt after his wife in 1844. Sturt and his group had been trapped at a waterhole they called Depot Glen nearby on Preservation Creek for seven months while they waited for rain.

Gold was found at Milparinka, which became the centre for the Albert Goldfields in the 1880s. Two other nearby gold towns, Albert and Mount Browne, were abandoned because of the lack of water. During the peak of the goldrush, Milparinka had a population of more than 3000 people. By 1893 most people had left. Today there are only a few buildings left, the hotel, the courthouse, police station, and the remains of the post office. 

The courthouse was built of local sandstone in 1896. The final court session was in 1921. The building has been restored and is used as a local museum.

[[Skin cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Skin cancer is the term that is used for all bad forms of growth of the skin. In everyday use, people often talk about melanoma, but there are other forms of skin cancer, too. These are usually named after the type of cell that grows uncontrollably. Most skin cancers develop in the epidermis. Very often a tumor can be seen, so it is often possible to detect skin cancer at an early stage. Very few people with skin cancer will die of the disease., though it can be disfiguring. Melanoma survival rates are poorer than for non-melanoma skin cancer, although when melanoma is diagnosed at an early stage, treatment is easier and more people survive.

Skin cancer is the most commonly diagnosed type of cancer. Melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancers combined are more common than lung, breast, colorectal, and prostate cancer. Melanoma is less common than both basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, but it is the most serious — for example, in the UK there were over 11,700 new cases of melanoma in 2008, and over 2,000 deaths. It is the second most common cancer in young adults aged 15–34 in the UK.  Most cases are caused by over-exposure to UV rays from the sun or sunbeds. 

Non-melanoma skin cancers are the most common skin cancers.  The majority of these are basal cell carcinomas.  These are usually small spot growths caused by too much exposure to the sun over time.  They do not usually spread, and rarely kill.

[[Jafri dialect]]

Jafri dialect is spoken in the Musakhel District of Balochistan province of Pakistan.

[[Yffiniac]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Yffiniac is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Moncontour, Côtes-d'Armor]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Moncontour is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Ploufragan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Ploufragan is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Beriberi]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Beriberi is a disease of the nervous system caused by a person not getting enough thiamine (vitamin B1) in the diet. Thiamine is needed to break down food such as glucose. It is also found on the membranes of neurons. Symptoms of beriberi include severe lethargy and tiredness. Beriberi may also cause problems that affect the cardiovascular system, the nervous system, muscles, and gastrointestinal systems. It is often found in people with a history of drinking too much alcohol or who don’t eat healthy. There are two kinds of beriberi, wet and dry. Wet beriberi mainly affects the cardiovascular system. Dry beriberi affects the nervous system. There is also a rare type of genetic beriberi. This disease is found in Asia. There, some people only eat white rice. This disease can make it hard for a person to do simple things. It can also cause muscles to get weaker. A person with beriberi may also have heart problems or even death. Most of the time, dry beriberi and wet beriberi take place at the same time in the same person. When this takes place, the victim is likely to only get the symptoms of one beriberi.

[[Île-de-Bréhat]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor, Islands of France

Île-de-Bréhat is an island and a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Pontrieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Pontrieux is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Uzel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Uzel is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Hugh Downs]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American journalists, American writers, American television news anchors, American movie actors, American radio actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television actors, American television presenters, American television personalities, American radio personalities, Writers from Akron, Ohio, Actors from Akron, Ohio

Hugh Malcolm Downs (February 14, 1921 – July 1, 2020) was an American radio and television broadcaster, announcer, television host, news anchor, TV producer, author, game show host, and music composer.

For many years, he held the Guinness World Record for the most hours on commercial network television, before Regis Philbin broke his record. 

Downs was announcer/sidekick for Tonight Starring Jack Paar from 1957 to 1962, co-host of the NBC News program Today from 1962 to 1971, host of the Concentration game show from 1958 to 1969, and anchor of the ABC News magazine 20/20 from 1978 to 1999. 

Downs was born in Akron, Ohio on February 14, 1921. His career would start in 1945 and since then he had appeared in over 100 television programs and guest star appearances, he retired in 1999. He was married to Ruth Shaheen from 1944 until her death in 2017. They had two children together. 

Downs died on July 1, 2020, in Scottsdale, Arizona from heart failure. He was 99.

[[Dodder]]

CATEGORIES: Convolvulaceae, Parasitic plants

The Dodder, Cuscuta, is a genus of about 100–170 species of parasitic flowering plants. 

Recent genetic research has shown that it is correctly placed in the morning glory family, Convolvulaceae. 

The genus is found throughout the temperate and tropical regions of the world. Most species live in subtropical and tropical regions. The genus is rare in cool temperate climates, with only four species native to northern Europe.

[[Kangaroo Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Australia, Geography of South Australia

Kangaroo Island is Australia's third-largest island after Tasmania and Melville Island. 

It is 112 southwest of Adelaide in the state of South Australia.

At its closest point to the mainland, it is 13 offshore from Cape Jervis.  

The island is 150 long and between 900 and 57 wide, its area covering 4405. Its coastline is 540 long and highest altitude is 307.

[[J. B. Priestley]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1984 deaths, English novelists, English playwrights, People from Bradford, Writers from Yorkshire

John Boynton Priestley OM (13 September 1894 – 14 August 1984)  was born in Bradford and died in Stratford-upon-Avon. He was an English novelist, playwright and broadcaster Generally, he is known as J.B. Priestley. He published 26 novels. His best-known works include The Good Companions (1929) and An Inspector Calls (1946) which were two of his many many creations including his characters. He also wrote social and literary criticism. 

[[Southampton Central railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England

Southampton Central railway station is the main train station in Southampton. It is served by First Great Western, South West Trains, CrossCountry & Southern.

It has services terminating for Portsmouth and Southsea, Great Malvern, London Waterloo, Newcastle and other services.

[[Saint-Quay-Portrieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Saint-Quay-Portrieux is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Langueux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Langueux is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Rostrenen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Rostrenen is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Communes of the Côte-d'Or department]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côte-d'Or, Lists of communes of France

The following is a list of the 707 communes of the Côte-d'Or ''département'' in France.

(CAD) Communauté d'agglomération Dijonnaise, created in 2000.

[[Arriva Trains Wales]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments in the United Kingdom, Birmingham, Rail transport in Wales, Train operating companies, 2000s establishments in Wales

Arriva Trains Wales (Trenau Arriva Cymru) was a train operating company, owned by Arriva, that operated passenger services in Wales and the Welsh Marches. Its busiest stations were Cardiff Central, Cardiff Queen Street and Newport. Other stations on their main line included: Shrewsbury, Crewe, Chester and Wrexham General.

[[List of companies operating trains in the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: British railway-related lists, Post-privatisation British railway companies

There are several companies operating trains in the United Kingdom. These include the operators of passenger services, which are, rather confusingly, officially referred to as "train operating companies" or TOCs, as distinct from "freight operating companies".  

[[Hugo Black]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1971 deaths, American judges, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, United States senators from Alabama, United States Supreme Court justices

Hugo LaFayette Black (February 27, 1886 – September 25, 1971) was an American judge and politician.  He was from Ashland, Alabama and studied law at the University of Alabama.  Black was poor as a child and lived simply for most of his life.  Black was in the Army during World War I.  In the 1920s, Black was a member of the Ku Klux Klan. Black was a member of the U.S. Senate from Alabama from 1927 to 1936 as a Democrat.  Black was a strong supporter of Franklin D. Roosevelt for President and his New Deal policies.  In 1937, Roosevelt put Black on the United States Supreme Court.  Black supported many New Deal organizations and programs which his fellow judges wanted to limit or strike down.  Black often believed in interpreting the Constitution exactly as it was written (textualism), against ideas both that judges had the power to re-interpret the meaning in accordance with their time, or that it could be taken as a general guideline that lawmakers should follow but also consider other interests. One prominent example is the First Amendment, which Black believed to literally protect any form of "freedom of speech" against a law that would "abridge" (meaning to hinder) it, or at least laws prohibiting certain opinions.  He also believed that the Fourteenth Amendment meant this applied to states as well as the federal government, and that states subsequently could not limit free speech and other constitutional liberties anymore than the federal government. For many years most jurists and judges had believed this. He also did not believe in the substantive due process doctrine, meaning that the Fourteenth Amendment secured certain implicit rights regarding privacy and so on, which were not written into the constitution but had to be made by judges as they went along. Black believed that, while the Constitution promised generous liberties, judges should never decide for themselves on which these liberties should be. (Because of this he also did not believe in things such as natural law, which he called "mysterious".) This contradiction is uncommon among later judges. He did not believe in a right to privacy, which is not expressed in the constitution, and voted against one in the case Griswold v. Connecticut. He did, famously, vote against segregation in Brown v. Board of Education (1954), an important case that began the desegregation of schools.  Black was the fifth longest-serving justice in American history. He served on the Court for 35 years, one of the very longest tenures, and was the last of president Roosevelt's appointees except William O. Douglas (who served 36 years, the longest).  Black died of a stroke in 1971, which happened two days after he chose to leave the Supreme Court. He is buried at Arlington National Cemetery.

One of the most famous judgments Black wrote is called Korematsu v. United States in 1944. In this case, the majority believed the imprisoning of civilian (non-military) Japanese Americans during World War II was just or at least acceptable, under the circumstances. This is one of the most controversial verdicts of the Supreme Court in its history and often seen as a stark contrast (meaning opposite) to what he stood for in most other cases. 

[[Abhar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran

Abhar is a  city in northwestern Iran. In the year 2006 there were 55,266 people living in there.

[[Colugo]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Asia

Colugos are gliding mammals in the order Dermoptera. 

There are two living species, found in south-east Asia. They are also called 'flying lemurs', though they are not lemurs (all lemurs are in Madagascar). They can glide long distances, as they have a thin membrane stretched to the ends of the tail and each limb. 

[[Main battle tank]]

CATEGORIES: Tanks

A main battle tank (MBT), also called a battle tank, is a tank that is used as the most powerful combat vehicle in modern armies. They were made to replace the light, medium and heavy tanks used in World War II with just one tank. Lighter armor made it easier to put bigger guns on tanks without adding weight. Light tanks are still used in places where heavy ones cannot go.

MBT's are the main force in ground fights but get help from other combat vehicles and soldiers who travel in infantry combat vehicles. They also get help from observation or attack aircraft.

[[Swami Vivekananda]]

CATEGORIES: 1863 births, 1902 deaths, Hindus

Vivekananda (Shami Bibekānondo) (January 12, 1863–July 4, 1902) was the chief disciple of Shri Ramakrishna Paramahamsa. At birth, he was called Narendranath Datta (Bengali: নরেন্দ্রনাথ দত্ত). He was the founder of Ramakrishna Mission. He introduced Hindu philosophies of Vedanta and Yoga in Europe and America. He brought Hinduism to the status of a major world religion during the end of the 19th century. Vivekananda is considered to be a major force in the revival of Hinduism in modern India. He is perhaps best known for his inspiring speech beginning with "Sisters and Brothers of America". Through this he introduced Hinduism at the Parliament of the World's Religions at Chicago in 1893.

[[Ashford Black Marble]]

CATEGORIES: Collections of Derby Museum and Art Gallery, Sedimentary rocks

Ashford Black Marble is a kind of dark limestone, which was mined from Ashford-in-the-Water, in Derbyshire, England. Once cut, turned and polished, its shiny black surface becomes very beautiful. Strictly speaking, Ashford Black Marble is not a marble formed by heat, but a smooth sedimentary rock, a hard mass of dusty minerals. To make art objects, Ashford Black Marble can be cut as materials of them and put together with other fine stones. Derby Museum has a diagram of Ecton Hill made from Ashford Black Marble and other minerals.

[[Tasmanian Wilderness]]

CATEGORIES: Tasmanian Wilderness

The Tasmanian Wilderness is a term that is used for a range of areas in Tasmania, Australia.

The World Heritage Areas in South West Tasmania, Western Tasmania and Central Highlands are the most well known.

However, there are also other wilderness areas in Tasmania, Tarkine and the Cradle mountain wilderness. There is also an organisation known as the Tasmanian Wilderness Society.

The World Heritage Area is one of the largest conservation areas in Australia, covering 13,800 km², or almost 20% of Tasmania. The area constitutes one of the last expanses of temperate wilderness in the world, including the renowned South West Wilderness. The area became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1982, and it was extended in 1989. It is important for both its natural value but also its cultural values as well.

Remains found in limestone caves show that humans have lived in the area for well over 20,000 years.

The Tasmanian Tiger was the largest Dasyuromorphia and the last living specimen of the family Thylacinidae. The last known specimen died in captivity in 1936.p77 The world's largest surviving carnivorous marsupial is the Tasmanian Devil; it is the size of a small dog and can hunt, although it is mainly a scavenger.p46 It became extinct on the mainland some 600 years ago, and is now found only in Tasmania.p69

[[Valeri Zelepukin]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Russian ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Edmonton Oilers players, New Jersey Devils players, Philadelphia Flyers players, American Hockey League players

Valeri Mikhailovich Zelepukin (born September 17, 1968 in Voskresensk, URS) is a Russian retired professional ice hockey left winger. He played a total of 11 seasons in the NHL; 7 with the New Jersey Devils, 1 with the Edmonton Oilers, 2 with the Philadelphia Flyers and 1 with the Chicago Blackhawks. He moved back to Russia in 2002 and retired. He won the Stanley Cup with the New Jersey Devils in 1995.

[[Mikhail Yakubov]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, American Hockey League players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Florida Panthers players, Living people, Red Deer Rebels players, Russian ice hockey players, Ice hockey centres

Mikhail Yakubov (born February 16, 1982 in Barnaul, Russian SFSR) is a retired Russian professional ice hockey centre. He played for the Severstal Cherepovets of the Kontinental Hockey League. Yakubov also played in the NHL for a total of 3 seasons; 2 with the Chicago Blackhawks and 1 with the Florida Panthers. He was drafted by the Chicago Blackhawks with the 10th overall pick in the 2000 NHL Draft.

[[Queen's Indian defence]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

The Queen's Indian defence is an important defence to 1.d4. It features a fianchetto of Black's QB.

It starts as follows:

[[Bronchiole]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the respiratory system

The bronchioles or bronchioli are a part of the lung. They are the first airway branches that no longer have cartilage. They are branches of the bronchi. The bronchioles end by entering the circular sacs called alveoli.

[[Full twisting layout]]

CATEGORIES: Gymnastics

A full twisting layout is a gymnastics tumble. The move is essentially a somersault but involves a full twist in the air. It can be performed tucked, piked or straight.

[[Master of Public Administration]]

CATEGORIES: Academic degrees

Master of Public Administration (usually abbreviated MPA) is a postgraduate academic master's degree given by universities. Usually, it is awarded for studies toward Administration in the Public sector and Non-profit organizations. Usually, Public policy is part of the study. Additionally, there may be studies of comparisons between countries.

It is usually required to start a doctorate in Public Administration.

[[Tanzanite]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones

Tanzanite is a blue-purple gemstone found in Tanzania, in the Mererani Hills near the city of Arusha and Mount Kilimanjaro. It is named after the country of Tanzania, where it is found. It is a kind of a mineral called zoisite. When it is first mined, tanzanite is usually a red-brown colour. It needs to be heated to 600 degrees Celsius in a special oven to bring out its purple colour.

[[Elephant shrew]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Africa, Mammals

The elephant shrew, also called sengi, are any of 16 species of rat-sized African mammals named for their long, tapered, and flexible snout (proboscis).  All have slim bodies, slender limbs, and very long hind legs and feet. Although they resemble shrews, they are not insectivores but constitute the mammalian order Macroscelidea.  Long thought to be related to shrews, they are actually more closely related to elephants than to shrews although this was not known or even widely believed until the 1990s.

[[Hyrax]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Africa, Mammals

Hyrax also called dassie is any of four species of fairly small, thickset, herbivorous mammals in the order Hyracoidea, any of six species of small hoofed mammal (ungulates) native to Africa and extreme southwestern Asia.

Hyraxes are well-furred rotund creatures with a short tail. Most measure between 30–70 cm long and weigh between 2–5 kg.  Hyraxes are mentioned in the Old Testament of the Bible and it is possible that the Hebrew word for hyrax (shafan) is the source of the name of present-day Spain.  Even though hyraxes are not native to Spain, rabbits are, and the theory states that early Hebrew explorers considered the rabbits to be a variety of hyrax.

[[Transposition]]

Transposition means to change places. It is a technical term in several disciplines:

[[Reto Von Arx]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, American Hockey League players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Living people, Swiss ice hockey players

Reto von Arx (born 13 September, 1976 in Egerkingen, Switzerland) is a Swiss professional ice hockey left winger that currently plays for the HC Davos of the Swiss National League A. von Arx also played in the NHL for 1 season with the Chicago Blackhawks and also for their farm team at the time, the Norfolk Admirals. He was drafted by the Chicago Blackhawks with the 271st overall pick in the 2000 NHL Draft.

[[René Bourque]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, First Nations people, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Calgary Flames players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Montreal Canadiens players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, American Hockey League players

René Gary Wayne Bourque (born December 10, 1981 in Lac La Biche, Alberta) is a Canadian ice hockey left winger. He currently plays for the Montreal Canadiens of the National Hockey League (NHL). Bourque also played for the Chicago Blackhawks for 3 seasons before being traded to the Calgary Flames for a second round selection at the 2009 NHL Entry Draft. Bourque is Native American and he helps out in many charities that help the Native American people in Alberta. He also started a charity called Bourque's Buddies which rewards children from the Tsuu T'ina Nation who have made positive contributions in their schools with tickets to Calgary Flames games. Bourque was traded to the Montreal Canadiens for Micheal Cammalleri.

[[Absorption]]

CATEGORIES: Physical chemistry

Absorption is a condition in which something takes in another substance. It is a physical or chemical phenomenon or  process, in which atoms, molecules, or ions enter in the inner part (called "bulk") of a gas, liquid, or solid material. 

This is a different process from adsorption. Molecules undergoing absorption are going deep into the volume of the material, instead in the case of adsorption molecules stop at the surface of the material. A more general term is sorption, which covers absorption, adsorption, and ion exchange.

Other meanings of "absorption" are:

[[Hillion]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Hillion is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Plouha]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Plouha is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Saint-Cast-le-Guildo]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Saint-Cast-le-Guildo is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Tréguier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Tréguier is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Fréhel, Côtes-d'Armor]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Fréhel is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Lézardrieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Lézardrieux is a commune. It is found in the Bretagne region in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[Noyal]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Côtes-d'Armor

Noyal is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.

[[San Antonio Rampage]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Arizona Coyotes, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Sports in San Antonio, Texas, 2002 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Texas

The San Antonio Rampage are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2002. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Phoenix Coyotes of the NHL. They play their home games in San Antonio, Texas at the AT&T Center. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Las Vegas Wranglers.

[[Worcester Sharks]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, San Jose Sharks, Worcester, Massachusetts, 2006 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Massachusetts

The Worcester Sharks are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2006. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the San Jose Sharks of the NHL. They play their home games in Worcester, Massachusetts at the DCU Center. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Stockton Thunder.

[[Syracuse Crunch]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Anaheim Ducks, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Syracuse, New York, 1994 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in New York (state)

The Syracuse Crunch are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1994. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Anaheim Ducks of the NHL. They play their home games in Syracuse, New York at the War Memorial at Oncenter. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Elmira Jackals.

[[Toronto Marlies]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in Ontario, Toronto Maple Leafs, 2005 establishments in Canada

The Toronto Marlies are a Canadian professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2005. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Toronto Maple Leafs of the NHL. They play their home games in Toronto, Ontario at the Ricoh Coliseum. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Reading Royals.

[[Portland Pirates]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Portland, Maine, 1993 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Maine, 2016 disestablishments in the United States

The Portland Pirates were an American professional ice hockey team that played from 1993 to 2016. Throughout this time, they played in the American Hockey League (AHL) and were the farm team of the Buffalo Sabres of the NHL. They played their home games in Portland, Maine at the Cumberland County Civic Center, and won one Calder Cup which was in 1993.

The team left Portland after the 2015–16 season when it was bought by a group from Springfield, Massachusetts. That city had lost its AHL team, the Springfield Falcons, when the team was bought by the owners of the NHL's Arizona Coyotes and moved to Tucson, Arizona, where it now plays as the Tucson Roadrunners. The former Pirates team now plays as the Springfield Thunderbirds.

[[Houston Aeros]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Minnesota Wild, Sports in Houston, Texas, 1994 establishments in Texas, 2013 disestablishments in the United States, 21st-century disestablishments in Texas

The Houston Aeros were an American professional ice hockey team that played from 1994 to 2013 in the American Hockey League. They played in Houston, Texas at the Toyota Center.

On April 19, 2013, it was announced that the team would move to Des Moines, Iowa at the beginning of the 2013–14 AHL season and would be known as the Iowa Wild.

[[Boxing gloves]]

CATEGORIES: Boxing

Boxing gloves are giant gloves that boxers wear when fighting. These gloves are used to protect a boxer's hand. Boxing gloves are normally eight to ten ounces in weight. Boxing gloves are used in most forms of boxing. "Bare knuckle boxing" means fighting without wearing gloves.

[[Mamata Banerjee]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Indian politicians

Mamata Banerjee (মমতা বন্দ্যোপাধ্যায়) (born 5 January 1955) is the current Chief Minister of the Indian state of West Bengal. She is the first woman Chief Minister of the state. She is also the founder and chairperson of the Trinamool Congress. Mamata Banerjee is also the Minister for Home, Health and Family Welfare, Land and Land Reforms, Information and Cultural Affairs, Hill Affairs, Minority Affairs and Madrassah Education, Agriculture, Power and Personnel and Administrative Reforms departments. She is a good orator. Her followers call her "Didi" (meaning the elder sister).

Mamata Banerjee has defeated the 34-year-old the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Front government in West Bengal. That government was the world's longest-serving democratically-elected communist government.

In the past, she was the Minister of Railways twice, Minister of Coal once, and Minister of State for Human Resource Development, Department of Youth Affairs and Sports and Women and Child Development once in the cabinet of the Government of India.

[[SK Admira Wien]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Vienna

SK Admira Wien is a former football club from Vienna, Austria. It was founded in 1905 by a fusion of the  two clubs „Burschenschaft Einigkeit“ and„Sportklub Vindobona“ which also played in the Jedelsee area of Vienna. The club existed till 1971 when he was merged with  Sportclub Wacker Wien to FC Admira/Wacker.

The most successful aera of the club was in the years between 1926 and 1939 when the club reached seven Austrian national titles and  three Cups. During Nazi occupation of Austria they played in the Gauliga Ostmark. After the Second World War they only reached one title in 1966 and three cup victories. In 1971 the club merged with Wacker Wien and was renamed Admira/Wacker. After financial problems  1997 VFB Mödling and Admira Wacker merges.

[[Maria Amalia of Saxony]]

CATEGORIES: House of Wettin, 1724 births, 1760 deaths, Deaths from tuberculosis, Spanish House of Bourbon, Kings and Queens consort of Spain

Maria Amalia of Saxony (24 November 1724 – 27 September 1760) was a Duchess of Saxony of the House of Wettin and wife of Charles III of Spain. Married to the then King of Naples, at the death of her brother in law Ferdinand VI of Spain, she became the queen of Spain. A cultured woman, she left a considerable architectural legacy in her adopted countries. She was also one of the shortest reigning queen consorts in Spanish history. 

[[Maria Luisa of Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Holy Roman Empresses consort, Spanish House of Bourbon, 1745 births, 1792 deaths, Princes and princesses, Spanish infantes and infantas, Grand Duchesses of Tuscany, Habsburg Dynasty, House of Habsburg-Lorraine, Counts and countesses of Flanders, People from Campania, Bourbons of Naples and Sicily

Maria Luísa of Spain (24 November 1745 – 15 May 1792) was Holy Roman Empress, German Queen, Queen of Bohemia and Hungary as the spouse of Leopold II, Holy Roman Emperor. 

[[The Seafarers]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Stanley Kubrick, English-language movies

The Seafarers is a short movie directed by Stanley Kubrick. It was released in 1953.

[[Spartacus (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 drama movies, Academy Award winning movies, American drama movies, American epic movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Historical movies, Movies set in Ancient Rome, Movies directed by Stanley Kubrick, Movies based on books, English-language movies, Universal Pictures movies

Spartacus is a 1960 American epic historical drama movie directed by Stanley Kubrick and based on the novel of the same name by Howard Fast. The life story of the historical figure Spartacus and the events of the Third Servile War were adapted by Dalton Trumbo as a screenplay.

The movie stars Kirk Douglas as rebellious slave Spartacus and Laurence Olivier as his foe, the Roman general and politician Marcus Licinius Crassus. Co-starring are Peter Ustinov (who won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as slave trader Lentulus Batiatus), John Gavin (as Julius Caesar), Jean Simmons, Charles Laughton, John Ireland, Herbert Lom, Woody Strode, Tony Curtis, John Dall and Charles McGraw. The movie won four Oscars in all.

The titles were designed by Saul Bass.

Anthony Mann, the film's original director, was replaced by Douglas with Kubrick after the first week of shooting.

[[Archduchess Maria Clementina of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: 1777 births, 1801 deaths, Deaths from lung disease, People from Florence, House of Habsburg-Lorraine, House of Bourbon, Tuscan princes and princesses

Maria Clementina of Austria (24 April 1777 – 15 November 1801) was an Austrian archduchess and the tenth child and third daughter of Leopold I, Grand Duke of Tuscany and Maria Luisa of Spain. She was the mother of the famous duchesse de Berry.

[[Paparazzi (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, 2009 songs, Lady Gaga songs, Dance-pop songs

"Paparazzi" is a song by American pop singer Lady Gaga from her first album, The Fame (2008). It was released digitally in Ireland and United Kingdom on July 6, 2009 as the last single from the album. It is about a stalker who follows someone to become famous. The music video is eight minutes long.

The song managed to reach number one in Germany; the top five in Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and the UK; and the top ten in the US.  It became Gaga's fourth consecutive number-one song on Billboard's Pop Songs airplay chart. On February 29, 2016, the Recording Industry Association of America certified "Paparazzi" 4× Platinum for sales and streams equal to four million copies in the United States.Cn

[[Chaudière-Appalaches]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Quebec

Chaudière-Appalaches is region of Quebec, Canada. It is named for the Chaudière River and the Appalachian Mountains.

According to the Canadian 2006 census 393,669 people live in Chaudière-Appalaches. It also has an area of 15,078.67. Its main cities are Lévis, Saint-Georges, Thetford Mines, Sainte-Marie and Montmagny.

[[Providence Bruins]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Boston Bruins, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Providence, Rhode Island, 1992 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Rhode Island

The Providence Bruins are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1992. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Boston Bruins of the NHL. They play their home games in Providence, Rhode Island at the Dunkin' Donuts Center. They have won 1 Calder Cup which was in 1998.

[[Springfield Falcons]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Columbus Blue Jackets, Ice hockey teams in the United States

The Springfield Falcons are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1994. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Columbus Blue Jackets of the NHL. They play their home games in Springfield, Massachusetts at the MassMutual Center. Their CHL affiliate team is the Fort Wayne Komets.

[[Binghamton Senators]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Ottawa Senators

The Binghamton Senators are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2002. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Ottawa Senators of the NHL. They play their home games in Binghamton, New York at the Broome County Veterans Memorial Arena. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Elmira Jackals.

[[Rochester Americans]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Rochester, New York, 1956 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in New York (state)

The Rochester Americans are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1956. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Buffalo Sabres of the NHL. They play their home games in Rochester, New York at the Blue Cross Arena at the War Memorial. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Cincinnati Cyclones. The team is sometimes called the "Amerks" for short. The team has won 6 Calder Cups.

[[Texas Stars]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Dallas Stars, Ice hockey teams in the United States, 2009 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Texas

The Texas Stars are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2009. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Dallas Stars of the NHL. They play their home games in Cedar Park, Texas at the Cedar Park Center. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Idaho Steelheads and their CHL affiliate team is the Allen Americans.

[[Peoria Rivermen]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Defunct American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, St. Louis Blues, 2005 establishments in Illinois, 2013 disestablishments in the United States, 21st-century disestablishments in Illinois

The Peoria Rivermen were an American professional ice hockey team that played in the American Hockey League from 2005 to 2013. They play in Peoria, Illinois at the Carver Arena.

The AHL announced that on June 14, 2013 the Rivermen franchise would relocate to Utica, New York and be known as the Utica Comets for the 2013-14 AHL season.

[[Cleveland Monsters]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Columbus Blue Jackets, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Sports in Cleveland, Ohio, 2007 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Ohio

The Cleveland Monsters, known before the 2016–17 season as the Lake Erie Monsters, are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2007. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Columbus Blue Jackets of the NHL. They play their home games in Cleveland, Ohio at the Quicken Loans Arena.

[[Interquartile range]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

In statistics, the interquartile range (IQR) is a number that indicates how spread out the data are, and tells us what the range is in the middle of a set of scores. 

The interquartile range IQR is defined as:

The interquartile range is not sensitive to outliers (scores that are much higher or much lower than the other scores). In fact, it eliminates them.

[[Amami rabbit]]

CATEGORIES: Lagomorphs, Mammals of Asia, Animals of Japan

The Amami Rabbit (Pentalagus furnessi; Amami: ʔosagi) also known as the Ryukyu Rabbit, is a primitive dark-furred rabbit which is only found in Amami Ōshima and Toku-no-Shima, two small islands in between southern Kyūshū and Okinawa in Kagoshima Prefecture in Japan. Often called a living fossil, the Amami Rabbit is a living remnant of ancient rabbits that once lived on the Asian mainland, where they died out, remaining only on the two small islands where they survive today.

[[Albany Devils]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments in the United States, 2010s establishments in New York (state), Albany, New York, American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, New Jersey Devils

The Albany Devils are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2010. Right now, they play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the New Jersey Devils of the NHL. They play their home games in Albany, New York at the Times Union Center and sometimes at the Boardwalk Hall. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Trenton Devils.

[[Abbotsford Heat]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 disestablishments in North America, American Hockey League teams, Calgary Flames, Defunct American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in British Columbia, 2009 establishments in the United States

The Abbotsford Heat were a Canadian professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2009. They played for 5 seasons in the American Hockey League and were the farm team of the Calgary Flames of the NHL. They played their home games in Abbotsford, British Columbia at the Abbotsford Entertainment & Sports Centre. 

The team struggled with financial problems and had low attendance near the end. The city of Abbotsford terminated their contract with the Heat on April 15, 2014. On May 5, 2014, The AHL's Board of Governors said at their spring meeting in Chicago that they had approved the relocation of the team to Glens Falls, New York for the 2014-15 AHL season.

[[ECHL]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League, Ice hockey leagues in Canada, Ice hockey leagues in the United States, 1988 establishments in the United States

The ECHL (formerly East Coast Hockey League) is a professional ice hockey league based in the United States and is considered a lower tier than the American Hockey League. 

[[Grand Rapids Griffins]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Detroit Red Wings, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Grand Rapids, Michigan, 1996 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Michigan

The Grand Rapids Griffins are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1996 in the IHL. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Detroit Red Wings of the NHL. They play their home games in Grand Rapids, Michigan at the Van Andel Arena. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Toledo Walleye.

[[Hamilton Bulldogs]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in Ontario, Montreal Canadiens, Sport in Hamilton

The Hamilton Bulldogs are a Canadian professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1996. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Montreal Canadiens of the NHL. They play their home games in Hamilton, Ontario at the Copps Coliseum which is nicknamed "The Dog Pound". Their ECHL affiliate team is the Wheeling Nailers.

[[Chicago Wolves]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Vegas Golden Knights, 1994 establishments in Illinois

The Chicago Wolves are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1994. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Vegas Golden Knights of the NHL. They play their home games in Rosemont, Illinois at the Allstate Arena. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Gwinnett Gladiators.

[[Oklahoma City Barons]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, 2010 establishments in the United States, 21st-century establishments in Oklahoma

The Oklahoma City Barons are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2010. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Edmonton Oilers of the NHL. They play their home games in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma at the Cox Convention Center. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Stockton Thunder.

[[Milwaukee Admirals]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Nashville Predators, Sports in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 2001 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Tennessee

The Milwaukee Admirals are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2001. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Nashville Predators of the NHL. They play their home games in Milwaukee, Wisconsin at UW–Milwaukee Panther Arena. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Cincinnati Cyclones.

[[Adirondack Phantoms]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Philadelphia Flyers, 2009 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Pennsylvania

The Adirondack Phantoms are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2009. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Philadelphia Flyers of the NHL. They play their home games in Glens Falls, New York at the Glens Falls Civic Center. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Greenville Road Warriors.

[[Charlotte Checkers (2010–)]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Carolina Hurricanes, Sports in Charlotte, North Carolina, 2010 establishments in the United States, 21st-century establishments in North Carolina

The Charlotte Checkers are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2010. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Carolina Hurricanes of the NHL. They play their home games in Charlotte, North Carolina at Bojangles' Coliseum. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Florida Everblades. The team was originally an ECHL team but the new owner Michael Kahn relinquished the ECHL franchise and relocated the Albany River Rats to Charlotte to beccome the Charlotte Checkers.

[[Norfolk Admirals]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Tampa Bay Lightning, Norfolk, Virginia, 2000 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Virginia

The Norfolk Admirals are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 2000. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Tampa Bay Lightning of the NHL. They play their home games in Norfolk, Virginia at the Norfolk Scope. Their ECHL affiliate team is the Florida Everblades.

[[Hershey Bears]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Washington Capitals, 1938 establishments in the United States, 1930s establishments in Pennsylvania

The Hershey Bears are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1938 which makes them the longest-existing team in the AHL. They currently play in the American Hockey League and are the farm team of the Washington Capitals of the NHL. They play their home games in Hershey, Pennsylvania at the Giant Center. Their ECHL affiliate team is the South Carolina Stingrays. The Bears have won a total of 11 Calder Cups.

[[Social Security (United States)]]

CATEGORIES: Taxation, Welfare economics

In the United States, Social Security is the term for the federal Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) program. That program is run by the Social Security Administration. The original Social Security Act was signed into law by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1935. The current version of the Act, as amended, involves many social welfare and social insurance programs.

Social Security gets its money through payroll taxes. Those taxes are called Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax (FICA) or Self Employed Contributions Act Tax (SECA). Tax deposits are collected by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Almost all salaried income, up to an certain amount set by law (see tax rate table below), is taxed by the Social Security payroll tax. All income over the set amount is not taxed. In 2019, the maximum amount of taxable money is $132,900.

In 2017, Social Security spent $806.7 billion for OASDI and $145.8 billion for DI.

[[Duffield Castle, Derbyshire]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in England, History of England, 12th century disestablishments in Europe, 1173 disestablishments, 1269 disestablishments

Duffield Castle was a Norman Castle in Duffield, Derbyshire. The site is a Scheduled Ancient Monument.

The rocky site was easy to defend, because it was surrounded by the river in three sides and hard to climb. It is not clear whether the site was inhabited in prehistoric times. The Roman army might have been there to protect the ford nearby where people from Lutudarum Wirksworth passed before joining Rykneld Street at Derventio (now part of Derby) which was N-shaped route for the North Sea ports.

Ancient items of Anglo-Saxons have been found there. They suggest that Saxon Thane named Siward or his relatives might have occupied the site. Also, many Roman or Romano-British pottery has been found, including roof tiles of Roman pattern. Some of them were kept in the Derby Museum, but others kept in the Parish Room were unfortunately lost.

[[Emme]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Models from Manhattan

Melissa Aronson (born 1963 in New York, New York), better known as Emme, is an American plus-size supermodel. She is one of the leading plus-sized models in the profession, as well as its highest earner.

[[Casquets]]

CATEGORIES: Alderney, Uninhabited islands of the Bailiwick of Guernsey

Les Casquets or (The) Casquets (49) is a group of rocks 13 kilometres (8.08 mi) northwest of Alderney and are part of an underwater sandstone ridge. Other parts which emerge above the water are the islets of Burhou and Ortac. Little grows on them.

[[Maria Francisca of Savoy]]

CATEGORIES: 1646 births, 1683 deaths, House of Braganza, Kings and Queens consort of Portugal, Princes and Princesses of Savoy

Maria Francisca of Savoy (Marie Françoise Élisabeth; 21 June 1646 – 27 December 1683) was a Princess of Savoy and the Queen consort of Portugal twice as the wife of Afonso VI and his brother Peter II.

[[Distrito Federal]]

Distrito Federal may mean:

[[SV Grödig]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs of Salzburg

SV Grödig is an Austrian football club from Grödig near Salzburg, Austria . The team plays  in the Austrian First League, the second highest league in Austrian football.

[[USG Ardagger/Neustadtl]]

CATEGORIES: Women's football in Austria, Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Lower Austria

The USG Ardagger/Neustadtl is a women's soccer team from Lower Austria. It is formed out of the two clubs SCU Ardagger and SV Neustadtl. The club is playing in the ÖFB-Frauenliga, the highest level in Austrian women's soccer. 

The club was founded in 1996 and started playing 1996/97  in the Lower Austria Women league. The next year they were promoted to the second women league (East division). In 2001/02 they won the league and were promoted to the ÖFB-Frauenliga where they still are.

[[Psycho (1960 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 movies, 1960s crime movies, 1960s horror movies, 1960s thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, American horror thriller movies, American mystery movies, American serial killer movies, Cross-dressing in movies, Dissociative identity disorder in movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies composed by Bernard Herrmann, Movies directed by Alfred Hitchcock, Movies set in Arizona, Movies set in California, Phoenix, Arizona in fiction, United States National Film Registry movies

Psycho is a 1960 American slasher movie directed by Alfred Hitchcock. It is set in Arizona and California. It is considered to be one of the first modern horror films since modern horror began in the 1960s.

[[Slasher movie]]

CATEGORIES: Horror movies

A slasher movie  is a horror or thriller movie in which there is a killer hunting after a group of people, picking them off one by one. Often the killer has a powerful weapon, is crazy or insane, and is either unstoppable or cannot die. Common examples of slashers include: A Nightmare on Elm Street, Friday the 13th (1980 movie), Halloween (franchise) and Psycho (movie). Stephen King has written several slasher movies.

[[Silent movie]]

CATEGORIES: Technology, Silent movies

A silent movie is a movie made without sound. Silent movies were made from the late 1880s to the early 1930s. They used early cameras that could not record sound.  Either the movie was being made before sound cameras were invented, or the movie makers could not afford the expensive new equipment. 

Charlie Chaplin was known as one of the best movie stars during "The Silent Era", as it's called today in movie history.  Some silent stars also did well in sound movies.  Popular silent movies include Nosferatu: A Symphony of Terror, A Trip to the Moon, The General, and Metropolis.

[[Bernard Greenhouse]]

CATEGORIES: American cellists, Musicians from New Jersey, 1916 births, 2011 deaths

Bernard Greenhouse (born January 3, 1916; died May 13, 2011) was an American cellist.  He was particularly famous for playing chamber music and was one of the original members of the Beaux Arts Trio (a group of three musicians: a pianist, violinist and cellist).

[[Beaux Arts Trio]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups

The Beaux Arts Trio was a famous piano trio. The three musicians (a violinist, cellist and pianist first performed together in public on 13 July  1955 at the Berkshire Music Festival, known today as the Tanglewood Music Center. Their last American concert was held at Tanglewood on 21 August 2008.  Their last concert was in Lucerne, Switzerland on 6 September  2008.

The Beaux Arts Trio made many recordings including all the well-known works for piano, violin and cello.

When the trio started its members were:

The pianist was Menahem Pressler during its whole existence.

There were several changes of violinist:

After Daniel Guilet left they were: Isidore Cohen (1968~), Ida Kavafian (1992~), Yung Uck Kim (1998~), Daniel Hope (2002~)

Bernard Greenhouse stayed with the group until 1987.  After that the cellists were Peter Wiley (1987~), Antonio Meneses (1998~)

[[Todo Noticias]]

CATEGORIES: Television networks

Todo Noticias, also known as TN is an Argentine TV news channel. It belongs to Grupo Clarín since 1993, when it was launched. Débora Pérez Volpin was the known reporter for the channel from 2005 until her retirement in 2017.

[[Margravine Johanna of Baden-Baden]]

CATEGORIES: 1704 births, 1726 deaths, House of Orléans, Dukes and Duchesses of Orléans, Deaths in childbirth

Auguste of Baden-Baden (Auguste Marie Johanna; 10 November 1704 – 8 August 1726) was born a Margravine of Baden-Baden, she was the Duchess of Orléans by marriage to Louis d'Orléans, Duke of Orléans. Her husband was a grandson of her father's former enemy Louis XIV of France. Known in France as Jeanne or Auguste de Bade, she died in childbirth. She is an ancestor of Louis Philippe I and of several members of royal families of Europe such as the Spanish and Italian as well as the present Grand Duke of Luxemburg.

[[Emme river]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Switzerland

The Emme is a river in Switzerland. The Emmental, meaning, valley of the Emme is named after it.

[[The Mike Douglas Show]]

CATEGORIES: American television talk shows, Emmy Award winning programs, 1960s television series debuts, 1980s television series endings, English-language television programs

The Mike Douglas Show was an American daytime television talk show. The host Mike Douglas. The show was broadcast in syndication from 1961 to 1982. Westinghouse Broadcasting distributed the show. Many of the programs were made in studios of two of the company's TV stations.

[[Rotonda West, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Florida

Rotonda West is a place in Charlotte County, Florida, United States. The population was 6,574 at the 2000 census.

[[Reaction Agostini]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

Reaction Agostini is the name of a simplified examination for the presence of glucose in human urine.

The method consists of preparing a solution of sodium chloride and potassium oxide, adding the urine to be investigated. If there is glucose present, the solution becomes red.

[[The Troubles]]

CATEGORIES: The Troubles

The Troubles (Na Trioblóidí) was a guerrilla/nationalist conflict in Northern Ireland during the late 20th century.

It is also known as the Northern Ireland conflict, it is sometimes described as an "irregular war" or "low-level war".

The conflict began in the late 1960s and many said it ended with the Good Friday Agreement of 1998. Although the Troubles primarily took place in Northern Ireland, at times the violence spilled over into parts of the Republic of Ireland, England, and mainland Europe.

A key issue was the state of Northern Ireland. Unionists/loyalists (most of whom were Protestants) wanted Northern Ireland to remain within the United Kingdom. Irish nationalists/republicans (most of whom were Catholics) wanted Northern Ireland to leave the United Kingdom and join a United Ireland.July 2019

More than 3,500 people were killed in the conflict. Of those: 52% were civilians, 32% were members of the British security forces, and 16% were members of paramilitary groups.

