[[Eriswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Eriswil is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Secunderabad]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Telangana

Secunderabad is a city in the state of Telangana, India. It is popularly called the twin city of Hyderabad.

[[Erlach, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Erlach (Cerlier) is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Erlenbach im Simmental]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Erlenbach im Simmental is a municipality of the administrative district Frutigen-Niedersimmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Ersigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Ersigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2016 the former municipalities of Oberösch and Niederösch merged into the municipality of Ersigen.

[[Thrombolite]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Bacteria, Sedimentary rocks

Thrombolites are ancient types of microbial communities that photosynthesize. They are similar to stromatolites, but they are formed differently.

Stromatolites are clearly layered, but thrombolites are not. They are "clotted accretionary structures". They formed in shallow water by the trapping, holding, and cementing sedimentary grains by microorganisms, especially cyanobacteria. They were common in the Cambrian and early Ordovician, and few examples still exist today.

[[Eschert]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Eschert is a municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Etzelkofen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Etzelkofen was a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne,

Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Etzelkofen, Büren zum Hof, Grafenried, Limpach, Mülchi, Schalunen and Zauggenried merged into the municipality of Fraubrunnen.

[[Free-Stater (Kansas)]]

CATEGORIES: Political movements, 1850s in Kansas, Bleeding Kansas

Free-Staters were those settlers in Kansas Territory during the Bleeding Kansas era in the 1850s who opposed the extension of slavery to Kansas. The name came from the term "free state". This meant a U.S. state without slavery.

Some Free-Staters were abolitionists from New England. Other Free-Staters were abolitionists who came to Kansas Territory from Ohio, Iowa, and other midwestern states. However, the majority of Free-Staters, regardless of where they were from, did not claim to be abolitionists at the beginning.  Instead, the official Free-State line supported the idea of excluding all Black people from the state of Kansas. While they didn't have slaves themselves most were prejudiced against black people believing the popular idea they were inferior. Most of the settlers seemed to want free soil for white people only.

Pro-slavery Southerners in Kansas Territory said all Free-Staters were abolitionists. This was in order to motivate the South's opposition. However, Eli Thayer and other New England Company leaders denied that they were seeking to abolish slavery. Also, the failed Topeka Constitution drafted by the Free-Staters in 1855 would have excluded any black person from settling in Kansas. This is whether they were slaves or free. In contrast, abolitionists wanted equal rights for all blacks and to end discrimination against them.

As time passed and the violence in Bleeding Kansas increased, abolitionists became associated with the Free-State movement. In 1858, the Free-Staters proposed a second constitution, the Leavenworth Constitution, which banned slavery and also would have given the right to vote to black men. This constitution also failed because of unresolved conflict between the two sides. Kansas became a state in 1861 after the fourth and final Wyandotte Constitution was agreed on.  Holton, Kansas was named for the Milwaukee, Wisconsin free-stater Edward Dwight Holton.

[[Evilard]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Evilard is a municipality in the administrative district Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Lucca Borges de Brito]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Lucca Borges de Brito (born 14 February 1990), simply known as Lucca, is a Brazilian footballer. He plays for Corinthians. Lucca is known for his playmaking ability, his excellent technical ability, vision and set pieces.

[[Fahrni]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Fahrni is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Farnern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Farnern is a municipality of the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Graziano Pellè]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Italian footballers, People from Apulia, UEFA Euro 2016 players

Graziano Pellè (born 15 July 1985 in San Cesario di Lecce, Italy) is an Italian association football forward who currently plays for the English club Southampton and the Italian national football team. He has also played for U.S. Lecce, Calcio Catania, Crotone, Cesena, AZ Alkmaar, Parma Football Club SpA, U.C. Sampdoria and Feyenoord. He won the Eredivisie with AZ Alkmaar in 2009 and was Premier League Player of the Month in September of 2014.

[[Omar Mateen]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, 2016 deaths, American Muslims, American spree killers, American terrorists, Criminals from New York City, Deaths by firearm in Florida, Islamic State people, People from Florida

Omar Mir Seddique Mateen (November 16, 1986 – June 12, 2016) was an American mass shooter/mass murderer. He killed at least 49 people and wounded 53 others in a mass shooting at a gay bar in Orlando, Florida. He was killed in a gunfight with the police. It was the largest and deadliest act of violence targeting LGBT people in United States history.

Mateen was born in New York to Afghan parents. He moved to Port St. Lucie, Florida in 1991.

Before the shooting, he had been investigated by the FBI in 2013 and 2014. Mateen reportedly pledged his allegiance to the Sunni militant jihadist group Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) before the shooting.

[[Bogdan Stancu]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Romanian footballers, UEFA Euro 2016 players

Bogdan Sorin Stancu (born on 28 June 1987 in Pitești, Romania) is a Romanian association football forward and left winger who currently plays for the Turkish club Gençlerbirliği and the Romania national football team. His nickname is Motanul (meaning Tomcat). He also previously played for Argeș Pitești, CS Mioveni, Unirea Urziceni, Steaua București, Galatasaray and Orduspor.

[[Farhiyo Farah Ibrahim]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Somalia, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Human rights activists

Farhiyo Farah Ibrahim (Arabic language: فرحيو فرح إبراهيم) is a Somali refugee and women’s rights activist.  She fights against female genital mutilation and forced marriage in the Dadaab refugee camp in north-east Kenya. In 2008, she received the International Women of Courage Award.

In 2002 Farah went to work for the National Council of Churches in Kenya, teaching people about reproductive health. After she was attacked, she took a job as an interpreter in Dadaab.

In 2005 Farah went to a leadership program in the town of Naivasha in Western Kenya.  Then she worked for CARE, giving people information about reproductive health.  CARE is an international NGO that helps refugees.  

[[The Carsey-Werner Company]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States, 1981 establishments in the United States

The Carsey-Werner Company (also called Carsey-Werner Productions or Carsey-Werner Television) is an independent television company. It was founded in 1981 by former ABC writer and producer duo Marcy Carsey and Tom Werner.

The company is responsible forJune 2016 television sitcoms, such as Roseanne, A Different World, The Cosby Show, Grace Under Fire and That '70s Show.

Carsey-Werner was sold to NBC Universal in 2007.

[[Ge with upturn]]

Geh with upturn (Ґ, ґ) is the fifth letter of the Ukrainian alphabet. It can also be used in the Belarusian language. This letter means the sound g in both languages, "Г" meaning the sound h. Firstly this letter appeared in the middle of the 19th century.

[[Serious (Gwen Stefani song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 songs, Gwen Stefani songs, Dance-pop songs, New wave, R&B songs

"Serious" is a song by American singer and songwriter Gwen Stefani from her debut solo studio album, Love. Angel. Music. Baby. (2004). The track was written by Stefani and her Doubt bandmate, Tony Kanal. Kanal also produced the song with Mark "Spike" Stent. Serious had been compared to Madonna's early music by Enrique Peña Nieto.

[[Pasophae]]

CATEGORIES: People in Greek mythology

Pasophae, also spelt Pasiphaë, is a character in Greek mythology. She is the daughter of the sun god, Helios and the wife of King Minos. She was the mother of many of Minos' children. They included Ariadne and her brother Androgeos, who was killed by the Athenians. She also had an affair with a prized bull her husband had refused to sacrifice to Poseidon. The offspring of Pasophae and the bull was the Minotaur, which was eventually killed by Theseus.

[[Long Way to Go (Gwen Stefani and André 3000 song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 songs, Gwen Stefani songs, Hip hop songs, Electro songs, R&B songs

"Long Way to Go" is a song by American singer-songwriter Gwen Stefani with American rapper André 3000. The song appears as the closing track on Stefani's debut studio album, Love. Angel. Music. Baby. (2004). It was released on November 23, 2004 by Interscope Records. The track was written by both Stefani and 3000. The song also includes a sample from Martin Luther King, Jr.'s 1963 "I Have a Dream" speech.

[[Ferenbalm]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Ferenbalm (Les Baumettes) is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Forst, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern, Villages in Bern

Forst is a village in the canton of Bern, Switzerland. The former municipality of the district of Thun merged with Längenbühl on January 1, 2007 to form Forst-Längenbühl.

[[Forst-Längenbühl]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s establishments in Switzerland, 2007 establishments in Europe, Municipalities of Bern

Forst-Längenbühl is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2007 the former municipalities of Forst and Längenbühl merged into the new municipality of Forst-Längenbühl.

[[Fraubrunnen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Fraubrunnen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Büren zum Hof, Etzelkofen, Grafenried, Limpach, Mülchi, Schalunen and Zauggenried merged into the municipality of Fraubrunnen.

[[Frauenkappelen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Frauenkappelen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Plains Indians]]

CATEGORIES: History of North America, Native American people

The Plains Indians were those tribes of Native Americans who lived on the Great Plains of North America. At the height of their cultures, their main source of food was the large herds of American bison. Hunting was not only the main activity of Plains Indians but was a central part of their religion.Their thinking and culture was formed from the natural environment they lived in. Up to the 1500s, tribes lived on the edges of the Great Plains. They were farmers and hunter-gatherers. From autumn to spring they raised crops. During the summers they went out onto the Great Plains to hunt bison on foot.

Juan de Oñate and other conquistadores brought horses, which changed the way the Plains Indians hunted. They quickly adapted to hunting bison on horseback as nomadic hunters. It began with the Apache who stole horses from the Spaniards. Horses also escaped into the wild. The Comanche soon followed and both tribes based their wealth and power on the horse. Horses were traded to or captured by other tribes and by the mid 1700s most Plains Indians had one or more horses. The next advance came from the British who brought guns to North America. The British also pushed many of the Eastern Woodlands tribes onto the Great Plains. After the 1850s, the horse culture of the Plains Indians ended as tribes were moved to Indian reservations.

[[Wind It Up (Gwen Stefani song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs, Gwen Stefani songs, Hip hop songs, R&B songs

"Wind It Up" is a song by American singer and songwriter Gwen Stefani. It was released on October 31, 2006 as the lead single from Stefani's second studio album "The Sweet Escape". The song contains a sample from "The Lonely Goatherd" which was originally from The Sound of Music.

[[Osage Nation]]

CATEGORIES: History of Native Americans, Native American people

The Osage are a Midwestern Native American tribe of Plains Indians who historically ruled much of Arkansas, Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas. The tribe formerly lived in the areas in the Ohio and Mississippi valleys around 1,200 BC. They then began migrating west due to wars with the invading Iroquois. The term "Osage" is considered a French name for the tribe which roughly translates into "Mid-Waters". The Osage people refer to themselves in their own language as Wazhazhe.

At the height of their power in the early 18th century, the Osage had become the dominant power in the region. They were feared by neighboring tribes as ruthless and "savage" fighters. The Osage would often practice ritual scalping and beheading as military trophies. The tribe controlled the area between the Missouri and Red River to the South and were greatly dependent on nomadic buffalo hunting and farming.

The 19th-century painter George Catlin described the Osage as:

The missionary Isaac McCoy described the Osage as an "uncommonly fierce, courageous, warlike nation", and Washington Irving said they were the "finest looking Indians I have ever seen in the West."

The Osage originally lived among the Kansa, Ponca, Omaha, and Quapaw in the Ohio Valley.  Researchers believed that the tribes likely developed differences in their languages and cultures after leaving the lower Ohio country. The Omaha and Ponca settled in the present-day area of Nebraska, the Kansa in Kansas, and the Quapaw in Arkansas.

The Osage are a federally recognized tribe. They were forced to move to Indian Territory in the 19th century, and have been based in Oklahoma. There are 9,400 descendants, 5,620 of which reside in area surrounding Osage county. Members live both on the nations tribal land in Oklahoma and in other states around the country such as Kansas.

[[Isenthal]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Uri

Isenthal is a municipality in the canton of Uri in Switzerland. It has an area of 60.79.

[[Shielding effect]]

CATEGORIES: Physical chemistry

Shielding is when an electron becomes less attracted to an atom the further it is away from the nucleus. This is because the forces holding atoms together become weaker as distance increases.

[[Ádám Szalai]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Hungarian footballers, Sportspeople from Budapest

Ádám Csaba Szalai (born 9 December 1987 in Budapest, Hungary) is a Hungarian association football forward who currently plays for Hannover 96 on loan from TSG 1899 Hoffenheim and the Hungarian national football team. He has also played for VfB Stuttgart, Real Madrid Castilla, 1. FSV Mainz 05, Schalke 04, Budapest Honvéd and Újpest.

[[Ackee]]

CATEGORIES: Fruits, Sapindaceae

The ackee, (Blighia sapida) is a fruit. It is related to the lychee and the longan. It is native to tropical West Africa. The scientific name honours Captain William Bligh who took the fruit from Jamaica to Kew Gardens, England in 1793.

The fruit was imported to Jamaica from West Africa before 1778.  Since then it has become a feature of various Caribbean cuisines, and is cultivated elsewhere in the world.

[[Atchison, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Atchison County, Kansas, County seats in Kansas, 1854 establishments in Kansas Territory, History of Kansas, Bleeding Kansas

Atchison is a city and county seat of Atchison County, Kansas, United States, and is along the Missouri River.  As of the 2010 census, its population was 11,021. The city is named for David Rice Atchison, United States senator from Missouri. It was the original eastern starting point of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway.  Aviator Amelia Earhart was born there. The Amelia Earhart Festival is held every year in July.  Atchison is also home of Benedictine College, a Catholic liberal-arts college.

[[Gadmen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Gadmen is a former municipality in the administrative district Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014, the former municipality of Gadmen merged into the municipality of Innertkirchen.

[[New York Tribune]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in New York City

The New-York Tribune was an American newspaper. It was founded by Horace Greeley as a Whig Party penny newspaper in April 1841. Between 1842 and 1866, the newspaper was called the New-York Daily Tribune. The tribune not only reported the news, it covered subjects such as politics, literary works, social reform and intellectual achievements. Greeley, through the Tribune, supported the beginnings of Republican Party. In 1860 the Tribune supported Abraham Lincoln as President of the United States and during the Civil War. However, the paper opposed his reelection in 1864. For some time the paper had the largest circulation in the United States. The Tribune's editorials were widely read and helped shape national opinion. In 1924 it was merged with the New York Herald to form the New York Herald Tribune. It remained a major US daily newspaper until it ended publication in 1966.

[[Gals]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Gals (Chules) is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.

[[Pawnee people]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United States, Native American people

The Pawnee are a Native American Plains Indians tribe. They lived mainly in what is now Nebraska and Kansas. Unlike other tribes of the Great Plains, they were semi-nomadic people. They were hunters and farmers. The Pawnee farmed for most of the year and lived in earth lodges. During the buffalo hunting season, they lived in tepees so they could follow the herds. In the early 1800s their main village was on the south side of the Platte River (Nebraska). They raised crops including beans, corn, pumpkins, squashes and sunflowers. The powerful Pawnee tribe had four individual bands. These were the Chaui (Grand), the Kitkehaki (Republican Pawnees), Pitahauerat (Tapage Pawnees) and the Skidi (Loup or Wolf Pawnees). They were a fierce people who used war paint and tattoos to intimidate their enemies. The Pawnee took scalps in battle. Pawnee war parties often rode out on scalping missions against other tribes. The Pawnee also practiced human sacrifice. Most often this took the form of ritually killing a young captive girl in a five-day ceremony. She was sacrificed to the Morning Star. The last known ritual killing was of a girl in the mid-18th century. The Pawnee were the largest tribe to have lived in Nebraska. They were one of the earliest tribes to come to the area. Estimates are that there were between 10,000 and 12,000 Pawnee in Nebraska by 1800. They had little to fear from their enemies because they were a large tribe. But smallpox and other diseases aswell as warfare with the Sioux reduced their numbers significantly in the early 1800s. They were finally removed to Oklahoma in the 1870s.

[[Eagle nebula]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae

The Eagle nebula is a young open cluster of stars in the constellation Serpens.  

The nebula is catalogued as Messier 16 (M16), and as NGC 6611. It is also called the Star Queen nebula and The Spire. These last names refer to visual impressions of the dark patch near the center of the nebula. This is called the "Pillars of Creation". It was photographed by the Hubble Space Telescope. The nebula contains several active star-forming gas and dust regions, including the Pillars of Creation.

[[William Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1564 births, 1620 deaths, Gillingham, Kent, People from Kent

William Adams (24 September 1564 – 16 May 1620), was an English navigator. He was the first Englishman to visit Japan.

He was born in Gillingham, Kent, England. William's father died when his at age 12. He apprenticed to a shipwright, and studied shipbuilding, astronomy, and navigation. He joined the Royal Navy during Anglo-Spanish War. He served in the Royal Navy under Sir Francis Drake. He became a pilot for the Barbary Company, a trading company established by Queen Elizabeth I of England.

In 1598, Adams shipped as pilot major with a five-ship fleet. The fleet was owned by a company of Rotterdam merchants (Dutch East India Company). The fleet went from the isle of Texel, North Holland to the Eastern world.

[[New England Emigrant Aid Company]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United States, History of Kansas, Bleeding Kansas, 1854 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Massachusetts

The New England Emigrant Aid Company (est.1854), originally the Massachusetts Emigrant Aid Company, was a transportation company in Boston, Massachusetts. It was created to bring immigrants to the Kansas Territory. This was done to make sure Kansas would become a free state. The company was created by Eli Thayer, a member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, over a month before the Kansas-Nebraska Act was passed in 1854. This act allowed the population of Kansas Territory to choose for themselves whether or not slavery would be legal. The concept was called popular sovereignty.

The company was chartered in Massachusetts and started with a capital of $5 million. Thayer's plan was to play on antislavery sentiment in the Northern United States. At the time there was a very delicate balance between slave states and free states. The Company send settlers to Kansas to buy land and build houses, shops and mills. The settlers could then sell the land at a significant profit and send the money back to Thayer and his investors. Because several investors found the idea of profiting from the antislavery cause unpleasant, the Company's model was shifted to that of a benevolent society. The name was changed to the New England Emigrant Aid Company in 1855. The Company never made a profit or made a significant impact on the population of Kansas. But, it caused Border Ruffians from nearby Missouri, where slavery was legal, to move to Kansas in order to ensure its admission to the Union as a slave state. This in turn further galvanized Free-Staters and abolitionists to act. To protect the settlers they sent, the Company secretly sent armed men and Sharps rifles to Kansas. The rifles were sent in crates marked "books" and "Bibles". This played a part in what would become Bleeding Kansas.

[[Gampelen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Gampelen (Champion) is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. It is not be confused with the municipality Gampel in the canton of Valais.

[[2012 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A]]

CATEGORIES: Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, 2012 in association football

The 2012 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A (known as the Brasileirão Petrobras 2012 for sponsorship reasons) was the 56th edition of the Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, the top-level of professional football in Brazil. Corinthians come in as the defending champions having won the title in the 2011 season. On 11 November 2012, Fluminense won the title for the fourth time.

[[Kansas Territory]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in the United States, History of Kansas, Bleeding Kansas, 1854 establishments in the United States, 1861 disestablishments, Former territories of the United States

The Territory of Kansas was a territory of the United States that existed from May 30, 1854, until January 29, 1861. This was when the eastern portion of the territory was admitted to the Union as the state of Kansas.

The territory extended from the Missouri border west to the summit of the Rocky Mountains. North-south it ran from the 37th parallel north to the 40th parallel north. Much of the eastern region of what is now the State of Colorado was part of Kansas Territory. The western region of the former Kansas Territory, the Territory of Colorado, was created on February 28, 1861.

[[Gelterfingen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Gelterfingen is a former municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2018 the former municipalities of Gelterfingen, Mühledorf and Noflen merged into the municipality of Kirchdorf.

[[Gerzensee]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Gerzensee is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

The town is named after its lake: Gerzensee.

[[Realp]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Uri

Realp is a municipality in the canton of Uri in Switzerland. It has an area of 77.97.

[[Golaten]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Golaten is a former municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2019 the former municipality of Golaten merged into the municipality of Kallnach.

[[Gondiswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Gondiswil (Dialect: Gumiswil) is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Schattdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Uri

Schattdorf is a municipality in the canton of Uri in Switzerland. Around 5,000 people live in Schattdorf. It has an area of 16.27.

[[Seedorf, Uri]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Uri

Seedorf is a municipality in the canton of Uri in Switzerland. Around 1,500 people live in Seedorf, Uri. It has an area of 15.64.

[[Seelisberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Uri

Seelisberg is a municipality in the canton of Uri in Switzerland. It has an area of 13.28.

[[Club de Regatas Vasco da Gama]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Rio de Janeiro, 1898 establishments, 1890s establishments in Brazil

Club de Regatas Vasco da Gama is a football club which plays in Brazil. The club is probably passing through the worst period in its history, since in the last 12 years, Vasco has fallen to the second division of the Brazilian Football Championship four times. 

[[LDU Quito]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs, 1930 establishments in South America

Liga Deportiva Universitaria de Quito (also called Liga de Quito or just Liga) is an Ecuadorian association football club based in Quito, Ecuador. The team currently play in the Ecuadorian Serie A and was founded on 11 January 1930. LDU Quito is one of the most successful Ecuadorian teams, winning 9 regional titles, 10 national titles, and 4 international titles. They were runners-up in the 2008 FIFA Club World Cup as well.

[[Central Italy]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Italy

Central Italy (Italia centrale or just Centro) is one of the five official statistical regions of Italy used by the National Institute of Statistics (ISTAT), a NUTS1 level region.

[[Chinese Super League]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Football in China, 2004 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in China

The Chinese Football Association Super League (Chinese: 中国足球协会超级联赛; Pinyin: Zhōngguó Zúqiú Xiéhuì Chāojí Liánsài; usually called Chinese Super League (中超联赛) or CSL; and known as Ping An Chinese Football Association Super League for sponsorship reasons) is the highest tier of professional association football in China. It is controlled by the Chinese Football Association.

The league was created in 2004 and replaced the Chinese Football Association Jia-A League.

Currently, 16 teams play in the league. The Chinese Super League has been won by 7 teams: Shanghai Shenhua, Shenzhen Jianlibao, Dalian Shide, Shandong Luneng, Changchun Yatai, Beijing Guoan, and Guangzhou Evergrande.

[[Queen Ratna of Nepal]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Nepalese people, Kings and queens

Ratna Rajya Lakshmi Devi Shah (born 19 August 1928) was Queen consort of Nepal from 1955 to 1972 and Queen Mother from 1972 to 2008 when the royal family were removed of all titles and privileges.

She is the second wife of King Mahendra of Nepal (1920–1972). Queen Ratna belongs to the aristocratic Rana family. She is the daughter of late Honorary General Hari Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana and his wife, Megha Kumari Rajya Lakshmi.

[[Jo Cox]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2016 deaths, Alumni of the London School of Economics, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, English murder victims, Former Labour MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Murders by firearm in England, People from West Yorkshire, UK MPs 2015–2017

Helen Joanne "Jo" Cox (née Leadbeater; 22 June 1974 – 16 June 2016) was an English UK Labour Party politician. She was the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Batley and Spen from her election in May 2015 until her death in June 2016. She won the seat with an increased majority for Labour in the 2015 general election. She also worked at humanitarian organisation Oxfam.

On 16 June 2016, Cox was shot and stabbed many times in Birstall, where she had been holding a small meeting with her constituents. She was left in critical condition and died from her injuries about an hour later at the age of 41. A 52-year-old man was arrested in connection with the attack.

[[Adolph Cornelis van Bruggen]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Botanists, Dutch scientists, Writers from The Hague, Zoologists

Adolph Cornelis 'Dolf' van Bruggen (9 July 1929 – 3 June 2016) was a Dutch malacologist, entomologist and botanist. His works were about the tropics and tropical Africa. His career lasted over 50 years. He was an expert especially in the land snail families Streptaxidae, Achatinidae and Maizaniidae. As of 2008, he had written some 655 scientific publications.

[[Gil Bartosh]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2016 deaths, American football players, Sportspeople from Texas

Gilbert C. Bartosh, Sr. (May 21, 1930 – June 4, 2016) was an American football player and coach.  He served as the head football coach at the University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP) from 1974 to 1975, with a record of 6–28.

He was born in Granger, Texas. He died in Liberty Hill, Texas, aged 86.

[[Villefranche-d'Albigeois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Tarn

Villefranche-d'Albigeois is a commune in the Tarn department of France.

[[Sulabha Deshpande]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, Indian movie actors, Indian television actors, People from Mumbai

Sulabha (or Sulbha) Deshpande (सुलभा देशपांडे; 1937 – 4 June 2016) was an Indian movie, theatre and television actress and theatre director. She was known for her roles in Bhumika (1977),  Arvind Desai Ki Ajeeb Dastaan (1978) and Gaman (1978).

Deshpande died on 4 June 2016 from a long-illness in Mumbai at the age of 78 or 79.

[[Villefranche]]

Villefranche may refer to:

[[Antti Hyry]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Finnish writers

Antti Kalevi Hyry (20 October 1931 – 4 June 2016) was a Finnish writer. He won the Eino Leino Prize in 2005. For his 2009 book Uuni (Oven), Hyry won the Finlandia Prize, Finland's premier prize for literature.

Hyry was born in Kuivaniemi. He is married to Maija Hyry. He died in Espoo, aged 84.

[[Lois Duncan]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American children's writers, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Writers from Florida

Lois Duncan Steinmetz (April 28, 1934 – June 15, 2016), known as Lois Duncan, was an American writer of children's books. She was best known for young-adult novels of suspense. She wrote two early novels under the pen name Lois Kerry.

Duncan won the 1992 Margaret Edwards Award from the American Library Association for her contribution in writing for teens.

On June 15, 2016, at the age of 82, Duncan died at home in South Sarasota, Florida from complications of a stroke.

[[Iron ore]]

CATEGORIES: Iron compounds, Ores

Iron ores are rocks and minerals from which metallic iron can be got.  

Ores with high quantities of hematite or magnetite (more than about 60% iron) are known as "natural ore" or "direct shipping ore". They can be fed directly into iron-making blast furnaces.

Iron (Fe) is one of the most abundant rock-forming elements. It makes up about 5% of the Earth's crust. It is the second most abundant and widely distributed metal (Aluminium is the most common). People have used it for more than 3,000 years. However, its use only became widespread in the 14th century, when smelting furnaces (the forerunner of blast furnaces) began to replace forges.

Iron is made in the runaway fusion and explosion of type Ia supernovae. It was picked up as the Sun moved through areas where supernovae had exploded. All higher elements on Earth have this origin.

Iron is abundant on the ancient continents, but not so on island chains formed by volcanoes (Japan, Hawaii). That reflects the difference between the continental crust (which has many rare and common elements), and the island chains formed by volcanism (oceanic islands). They have basalt, and very little else. Islands which were once part of a supercontinent usually carry heavy element ore. The classic example is the British Isles, which are a snapped-off part of the large ancient continent, the Old Red Sandstone Continent (Larussia). Consequently, the British Isles has a very wide range of metallic ores, whereas Hawaii and the Japanese archopelago do not.

The main source of ore for the steel used in modern Japan comes from Western Australia.

[[Beijing Guoan F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese football clubs, 1992 establishments in Asia, Beijing, 1990s establishments in China

Beijing Guoan F.C. (Chinese: 北京国安; Pinyin: Běijīng Guó'ān) is a Chinese professional association football club based in the Chaoyang District of Beijing, China. The club currently plays in the Chinese Super League. Beijing Guoan also plays in the Workers' Stadium (which has a capacity of 66,161 people).

The club was formed professionally on 29 December 1992 as the Beijing Football Club, and they have won many titles since.

[[Shandong Luneng Taishan F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese football clubs, 1993 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in China

Shandong Luneng Taishan Football Club (Chinese: 山东鲁能泰山;Traditional Chinese: 山東魯能泰山; Pinyin: Shāndōng Lǔnéng Tàishān) is a Chinese professional association football club based in Jinan, Shandong, China. The club currently plays in the Chinese Super League. Shandong Luneng Taishan also plays in the Jinan Olympic Sports Center Stadium (which has a seating capacity of 56,808 people).

The club was formed professionally on 2 December 1993 and was previously called the Shandong Provincial team. The club has since won many domestic titles.

[[2015 Chinese Super League]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Football in China

The 2015 Ping An Chinese Football Association Super League (Chinese: 2015中国平安中国足球协会超级联赛) was the 12th Chinese Super League season and was won by Guangzhou Evergrande Taobao.

[[Graben, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Graben, Switzerland is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Grafenried, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Grafenried is a former municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Grafenried, Büren zum Hof, Etzelkofen, Limpach, Mülchi, Schalunen and Zauggenried merged into the municipality of Fraubrunnen.

[[Haute-Ajoie]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Jura

Haute-Ajoie is a municipality in the district of Porrentruy in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Chevenez, Damvant, Réclère and Roche-d'Or merged into the new municipality of Haute-Ajoie. On 1 January 2018 the former municipality of Rocourt merged into the municipality of Haute-Ajoie.

[[Silenen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Uri

Silenen is a municipality in the canton of Uri in Switzerland. It has an area of 144.78.

[[Sisikon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Uri

Sisikon is a municipality in the canton of Uri in Switzerland. It has an area of 16.30.Sisikon, the gateway to Canton Uri, lies on the delta of the Riemenstalderbach stream on the eastern shore of the Urnersee, the southernmost arm of the Vierwaldstättersee. 

[[Spiringen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Uri

Spiringen is a municipality in the canton of Uri in Switzerland. It has an area of 64.76.

[[Unterschächen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Uri

Unterschächen is a municipality in the canton of Uri in Switzerland. It is in the upper Schächental. It has an area of 80.22.

[[Wassen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Uri

Wassen is a municipality in the canton of Uri in Switzerland. It has an area of 97.02.

[[Cyrus K. Holliday]]

CATEGORIES: 1826 births, 1900 deaths, Bleeding Kansas, History of Kansas, Politicians from Pennsylvania

Cyrus Kurtz Holliday (April 3, 1826 – March 29, 1900) was a prominent Kansas businessman who was part of the free-state movement during the period called Bleeding Kansas. Holliday was one of the founders of the city of Topeka, Kansas and was its first president. He was also the founder of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway. He served in the Kansas Senate. Holliday was president of the Merchants National Bank and also the Excelsior Coke and Gas Company, both of Topeka. In 1890, he was the president of the Kansas State Historical Society. In 2012, Holliday was inducted into the Kansas State Hall of Fame.

[[CAQC Certification]]

CATEGORIES: China, Standards

Tianjin Huacheng Certification Inc. (CAQC) qualifies for issuing CCC certificates for automotive products and provides specialized services as a third party in the automotive industry and other related industries. CAQC is approved by Certification and Accreditation Administration of the People's Republic of China (CNCA) and acknowledged by China National Accreditation Service for Conformity Assessment (CNAS).

CAQC is funded and financed by China Automotive Technology and Research Center (CATARC).

[[Grandval, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Grandval is a municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Alvaschein]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Alvaschein (Alvaschagn) is a former municipality of the district of Albula in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Alvaschein, Alvaneu, Brienz/Brinzauls, Mon, Stierva, Surava and Tiefencastel merged into the new municipality of Albula/Alvra.

[[Andeer]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Andeer (Roh-sursilvan-Andeer.ogg) is a municipality in the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Clugin and Pignia merged into the municipality of Andeer.

[[Grossaffoltern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Grossaffoltern is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.

[[This Is What You Came For]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 songs, Calvin Harris songs, Dance songs, Rihanna songs

"This Is What You Came For" is a song written and produced by Scottish DJ Calvin Harris.  It features Rihanna.  The song was released on May 1, 2016, via digital outlets.  The song has reached number one in Canada and Australia, number two in the United Kingdom, and the top five in the United States.  In the U.S., "This Is What You Came For" entered the Billboard Hot 100 chart at number nine.  It later reached number three there and was certified triple-Platinum by the RIAA.  The song is Rihanna's 28th top-ten song in the U.S.  The song reached number 17 on the year-end Hot 100 of 2016 in the US.cn

Harris' ex-girlfriend, American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift, co-wrote the song under the name Nils Sjöberg.  BMI, which publishes a list of songwriting credits, changed the name to Swift's real name.

[[Grosshöchstetten]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Grosshöchstetten is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2018 the former municipality of Schlosswil merged into the municipality of Grosshöchstetten.

[[Gsteig bei Gstaad]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Gsteig bei Gstaad is a municipality in the administrative district of Obersimmental-Saanen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Hotel for Dogs]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 books

Hotel for Dogs (1971) is a children's novel by Lois Duncan. It was made into a movie of the same name by Nickelodeon Movies for DreamWorks Pictures. When the book was originally released in 1971, Andi's name was Liz, and Friday's name was Sadie. The book was re-released December 1, 2008, to promote the movie with the names changed.

Two sequels were released: News for Dogs in 2009 and Movie for Dogs in 2010.

[[Exothermic reaction]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics, Chemical reactions

An exothermic reaction is a chemical reaction where the substances reacting release energy as heat. An example of this is combustion. Exothermic reactions transfer energy to the surroundings.   The reaction that does the complete opposite (it absorbs heat) is an endothermic reaction.

The energy is usually transferred as heat energy, causing the reaction mixture and its surroundings to become hotter. The temperature increase can be detected using a thermometer. Some examples of exothermic reactions are: 

[[Endothermic reaction]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical reactions

An endothermic reaction is a chemical reaction that takes in energy from the surroundings. The opposite of an endothermic reaction is an exothermic reaction. Reversible reactions are where the products can react to remake the original reactants. The energy is usually transferred as heat energy: the reaction absorbs heat. The temperature decrease can sometimes be detected using a thermometer. Some examples of endothermic reactions are:

[[Banana split]]

CATEGORIES: Desserts, Ice cream

A banana split is a type of dessert. It is made with ice cream, sliced bananas, and usually toppings. The toppings often include flavored sauces, whipped cream, nuts, and most notably a cherry on top of the dessert.

One banana split has 893 calories.

[[List of comuni of the Province of Ancona]]

CATEGORIES: Ancona

The following is a list of the 47 comuni of the Province of Ancona, Marche, in Italy.

[[Hawthorn Football Club]]

CATEGORIES: Australian Football League, Football clubs

Hawthorn Football Club, known as the "Hawks", is a team in the Australian Football League. In the 21st century, they have won four premierships in 2008, 2013, 2014 and 2015. Their home ground is the Melbourne Cricket Ground. The coach Alastair Clarkson, is a former student at Ballarat and Clarendon College student.

[[Andiast]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Andiast is a former municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2018 the former municipalities of Andiast and Waltensburg/Vuorz merged into the municipality of Breil/Brigels.

[[Ardez]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Ardez (Roh-vallader-Ardez.ogg) is a former municipality of the district of Inn in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Ardez, Ftan, Guarda, Sent and Tarasp merged into the municipality of Scuol.

[[Arosa]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden, Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland

Arosa is a municipality and a ski resort in the district of Plessur in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Calfreisen, Castiel, Langwies, Lüen, Molinis, Peist and St. Peter-Pagig merged into the municipality of Arosa.

[[Gsteigwiler]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Gsteigwiler is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Guggisberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Guggisberg (Bernese German: Guggishbärg ˈɡʊkisbærɡ) is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Arvigo]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Arvigo is a former municipality in the district of Moesa in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Arvigo, Braggio, Cauco and Selma merged into the new municipality of Calanca.

[[Eli Thayer]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 births, 1899 deaths, Bleeding Kansas, United States representatives from Massachusetts, US Republican Party politicians

Eli Thayer (June 11, 1819 – April 15, 1899) was an educator, reformer, legislator and founder of the New England Emigrant Aid Company. He was instrumental in the politics of Kansas during the period known as Bleeding Kansas. When Congress passed the Kansas–Nebraska Act in 1854, the question of whether Kansas would become a slave-state or free state was left to the voters of Kansas. pro-slavery supporters, abolitionists and free-staters all rushed to settle in the Kansas Territory. All were trying to gain power so as to determine the status of slavery in Kansas. Thayer is best known for his work in the New England Emigrant Aid Company. Their purpose was to rush as many Free-Staters as possible to settle in Kansas. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1857-1861. After serving in Congress Thayer became a businessman. Thayer died in Worcester, Massachusetts on April 15, 1899. 

[[Gündlischwand]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Gündlischwand is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Breggia, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Ticino

Breggia is a new municipality of the district Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. It was created on 25 October 2009 when the former municipalities of Bruzella, Cabbio, Caneggio, Morbio Superiore, Muggio and Sagno merged to form the new municipality of Breggia.

[[Cugnasco-Gerra]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Ticino

Cugnasco-Gerra is a municipality of the district Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2008 the former municipalities of Cugnasco and Gerra (Verzasca) merged into the new municipality of Cugnasco-Gerra.

[[The Sweet Escape (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs, Gwen Stefani songs, R&B songs

"The Sweet Escape" is a song by American singer and songwriter Gwen Stefani from her second studio album of the same name (2006). It was written by Stefani, Akon, and Giorgio Tuinfort. Akon was featured on the song and also produced and created the songs beat. As both Stefani and Akon wrote the song, Stefani was surprised how the song ended up as it was a doo-wop song and not a hip hop song.

[[Masada]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Israel, World Heritage Sites in Asia

Masada (in Hebrew: מצדה - metsada means: fortress) is an archaeological site, and a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Masada is an ancient fortification in the Southern District of Israel. It is on top of an isolated rock plateau, like a mesa. The rock is on the east of the Judaean Desert, and overlooks the Dead Sea.

Herod the Great fortified Masada between 37 and 31 BC, and built palaces for himself on the mountain. 

According to Josephus, the Sicarii, a splinter group of the Hebrew Zealots, held out against a Roman legion here.  This was the Siege of Masada at the end of the First Jewish–Roman War. The seige ended in the mass suicide of 960 people – the rebels and their families.

The hill is 63 meters above the sea level and 450 above the dead sea level near Mount Elazar.  

[[Cave of the Patriarchs]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Israel, History of Palestine, West Bank

The Cave of the Patriarchs, also called the Cave of Machpelah (Hebrew: מערת המכפלה,  He-Mearat-Hamakhpela.ogg, trans. "cave of the double tombs") and known by Muslims as the Sanctuary of Abraham or the Ibrahimi Mosque (الحرم الإبراهيمي, ArIbrahimiMosque.ogg) is an archaeological site in Hebron, Israel. According to the Jewish tradition it is the site of the graves of Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebecca, Jacob and Leah. These graves have been buried under a church built in the Byzantine Period in Israel, and which is now used as a mosque.

[[Dongio]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

Dongio is a village and former municipality in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland.

In 2004 the municipality was merged with the other, neighboring municipalities Castro, Corzoneso, Largario, Leontica, Lottigna, Marolta, Ponto Valentino and Prugiasco to form a new and larger municipality Acquarossa.

[[Leontica]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

Leontica is a village and municipality in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland.

In 2004 the municipality was merged with the other, neighboring municipalities Castro, Corzoneso, Dongio, Largario, Lottigna, Marolta, Ponto Valentino and Prugiasco to form a new and larger municipality of Acquarossa.

[[Fusio]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

Fusio is a village and former municipality in the district of Vallemaggia in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland.

In 2004 the municipality was merged with the other, neighboring municipalities Broglio, Brontallo, Menzonio, Peccia and Prato-Sornico to form a new and larger municipality of Lavizzara.

[[Pottawatomie massacre]]

CATEGORIES: 1850s in Kansas, Bleeding Kansas, 1856

The Pottawatomie massacre happened on the night of May 24, 1856. John Brown and a number of volunteer Free-Staters attacked and murdered five men in a small settlement on the Pottawatomie Creek near Osawatomie, Kansas. The killings were particularly brutal. One by one, settlers were dragged from their homes and hacked to death with broadswords and shot. The victims were pro-slavery, but were not slave owners themselves. The murders were in response to pro-slavery Missouri Border Ruffians who burned and looted Lawrence, Kansas three days earlier. It happened just two days after the Caning of Charles Sumner, the Senator from Massachusetts on the floor of the United States Senate. The Pottawatomie massacre was one of the many bloody episodes in Kansas preceding the American Civil War. It marked the beginning of the period called Bleeding Kansas. 

[[Gurbrü]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Gurbrü (Corbruil) is a municipality in the Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Arch, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Arch is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Nablus]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the West Bank

Nablus (نابلس ar næːblʊs, שכם he, Biblical Shechem ISO 259-3 Škem, Νεάπολις Νeapolis) is a Palestinian city in the Samaria Mountains, in a Valley between "Mount Ebal (the mount of the blessing) in the south and "Mount Gerizim (the mount of the curse)" in the north. Nablus was the first Jewish city in the world and Joseph the son of Jacob was barried in the eastern side of the city. according to the Jewish tradition the city of Nablus was the first jewish City in the world.

[[Purification]]

Purification is the process of rendering something pure. For example, clean of foreign elements and/or pollution. It may refer to:

[[The Museum of Philistine Culture]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 establishments, Museums in Israel, 1990s establishments in Israel

The Corinne Mamane Museum of Philistine Culture (המוזיאון לתרבות הפלשתים ע"ש קורין ממן) is an archaeological museum in Ashdod, Israel. It explores the culture of the Philistines that lived in the area of the city. The museum is the only museum in the world dedicated to the Philistines culture. It was the first museum that opened in Ashdod in 1990.

Corinne Mamane was a Jewish student born in Casablanca in Morocco. She was killed in 1984 in a car accident in France during her university studies.

The museum has 3 floors. The first is an exhibition of the Philistines culture. The second is for changing exhibitions. The third floor is dedicated to the "Philistines Kitchen" by exploring the food culture of the Aegean sea.

[[Abrahams Well International Visitors Center]]

CATEGORIES: Beer Sheba, Archaeological sites in Israel, 2013 establishments in Asia, Museums in Israel, 2010s establishments in Israel

The Abrahams Well International Visitors Center is an archaeological museum and convention center in Beer Sheva, Israel. It was opened in 2013 on the site of Abrahams Well. The center is near the Old city of Beer Sheva and Nahal Beer Sheva on the road to Eilat. The well was discovered in the 19th century by Edward Robinson and Henry Baker Tristram. In 1897, a Beduin sheikh built an Arabian structure above the well to take over the place. In the Ottoman period in Israel a Bustan was grown next to the well. According to the Jewish Bible, in the place of the well Abraham signed a peace agreement with Abimelech, the king of the Philistines.

[[Esino]]

CATEGORIES: Marche, Rivers of Italy

The Esino (Aesis) is a river in the Marche region of central Italy. It is one of the most important river in the región because the size of its drainage basin.

There is another river, but smaller, in the Province of Lecco, Lombardy.

[[Data corruption]]

CATEGORIES: Data input, Computer science

Data corruption is errors in computer data that happens while the computer is reading, writing, storing, transmitting or processing the data. Such errors introduce unintended changes to the original data. 

If data corruption happens in a file, unexpected results will happen when accessed by the system or an application; such results may range from a minor loss of data to a system crash. For example, if a Microsoft Word file is corrupted, when a person tries to open that file with Microsoft Word, they may get an error message. That means that person will get either a file that cannot be opened or a file with a minor loss of data.

One of the ways this can happen is if a power shortage happens while saving the document, the computer cannot power down properly and the file becomes corrupted. 

Hackers can also corrupt data, be it accidentally or on purpose. 

[[Anton Yelchin]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Saint Petersburg, Road accident deaths in California, Russian movie actors, Russian television actors

Anton Viktorovich Yelchin (Анто́н Ви́кторович Ельчи́н; March 11, 1989 – June 19, 2016) was a Soviet-born American movie, television and voice actor.

Starring role in the 2013 movie, "Odd Thomas".

[[Sweat lodge]]

CATEGORIES: Native American, Ceremonies

The sweat lodge (also called purification ceremony or simply sweat) is a hut, typically dome-shaped and made with natural materials. It used by Native Americans for ceremonial steambaths and prayer. Sweat lodges were largely a reaction to the influences of European culture with its negative effects on Native Americans. 

There are several styles of structures used in different cultures. These include a domed or oblong hut similar to a wickiup, a permanent structure made of wood and earth, or even a simple hole dug into the ground and covered with wood. Stones are typically heated and then water poured over them to create steam. In ceremonial usage, these ritual actions are accompanied by traditional prayers and songs.

Native Americans in many regions use the sweat lodge. For example, Chumash peoples of the central coast of California build sweat lodges in coastal areas in association with habitation sites. The ancient Mesoamerican tribes of Mexico, such as the Aztec and Olmec, practiced a sweat bath ceremony known as temazcal as a religious rite of penance and purification.

[[John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry]]

CATEGORIES: 1859 in the United States, Origins of the American Civil War, October events

John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry (also known as John Brown's raid or The raid on Harpers Ferry) was an effort by white abolitionist John Brown to start an  armed slave revolt in 1859. He attacked and captured the United States arsenal at Harpers Ferry, Virginia. Brown's raid, accompanied by 21 men in his party, was defeated by a platoon of U.S. Marines led by Colonel Robert E. Lee. John Brown had originally asked Harriet Tubman and Frederick Douglass, both of whom he had met in Springfield, Massachusetts, to join him in his raid. Tubman was prevented by illness. Douglass declined because he believed Brown's plan would fail.

[[Ponto Valentino]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

Ponto Valentino is a village and former municipality in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland.

In 2004 the municipality was merged with the other, neighboring municipalities Castro, Corzoneso, Dongio, Largario, Leontica, Lottigna, Marolta and Prugiasco to form a new and larger municipality of Acquarossa.

[[Guttannen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Guttannen is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Habkern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Habkern is a municipality of the administrative district Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Border Ruffian]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in the United States, 19th century in Kansas, Bleeding Kansas, 1850s in the United States

Border Ruffians were pro-slavery activists from the slave-state of Missouri. From 1854 to 1860 they crossed the state border into Kansas Territory to force the acceptance of slavery there. The name was applied by Free-Staters in Kansas and abolitionists throughout the North. Armed Ruffians interfered in territorial elections, and attacked Free-State settlements. This violence was the origin of the phrase "Bleeding Kansas". The Ruffians contributed to the growing sectional tensions, and helped bring on the American Civil War.

[[Ernesto Maceda]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Presidents of the Senate of the Philippines, Presidents pro tempore of the Senate of the Philippines, Minority leaders of the Senate of the Philippines

Ernesto Madarang Maceda (March 26, 1935 – June 20, 2016) was a Filipino columnist and a politician. He served as a Senator from 1971 to 1972 and again from 1987 to 1998. He served as Senate President from 1996 to 1998.

Maceda died of multiple organ failure at a hospital in Quezon City, Philippines on the night of June 20, 2016, aged 81.

[[Odometer]]

CATEGORIES: Measuring tools

An odometer or odograph is an instrument that shows the distance traveled by a vehicle, such as a bicycle or automobile. It can be electronic, mechanical, or a combination of the two. The name comes from the Greek words hodós ("path" or "gateway") and métron ("measure"). It is sometimes called a mileometer or milometer.

[[Galícia Esporte Clube]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, Salvador, Bahia, 1933 establishments, 1930s establishments in Brazil

Galícia Esporte Clube is a football club which plays in Salvador da Bahía, Brazil.

[[Clash of the Titans (2010 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 movies, 2010s adventure movies, 2010s fantasy movies, American adventure movies, American fantasy movies, American movie remakes, British adventure movies, British fantasy movies, English-language movies, Movies based on Greek and Roman mythology, Warner Bros. movies

Clash of the Titans is a 2010 American-British adventure fantasy movie. A remake of the 1981 film and directed by Louis Leterrier, it stars Sam Worthington, Liam Neeson, Ralph Fiennes, Gemma Arterton, Mads Mikkelsen and Alexa Davalos. It was poorly received by critics, however it was a commercial success, grossing $493 million at the American box office. A sequel, Wrath of the Titans was released in 2012.

[[Hagneck]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Hagneck is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Hasle bei Burgdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Hasle bei Burgdorf is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Wakarusa War]]

CATEGORIES: Bleeding Kansas, 1850s in Kansas, 1855, Lawrence, Kansas

The Wakarusa War was a skirmish that happened in Kansas Territory. It started on November 21st, and it ended on December 8th, 1885. It was part of the Bleeding Kansas violence. It happened mostly in Lawrence and the Wakarusa River Valley.

[[Lecompton, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Douglas County, Kansas, 1854 establishments in Kansas Territory

Lecompton (pronounced l) is a city in Douglas County, Kansas, United States.  In 2010, there were 625 people there. Lecompton had a big historical role in pre-Civil War America as the territorial capital of Kansas from 1855 to 1861.  This time period was known as Bleeding Kansas.

[[Skirmisher]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

A Skirmisher is a soldier usually sent ahead of a main body of troops to harass the enemy. Groups of skirmishers may also be placed on the flanks to prevent a surprise attack or flanking maneuver. A skirmish is a term first used in the 14th century. It meant a small-scale fight between two opposing forces or a preliminary battle involving troops in front of the main force. Skirmishers were those involved in the fight or battle. It comes from the Old French eskirmir "to defend". Skirmishers were usually infantry or cavalry soldiers who formed a skirmish line ahead or next to friendly troops.

[[George Brett]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Kansas City Royals players, American baseball players, Sportspeople from West Virginia, National Baseball Hall of Fame members

George Howard Brett (born May 15, 1953 in Glen Dale, West Virginia) is a retired American baseball player. He played 21 years in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Kansas City Royals. He is a member of the Baseball Hall of Fame and was inducted in 1999 with a fourth-highest voting percentage in baseball history (98.2%). Brett was a third baseman and designated hitter.

Brett won the World Series with the Kansas City Royals in 1985.

In 1994, his number (#5) was retired  by the Royals. He is one of only two Royals players to have his number retired by the team (the other is Frank White).

Brett was also notorious for putting excessive amounts of pine tar on his bats, which sometimes led to confrontations and interventions with the umpires, as there is a league rule governing the use of pine tar on the bat.

He raises money for the disease ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) or better known as Lou Gehrig's Disease.

[[Avers]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Avers (Avras) is a municipality of the Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Bergün/Bravuogn]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Bergün/Bravuogn (Bergün, Bravuogn, Roh-putèr-Bravuogn.ogg, in the local Romansh dialect Brauégn) is a former municipality in the district Albula in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2018 the former municipalities of Bergün/Bravuogn and Filisur merged into the new municipality of Bergün Filisur.

[[Villa Epecuén]]

CATEGORIES: Villages, Settlements in Argentina, 1985 disestablishments, Disestablishments in South America

Villa Epecuén was a tourist village in Adolfo Alsina, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. It was flooded in 1985, and was abandoned. Its ruins are on the eastern shore of the Laguna Epecuén, about 7 north of Carhué.

[[Hasliberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Hasliberg is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Mountain biking]]

CATEGORIES: Cycling

Mountain biking is the sport of riding bicycles off-road. Often this is done over rough terrain. Mountain biking uses specially designed mountain bikes. Mountain bikes are similar to other bikes, but have features designed to make them stronger and hold up in rough terrain.

Mountain biking can generally be broken down into multiple categories. These include cross country, trail riding, all mountain (also referred to as "Enduro"), downhill, freeride and dirt jumping.  However, the majority of mountain biking falls into the categories of trail and cross country riding styles.

This individual sport requires the rider to have endurance, core strength and balance. The rider also needs bike handling skills, and self-reliance.  Advanced riders take on steep technical descents and high incline climbs. Mountain biking can be performed almost anywhere from a back yard to a gravel road, but the majority of mountain bikers ride off-road trails. Using the bike's brakes must be done carefully on a mountain bike, especially when going downhill. In order to work on rough terrain, mountain bikes have several gears from which to choose. It is recommended to use safety gear such as helmet, gloves, elbow and knee pads to avoid injuries in rough terrain. Mountain biking should be done so as to enjoy the ride but not damage the environment.

[[Häutligen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Häutligen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Battle of Osawatomie]]

CATEGORIES: 1850s in Kansas, Bleeding Kansas, 1856, August events

The Battle of Osawatomie took place on Saturday, August 30, 1856 in the town of Osawatomie, Kansas. John Brown and about 40 men tried to defend the town against an attack by about 250–300 Border Ruffians. The Missouri ruffians were led by John W. Reid. The attack began early in the morning when Frederick Brown, son of John Brown, was shot and killed outside of the town. This alerted John Brown and others who tried to defend the town. But heavy casualties forced Brown and the other abolitionists back across the nearby river. The town was looted and burned but Brown was not pursued. This was one of many clashes between pro-slavery and free-staters during the period known as Bleeding Kansas.

[[Neot Kedumim]]

CATEGORIES: Parks in Israel, Israeli culture

Neot Kedumim - the Biblical Landscape Reserve in Israel (נאות קדומים is a Biblical garden dedicated to the Nature of the Jewish Bible and also a nature preserve located in Ben Shemen  Forest and near of the city "Modi'in" on Route 443 (Israel), between Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, Israel.

[[Pitch, yaw, and roll]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics

Pitch, yaw and roll are the three dimensions of movement when an object moves through a medium. 

The terms may be used to describe an aeroplane's movements through the air. They are also applied to fish moving through water, and spacecraft moving through space.

There are in fact six degrees of freedom of a rigid body moving in three-dimensional space. 

As the movement along each of the three axes is independent of each other and independent of the rotation about any of these axes, the motion has six degrees of freedom (see diagram).

The surfaces of a plane and the fins of a fish have a similar function. They serve to adjust the object's attitude as it moves through the fluid. Submarines face the same dynamic control problems as fish do.

The subject is often taught under degrees of freedom (mechanics). This is the number of independent motions that are allowed to the body.

[[Heatwave (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American R&B bands, 1975 establishments in the United States

Heatwave is an international disco and funk band. The group was formed around 1975. Its most popular lineup was Americans Johnnie Wilder, Jr and Keith Wilder for vocals, Englishman Rod Temperton for the keyboards, Jamaican Eric Johns and Briton Roy Carter for guitar.

The group had hit singles, like "Boogie Nights" and "Always and Forever".

The group broke up in 1984. However, Heatwave got back together around 1988 and resumed releasing R&B music.

In 2002 the group released an extended remix of "Boogie Nights".

[[Someo]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 disestablishments in Switzerland, Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

Someo is a village and former municipality of the district of Vallemaggia in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. On 4 April 2004 the former municipalities of Aurigeno, Coglio, Giumaglio, Lodano, Moghegno and Someo to form a new and larger municipality of Maggia.

The municipality has 258 people in 2003. It has an area of 32.73 km².

[[Heiligenschwendi]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Heiligenschwendi is a municipality in the administrative district of canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Marais des Cygnes massacre]]

CATEGORIES: 1850s in Kansas, Bleeding Kansas

The Marais des Cygnes massacre happened on May 19, 1858 near the town of Trading Post, Kansas. It was the last violent episode in the period known as Bleeding Kansas. Border Ruffians led by Charles Hamilton stopped in the small village of Trading Post in Lynn County, Kansas on their to West Point, Missouri. Hamilton had previously been driven from his land in Lynn County by free-staters and abolitionists. He came back to seek revenge. They captured eleven free-state men, all of whom Hamilton had a grudge against. The captives were marched into a nearby ravine where the Missourians opened fire on them. The story got national attention in the press. Eastern newspapers including the New York Times printed the story. Anti-slavery groups called the victims martyrs. In 1974, the site of the massacre was designated a National Historic Landmark.

[[2003 European heat wave]]

CATEGORIES: Droughts, 2003 in Europe, 2003 in weather

The 2003 European heat wave was a natural disaster in Europe in the summer of 2003. The heat led to the hottest summer on record since at least 1540. France was especially hard hit. The heat led to health crises in several countries. It combined with droughts to reduce crops in Southern Europe.

More than 70,000 people died in Europe. According to an Inserm study nearly 19,000 people died in France. People also died in the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain.

[[Heimberg, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Heimberg is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Heimenhausen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Heimenhausen is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Röthenbach bei Herzogenbuchsee and Wanzwil merged into the municipality of Heimenhausen.

[[Heimiswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Heimiswil is a municipality of the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland

[[Moghegno]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 disestablishments in Switzerland, Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

Moghegno is a village and former municipality of the district of Vallemaggia in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland.

On 4 April 2004 the former municipalities of Aurigeno, Coglio, Giumaglio, Lodano, Moghegno and Someo to form a new and larger municipality of Maggia.

[[Aurigeno]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 disestablishments in Switzerland, Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

Aurigeno is a village and former municipality in the district of Vallemaggia in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland.

On 4 April 2004 the former municipalities of Aurigeno, Coglio, Giumaglio, Lodano, Moghegno and Someo to form a new and larger municipality of Maggia.

[[Alberswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Alberswil is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Terre di Pedemonte]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Ticino, 2013 establishments in Switzerland

Terre di Pedemonte is a municipality of the district of Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 14 April 2013 the former municipalities of Cavigliano, Tegna and Verscio merged to form the new municipality of Terre di Pedemonte.

[[Blockhouse]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology, Fortification

In military science, a blockhouse is a small fortification. It usually has one or more rooms with loopholes, allowing its defenders to fire rifles or handguns in various directions. It usually refers to an isolated fort in the form of a single building. It serves as a defensive strong point against any enemy that does not possess siege equipment or, in modern times, artillery. A fortification intended to resist these weapons is more likely to qualify as a fortress or a redoubt. 

In modern times, it may be a pillbox, a small underground bunker. However, a blockhouse may also refer to a room within a larger fortification, usually a battery or redoubt. The term "blockhouse" is of uncertain origin, perhaps related to Middle Dutch blokhus and 18th-century French blocus (blockade).

[[Electoral fraud]]

CATEGORIES: Elections, Fraudsters

Electoral fraud, or vote rigging, is any alteration or change of the vote count in an election. Acts of fraud affect vote counts to bring about an election result. That can be by increasing the vote share of one candidate or by lowering the vote count of another. It can also be a person casting more than one vote if only one vote is permitted, which is called ballot-box stuffing. What defines electoral fraud under law varies from country to country.

Many kinds of election fraud are outlawed in specific electoral laws. Other kinds violate general laws, such as those banning assault, harassment or libel. Technically, the term "electoral fraud" covers only acts that are illegal. Generally, the term is sometimes used to describe acts that are legal but are considered morally unacceptable, outside the spirit of electoral laws, or in violation of the principles of democracy. 

In national elections, successful electoral fraud can have the effect of a coup d'état or corruption of democracy. In a narrow election, a small amount of fraud may be enough to change the result. Even if the outcome is not affected, fraud can still have a damaging effect if not punished. For example, it can reduce voters' confidence in democracy.

Even the perception of fraud can be damaging. Fraudulent elections can lead to the breakdown of democracy and to the establishment or ratification of a dictatorship.

Fraud in elections is not limited to those for public office. Elections, such as for a corporation's directors, labor union officials, or student council members are subject to similar fraud, as are sports judging, and the awarding of merit to works of art and literature.

[[Muhammad Azam Shah]]

CATEGORIES: Mughal emperors, Mughal Empire

Muhammad Azam Shah is the successor of the last Mughal emperor Aurangzeb after his death in 1707. He is also the elder son of Aurangzeb. He was at throne from 14 March 1707 to 8 June 1707.

He was born on 28 June 1653 to Aurangzeb and his first wife and chief consort Dilras Banu Begum. He was also a timurid from father's blood and a Persian Safavid by mother's blood. He was the grandson of Shah Nawaz Khan Safavi, the Safavid Emperor of Persia and father of Azam Shah's mother.

After his father Emperor Aurangzeb's death, he ruled the empire. Then a succession war took place between the three sons of Aurangzeb. Azam Shah and his son were killed in the Battle of Jajau on 8 June 1707 by his step brother Bahadur Shah I, who ruled the empire by killing his both brothers in war.

[[Douglas County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Douglas County, Kansas, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Douglas County is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas.  In 2010 census, there were 110,826 people living in the county. That made it the fifth-most populous county in Kansas. The city with the most people is Lawrence.

[[Marais des Cygnes River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Kansas

The Marais des Cygnes River  is a principal tributary of the Osage River. It is about 217 long, and runs through eastern Kansas and western Missouri in the United States. Via the Osage and Missouri rivers, it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River. The name Marais des Cygnes means "Marsh of the Swans" in French. But the name actually comes from an Osage name “Mixa-ckau-tse” (where white swans are plentiful). It was probably so named because of the trumpeter and tundra swans that were plentiful here before the late 1800s. The river is notorious for flash flooding.  The river is referenced in the song "The River" by Chely Wright.

[[List of comuni of the Province of Pesaro and Urbino]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Marche

The following is a list of the 59 comuni of the Province of Pesaro and Urbino, Marche, in Italy.

[[Bever, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Bever is a municipality of the district of Maloja in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Bivio]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Bivio is a former municipality in the district of Albula in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2016 the former municipalities of Bivio, Cunter, Marmorera, Mulegns, Riom-Parsonz, Salouf, Savognin, Sur and Tinizong-Rona merged into the new municipality of Surses.

[[Brexit]]

CATEGORIES: Brexit, 2010s in the United Kingdom, 2020s in the United Kingdom

Brexit (ˈ) is a movement that promotes that the United Kingdom (UK) leave the European Union (EU). The name "Brexit" is a portmanteau (merging two words together) of "British" and "exit".

On 23 June 2016, the UK made a referendum that asked whether the UK should leave the EU. The result was that 51.9% of the UK electorate (the main region of the UK) voted that the UK should leave the EU. The rest wanted the UK to stay in the EU. On 29 March 2017, the UK government said that they will definitely be leaving the EU.  This started the procedure of Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, a law that deals with countries that leave the EU.  The UK was expected to fully leave the EU on 29 March 2019 at 11nbspp.m. UTC. The deadline to leave was later changed to 31 October 2019.

On 15 January 2019, Theresa May's government was defeated in the House of Commons by 230 votes in a vote on her deal to leave the European Union.

On 24 December 2020, a post-Brexit trade deal was made.

[[Madame de Montespan]]

CATEGORIES: 1640 births, 1707 deaths, French people

Françoise de Rochechouart, Marquise of Montespan (5 October 1640 – 27 May 1707) was better known as Madame de Montespan. She was the most celebrated mistress of King Louis XIV of France. She had seven children with him.  

She had spent several years in fashonable Parisians salons. There she was quickly seen as an intelligent, witty and very attractive woman. She eventually gave herself the nickname Athénaïs in honour of the ancient Greek goddess Athena. As a result of this, she is also referred to as "Athénaïs de Montespan". She lived at the same time as Barbara Palmer, 1st Duchess of Cleveland, the mistress of Charles II of England. Several of her decendants married, which makes her an ancestress of several royal houses in Europe, including those of Spain, Italy, Bulgaria and Portugal. She was also responsible for the creation of the now destroyed "Trianon de Porcelaine" as well as the larger and grander Château de Clagny. The latter building has often been likened to the Palace of Versailles, just on a smaller scale. She was also called "the real queen of France" in her lifetime due to her strong influence over the king and royal court. 

[[Jayhawker]]

CATEGORIES: History of Kansas, Bleeding Kansas, Origins of the American Civil War

Jayhawkers is a term that came into use just before the American Civil War in Bleeding Kansas.  It was adopted by militant bands of Free-Staters. These bands, known as "Jayhawkers", were guerrilla fighters who often clashed with pro-slavery groups from Missouri known at the time as "Border Ruffians". 

After the Civil War, the word "Jayhawker" became synonymous with the people of Kansas. Today a Jayhawk is typically a student, fan, or alumnus of the University of Kansas. "Jayhawk" is also the name of their mascot, a mythical bird with a history based on the Bleeding Kansas era term.

[[Hellsau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Hellsau is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Foglia]]

CATEGORIES: Marche, Rivers of Italy, Tuscany

The Foglia is the northernmost river of the Marche region of Italy.

In ancient times it was known as Pisaurus, as it flows into the Adriatic Sea at Pisaurum (modern Pesaro), the last important trading centre along the river. It was also known as the Isaurus; word that is kept in the name of the comune Belforte all'Isauro.

[[Herbligen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Herbligen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Hermiswil]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern, 2016 disestablishments in Switzerland

Hermiswil was a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the municipality of Seeberg.

[[Hermrigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Hermrigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Altbüron]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Altbüron is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Entlebuch]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Entlebuch is a municipality of the Swiss canton of Lucerne. It is the capital of the district Entlebuch.

[[Doppleschwand]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Doppleschwand is a municipality of the district of Entlebuch in the Swiss canton of Lucerne.

[[Escholzmatt]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne

Escholzmatt is a municipality of the district Entlebuch in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Escholzmatt and Marbach merged into the new municipality of Escholzmatt-Marbach.

[[Elle King]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Los Angeles, California, Singers from New York City, American rock musicians, American country musicians, 1989 births, Living people

Elle King (born July 3, 1989) is an American singer-songwriter and actress. Her musical style is country, rock and soul. In 2012, she released her first EP, The Elle King EP. On February 17, 2015, she released her first album, Love Stuff. The album produced the top 10 song "Ex's & Oh's".

King was born in Los Angeles. She later moved to New York City.

[[Serravalle, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Ticino

Serravalle is a municipality of the district Blenio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. It was created on 1 April 2012 when the former municipalities of Malvaglia, Semione and Ludiano merged to form the new municipality of Serravalle.

[[Gambarogno]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Ticino, 2010 establishments in Switzerland

Gambarogno is a new municipality of the district of Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 25 April 2010 the former municipalities of Caviano, Contone, Gerra (Gambarogno), Indemini, Magadino, Piazzogna, San Nazzaro, Sant'Abbondio and Vira (Gambarogno) merged into the new municipality of Gambarogno.

[[Flühli]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Flühli is a municipality of the district of Entlebuch in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Herzogenbuchsee]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Herzogenbuchsee is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2008 the former municipality of Oberönz merged into the municipality of Herzogenbuchsee.

[[Freimettigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Freimettigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Hilterfingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Hilterfingen is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[2015–16 Superleague Greece]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in association football, 2016 in association football

The 2015–16 Superleague Greece was the 80th season of top division football in Greece. The season started on 22 August 2015 and ended in May 2016. Olympiacos won their sixth consecutive title and 43rd overall.

[[Joe Walsh (Illinois politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, United States representatives from Illinois, 2020 United States presidential candidates, American radio personalities, US Republican Party politicians

William Joseph Walsh, known as Joe Walsh (born December 27, 1961), is an American conservative talk radio host and former politician.

He served one term in the United States House of Representatives for Illinois' IL. He served from January 2011 through January 2013, after defeating three-term incumbent Democratic Representative Melissa Bean by a margin of 291 votes in a surprising upset. He is a member of the Republican Party.

Walsh was defeated by retired U.S. Army Lt. Colonel Tammy Duckworth in the general election on November 6, 2012. He now hosts a conservative radio show on WIND-AM 560.

On August 25, 2019, Walsh announced his candidacy for President of the United States against President Donald Trump for the Republican nomination in 2020. He stated that Trump's behavior in office motivated him to declare his candidacy. He ended his campaign on February 9, 2020.

[[FC Rapid București]]

CATEGORIES: Romanian football clubs, 1923 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Romania

Fotbal Club Rapid București is a Romanian association football club from Bucharest, Romania. It was founded in 1923 by a group of workers. Rapid won the Romanian championship three times (1967, 1999 and 2003) and the Romanian Cup 13 times. In the 2015–16 season, they were promoted to Liga I.

[[FC Dinamo București]]

CATEGORIES: Romanian football clubs, 1948 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Romania

Fotbal Club Dinamo București (Usually just called Dinamo) is a Romanian association football club from Bucharest, Romania. The team is one of the most successful clubs in Romania, having won 18 Romanian Liga I titles, 13 Romanian Cups and 2 Supercupa României. They reached the semi-finals of the 1983–84 European Cup, only to be defeated by Liverpool 3–1.

The club was founded in 1948, and is one of the few to stay in the Liga I for it's entire history. The team's traditional home colours are white and red. Also, the club's biggest rival is Steaua Bucuresti.

[[CFR Cluj]]

CATEGORIES: Romanian football clubs

Fotbal Club CFR 1907 Cluj ('CFR' stands for Căile Ferate Române, meaning Romanian Railways) is a Romanian association football club from Cluj-Napoca in Transylvania, Romania. The club spent most of its history in the lower divisions. Great financial gains in 2002 led them to reach the Liga I in 2004. The following season, the CFR Cluj took part in the UEFA Intertoto Cup and finished as runners-up. For the first time in their history, the club won the Liga I in 2008. That season, they took the title away from the teams of Bucharest for the first time in 17 years. Since 2004, they have won the Liga I 3 times, the Romanian Cup 3 times and the Romanian Supercup twice.

The teams colours are purple and white, and their biggest rival is Universitatea Cluj.

[[2016–17 Liga I]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in association football, 2017 in sports

The 2016–17 Liga I was the 99th season of Liga I, which is the top division football league in Romania. The season began on 23 July 2016 and ended in May 2017. Viitorul Constanța won the tournament.

[[Cupa României]]

CATEGORIES: Football competitions, Football in Romania, 1993 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Romania

The Cupa României (English: Romanian Cup) is an association football club tournament for Romanian teams. It has been held annually since 1933–34, except during World War II. All teams connected to the Romanian Football Federation can perform in the tournament. The winner of the cup is granted a place in the play-off round of the UEFA Europa League.

The most successful teams have been mainly from Bucharest, with Steaua București winning 22 titles, followed by Rapid București and Dinamo București with thirteen each.

[[FC Politehnica Iași (2010)]]

CATEGORIES: Romanian football clubs, 2010 establishments in Europe, 21st century establishments in Romania

Clubul Sportiv Municipal Studențesc Iași (previously called CSMS Iași) is a professional association football club from Iaşi, Romania. The club was founded in 2010 and currently plays in the Liga I. The team's colours are blue and white.

[[Hasle, Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Hasle is a municipality of the district of Entlebuch in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[FC Astra Giurgiu]]

CATEGORIES: Romanian football clubs, 1921 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Romania

Fotbal Club Astra Giurgiu (Usually called Astra Giurgiu or just Astra) is a professional association football club from Giurgiu, Romania. They currently play in the Liga I.

The club was formed in 1921 in Ploiești (a city about 116 km north of Giurgiu), as Clubul Sportiv Astra-Română. The club spent most of its history in the lower divisions. In 1990, the club was taken over by businessman Ioan Niculae and has since improved. In September 2012, the team was moved from Ploiești to Giurgiu.

The team won their first Liga I title in 2015–16. They also won 1 Cupa României and 1 Supercupa României.

The colours of the club are white and black, which is why their nickname Dracii Negri (The Black Devils).

The club has also had many names. These include: Clubul Sportiv Astra-Română (1921–1934), Astra Română Câmpina (1934–1937), Astra Română Ploiești (1937–1938), Colombia Ploiești (1938–1945), Astra Română Ploiești (1945–1959), Rafinorul Ploiești (1959–1990), CS Astra Ploiești (1990–1996), AS Danubiana Ploiești (1996–1998), SC FC Astra Ploiești (1998–2005), CSM Ploiești (2005–2007), FC Ploiești (2007–2009) and FC Astra Ploiești (2009–2012).

[[Marbach, Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne

Marbach is a former municipality of the district of Entlebuch in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Marbach and Escholzmatt merged into the new municipality of Escholzmatt-Marbach.

[[Escholzmatt-Marbach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne, 2013 establishments in Switzerland

Escholzmatt-Marbach is a municipality of the district of Entlebuch in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Escholzmatt and Marbach merged into the new municipality of Escholzmatt-Marbach.

[[Liga II]]

CATEGORIES: Football competitions, Football in Romania, 1934 establishments, 1930s establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Romania

Liga II (previously called Divizia B) is the second tier division association football league in Romania. The winners of the league get promoted to the Liga I. The current champions are Rapid București and Gaz Metan Mediaș.

[[FC Botoșani]]

CATEGORIES: Romanian football clubs, 2001 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Romania

Fotbal Club Botoșani (usually just called FC Botoșani or Botoșani) is a professional Romanian association football club from Botoşani, Romania. Since the 2016–17 season, they play in the Liga I. It is the first club from Botoşani County to be promoted to the top league.

The club was formed in 2001 as Fotbal Club Botoșani. They started in the  started in Divizia C, Serie I. They quickly made it to the Liga I after finishing 1st in the 2012–13 Liga II season.

The club plays at the Stadionul Municipal, which has a capacity of around 12,000 people. Supporter groups include the "Dark Hooligans", "Renegatii" and "BT Pride". They have a historical rivalry with Rapid CFR Suceava, but have recently grown to be rivals with Municipal Studențesc Iași as well.

The club's colours are red, white and blue. The home kit is usually white, while the away kit is generally blue.

[[Stadionul Municipal (Botoșani)]]

CATEGORIES: Stadiums in Europe

The Stadionul Municipal is a multi-use stadium in Botoşani, Romania. It is usually used for football matches with FC Botoșani (since 2001). The stadium holds 12,000 people. It was renovated in 2008, 2009 and 2013.

[[United Nations General Assembly Resolution 68/262]]

CATEGORIES: United Nations

United Nations General Assembly Resolution 68/262 was adopted on March 27, 2014 by the sixty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly in response to the Russian annexation of Crimea and entitled "Territorial integrity of Ukraine". The non-binding resolution, which was supported by 100 United Nations member states, affirmed the General Assembly's commitment to the territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders and underscored the invalidity of the 2014 Crimean referendum. Eleven (11) nations voted against the resolution, while 58 abstained, and a further 24 states were absent when the vote took place.

The resolution was introduced by Canada, Costa Rica, Germany, Lithuania, Poland and Ukraine. The adoption of the resolution was preceded by the unsuccessful attempts of the United Nations Security Council, that convened seven sessions to address the Crimean crisis, only to face Russian veto.

[[CS Universitatea Craiova (football)]]

CATEGORIES: Romanian football clubs, 1948 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Romania

Clubul Sportiv Universitatea Craiova is a professional association football club from Craiova, Romania.

Two teams were founded in Craiova in the year 1921: Craiovan Craiova and Rovine Griviţa Craiova. These two clubs merged to form the very successful team, FC Craiova. The team dissolved in 1949. Finally in 1948, Universitatea Craiova was formed by a group of students and professors.

Since it's founding, the club has won 4 Liga I titles, 6 Cupa României titles, 2 Liga II titles and 1 Liga III title. They also reached the quarter-finals of the 1981–82 UEFA Champions League tournament.

The team's colours are blue and white.

[[Release]]

Release might refer to:

[[Richenthal]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne, Villages in Lucerne

Richenthal is a village and former municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2006 the former municipalities of Richenthal and Langnau bei Reiden merged into the municipality of Reiden.

[[Azzedine Alaïa]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Fashion designers, Legion of Honour, People from Tunis, Twin people

Azzedine Alaïa was a Tunisian haute couture fashion designer based in Paris. 

In 2008, he was awarded the Legion of Honour by the French government.

In 2011, he started showing his collections on the catwalk again after an eight-years pause.

In 2015, he was celebrated at the Galleria Borghese in Rome with an exhibition called "Couture/Sculpture: Azzedine Alaïa in the History of Fashion".

[[Sandy Springs, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Georgia (U.S. state), Fulton County, Georgia

Sandy Springs is a city in Fulton County, Georgia. It is north of Atlanta. Its population was estimated to be 109,452 in 2019.

[[Slave states and free states]]

CATEGORIES: Slavery, History of the United States

In the history of the United States of America, a slave state was a U.S. state in which the practice of slavery was legal at a particular point in time. A free state was one in which slavery was prohibited. Slavery was an issue that divided the country. It was one of the primary causes of the American Civil War. The Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, ratified in 1865, abolished slavery in every state and territory of the United States. After that time the terms became more or less obsolete because all states were free of slavery.

[[Romoos]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Romoos is a municipality of the district of Entlebuch in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Hindelbank]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Hindelbank is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Province of Fermo]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Marche

The Province of Fermo (Provincia di Fermo) is a province in the Marche region of Italy. Its capital is the city of Fermo.

It is a province since 2004 with parts of the province of Ascoli Piceno but it was in 2009 when it became an active province.

[[Höchstetten]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Höchstetten is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Höfen, Thun]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Höfen bei Thun is a former municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Höfen, Niederstocken and Oberstocken merged into the new municipality of Stocken-Höfen.

[[List of comuni of the Province of Fermo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Marche

The following is a list of the 40 comuni of the Province of Fermo, Marche, in Italy.

[[Bonaduz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Bonaduz (Panaduz) is a municipality of the district Imboden in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Hofstetten bei Brienz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Hofstetten bei Brienz is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Homberg, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Homberg is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Jenni Williams]]

CATEGORIES: Activists, Living people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Year of birth missing (living people), Zimbabwean people

Jennifer Louise "Jenni" Williams is an activist from Zimbabwe.  She started the organization WOZA (Women of Zimbabwe Arise) to protest the Zimbabwe government.  In 2007 she received an International Women of Courage Award.

[[If Only I Could]]

CATEGORIES: Singapore, Chinese language, 2010s television series, Drama television series

If Only I Could (Chinese: 十年…你还好吗？) is a Singaporean drama television series. It is produced and shown on Mediacorp Channel 8. It began its run from 31 May 2016. There are 20 episodes. It stars Rui En, Paige Chua, Andie Chen and Elvin Ng as the main characters.

[[CS Gaz Metan Mediaș]]

CATEGORIES: Romanian football clubs, 1945 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Romania

Clubul Sportiv Gaz Metan Mediaș is a professional association football club from Mediaș, Sibiu County, Romania. They were founded in 1945 and currently play in the Liga I.

They currently play at the Stadionul Gaz Metan, which has a capacity of around 7,800 people.

Their best performance in the Liga I was at 7th place in the 2010–11 Liga I. They have never won the Romanian cup, but got 2nd place in 1951. They have won the Liga II 2 times and the Liga III 3 times.

The club has had many names: Karres Mediaș, CSM Mediaș, Zorile Rosii Mediaș, Gaz Metan Mediaș, Partizanul (1950–51), Flacara (1951–56), Energia (1956–58), Gaz Metan (1958–60), and CSM Mediaș (1960–1963).

[[FC Viitorul Constanța]]

CATEGORIES: Romanian football clubs, 2009 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Romania

Fotbal Club Viitorul Constanța is a professional association football club from Ovidiu, Constanța County, Romania. They currently play in the Liga I.

The club was founded in the summer of 2009 and began to play in the Liga III. It was founded by famous Romanian footballer Gheorghe Hagi. The club currently possesses the top youth facilities of any club in the country.

They won the Liga III in the 2009-10 season. Also, their team colours are blue, white and black.

[[Schüpfheim]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Schüpfheim is a municipality of the district of Entlebuch in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Mason–Dixon line]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Maryland, Pennsylvania, Territorial disputes

The Mason–Dixon line, also called Mason's and Dixon's line, originally determining the border between Maryland and Pennsylvania, was surveyed and marked between 1763 and 1767. Two English surveyors, Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon, were hired by the Penn and Calvert families to settle a border dispute. In 1760 the British crown, tired of the violence between the two colonies, demanded the dispute over the border between Maryland and Pennsylvania be settled according to an agreement made in 1732. The line the two surveyors came up with was so accurate it is still considered a marvel. GPS measurements show the line to be off by an inch or less in places and no more than 800 in others.

[[Horrenbach-Buchen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Horrenbach-Buchen is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Huttwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Huttwil is a city in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Son Heung-min]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, South Korean footballers, 1992 births

Son Heung-min (Hangul: 손흥민 hɯŋmin; born 8 July 1992) is a South Korean soccer player. He is now in the English Premier League at Tottenham Hotspur F.C.. Son is a forward who plays both as a winger and a striker. He played in the Bundesliga for Hamburger SV and Bayer Leverkusen. Son is also a key player on the South Korean national team. He played in the 2014 FIFA World Cup.

[[Ring (diacritic)]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabetic diacritics

A ring diacritic may appear above or below letters. It may be used with some letters of the extended Latin alphabets.

[[Werthenstein]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Werthenstein is a municipality of the district of Entlebuch in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Wolhusen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Wolhusen is a municipality of the district of Entlebuch in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Harpers Ferry Armory]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War, 18th-century establishments in Virginia, Harpers Ferry, West Virginia, 1797 establishments in the United States

Harpers Ferry Armory, more formally known as the United States Armory and Arsenal at Harpers Ferry, was the second federal armory commissioned by the United States government.  It was located in Harpers Ferry, West Virginia (then part of Virginia). It was also called the "mother arsenal", a term coined in 1797 by the first Secretary of the Navy Benjamin Stoddert. The first federal armory was the Springfield Armory located in Springfield, Massachusetts. In many books the town is called “Harper’s Ferry” with an apostrophe. The national armory has been associated with many historical events throughout the history of the United States.

[[Entlebuch (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Lucerne

Entlebuch is a district of the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland. The capital is the municipality of Schüpfheim.

[[Sixth form]]

CATEGORIES: Education in England, Education in the United Kingdom

The sixth form is the final stage in British secondary schools. This term is used in England, Northern Ireland, Wales and some other Commonwealth countries. The sixth form (or 'Key Stage 5') is the final two years of secondary education (U.S. 'high school'). Students (typically between 16 and 18 years of age) prepare for their A-level (or equivalent) examinations.

[[Inkwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Inkwil is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Innertkirchen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Villages in Bern

Innertkirchen is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipality of Gadmen merged into the municipality of Innertkirchen.

[[Ins, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Ins (Anet) is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Gaultheria]]

CATEGORIES: Ericaceae

Gaultheria is a flowering plant genus in the  family Ericaceae. Gaultheria has 135 species including the Salal, Gaultheria shallon. Gaultheria are shrubs that are related to the blueberry. Gaultheria is commonly called wintergreen.  The genus was described by Pehr Kalm.

[[Interlaken]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Interlaken is a town and municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. It is an important and well-known tourist destination in the Bernese Oberland region of the Swiss Alps, and the main transport gateway to the mountains and lakes of that region. In 2018, 5,610 people lived there.

The town is on the Bödeli between two lakes Brienz and Thun.

[[Leopold, Duke of Lorraine]]

CATEGORIES: 1679 births, 1729 deaths, Dukes and duchesses, House of Lorraine

Léopold, Duke of Lorraine] (11 September 1679 – 27 March 1729) nicknamed the Good was the ruling Duke of Lorraine and Bar from 1690 to his death.  He was named in honour of his uncle Holy Roman Emperor Leopold  I. He was also responsible for the creation of the Château de Lunéville which was used as the ducal residence during his lifetime. 

The eldest son of Eleanor of Austria and Charles V of Lorraine, He was from a long established House of Lorraine which had ruled over the small Duchy of Lorraine since 1473. 

[[List of comuni of the Province of Macerata]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Marche

The following is a list of the 40 comuni of the Province of Macerata, Marche, in Italy.

[[Joe Pavelski]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, American Hockey League players, American ice hockey players, Dallas Stars players, Ice hockey centres, Living people, People from Wisconsin, San Jose Sharks players, United States Hockey League players

Joe Pavelski is an ice hockey player. He has played center for the Dallas Stars and San Jose Sharks. In 2015, he became the captain of the San Jose Sharks. In 2019, he was traded to Dallas Stars.

[[Agnetha Fältskog]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Swedish singers, Swedish writers, Swedish actors, Songwriters, Swedish musicians

(with Ulvaeus)

Agnetha Åse Fältskog (aŋ²neːta ²fɛltskuːɡ, born 5 April 1950) is a Swedish musician, singer, songwriter, actress, and author. She became successful in Sweden after the release of her debut album Agnetha Fältskog in 1968, and reached international stardom as a member of the pop group ABBA.

After the break-up of ABBA, Fältskog found some success as a solo artist in the 1980s. Fältskog stopped recording music for almost 17 years until she released a new album in 2004.

[[Björn Ulvaeus]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Swedish screenwriters, Songwriters, Composers, Swedish movie producers, People from Gothenburg

Björn Kristian Ulvaeus (credited as Björn Ulvæus bjœːɳ ɵlˈveːɵs; born 25 April 1945) is a Swedish songwriter, producer, a former member of the Swedish musical group ABBA (1972–1982), and co-composer of the musicals Chess, Kristina från Duvemåla, and Mamma Mia!. He co-produced the movie Mamma Mia! with fellow ABBA member and close friend Benny Andersson.

[[Dynamo Dresden]]

CATEGORIES: Dresden, German football clubs, Sport in Saxony

Sportgemeinschaft Dynamo Dresden e.V. (usually just called SG Dynamo Dresden or Dynamo Dresden) is a professional association football club from Dresden, Saxony, Germany. They currently play in the 2. Bundesliga.

The club was founded on 12 April 1953 as a club affiliated with the East German police. They became one of the most successful clubs in East Germany, winning 8 DDR-Oberliga titles. After the German reunification, they played in the Bundesliga for a few seasons, but they have drifted between the 2. Bundesliga and the Regionalliga Nordost.

Their main rivals are Berliner FC Dynamo, Lokomotive Leipzig, Chemnitzer, Sachsen Leipzig, Erzgebirge Aue and Dresdner. Also, their main colours are yellow and black (previously the colours were green and white).

[[Chromophore]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

A chromophore is the part of a molecule responsible for its colour.

The colour is caused when a molecule absorbs certain wavelengths of visible light. It transmits or reflects only other wavelengths, which causes the colour we see.

In biological molecules that capture or detect light energy, the chromophore is the part of the molecule which responds when hit by light.

Chromophores make the colour in chromatophores, which are the pigment-containing and light-reflecting cells found in many animals.

[[Himeros]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

Himeros (Ancient Greek: Ἱμερος "uncontrollable desire") is the god of sexual desire or unrequited love. He is one of the Erotes.

Himeros is shown to carry a bow and arrow. He created desire and passion in mortals. He is often depicted as a young man or child.

His parents are Ares and Aphrodite and he's brothers with Eros, his twin brother. His other siblings include Pothos, Anteros, Hermaphroditus, Hedylogos, Phobos, Deimos and Harmonia.

[[Harpers Ferry, West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Harpers Ferry, West Virginia

Harpers Ferry is a historic town in Jefferson County, West Virginia, United States. In some cases the name Harper's Ferry has been spelled using an apostrophe. Harpers Ferry sits at the confluence of the Potomac and Shenandoah rivers. This is where the U.S. states of Maryland, Virginia and West Virginia meet. It is the easternmost town in West Virginia. The original, lower section of the town is located on a low-lying floodplain created by the two rivers. It is surrounded by higher ground on all sides. Historically, Harpers Ferry is best known for John Brown's raid on the Armory in 1859 and its role in the American Civil War. During the war, between 1861 and 1865, the town changed hands between Union and Confederate forces 14 times. The Battle of Harpers Ferry resulted in the largest surrender by Union Army soldiers in the Civil War.

The population was 286 at the 2010 census.

[[Battle of Harpers Ferry]]

CATEGORIES: Harpers Ferry, West Virginia, American Civil War battles, 1862 in the United States, Maryland Campaign, History of West Virginia, September 1862 events

The Battle of Harpers Ferry was fought September 12–15, 1862. It was part of the Maryland Campaign of the American Civil War. As Gen. Robert E. Lee's Confederate army invaded Maryland, a portion of his army under Major General Thomas J. "Stonewall" Jackson was sent to capture Harpers Ferry. His troops surrounded, bombarded, and captured the Union garrison at Harpers Ferry, Virginia (now West Virginia). This was a major victory at relatively minor cost.

[[Giumaglio]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 disestablishments in Switzerland, Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

Giumaglio is a village and former municipality of the district of Vallemaggia in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland.

On 4 April 2004 the former municipalities of Aurigeno, Coglio, Giumaglio, Lodano, Moghegno and Someo merged into the new municipality of Maggia.

[[Maryland Campaign]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland Campaign, September 1862 events

The Maryland Campaign (September 4, 1862–September 20, 1862), also called the Antietam Campaign, was a series of four battles in West Virginia and Maryland initiated by Confederate General Robert E. Lee. It was considered as one of the major turning points in the Civil War for the Union. The goal was for Lee's army to invade the Northern states of Maryland and Pennsylvania. That way he could threaten the cities of Washington, D.C. and Baltimore. By a series of decisive victories Lee thought that the South could gain recognition from England and France and get them to support the Southern cause. The hope was if Lee was victorious, it might cause Abraham Lincoln to sue for peace.

[[Ipsach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Ipsach is a municipality in the administrative district of Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Iseltwald]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Villages in Bern

Iseltwald is a village and municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. It is located on the southern of Lake Brienz.

[[Time in Egypt]]

CATEGORIES: Time by country, Egypt

Egypt observes Eastern European Time (UTC+2) all year round, the same time as neighboring Libya. On April 29, 2016, Egypt announced it was going to re-introduce daylight saving time (DST) on July 7 at 00:00 (UTC+02:00), but on July 4, 2016, the Egyptian government announced that DST will not be observed in 2016.

[[Mithankot]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan, Punjab (Pakistan)

Mithankot (Urdu: مِٹهن كوٹ) is a city in southern Punjab, Pakistan. Mithankot is located on the right (west) bank of the Indus River, only a short distance downstream from its junction with Panjnad River.

[[Moscow Time]]

CATEGORIES: Time zones, Moscow

Moscow Time is UTC+3, the same time as Eastern European Summer Time, East Africa Time, and Arabia Standard Time.

On 28 March 2010, Moscow Time became the time zone for the Samara olabast in Russia, leaving Samara Time (UTC+4) unused.

On 8 February 2011, The Russian government announced the abandonment of winter time in all time zones across Russia. Moscovians set their clocks forward on 27 March 2011, and then UTC+4 became its standard time permanently.

In July 2014, The law to observe summer time year round was abandoned, and the clock has been set to UTC+3 starting from 26 October 2014.

The time zone database is Europe/Moscow.

[[Siti Musdah Mulia]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Indonesian writers, Indonesian activists, Human rights activists, Living people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Siti Musdah Mulia (born March 3, 1958 in Bone, South Sulawesi Selatandari) is an Indonesian professor of religion and an activist for women's rights. In 2007 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Shenandoah River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of West Virginia, Rivers of Virginia

The Shenandoah River ˌ is a tributary of the Potomac River, 55.6 long with two forks approximately 100 long each. One is in the U.S. states of Virginia while the other in West Virginia. 

The river and its tributaries drain the central and lower Shenandoah River valley. They also drain the Page Valley in the Appalachians on the west side of the Blue Ridge Mountains, in northwestern Virginia and the Eastern Panhandle of West Virginia.

[[Ittigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Ittigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

The municipality was formed in 1983 when it and Ostermundigen were separated from territory once part of Bolligen.

[[Langnau bei Reiden]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Lucerne, Former municipalities of Lucerne

Langnau bei Reiden is a village and former municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2006 the former municipalities of Langnau bei Reiden and Richenthal merged into the municipality of Reiden.

[[Kottwil]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Lucerne, Former municipalities of Lucerne

Kottwil is a village and former municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

Since 2006, it is part of the municipality of Ettiswil.

[[Dixon S. Miles]]

CATEGORIES: 1804 births, 1862 deaths, Colonels, Military personnel of the American Civil War, People from Baltimore, Maryland

Dixon Stansbury Miles (May 4, 1804–September 16, 1862) was an officer in the Union Army during the American Civil War. He commanded a division in the First Battle of Bull Run. He was the commander of the Federal arsenal at Harpers Ferry during the Battle of Harpers Ferry. He died from shrapnel wounds the day after the Union garrison surrendered.

[[Monte Vettore]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Italy, Marche

Monte Vettore (Victor; "victorious") is a mountain on the border between Umbria and the Marche, in Central Italy.

It is the highest mountain in the Marche region and in the province of Ascoli Piceno.

[[2016 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in ice hockey, 2016 in Pennsylvania, 2016 in California, 21st century in Pittsburgh, History of San Jose, California, June 2016 events, May 2016 events, Pittsburgh Penguins, San Jose Sharks, Stanley Cup Finals

The 2016 Stanley Cup finals is the 123rd Stanley Cup trophy presentations as well as the champions of the 2015-16 NHL season. It featured the Pittsburgh Penguins and the San Jose Sharks. This was the Sharks first ever appearance in a Stanley Cup final and the Penguins 5th time in a Stanley Cup finals.

The Penguins beat the Sharks winning the series in game 6 at SAP Center, 3-1.

[[List of Italian regions by highest point]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Italy, Italy-related lists

This is a list of Italian regions by highest point.

[[Hochdorf (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Lucerne

Hochdorf is a district of the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland. The capital is the municipality of Hochdorf.

It contains the following municipalities:

[[Howards End]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 drama movies, British drama movies, Japanese movies, British novels, Movies directed by James Ivory

Howards End is a novel by E. M. Forster, first published in 1910. it is about social conventions,  personal relationships and conflicting values in Edwardian England.

Some people think Howards End was Forster's best piece of work. In 1998, the Modern Library ranked Howards End 38th on its list of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century. It was adapted into a film in 1992 starring Anthony Hopkins, Vanessa Redgrave, Emma Thompson, and Helena Bonham Carter. It was directed by James Ivory. It was nominated for 9 Academy Awards and won 3 Academy Awards.

[[Jaberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Jaberg is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Jegenstorf]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Jegenstorf (Bernese German: Jegischtorf) is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2010 the former municipality of Ballmoos merged into the municipality of Jegenstorf and

on 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Münchringen and Scheunen merged into the municipality of Jegenstorf.

[[Kallnach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Kallnach (Chouchignies) is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Kandergrund]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Kandergrund is a municipality in the administrative district of Frutigen-Niedersimmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Kandersteg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland

Kandersteg is a municipality in the administrative district of Frutigen-Niedersimmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. It is along the valley of the river Kander, west of the Jungfrau massif.

[[Altwis]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Altwis is a municipality of the district Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Bouillabaisse]]

CATEGORIES: Soups, French food

Bouillabaisse is a French fisherman's soup. This traditional Provençal fish stew originated in the port  of Marseille. The word is a compound of bolhir (to boil) and abaissar (to reduce heat, i.e., simmer).

It was a stew made by Marseille fishermen using the bony rockfish they were unable to sell. As well as fish, the soup has mussels (fr: moules) and may have other marine invertebrates. Vegetables such as leeks, onions, tomatoes, celery, and potatoes are simmered together with the broth and served with the fish.

The broth is traditionally served with a rouille, a mayonnaise made of olive oil, garlic, saffron, and cayenne pepper on grilled slices of bread.

In Marseille, the broth is served first in a soup plate with slices of bread and rouille, then the fish is served separately on a large platter  (see image). A simpler version has the fish and broth brought to the table separately and served together in large soup plates.

[[Sword Art Online]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books, 2012 anime television series, 2014 anime television series, 2018 anime television series, Light novels

Sword Art Online (also known as SAO) is a 2009 Japanese light novel series written by Reki Kawahara and illustrated by abec. The series is about many virtual reality worlds.

Sword Art Online was commercially successful. According to Oricon, SAO was the top selling light novel series of 2012. More than 16 million copies of the light novel has been printed. The novel was later acted into a Japanese Anime.

An anime television series titled Sword Art Online aired in Japan between July and December 2012. It was produced by A-1 Pictures. Its second season called Sword Art Online II aired between July and December 2014. The third season of the anime titled Sword Art Online: Alicization premiered on October 7, 2018.

[[Salade niçoise]]

CATEGORIES: French food, Salads, Nice

Salade niçoise  is a salad from the district of Nice. It has tomatoes, tuna, hard-boiled eggs, olives, and anchovies. It is dressed with a vinaigrette. It is served with or without a bed of lettuce. The tuna may be cooked or canned.

The salad may include raw red peppers, shallots, artichoke hearts and other seasonal raw vegetables. It does not have cooked vegetables (like green beans and potatoes) which are often served in variations of salade niçoise around the world.

In French cuisine, raw vegetables served as appetisers are known as crudités.

[[Light novel]]

CATEGORIES: Light novels

A light novel is a type of Japanese novel. It is mainly intended for young adults to read. They are sometimes adapted into manga and anime.

[[Ballwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Ballwil is a municipality of the district Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Punitive damages]]

CATEGORIES: Law

Punitive damages are a remedy given by a court of equity in a lawsuit. It is used when a court believes that the defendant needs more punishment to be reformed or stopped from doing the action that caused them to be sued. 

[[Ilze Jaunalksne]]

CATEGORIES: Latvian people, Journalists, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people

Ilze Jaunalksne is a Latvian journalist for a television news program.  In 2007 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

Jaualksne reported on political corruption and buying votes.  She won a court case against the government.

== References == 

[[Kappelen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Kappelen (Chapelle) is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Samia al-Amoudi]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Saudi Arabian people, Educators, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Physicians, Academics

Samia al-Amoudi (سامية العمودي) is a Saudi Arabian doctor. In 2007 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Gurzelen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Gurzelen is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Kaufdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Kaufdorf is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Battle of South Mountain]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1862 in the United States, Maryland Campaign, September 1862 events

The Battle of South Mountain was fought on September 14, 1862 in Maryland’s South Mountain between Confederate and Union forces. The Battle of South Mountain was a very important battle. It was the first major battle fought north of the Potomac River. It was the first invasion of the Northern United States by a Confederate Army. It was also here and not at Antietam where the Confederates under General Robert E. Lee were defeated and turned back. The day-long pitched battle was fought for control of the three passes through the mountain: Crampton's, Turner's, and Fox's Gaps.

[[Mariya Ahmed Didi]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Political activists, Maldivian people, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people

June 2020

Mariya Ahmed Didi is a Maldivian representative in the parliament. In 2007 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

In March 2006, the police arrested a female activist at her house late at night, so Didi organized the first women's rights protest in Maldives.  

== References == 

[[Kehrsatz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Kehrsatz is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.-

[[Kernenried]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Kernenried is a municipality of the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

It is 6 km west of Burgdorf and 15 km north-northeast of Berne.

[[Kienersrüti]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Kienersrüti is a former municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipality of Kienersrüti merged into the municipality of Uttigen.

[[Hal Robson-Kanu]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Welsh footballers

Thomas Henry Alex "Hal" Robson-Kanu (born on 21 May 1989 in Acton, England, United Kingdom) is a professional footballer who plays as a winger. He currently doesn't play for any club, but has been playing for the Wales national football team since 2010. He has played for England's youth squads, but decided to play for Wales in 2010. He played his first match with Wales against Austria  on 18 May 2010.

Hal Robson-Kanu has played with Arsenal, Reading, Southend United on loan and Swindon Town on loan. He won the Football League Championship with Reading during the 2011–12 season.

[[Neil Taylor (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Welsh footballers

Neil John Taylor (born 7 February 1989 in St Asaph, Clwyd, Wales) is a Welsh professional footballer who plays as a defender. He currently plays for the Premier League club Swansea City and the Wales national football team. He has also played for Manchester City and Wrexham. He is mother is from India, and he is one of the few British Asians in professional football. He was included in Wale's squad for the UEFA Euro 2016.

[[Burak Yılmaz]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Turkish footballers, UEFA Euro 2016 players

Burak Yılmaz (born 15 July 1985 in Antalya, Turkey) is a Turkish professional footballer who plays as a striker. Since August 2020, he has played for Lille OSC, previously playing for Beijing Guoan. He also plays for the Turkey national team. He has also played for all of the big four clubs in the Turkey: Beşiktaş, Fenerbahçe, Trabzonspor and Galatasaray; along with Antalyaspor, Manisaspor and Eskişehirspor.

He scored his first goal against Karşıyaka during the 2004–05 season.

He is the son of retired goalkeeper Fikret Yılmaz.

[[Birkir Bjarnason]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Icelandic footballers, UEFA Euro 2016 players

Birkir Bjarnason (born on 27 May 1988 in Akureyri, Iceland) is an Icelandic professional footballer who plays as a central midfielder. He currently plays for the Swiss club of FC Basel and the Iceland national team. In his homeland he is nicknamed Thor.

He has also played for Viking FK, FK Bodø/Glimt, Standard Liège, Delfino Pescara 1936 and Sampdoria. He won the Swiss Super League with Basel in 2016.

He was included in Iceland's squad for the UEFA Euro 2016. On 14 June 2016, he scored Iceland's first goal at a major tournament. It was against Portugal, and the game ended in a draw.

[[Arnór Ingvi Traustason]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, Icelandic footballers, UEFA Euro 2016 players

Arnór Ingvi Traustason (born on 30 April 1993 in Keflavík, Iceland) is an Icelandic professional footballer who plays with Austrian club Rapid Wien as a midfielder. He has also played for Knattspyrnudeild Keflavík, Sandnes Ulf and IFK Norrköping. He was called the most promising player of the 2013 Úrvalsdeild season.

He also plays for the Iceland national football team. He was included in Iceland's UEFA Euro 2016 squad. On 22 June 2016, he scored against Austria at the 90th minute to win the match for Iceland and send them to the Round of 16.

He won the Allsvenskan with IFK Norrköping in 2015.

[[Fimleikafélag Hafnarfjarðar]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 establishments in Europe, Sports clubs, Sport in Iceland, Icelandic football clubs, 20th century establishments in Iceland

Fimleikafélag Hafnarfjarðar (English: Hafnarfjörður Gymnastics Club; usually just called FH) is an Icelandic sports club from Hafnarfjörður. The club competes in football, handball, track and field, and fencing. The men's football team has been one of the most successful Icelandic teams since the early-2000s. They recently won the 2015 Úrvalsdeild.

The club was founded in 1928 as a gymnastics club. FH has since moved into other sports. FH were promoted to the Úrvalsdeild in football for the first time in 1979. After moving up and down through the league system, they finally were promoted to the Úrvalsdeild again in 2000. They won their first Úrvalsdeild title in 2004.

They went on to win the Úrvalsdeild six more times, the Icelandic cup twice, Icelandic league cup six times and the Icelandic super cup six times. They also made multiple appearances in European tournaments.

The team's colours are white and black.

[[San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 establishments in the United States, Buildings and structures in San Francisco, Landmarks in San Francisco, Oakland, California, Suspension bridges, National Register of Historic Places, 1930s establishments in California, Bridges in the San Francisco Bay Area

The San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge is a series of bridges across San Francisco, California. It is part of Interstate 80 in California. 

It has two spans over water. The western span is a suspension bridge while the eastern span is a self-anchored suspension bridge. The eastern span used to be a cantilever bridge but it was removed once the new bridge opened. The cantilever span was destroyed in the 1989 Loma Prieta Earthquake which is one of the reasons why the Eastern span was replaced. 

The west span is a double suspension bridge with two decks. Westbound traffic is carried on the upper deck and eastbound on the lower deck. The new east span is a single deck with the eastbound and westbound lanes on each side. It is the world's widest bridge.

[[Vestmannaeyjar]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Iceland, Municipalities of Iceland

Vestmannaeyjar (sometimes called the Westman Islands) is a town and archipelago off the south coast of Iceland.

The largest island, Heimaey, has a population of 4,135. The other islands are uninhabited.

The town was evacuated in 1973 because of the Eldfell eruption. The eruption destroyed one fifth of the town before the lava flow was stopped by putting 1.5 billion gallons (6.8 billion litres) of cold water on it.

[[List of comuni of the Province of Ascoli Piceno]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Marche, Lists of settlements in Europe

The following is a list of the 33 comuni of the Province of Ascoli Piceno, Marche, in Italy.

[[2015–16 Golden State Warriors season]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in sports, 2015 in California, 2016 in sports, 2016 in California, Golden State Warriors, Oakland, California

The 2015-16 Golden State Warriors season was the 70th season for the team as well as the National Basketball Association, and its 54th in San Francisco, California. They entered the season as defending champions and made history as the first 73 win 9 loss team, only behind the Michael Jordan-led 72-10 Bulls.

In the playoffs, they defeated the dysfunctional Houston Rockets (41 wins 41 losses), who they played last year in the WCF'S in 5 games, the Portland Trail Blazers (44 wins 38 losses), also in 5 games, and the Kevin Durant/Russell Westbrook lead Oklahoma City Thunder (55 wins 27 losses) in 7 games. The Warriors however trailed the Thunder 3-1, looking like they were going to be eliminated but however, the Warriors won game 5 120-111, game 6 108-101, and in game 7 96-88. The Warriors became the 10th team to win the series when down 3-1, after last year's Houston Rockets. They would meet the Cleveland Cavaliers again in the NBA Finals. The Warriors were up 3-1 in the series following a game 4 97-108 victory at Quicken Loans Arena. However, they lost game 5 at home 97-112, game 6 101-115, and a game 7 champion decider 89-93. They would become the 11th team to lose while up 3-1 and the first to do it in the NBA Finals. They also became the first playoff team to overcome a 3-1 deficit and blow a 3-1 lead in the same playoff year.

[[San Mateo–Hayward Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 establishments in the United States, Bridges in the San Francisco Bay Area

The San Mateo–Hayward Bridge (commonly called the San Mateo Bridge) is a bridge crossing the U.S. state of California's San Francisco Bay. It provides a link of the San Francisco Peninsula with the East Bay. The bridge's west end is in Foster City, a suburb on the eastern edge of San Mateo. The east end of the bridge is in Hayward. It is the longest bridge in California and the 25th longest in the world. The bridge is owned by the state of California, and is maintained by Caltrans, the state highway agency. Further oversight is provided by the Bay Area Toll Authority.

The bridge is part of State Route 92, whose western terminus is at the town of Half Moon Bay on the Pacific coast. It links Interstate 880 in the East Bay with U.S. Route 101 on the Peninsula. It is roughly parallel to and lies between the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge and the Dumbarton Bridge, and is sometimes used by commuters to avoid traffic delays due to emergencies on those bridges.

[[Heimaey]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic islands, Islands of Europe, Geography of Iceland

Heimaey (English: Home Island) is an island in Iceland. It is the largest island in the Vestmannaeyjar archipelago (at 13.4 square kilometres or 5.2 sq mi.) The island is 7.4 kilometers (4.6 miles) away from the south coast of Iceland. It is the only populated island in the Vestmannaeyjar archipelago, with a population of 4,500 people.

[[Kolbeinn Sigþórsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Icelandic footballers, Living people

Kolbeinn Sigþórsson (born 14 March 1990 in Reykjavík, Iceland) is an Icelandic footballer who currently plays as a striker. He plays for the French club FC Nantes and the Iceland national football team. He has also played for Knattspyrnufélagið Víkingur, Handknattleiksfélag Kópavogs, AZ Alkmaar, AFC Ajax and Jong Ajax. He was included in Iceland's UEFA Euro 2016 squad.

[[Rúnar Kristinsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Icelandic footballers

Rúnar Kristinsson (born 5 September 1969 in Reykjavik, Iceland) is an Icelandic former association football midfielder who played for Lokeren, Lillestrøm SK, Örgryte IS and KR Reykjavík. He's currently the manager of the Norwegian club Lillestrøm.

[[Kingdom of Iceland]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 establishments in Europe, 1944 disestablishments, Former monarchies of Europe

The Kingdom of Iceland (Icelandic: Konungsríkið Ísland; Danish: Kongeriget Island) was a constitutional monarchy that had a personal union with Denmark. The kingdom was created on 1 December 1918. It lasted until 17 June 1944 when a national referendum created the Republic of Iceland.

The Act of Union, signed on 1 December 1918, allowed Iceland to create its own flag, declared its neutrality and asked Denmark to help with its foreign affairs and defense interests.

The Nazi German occupation of Denmark in the early-1940s broke off their communications. As a result, the Althing named themselves the head of state and said that Iceland would no longer need Denmark's help. The island was later occupied by British and American forces. This lasted until World War II ended.

The monarchy held an constitutional referendum from 20 and 23 May 1944. The option to establish a new republican constitution won with 98.5% of the vote. Christian X of Denmark sent a message of congratulations to the Icelandic people.

[[Steyr AUG]]

CATEGORIES: Bullpup rifles, Assault rifles, 5.56 mm firearms

The AUG (Armee-Universal-Gewehr—"universal army rifle") is an Austrian bullpup 5.56×45mm NATO assault rifle. It was designed in 1977 by Steyr Mannlicher GmbH & Co KG (formerly Steyr-Daimler-Puch).

[[Emmen, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne, Cities in Switzerland

Emmen is a city of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Kiesen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Kiesen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Xiumin]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean singers, 1990 births, Living people, Exo members, K-pop singers

Kim Min-seok (born March 26, 1990) known by his artistic name Xiumin is a singer,  dancer, model and actor South Korean. He is a member of the boy band EXO.

[[Kirchberg, Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Kirchberg is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Mama]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums, Exo albums

Mama (stylized as MAMA) is the first mini-album of South Korean band EXO, produced and released by S.M. Entertainment on April 9, 2012. It has two editions: by EXO-K Korean version and the Chinese version by EXO-M. The album made its debut at position number one on Gaon Chart.

The album was produced by Lee Soo-man, who is also the main producer of the group. The title of the album is a term that is commonly used in Korea in one person in the family, similar to "your Highness" or "your Majesty". The main single was composed by Yoo Young-jin, who is also the co-author of other singles of the mini album, "What Is Love" and "History"

[[Oh Se-hun]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, South Korean singers, Exo members, K-pop singers

Oh Se-hun (hangul: 오세훈; hanja: 吳世勳; born April 12, 1994 in Seoul) better known by the mononym Sehun is a South Korean singer, rapper, dancer, model and actor. Since 2012, he is a member of the boy band EXO under S.M. Entertainment.

[[Kai]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, South Korean singers, Exo members, K-pop singers

Kim Jong-in (born January 14, 1994) better known by his stage name Kai is a South Korean singer and actor. He is a member of Exo. He began his acting career at Choco Bank in February 2016, playing Kim Eun-haeng.

[[Suho]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean singers, 1991 births, Living people, Exo members, K-pop singers

Kim Jun-myeon (born May 22, 1991), better known by his stage name Suho, is a South Korean singer. He is a member of the South Korean boy band EXO.

[[Lay]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Chinese singers, Dancers, Chinese television actors, Singer-songwriters, Exo members, Living people, Chinese movie actors, Chinese musicians

Zhāng Yìxīng (hangul: 장이씽; hanja: 张艺兴; born in Changsha on October 7, 1991) better known by his stage name Lay (hangul: 레이) is a Chinese rapper, singer, songwriter, dancer and actor. He became known after participating in a television program called Star Academy in 2005. He joined in EXO on January 2012, as lead dancer, vocalist and visual member. In September of 2015, it published its autobiography, titled Standing Firm At 24, beating records of book sold more in its pre-sale.

[[Park Chan-yeol]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean singers, 1992 births, Living people, Exo members

Park Chan-yeol (hangul: 박찬열; hanja: 朴燦烈; born November 27, 1992 in Seoul), better known by mononym Chanyeol, is a South Korean singer. He is a member of the South Korean boy band EXO.

[[Byun Baek-hyun]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, South Korean singers, Exo members, K-pop singers

Byun Baek-hyun (hangul: 변백현; hanja:卞白贤; born May 6, 1992 in Bucheon) better known for his mononym name Baekhyun, is a South Korean actor, singer, dancer and TV presenter. He is a member of the boy band EXO where he performs as main vocalist and dancer.

[[Luhan]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese singers, 1990 births, Living people

Lù Hán (hanja: 鹿晗; hangul: 루한; born April 20, 1990 in Haidian) better known by mononym Luhan, is a Chinese singer. He was introduced as a member of EXO in December 2011, officially debuting in April 2012, and in October 2014, left the group after filing a lawsuit against S.M. Entertainment to reverse its exclusivity agreement.

In December 2014, China National Radio ranked Luhan in sixth place among the top 10 most popular entertainment stars in the country. He began his career as an actor in the film 20 Once Again, released in January 2015. In May of 2015, it appeared in 37th position of the richest celebrities of Forbes China. Luhan  made his debut as a solo artist with the release of his first extended play, titled Reloaded I, on September 14, 2015. He became the first celebrity born after the 1990s to be named the "Artist of the Year" by China Newsweek in 2016.

[[4 in the Morning]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs, 2007 songs, Gwen Stefani songs, Pop songs, R&B songs

"4 in the Morning" is a song by American singer and songwriter Gwen Stefani from her second studio album The Sweet Escape (2006). It was written by Stefani and co-written and produced by Tony Kanal and was released on May 8, 2007. Whilst writing the song, Stefani was pregnant with her first child and listened to songs sung by Roberta Flack and Billy Idol.

[[Kirchdorf, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Kirchdorf is a municipality of the Bern-Mittelland administrative district in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2018 the former municipalities of Gelterfingen, Mühledorf and Noflen merged into the municipality of Kirchdorf.

[[Kirchenthurnen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Kirchenthurnen is a former municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2020 the former municipalities of Kirchenthurnen, Lohnstorf and Mühlethurnen merged to form the new municipality of Thurnen.

[[Kirchlindach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Kirchlindach is a municipality in the Bern-Mittelland administrative district in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Chiggiogna]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

Chiggiogna is a village and former municipality of the district Leventina in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland.

On 29 January 2006 the former municipalities of Calonico, Chiggiogna and Rossura merged into the municipality of Faido.

[[Diesbach, Glarus]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Glarus, Villages in Glarus, 2004 disestablishments in Switzerland

Diesbach is a village and former municipality in the canton of Glarus, Switzerland.

On 1 January 2004 the former municipalities of Diesbach and Hätzingen merged into the municipality of Luchsingen.

[[Pesaro]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Marche, Capital cities in Italy

Pesaro is a city and comune in the Marche region, central Italy. It is the capital of the province of Pesaro and Urbino, on the Adriatic Sea. It is the second most populous city in the Marche, after Ancona.

[[Gylfi Sigurðsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Icelandic footballers, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players, UEFA Euro 2016 players, Living people

Gylfi Þór Sigurðsson (born 9 September 1989 in Reykjavik, Iceland) is an Icelandic professional footballer who plays as a midfielder. He currently plays for the Premier League club Everton and the Iceland national team. He has also previously played for Fimleikafélag Hafnarfjarðar, Breiðablik UBK, Reading, Shrewsbury Town, Crewe Alexandra, TSG 1899 Hoffenheim and the Tottenham Hotspurs. He has great long-range shooting abilities.

In July 2021 he was arrested in Manchester on suspicion of child sexual grooming. He was later released on bail subject to ongoing investigations.

[[Kleindietwil]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Kleindietwil is a former municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2011 Kleindietwil and Leimiswil were merged with the municipality of Madiswil.

[[Köniz]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Bern

Köniz (ˈkøːnɪt͡s) is a city in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. It has population of 38,793 inhabitants (2008), the municipality is one of the 15 most populous cities in Switzerland.

The official language of Köniz is (the Swiss variety of Standard) German, but the main spoken language is the local variant of the Alemmanic Swiss German dialect.

[[Konolfingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Konolfingen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Koppigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Koppigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Bettingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Basel-Stadt

Bettingen (Swiss German: Bettige) is a municipality in the canton of Basel-Stadt in Switzerland.

[[Riehen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Basel-Stadt, Cities in Switzerland

Riehen (Swiss German: Rieche) is a municipality of the canton of Basel-Stadt in Switzerland.

[[Ragnar Sigurðsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Icelandic footballers, Living people

Ragnar Sigurðsson (born 19 June 1986 in Reykjavík, Iceland) is an Icelandic professional footballer who plays as centre back. He currently plays for the Russian Premier League club Krasnodar and the Iceland national football team. He has previously played for Fylkir, IFK Göteborg and F.C. Copenhagen. He was included in Iceland's UEFA Euro 2016 squad.

[[Jón Daði Böðvarsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Icelandic footballers

Jón Daði Böðvarsson (born 25 May 1992 in Selfoss, Iceland) is an Icelandic footballer who currently plays as a right winger. He plays for the Bundesliga club 1. FC Kaiserslautern and the Iceland national team. He previously played for UMF Selfoss and Viking FK. He was included in Iceland's UEFA Euro 2016 squad.

[[Special Order 191]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War, Maryland Campaign, 1862 in the United States, September 1862 events

Special Order 191 was issued by Robert E. Lee in early September 1862. It was a handwritten order detailing Lee's planned troop movements during his Maryland Campaign intended to win the American Civil War. The document was recovered by Union soldiers and passed on to Major general George B. McClellan. This was a piece of intelligence few battle commanders are ever lucky enough to receive. It gave the details of how Lee had weakened his forces by splitting them up into several columns. It also laid out where each part of his army was to be at any given time. McClellan, usually very slow to act, moved his forces more quickly this time. By the night of September 14, 1862, Lee was no longer following his plan of attack. He was now reacting to McClellan's troop movements. At this point Lee's main problem became how to keep his army from being destroyed. 

[[Birkir Már Sævarsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Icelandic footballers

Birkir Már Sævarsson (born 11 November 1984 in Reykjavik, Iceland) is an Icelandic footballer who can play as a right fullback, right winger, left fullback or center back. He currently plays for the Swedish club Hammarby Fotboll and the Iceland national football team. He was included in Iceland's UEFA Euro 2016 squad.

[[Hannes Þór Halldórsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Icelandic footballers, Movie directors

Hannes Þór Halldórsson (born 27 April 1984 in Reykjavík, Iceland) is an Icelandic professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for the Iceland national football team and Bodø/Glimt, on loan from the Norwegian club NEC Nijmegen. He has also played for Leiknir Reykjavík, Ungmennafélagið Afturelding, Stjarnan, Knattspyrnufélagið Fram, Knattspyrnufélag Reykjavíkur, SK Brann, Sandnes Ulf and N.E.C.. Hannes has found some work as a film director when not playing football. He was included in Iceland's UEFA Euro 2016 squad.

[[Krattigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Krattigen is a municipality of the administrative district Frutigen-Niedersimmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Ermensee]]

CATEGORIES: Ermensee, Municipalities of Lucerne

Ermensee is a municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Hätzingen]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Glarus, Former municipalities of Glarus, 2004 disestablishments in Switzerland

Hätzingen is a village and former municipality in the canton of Glarus, Switzerland.

On 1 January 2004 the former municipalities of Hätzingen and Diesbach merged into the municipality of Luchsingen.

[[Glarus Nord]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Glarus, Cities in Switzerland, 2011 establishments in Switzerland

Glarus Nord is a municipality of the canton of Glarus in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2011 the former municipalities of Bilten, Filzbach, Mollis, Mühlehorn, Näfels, Niederurnen, Oberurnen and Obstalden merged into the new municipality of Glarus Nord.

Glarus Nord is one of three municipalities of the canton of Glarus, the others being Glarus and Glarus Süd.

[[Myco-heterotrophy]]

CATEGORIES: Parasitic plants, Fungi, Ecology, Plant physiology

Myco-heterotrophy is a relationship between certain plants and fungi. The plant gets all or part of its food from parasitism on fungi, not from photosynthesis. 

In the past, non-photosynthetic plants were thought to get food by breaking down organic matter like fungi do. Such plants were therefore called "saprophytes". That was wrong. It is now known that no plant is physiologically capable of direct breakdown of organic matter. 

To get food, non-photosynthetic plants engage in parasitism, by myco-heterotrophy or direct parasitism of other plants.

The interface between the plant and fungal partners in this association is between the roots of the plant and the mycelium of the fungus. Myco-heterotrophy therefore closely resembles mycorrhiza, and is thought to have evolved from mycorrhiza.

[[Suet]]

CATEGORIES: Food ingredients

Suet is the hard white fat that surrounds internal organs, especially the kidneys.

It is available to buy ready prepared, in which case it is mixed with flour to stop it melting at room temperature.

[[Kriechenwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Kriechenwil is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[La Ferrière]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

La Ferrière is a municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[La Heutte]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

La Heutte is a municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of La Heutte and Péry merged into the new municipality of Péry-La Heutte.

[[Englisberg]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bern, Former municipalities of Bern

Englisberg was amunicipality in Seftigen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2004 Englisberg and Zimmerwald joined together to become the new municipality, Wald.

[[Herlisberg]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Lucerne, Former municipalities of Lucerne

Herlisberg is a village and former municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne, Switzerland.

On 1 January 2005 the former municipality of Herlisberg merged into the municipality of Römerswil.

[[Yves Bonnefoy]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, French academics, French art critics, French critics, French poets, People from Centre-Val de Loire, Translators

Yves Jean Bonnefoy (June 24, 1923 – July 1, 2016) was a French poet, art critics and translator. Bonnefoy published many of translations into French, mainly poems of William Shakespeare. He was born in Tours, France.

He was a professor at the Collège de France from 1981 to 1993. He was the author of several works on art, art history, and artists including Miró and Giacometti.

The Encyclopædia Britannica presents him as ″perhaps the most important French poet of the latter half of the 20th century″.

Bonnefoy died in Paris on July 1, 2016, aged 93.

[[Abderrahmane Meziani]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, Algerian footballers, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, People from Algiers

Abderrahmane Meziani (12 May 1942 – 2 June 2016) was a professional Algerian footballer. He played as a forward for the national football team in 1963.

Meziani died from a heart disease in Algiers on 2 June 2016, aged 74.

[[István Halász]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2016 deaths, Hungarian footballers

István Halász (12 October 1951 – 4 June 2016) was a Hungarian football midfielder. He played for Hungary in the 1978 FIFA World Cup. He also played for FC Tatabánya.

[[Westfjords]]

CATEGORIES: Peninsulas, Regions of Iceland

The Westfjords or West Fjords (Icelandic: Vestfirðir) is the name of a large peninsula and region in northern Iceland. It is next to the Denmark Strait and faces the east coast of Greenland. The Westfjords have a lot of mountains and fjords around the coast. Because of this, the road system is complex and communicating by land is difficult. 

The largest settlement is Ísafjörður, with a population of 4,000 people.

Because of the East Greenland Current, the Westfjords are generally the coldest area in Iceland.

In 1615, 32 shipwrecked Basque whalers were killed by locals. This caused the government to pass a law allowing the murder of any Basque person seen in the Westfjords. This law was ended in May of 2015.

[[Carmen Pereira]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, Presidents of Guinea-Bissau

Carmen Pereira (1937 – 4 June 2016) was a politician in Guinea-Bissau. She served three days as Acting President in 1984. She was the first woman in this role in Africa and the only one in Guinea-Bissau's history. She had the shortest term as the Acting President, serving only three days in office. 

Pereira died in Bissau on 4 June 2016.

[[Southern Region (Iceland)]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Iceland

The Southern Region (Icelandic: Suðurland) is a region of Iceland. The population of the region was 23,311 (1 October 2007). The biggest town in the region is Selfoss, with a population of 6,000.

[[Manohar Aich]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2016 deaths, Indian sportspeople, Centenarians

Manohar Aich (17 March 1912 – 5 June 2016) was an Indian bodybuilder. He was the second Indian (after Monotosh Roy in 1951) to win any Mr. Universe title. He did so in the 1952 NABBA Universe Championships. 

At 4 tall, he was given the name "Pocket Hercules". 

On 5 June 2016, Manohar Aich died in Kolkata, aged 104 years.

[[Gianluca Buonanno]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2016 deaths, Former MEPs, Italian politicians, MEPs for Italy, Road accident deaths

Gianluca Buonanno (15 May 1966 – 5 June 2016) was an Italian politician. He was born in Borgosesia.

He was a member of the Italian Social Movement from 1982 to 1995, when he switched to the National Alliance. Buonanno left the National Alliance for Lega Nord in 2002.

He was elected to the XVI and XVII Parliaments and to the European Parliament in 2014. As an MEP, Buonanno was an unaffiliated Non-Inscrit before joining Europe of Nations and Freedom, and was backed by the European Alliance for Freedom and Movement for a Europe of Nations and Freedom.

Buonanno died at the age of 50 in 2016 in a car accident near Varese.

[[Jerome Bruner]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2016 deaths, American psychologists, American centenarians, Scientists from New York City

Jerome Seymour Bruner (October 1, 1915 – June 5, 2016) was an American psychologist. He was known for his works to human cognitive psychology and cognitive learning theory in educational psychology. 

Bruner was a senior research fellow at the New York University School of Law. He received a B.A. in 1937 from Duke University and a Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1941. 

[[Jarbas Passarinho]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2016 deaths, Presidents of the Federal Senate

Jarbas Gonçalves Passarinho (January 11, 1920 – June 5, 2016) was a Brazilian military officer and politician. Passarinho began his political career when he was appointed Governor of Pará. He served as head of several government ministries during both the Brazilian military government (1964–1985) and the transition to democracy. 

He served as the Minister of Labor (1967–1969), Minister of Education (1969–1974), Minister of Social Security (1983–1985), and Minister of Justice (1990–1992). Passarinho was also a member of the Federal Senate, representing Pará for two tenures during military rule and the return to democracy, including a period as President of the Federal Senate from 1981 to 1983.

[[Ayaz Jani]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Pakistani people, Poets, Journalists

Ayaz Jani (original name Ayaz Hussain Memon) (اياز جاني, born 4 October 1967 – died 6 June 2016) was a Pakistani poet and journalist. He wrote in the Sindhi language. Jani had been writing poetry since his school days and gained popularity as a romantic poet. 

Jani died on 6 June 2016 due to a heart attack in Larkana, Pakistan, aged 48.

[[Steve Pisanos]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2016 deaths, American aviators, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, American military personnel of World War II, Colonels, Deaths from heart failure, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Athens, Writers from California

Steve Pisanos (born Spiros Pisanos (Σπύρος Πίσανος του Νικολάου και της Αθηνάς); November 10, 1919 – June 6, 2016) was a American USAF Colonel. He served successfully as a fighter pilot with the British Royal Air Force (RAF) and the United States Air Force (USAF) 4th Fighter Group in World War II. By the end of his career in 1974, he received 33 decorations and distinctions. 

He was the author of the book The Flying Greek, published in April 2008, where he has recorded all of his personal adventures and detailed war fighting experiences. The book is commented by his friends and renowned USAF aviators Gabby Gabreski and Chuck Yeager.

Pisanos died on June 6, 2016 from heart failure at his home in Rancho Bernardo, San Diego, California, aged 96.

[[Theresa Saldana]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2016 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American crime victims, American adoptees, Actors from New York City, Writers from New York City

Theresa Saldana (August 20, 1954 – June 6, 2016) was an American actress and author.

[[Johnny Brooks]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from vascular dementia, English footballers, People from Berkshire, Chelsea F.C. players, Crystal Palace F.C. players, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players

John "Johnny" Brooks (23 December 1931 – 7 June 2016) was a former professional footballer and manager. He was born in Reading, Berkshire.

He played for Reading, Tottenham Hotspur, Chelsea, Brentford, Crystal Palace in the Football League. Brooks won three England caps, scoring two goals.

Towards the end of his career he played in non-league football with Stevenage Town and Cambridge City and in North America with Cleveland Stokers. He later player-managed Knebworth.

Brooks died of vascular dementia on 7 June 2016, aged 84.

[[Amber Gurung]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from esophageal cancer, Nepalese singers, Composers, Writers

Amber Gurung (अम्बर गुरुङ) (February 26, 1938 – June 7, 2016) was a Nepali composer, singer and lyricist. He was popularly known as the music composer of Nepal's national anthem "Sayaun Thunga Phool Ka".

Gurung died of esophageal cancer in Kathmandu, Nepal on June 7, 2016, aged 78.

[[Thomas J. Perkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Disease-related deaths in California, Businesspeople from New York, Businesspeople from California

Thomas James Perkins (January 7, 1932 – June 7, 2016) was an American businessman and capitalist. He was one of the founders of venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.

Perkins died June 7, 2016 after a long-illness at his home in Marin County, California, aged 84.

[[La Neuveville]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

La Neuveville (Neuenstadt) is a municipality of the administrative district Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Landiswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Landiswil is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Längenbühl]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bern, Former municipalities of Bern

Längenbühl is a village in the canton of Bern, Switzerland. The former municipality of the district of Thun merged with Forst on January 1, 2007 to form Forst-Längenbühl.

There are three smaller lakes in Längenbühl: Dittligsee, Geistsee and a smaller pond.

[[Eschenbach, Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Eschenbach is a municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Langenthal, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Langenthal is a town in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2010 the former municipality of Untersteckholz merged into the municipality of Langenthal.

Langenthal is an educational, cultural, and economic center for the region of Oberaargau.

[[Ouroboros]]

CATEGORIES: Symbols, Mythology

The ouroboros or oroboros is an ancient symbol of a serpent or dragon eating its own tail. The ouroboros is a symbol of an everlasting cycle or a cycle of life, death, and rebirth.

The ouroboros symbolizes eternity or cyclicality. It is the sense of something constantly re-creating itself. Like the phoenix, it symbolises cycles that begin again as soon as they end. 

The first known appearance of the ouroboros motif is in KV62, the tomb of Tutankhamun, in the 14th century BC. The text is about the god Ra and his union with Osiris in the underworld. In an illustration, two serpents, with their tails in their mouths, coil around the head and feet of an enormous god (this the unified Ra-Osiris). The whole figure represents the beginning and the end of time.

[[Gelfingen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne

Gelfingen is a municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Gelfingen, Hämikon, Mosen, Müswangen, Retschwil and Sulz merged into the municipality of Hitzkirch.

[[Lauenen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Lauenen (Lauvine, Lavina) is a municipality in the administrative district of Obersimmental-Saanen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Laupen, Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Laupen (Loyes) is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Glarus Süd]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Glarus

Glarus Süd is a municipality of the canton of Glarus in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2011 the former municipalities of Betschwanden, Braunwald, Elm, Engi, Haslen, Linthal, Luchsingen, Matt, Mitlödi, Rüti, Schwanden, Schwändi and Sool merged into the new municipality of Glarus Süd.

Glarus Süd is one of three municipalities of the canton of Glarus, the others being Glarus and Glarus Nord.

[[Biel, Valais]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Valais, Former municipalities of Valais

Biel is a village and former municipality in the canton of Valais, Switzerland.

On 1 January 2001 the former municipalities of Biel, Ritzingen and Selkingen merged into the new municipality of Grafschaft.

[[Arica y Parinacota Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The XV Arica and Parinacota Region (XV Región de Arica y Parinacota) is one of Chile's 15 first order administrative divisions. It is the country's newest region, created under Law 20.175. It became operational on 8 October 2007.

[[Khamseh]]

CATEGORIES: Iran, 1861 establishments, Establishments in Iran, 1860s establishments in Asia

The Khamseh is a tribal confederation in the province of Fars in southwestern Iran. It consists of five tribes.It was created in 1861 by  Naser al-Din Shah Qajar to decrease strength of the Qashqai, who were gaining so much power. The Khamseh tribes were a mixture of Persians, Turks, and Arabs.

[[Khamseh Arabs]]

CATEGORIES: Iran

The Khamseh Arabs are an Arab nomadic and pastoral tribe of the Fars Province in Iran. They are a part of Khamseh confederation. They speak a dialect of Arabic.

[[Susana Trimarco]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Argentine people, Human rights activists, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Susana Trimarco or Sara Susana del Valle Trimarco de Veron (born May 25, 1954 in San Miguel de Tucumán) is an Argentinian mother.  In 2007 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

In 2002, Trimarco's daughter, Maria de los Angeles Veron ("Marita"), disappeared.  She was kidnapped by human traffickers. Trimarco went to brothels to look for her daughter.  She said she wanted to buy women.  She did not find Marita, but she found 129 other women and got their freedom. 

Trimarco saved many women. Some of them stayed at her house.  Finally there were so many women she could not take care of them, so she started the Fundacion Maria de los Angeles, named for her daughter.  

== References == 

[[Cecilia Bowes-Lyon, Countess of Strathmore and Kinghorne]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Victorian Order, 1862 births, 1938 deaths, People from London

Cecilia Nina Bowes-Lyon, Countess of Strathmore and Kinghorne, née Cavendish-Bentinck,GCVO (11 September 1862 – 23 June 1938) was the mother of Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother and maternal grandmother and godmother of Elizabeth II.

[[Lauperswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Lauperswil is a municipality of the administrative district Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Lauterbrunnen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Villages in Bern

Lauterbrunnen is a village and municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Ruzizi River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Africa

The Ruzizi River, or Rusizi River, is a river, 117 long. It flows from Lake Kivu to Lake Tanganyika in East Africa.

[[Leimiswil]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Leimiswil is a former municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2011 Kleindietwil and Leimiswil were merged with the municipality of Madiswil.

[[Popi Maliotaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Greek singers, Crete

Popi Malliotaki (Πόπη Μαλλιωτάκη 16 October 1971), is a Greek singer. Malliotaki has credited with gold record for her second album entitled "Alli Mia Fora".

Malliotaki was born in Ierapetra, Crete. Popi has released three albums and several singles. She has collaborated with important Greek artists in the music industry and is over 20 years in the song field. In 2008 after the great success of the third album entitled "Popara", she collaborated with mobile operator "Helen Q Card" and released calling card with name "Popara" which was the title of their third album.

She has been married twice. From her first marriage with singer Sakis Galanis has a daughter and the name of the daughter is Rania. Her second marriage was in 1999 and lasted until 2008. From her second marriage with businessman Babis Lazaridis has a son, Vasilis.

In December 2008, her husband murdered by unknown men in the area of Voula in Athens.

[[Leissigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Leissigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Lenk]]

CATEGORIES: Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland, Municipalities of Bern

Lenk or Lenk im Simmental is a municipality in the administrative district of Obersimmental-Saanen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Leuzigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Leuzigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. The village is between the cities Biel/Bienne and Solothurn and borders on the river Aare.

[[Ligerz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Ligerz (Gléresse) is a municipality of the administrative district of Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Limpach, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Limpach is a former municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Limpach, Büren zum Hof, Etzelkofen, Grafenried, Mülchi, Schalunen and Zauggenried merged into the municipality of Fraubrunnen.

[[Daniel Harvey Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1821 births, 1889 deaths, Confederate Army generals, British educators, People from South Carolina

Daniel Harvey Hill, or more commonly D. H. Hill, (July 12, 1821 - September 24, 1889) was a Confederate Major general during the American Civil War. He was an officer in the Mexican-American War and received two brevet promotions for his performance; one to captain and another to major. He left the army to become a Professor. When North Carolina seceded from the Union, Hill was appointed Colonel of the 1st North Carolina Infantry. By 1862 he was a major general serving in the Army of Northern Virginia. Hill's reputation was tarnished over the lost copy of Special Order 191 which fell into the hands of Union general George McClellan. This gave away Robert E. Lees plans for the Confederate Maryland Campaign. He was considered a military genius by some, including Lieutenant general Stonewall Jackson (his Brother-in-law).

[[Belpberg]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Belpberg is a former municipality of the Bern-Mittelland administrative district in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.

The municipality of Belpberg merged on 1 January 2012 into the municipality of Belp.

[[Linden, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Linden is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Lohnstorf]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Lohnstorf was a municipality in Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2020 the municipalities Kirchenthurnen, Lohnstorf and Mühlethurnen joined together to become the new municipality Thurnen.

[[Lotzwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Lotzwil is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Loveresse]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Loveresse is a municipality of the administrative district Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Brevet (military)]]

CATEGORIES: Military ranks, Military terminology

A brevet in most militaries is a promotion to a higher rank without the increase in pay or full privileges. It is often given as an honor. It was a term borrowed from the British during the American Revolutionary War and used in the Continental Army. Since that time the United States Congress has had several reasons for granting brevet ranks. In some of these instances the officer received the higher pay of the breveted rank. The term brevet comes from the Latin words breve and brevia meaning a legal brief.

== Early French armies == 

In the early history, the King of France would call on his feudal lords for troops. These feudal lords raised armies and appointed officers, but they did not have the authority to give a rank in the king's army. The king would give a commissioned rank to leaders that would be recognized throughout his army by the use of Letters patent or brevet. Soon all French officers from a cornet (sub-lieutenant) to the Marshal of France received their commission in this way. They came to be styled Officers a'Brevet. The official document granting the brevet was called a brevet d'invention.

[[Parinacota Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Parinacota Province (Provincia de Parinacota) is a province of Chile. It belongs to the Arica and Parinacota region (XV), the northernmost and the newest of the Chilean regions. Its capital is Putre.

It is named after the Parinacota volcano.

[[Abbas Kiarostami]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from gastrointestinal cancer, Cancer deaths in France, Disease-related deaths in Paris, Iranian movie directors, Iranian movie producers, People from Tehran, Photographers, Iranian poets, Iranian screenwriters

Abbas Kiarostami (عباس کیارستمی Fa-f-عباس کیارستمی.ogg; 22 June 1940 – 4 July 2016) was an Iranian movie director, screenwriter, photographer and movie producer.

He was known for making documentaries or short movies. His best known works are the Koker trilogy (1987–94), Close-Up (1990), Taste of Cherry (1997) and The Wind Will Carry Us (1999). In his later works, Certified Copy (2010) and Like Someone in Love.

Kiarostami died at a Paris hospital on 4 July 2016 from gastrointestinal cancer, aged 76.

[[Kathryn Beaumont]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Actors from London, English child actors, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Singers from London

Kathryn Beaumont (born 27 June 1938) is an English actress, singer and school teacher who is best known for providing Disney animated films with the voices of both Alice in Alice in Wonderland (1951); and Wendy Darling in Peter Pan (1953) for which she was named a Disney Legend in 1998.

Beaumont retired as the voice of Alice and Wendy in 2005, her roles as these two characters was taken over by Hynden Walch since 2005.

[[Parinacota Volcano]]

CATEGORIES: Andes, Geography of Bolivia, Volcanoes of Chile

Parinacota or Parina Quta (from Aymara parina flamingo, quta lake, "flamingo lake") is a massive dormant  volcano (a stratovolcano) on the border of Chile and Bolivia.

[[Steven Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, New Zealand sportspeople, New Orleans Pelicans players, Oklahoma City Thunder players, Sportspeople from North Island

Steven Funaki Adams (born 20 July 1993) is a New Zealand professional basketball player. He currently plays for the New Orleans Pelicans of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He formerly played for NBA team Oklahoma City Thunder from 2013 to 2020. He also played for the Wellington Saints of the New Zealand National Basketball League in 2011.

Adams was born in Rotorua. He was born to a Tongan mother and an English father. His father, Sid Adams, served in the Royal Navy and later moved to New Zealand. Sid had 18 children with five women. His siblings include champion shot putter Valerie Adams, NBL players Warren and Sid Jr., and para-athlete Lisa Adams.

[[Enes Kanter]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, New York Knicks players, Oklahoma City Thunder players, Utah Jazz players, Turkish basketball players

Enes Kanter (born 1992) is a Turkish basketball player. He plays the center position. He has played for the Utah Jazz, the Oklahoma City Thunder, and the New York Knicks.

[[Param Vir Chakra]]

CATEGORIES: Orders, decorations, and medals, Military honors, Military of India, Indian awards, 1950 establishments in Asia, 1950s establishments in India

The Param Vir Chakra (PVC) is India's highest military decoration awarded for the highest degree of valour or self-sacrifice in the presence of the enemy. The medal has been awarded 21 times, 14 of which were posthumous awards.

Literally Param Vir Chakra means "Wheel (or Cross) of the Ultimate Brave", it is equal to the Medal of Honor in the United States and the Victoria Cross in the United Kingdom.

Instituted on 26 January 1950, by the President of India, with effect from 15 August 1947, this award can also be awarded posthumously. Officers or enlisted personnel from all branches of the Indian Armed Forces are eligible for the award. Recipients of the decoration have the right to use PVC as a postnominal abbreviation.

There is a provision for the award of a bar for a second (or subsequent) awards of the Param Vir Chakra, with a replica of the Vajra, the weapon of Indra, the god of heaven. However, no one has received it to date.

[[Robin Hardy]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, English movie directors, English screenwriters, Writers from Surrey

Robin St. Clair Rimington Hardy (2 October 1929 – 1 July 2016) was an English screenwriter and movie director. His most famous directorial work is the 1973 movie The Wicker Man. 

[[Caroline Aherne]]

CATEGORIES: BAFTA Award winning actors, 1963 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from throat cancer, English television actors, English television writers, English television personalities, Comedians from London, Writers from London, Actors from London

Caroline Mary Aherne (24 December 1963 – 2 July 2016) was an English comedian and BAFTA Award-winning writer and actress. She was best known for performing as the chat show host Mrs Merton. She was also known for her roles in the The Fast Show, and as lead in the The Royle Family, a show that she co-wrote.

On 2 July 2016, Aherne died at her home in Timperley, Greater Manchester from throat cancer at the age of 52.

[[Roscoe Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, American military people, World War II people, People from Washington, D.C.

Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. (March 9, 1922 – July 2, 2016) was one of the Tuskegee Airmen and a squadron commander of the 100th Fighter Squadron of the 332nd Fighter Group. He served in the U.S. Army Air Forces in Europe during World War II.  During this period, Captain Brown shot down an advanced German Me-262 jet fighter and a FW-190 fighter.

[[Rudolf E. Kálmán]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2016 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Hungarian scientists, American engineers, American mathematicians, American inventors, People from Budapest

Rudolf (Rudi) Emil Kálmán (Kálmán Rudolf Emil; May 19, 1930 – July 2, 2016) was a Hungarian-born American electrical engineer, mathematician, and inventor. 

He was known for his co-invention and development of the Kalman filter. It was a mathematical algorithm that is widely used in signal processing, control systems, and guidance, navigation and control. For this work, U.S. President Barack Obama awarded Kálmán the National Medal of Science on October 7, 2009.

[[Robert Nye]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, English poets, Writers from London

Robert Nye FRSL (15 March 1939 – 2 July 2016) was an English poet and author. His bestselling novel Falstaff was published in 1976. It was described by Michael Ratcliffe (writing in The Times) as "one of the most ambitious and seductive novels of the decade", and went on to win both The Hawthornden Prize and Guardian Fiction Prize. 

The novel was also included in Anthony Burgess's 99 Novels: The Best in English Since 1939 (1984).

[[Jack C. Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, American billionaires, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from St. Louis, Missouri

Jack Crawford Taylor (April 14, 1922 – July 2, 2016) was an American businessman, philanthropist and billionaire. He founded the Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company. He was born in St. Louis, Missouri. He was worth a US$8.6 billion as of February 2016.

Taylor died on July 2, 2016 in St. Louis, Missouri, aged 94.

[[Michael Beaumont, 22nd Seigneur of Sark]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, English people

John Michael Beaumont OBE (20 December 1927 – 3 July 2016) was the twenty-second Seigneur of Sark in the Channel Islands.

He worked as a civil engineer before replacing his paternal grandmother, Sibyl Hathaway, the 21st Dame of Sark, in 1974.

During his rule, Beaumont saw the loss of many feudal rights enjoyed by the seigneurs, and was consequently often described as the "last feudal baron".

[[Roger Dumas]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, French movie actors, French television actors, French comedians

Roger Dumas (9 May 1932 – 2 July 2016) was a French actor and comedian. He appeared in more than 100 movies between 1954 and 2016. He was born in Annonay, Ardèche. He was known for his roles in That Man from Rio, Le Concert, and The First Day of the Rest of Your Life.

Dumas died in Paris, France on 2 July 2016, aged 84.

[[Lou Fontinato]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, New York Rangers players, Montreal Canadiens players, Sportspeople from Ontario, People from Guelph, Memorial Cup winners, Ice hockey defencemen

Louis Joseph "Leapin' Louie" Fontinato (January 20, 1932 – July 3, 2016) was a Canadian defenceman in the National Hockey League. He played with the New York Rangers from 1954 to 1961 and the Montreal Canadiens from 1961 to 1963.

[[Beatrice de Cardi]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2016 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Accidental deaths in the United Kingdom, British archaeologists, British centenarians, Scientists from London

Beatrice Eileen de Cardi (5 June 1914 – 5 July 2016) was a British archaeologist. He worked in the study of the Persian Gulf and the Baluchistan region of Pakistan. She was president of the British Foundation for the Study of Arabia, and she was Secretary of the Council for British Archaeology from 1949 to 1973.

[[Lüscherz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Lüscherz is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Kim Chaek]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1951 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, North Korean politicians

Kim Chaek(Korea:김책, 金策; 14 August 1903 - January 31 1951) was a North Korean resistance activist, military leader, politician and poet. His realname was Kim Hong-gye(김홍계, 金洪啓). First Industry Minister of DPRK, September 2 1948 to January 31 1951. He was military leader of North Korea in the time of Korean War.

In his child years, his family went to Manchuria after 1926, he joined to communist organization. In 1925, he was study to Dongheung Middle school, but in 1927, dropped out of Middle School. In 1930s he was in a communist military organization and friend of Soviet Union. In September 2, 1948, he was appointed to Industry Minister of DPRK, until his death. In January 31, 1951, he died in battle at the time of Korean war, in Pyongyang. His death cause was myocardial infarction or wartime bombing.

[[UEFA Euro 2016 Final]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in association football, 2016 in France, 2010s in Île-de-France, July 2016 events, Football in France, UEFA Euro 2016

The UEFA Euro 2016 Final was a football match that took place on 10 July 2016 at the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, Île-de-France, France. The game determined the winner of the UEFA Euro 2016. The match was played with Portugal and France, and Portugal won the match with a goal from Éder at the 109th minute.

[[Sperlinga]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Ages, Settlements in Sicily, Italian-speaking countries, French-speaking countries, History of Italy

Sperlinga is a comune in the province of Enna, in the central part of Sicily. Sperlinga is about 750 m above sea level. It is on a hill on the southern slopes of the Nebrodi mountains, about 47 km north of Enna. It has a number of dwellings. The village has a large medieval castle, dating from Norman times.

In 2014 the population was 819 people. The main activity in the area is farming.

[[Lütschental]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Lütschental is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Italy national under-21 football team]]

CATEGORIES: National under-21 football teams, Football in Italy

The Italy national under-21 football team is the national under-21 football team of Italy. They are the most successful team in the UEFA European Under-21 Championship (with 5 titles).

Andrea Pirlo has made the most appearances for the team, with 46, and Alberto Gilardino is the top scorer, with 19 goals.

[[Lützelflüh]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Lützelflüh is a municipality in the administrative district Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Lyssach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Lyssach is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Madiswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Madiswil is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

Since January 1, 2007, Gutenburg is part of the municipality. On 1 January 2011 Kleindietwil and Leimiswil were merged with the municipality of Madiswil.

[[Gutenburg, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bern, Former municipalities of Bern

Gutenburg was a municipality in the Swiss canton of Bern.

Since January 1, 2007, it is part of the municipality of Madiswil.

[[Malleray]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern, 2015 disestablishments in Switzerland

Malleray is a former municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Malleray, Bévilard and Pontenet merged into the new municipality of Valbirse.

[[Hämikon]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne

Hämikon is a former municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Hämikon, Gelfingen, Mosen, Müswangen, Retschwil and Sulz merged into the municipality of Hitzkirch.

[[Hitzkirch]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Hitzkirch is a municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009, Gelfingen, Hämikon, Mosen, Müswangen, Retschwil and Sulz joined Hitzkirch.

[[Brief (law)]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, Law

In law a brief is a formal written argument submitted to a court. It is in a format required by that particular court system. in civil law A brief generally contains the legal arguments in a lawsuit. In a criminal procedure briefs involve the state prosecuting one or more defendants for breaking one or more laws. In general, briefs contain references to the statutes, legal precedents and arguments applied to the facts for this particular case. When an attorney writes a brief, they are implicitly promising to give the court good reasons for ruling in favor of their client.

An appellate brief is a brief prepared for an appellate court. An amicus curiae, literally a "friend of the court", is a third party not involved in the case but who has a strong interest in the case. They may ask the court's permission to file an amicus brief in support of one of the parties.

[[Matten bei Interlaken]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Matten is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Letters patent]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, Law

Letters patent (always in the plural) are a type of legal instrument in the form of a published written order issued by a monarch, or government. They are generally used in granting an office, right, monopoly, title, or status to a person or corporation.  Letters patent can be used for the creation of corporations or government offices. They may be used for the granting of city status or a coat of arms. Letters patent are issued for the appointment of representatives of the Crown, such as Governors and Governors-General of Commonwealth realms. In the United Kingdom they are also issued for the creation of peers of the realm. A particular form of letters patent has evolved into the modern patent (referred to as a utility patent or design patent in United States patent law). This grants exclusive rights of an invention (or a design in the case of a design patent). In this case it is essential that the written grant should be in the form of a public document so other inventors can consult it to avoid infringement. It is also important to understand how to "practice" the invention or put it into practical use.

The opposite of letters patent are letters close. These are personal in nature and sealed so that only the recipient can read their contents. Letters patent are comparable to other kinds of open letters in that their audience is wide. 

[[Mattstetten]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Mattstetten is a municipality of the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Ravichandran Ashwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Indian cricketers, People from Chennai, Tamil Nadu sportspeople

Ravichandran Ashwin (born 17 September 1986 in Chennai, Tamil Nadu) is an Indian cricketer playing for the international team. He is a right arm spin bowler. But he bats too well in Test cricket.Ashwin is a right hand batsman. He is a 6 ft 2 inch tall cricketer.

[[Iffwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Iffwil is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Meienried]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Meienried is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[La Baroche]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Jura

La Baroche is a municipality in the district of Porrentruy in the canton of Jura in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Asuel, Charmoille, Fregiécourt, Miécourt and Pleujouse merged into the new municipality of La Baroche.

[[Uma Shankar Mishra]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, Activists, Politicians from Uttar Pradesh

Uma Shankar Mishra (1923 – 3 July 2016) was an Indian politician. He was a Indian Independence Movement Activist. He served as President-District Congress Committee Raebareli until his death in 2016. His political party is Indian National Congress. He was born in Raebareli, Uttar Pradesh.

Mishra died in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh on 3 July 2016, aged 93.

[[Mauricio Walerstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, Mexican movie directors, Mexican screenwriters, Mexican movie producers, Writers from Mexico City

Mauricio Walerstein (29 March 1945 – 3 July 2016) was a Mexican movie director, screenwriter and movie producer. He directed 17 movies between 1971 and 2014. His 1973 movie Cuando quiero llorar no lloro was entered into the 8th Moscow International Film Festival. He also directed Spaniards in Paris (1973).

Walerstein died on 3 July 2016 in Mexico City, Mexico, aged 71.

[[William Hawkins (writer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2016 deaths, Canadian songwriters, Canadian poets, Canadian journalists, Canadian musicians, People from Ottawa

William Alfred Hawkins (May 20, 1940 – July 4, 2016) was a Canadian songwriter, poet, musician and journalist. He was known for his works in the 1960s to Canadian folk rock music and to Canadian poetry.  His best known song is "Gnostic Serenade", originally recorded by 3's a Crowd.

[[Markus Werner]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2016 deaths, Swiss writers

Markus Werner (vɛʀneʀ; 27 December 1944 – 3 July 2016) was a Swiss writer. He was known as the author of the novels Zündels Abgang (Zündel’s Departure) and Am Hang (On the Edge). He was born in Eschlikon, Thurgau. From 1975 to 1985, he worked as a teacher, and from 1985 to 1990 as an assistant professor at the Kantonsschule (high school) in Schaffhausen.

Werner died on 3 July 2016 in Schaffhausen, Switzerland, aged 72.

[[Gordon Murray (puppeteer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2016 deaths, British television producers, Puppeteers, Entertainers from London

Gordon Murray (3 May 1921 – 30 June 2016) was a British television producer and puppeteer. He created and wrote popular children's television programmes. Camberwick Green, Trumpton,  and Chigley, known as the Trumptonshire Trilogy, were all made by the company he set up.

Murray died in London on 30 June 2016, aged 95.

[[Martin Lundström]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2016 deaths, Swedish sportspeople

Martin Lundström (30 May 1918 – 30 June 2016) was a Swedish cross-country skier. He competed in the late 1940s and early 1950s. He was born in Tvärliden, Norsjö Municipality.

Lundström won two Olympic gold medals during the 1948 Winter Olympics in Saint-Moritz, Switzerland at the 18 km and 4 x 10 km relay events. He also won a bronze medal in the 4 x 10 km relay at the 1952 Winter Olympics.

Lundström also won at the 18 km event at the Holmenkollen ski festival in 1948. Additionally, he won a gold in the 4 x 10 km relay at the 1950 FIS Nordic World Ski Championships.

He died in June 2016 in Stockholm at the age of 98.

[[Geoffrey Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, English poets, British educators, People from Worcestershire

Sir Geoffrey William Hill, FRSL (18 June 1932 – 30 June 2016) was an English poet, professor emeritus of English literature and religion, and former co-director of the Editorial Institute, at Boston University. 

Hill has been thought to be among the most famous poets of his generation and was called the "greatest living poet in the English language." 

From 2010 to 2015, he held the position of Professor of Poetry in the University of Oxford. 

[[Juan Habichuela]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Spanish musicians, Guitarists

Juan Habichuela (né Juan Carmona Carmona; 1933 – 30 June 2016) was a Spanish flamenco guitarist. He began his artistic life as a dancer, and later learned guitar.

He wrote songs with many famous Spanish musicians such as Manolo Caracol, Juan Valderrama, Fosforito, and Enrique Morente. He was nominated for the Latin Grammy Award for Best Flamenco Album in 2000. Habichuela received the Latin Grammy Trustees Award in 2012 for "significant contributions, other than performance, to the field of recording during their careers".

[[Don Friedman]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, American jazz musicians, American pianists, American educators, Musicians from San Francisco, Musicians from New York City

Donald Ernest "Don" Friedman (May 4, 1935 – June 30, 2016) was an American jazz pianist. He was born in San Francisco, California.

Friedman performed with Dexter Gordon, Chet Baker, Buddy DeFranco and Ornette Coleman, among others, before moving to New York. There, he led his own trio in addition to playing in Pepper Adams's, Booker Little's and Jimmy Giuffre's bands in the 1960s. He was also a part of Clark Terry's big band. 

He most recently worked in New York as a pianist and jazz educator. He 

Friedman died on June 30, 2016 in The Bronx, New York, aged 81.

[[Pat Summitt]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from dementia, Disease-related deaths in Tennessee, People with Alzheimer's disease, College basketball coaches, Sportspeople from Tennessee, Writers from Tennessee

Patricia Sue Summitt (née Head; June 14, 1952 – June 28, 2016) was an American college basketball head coach. During her career, she won 1,098 games. They are the most in NCAA basketball history. She was born in Clarksville, Tennessee.

She served as the head coach of the University of Tennessee Lady Vols basketball team from 1974 to 2012, before retiring at age 59 because of a diagnosis of early-onset Alzheimer's disease.  She won eight NCAA championships (a NCAA women's record when she retired), a number surpassed only by the 10 titles won by UCLA men's coach John Wooden and the 11 titles won by UConn women's coach Geno Auriemma. She was the first NCAA coach, and one of four college coaches overall, with at least 1,000 wins.

Summitt died at a retirement home on June 28, 2016 from dementia in Knoxville, Tennessee, aged 64.

[[Xu Jiatun]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2016 deaths, Centenarians, Chinese politicians, Communists

Xu Jiatun (许家屯; 10 March 1916 – 29 June 2016) was a Chinese communist politician and dissident. He was the Chinese Communist Party secretary of Jiangsu Province from 1977 to 1983 and the Governor of Jiangsu from 1977 to 1979. After supporting  the 1989 Tiananmen Square student protests, he left the country and lived in self-exile in the United States.

Xu died in Los Angeles, California on 29 June 2016 at the age of 100.

[[Sean Rooks]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2016 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Dallas Mavericks players, Minnesota Timberwolves players, Atlanta Hawks players, Los Angeles Lakers players, Los Angeles Clippers players, New Orleans Hornets players, Orlando Magic players, Sportspeople from New York City

Sean Lester Rooks (September 9, 1969 – June 7, 2016) was an American professional basketball player. He played in the National Basketball Association (NBA) from 1992 to 2004. He was an Assistant for Player Development for the Philadelphia 76ers. He played college basketball for the Arizona Wildcats, earning all-conference honors in the Pac-10 (known later as the Pac-12) as a senior. He was born in New York City.

For the NBA, Rooks played for the Dallas Mavericks, Minnesota Timberwolves, Atlanta Hawks, Los Angeles Lakers, Los Angeles Clippers, New Orleans Hornets, and the Orlando Magic. He retired from playing in 2012. He was the assistant coach for the Philadelphia 76ers at the time of his death.

Rooks died on June 7, 2016 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania from heart disease, aged 46.

[[Stephen Keshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Nigerian footballers

Stephen Okechukwu Keshi (23 January 1962 – 7 June 2016) was a Nigerian football defender. He was also a football manager of the Nigeria national team. He was one of only two people, along with Egypt's Mahmoud El-Gohary, to have won the Africa Cup of Nations as both a player and a coach.

Keshi died of a heart attack on 7 June 2016 in Benin City, Nigeria, aged 54.

[[Sascha Lewandowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2016 deaths, German football managers, People from Dortmund, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Sascha Lewandowski (5 October 1971 – 8 June 2016) was a German football manager. He last managed Union Berlin. Lewandowski was head coach of VfL Bochum II between 1 July 2006 to 31 December 2006. He was appointed as the head coach of Union Berlin on 1 September 2015. He stepped down on 4 March 2016, after six months in charge.

He was born on 5 October 1971 in Dortmund, West Germany.  On 9 June 2016, Lewandowski was found dead at his home in Bochum, Germany. He had died the day before his body was found.

[[Qahhor Mahkamov]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Presidents of Tajikistan

Qahhor Mahkamov (Қаҳҳор Маҳкамов; alternative spelling Kahar Mahkamov; born April 16, 1932 – June 8, 2016) was a Tajik politician. He served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of Tajikistan and was the first President of Tajikistan. He served as president from 1990 through 1991.

[[Marina Malfatti]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2016 deaths, People from Florence, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors

Marina Malfatti (25 April 1933 – 8 June 2016) was an Italian actress. She was born in Florence, Italy. She was known for her roles in The Night Evelyn Came Out of the Grave, The Red Queen Kills Seven Times, and in Black Killer.

Malfatti died on 8 June 2016 in Rome, Italy, aged 83.   

[[Hamza Ali]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths by drowning, English cricketers, People from Bristol

Hamza Sultan Ali,  also known as Hamza Shabbir (8 August 1995 – 9 June 2016) was an English cricketer. 

He played for Hampshire, MCC Young Cricketers and Rawalpindi Rams. He played with his right-arm. He was a fast-medium bowler. He also batted right handed. Ali attended City Academy Bristol and Filton Sixth Form College.

Ali died after drowning at the River Avon, Bristol on 9 June 2016, aged 20.

[[Meikirch]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Meikirch is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Nicole Courcel]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, French movie actors, French television actors, French stage actors, Actors from Paris

Nicole Courcel (21 October 1931 – 25 June 2016) was a French actress. She was popular through the 1950s and 1960s. She was born in Saint-Cloud, western suburbs of Paris.

She appeared in 43 movies between 1947 and 1979. After working as an extra in a few movies, she won a major role in Rendez-vous de juillet (1949), with Brigitte Auber.  In 1970, she turned to television appearing in different television movies and miniseries, in which she continued to work until 2004.

Courcel is best known for her role in Serge Bourguignon's Sundays and Cybele (1962).  She had notable parts in: La Marie du port (1950, opposite Jean Gabin), Sacha Guitry's Royal Affairs in Versailles (1954), and La Sorcière (1956, opposite Marina Vlady).

Courcel died on 25 June 2016 in Paris, aged 84.

[[Seven Days Battles]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1862 in Virginia, Peninsula Campaign, June events, July events

The Seven Days Battles (June 25, 1862 – July 1, 1862) were a series of six major battles fought near Richmond, Virginia during the American Civil War. Union army. In early 1862, Major general George B. McClellan’s Army of the Potomac landed at Hampton, Virginia and began fighting its way up the Virginia Peninsula. By mid-may his army of over 100,000 soldiers were on the outskirts of Richmond, Virginia, the Confederate capital. If McClellan could capture Richmond, it could end the war. The city was defended by the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia. The two armies had just fought the Battle of Seven Pines in which the Confederate general, Joseph E. Johnston, was wounded. Jefferson Davis appointed General Robert E. Lee as the new commander. Lee's victory in the Seven Days Battles proved to be among the most decisive battles of the Peninsula Campaign.

[[Meinisberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Meinisberg (Montménil) is a municipality of the administrative district Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Siege of Yorktown (1862)]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1862 in Virginia, Peninsula Campaign

The Battle of Yorktown or Siege of Yorktown was fought from April 5 to May 4, 1862, as part of the Peninsula Campaign of the American Civil War. Marching from Fort Monroe, Union Major general George B. McClellan's Army of the Potomac encountered Maj. Gen. John B. Magruder's small Confederate force at Yorktown. McClellan suspended his march up the Virginia Peninsula toward Richmond and settled in for siege operations.

On April 5, the IV Corps of Brigadier general Erasmus D. Keyes made initial contact with Confederate defensive works at Lee's Mill. This was an area McClellan expected to move through without resistance. Magruder's movement of troops back and forth convinced the Union that his works were strongly held. As the two armies fought an artillery duel, reconnaissance indicated to Keyes the strength of the Confederate fortifications, and he advised McClellan against assaulting them. McClellan ordered the construction of siege fortifications and brought his heavy siege guns to the front. In the meantime, Gen. Joseph E. Johnston brought reinforcements for Magruder.

On April 16, Union forces probed a point in the Confederate line at Dam No. 1. The Union failed to exploit the initial success of this attack, however. This lost opportunity held up McClellan for two additional weeks while he tried to convince the U.S. Navy to bypass the Confederates' big guns at Yorktown and Gloucester Point and ascend the York River to West Point and outflank the Warwick Line. McClellan planned a massive bombardment for dawn on May 5. But the Confederate army had slipped away during the night of May 3 toward Williamsburg.

The battle took place near the site of the 1781 Siege of Yorktown, the final battle of the American Revolutionary War in the east.

[[Bill Cunningham]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, American photographers, People from Boston, Massachusetts, People from New York City

William John "Bill" Cunningham Jr. (March 13, 1929 – June 25, 2016) was an American fashion photographer for The New York Times. He was born in Boston, Massachusetts.

Cunningham was known for his candid and street photography. He first became known as a designer of women's hats before moving on to writing about fashion for Women's Wear Daily and the Chicago Tribune. He began taking candid photographs on the streets of New York City. His work came to the attention of The New York Times with a 1978 capture of Greta Garbo in an unguarded moment. Cunningham reported for the paper from 1978 to 2016.

Cunningham died from complications of a stroke at a New York City hospital on June 25, 2016, aged 87.

[[Meiringen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Meiringen is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Ron Lester]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from liver failure, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in Texas, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state)

Ron Lester (August 4, 1970 – June 17, 2016) was an American actor. He was best known for his roles in the movies Varsity Blues, Not Another Teen Movie, Good Burger, and the TV show Popular. He was born in Kennesaw, Georgia.

Lester died at a hospital in Dallas, Texas on June 17, 2016 from liver and kidney failure, aged 45.

[[David Morgenthaler]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2016 deaths, People from Chester, South Carolina, Businesspeople from South Carolina

David Turner Morgenthaler (August 5, 1919 – June 17, 2016) was an American businessman and capitalist. He founded the venture capital firm Morgenthaler Ventures. He was also important in helping change the U.S. capital gains tax rate from 49% to 28% in 1978 and amending ERISA legislation to allow pension funds to invest in venture capital in 1979. He was born in Chester, South Carolina.

Morgenthaler died on June 17, 2016 in Cleveland, Ohio, aged 96.

[[Betty Reid Soskin]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, Living people, People from Detroit, Michigan, American centenarians, People from San Francisco

Betty Reid Soskin (nee Charbonnet; born September 22, 1921) is an American Park Ranger with the National Park Service. Soskin speaks clearly about the importance of national parks. She says national parks are very important for telling American history that includes different people's experiences. She helped to develop the Rosie the Riveter/World War II Home Front National Historical Park in Richmond, California. She works there as a ranger. 

2021, at age 100, she is the oldest National Park Ranger serving the United States.

[[Mary Feik]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer deaths in Maryland, American aviators, 1924 births, 2016 deaths

Mary Feik (March 9, 1924 – June 10, 2016) was an American aviation engineer, master mechanic, pilot, instructor and aircraft restorer. She received many awards and honors in her career. She was a colonel in the Civil Air Patrol.

Feik died in Annapolis, Maryland from cancer on June 10, 2016, aged 92.

[[William L. Armstrong]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in Colorado, Politicians from Nebraska, United States representatives from Colorado, United States senators from Colorado, US Republican Party politicians

William Lester "Bill" Armstrong (March 16, 1937 – July 5, 2016) was an American businessman and politician. He was a member of the Republican party. He served as a United States Representative and Senator from Colorado.

Armstrong died in Lakewood, Colorado on July 5, 2016 from cancer, aged 79.

[[Alexander Gorlov]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Russian scientists, Engineers from Massachusetts, American educators, People from Moscow, Scientists from Boston, Massachusetts

Alexander M. Gorlov (March 23, 1931 – June 10, 2016) was a Russian-born American mechanical engineer. He was Professor Emeritus and Director of Hydro-Pneumatic Power Laboratory at Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts. He was known for creating the Gorlov Helical Turbine.

[[Alex Govan]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Scottish footballers, Sportspeople from Glasgow

Alexander "Alex" Govan (16 June 1929 – 10 June 2016) was a Scottish professional footballer. He played at outside left. Most of his career, he played with Plymouth Argyle (in two spells) and with Birmingham City during their most successful period in the 1950s. He also had a short spell with Portsmouth. 

Govan died at his Plymouth, England home on 10 June 2016 at the age of 86.

[[Habib (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Iranian singers, Iranian musicians, Singer-songwriters, Composers

Habib Mohebian (حبیب محبیان; 27 September 1947 – 10 June 2016), commonly known as Habib, was an Iranian singer-songwriter. He was born in Tehran.

Habib has many hit songs such as “Marde Tanhaye Shab”, “Shahla”, and “Madar”. The song “Shahla” was inspired after listening to an Azeri performer. However, there is a common misconception that Shahla has been inspired by Habib’s ex-wife (the name of his ex-wife is Shaadi and not Shahla).

Habib died on June 10, 2016 in Ramsar, Mazandaran, Iran, from a heart attack, aged 68.

[[Gopal Gurung]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, Futurists, Journalists, Nepalese politicians

Gopal Gurung (गोपाल गुरुङ ( July 27, 1935 – June 10, 2016) was a Nepali journalist, author, politician and futurist of global politics. He led the fight against the discrimination done by the Indo Aryan (Bahun and Kshetri) people to the indigenous Mongol people of Nepal. He was the founder president of Mongol National Organization (MNO) and the first pioneer of republican Nepal.

[[Mimmo Palmara]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Italian movie actors

Domenico "Mimmo" Palmara (25 July 1928 – 10 June 2016) was an Italian actor. He was born in Cagliari. Palmara made his movie debut in 1952 as character actor in drama movies by famous directors such as Luchino Visconti, Mario Monicelli and Antonio Pietrangeli. He was known for his roles as Sheriff Steven Benson in For One Thousand Dollars Per Day.

Palmara died on 10 June 2016 in Rome, Italy, aged 87.

[[Deaths in July 2016]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 deaths, July 2016 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in July 2016. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Months".  Names under each date are reported in alphabetical order by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are reported here also if notable.

[[Vasyl Slipak]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2016 deaths, Ukrainian singers

Vasyl Yaroslavovych Slipak (Василь Ярославович Сліпак, December 20, 1974 – June 29, 2016) was a Ukrainian baritone opera singer. From 1994, he performed in France at such venues as Paris Opéra and Opéra Bastille. For his opera performance, Slipak received several awards, including "Best Male Performance" for the Toreador Song. Hero of Ukraine.

[[Alfred Oftedal Telhaug]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, Norwegian educators

Alfred Oftedal Telhaug (25 September 1934 – 10 June 2016) was a Norwegian educator.

Telhaug was born in Skudeneshavn. He graduated from Stavanger Cathedral School in 1953, the University of Oslo in 1962, and took the Ph.D. degree at the University of Trondheim in 1990.

He was assigned with Norges Lærerhøgskole in Trondheim (later the Norwegian University of Science and Technology) from 1967 to 2001, and chaired the University's Institute of Pedagogy for three periods. From 1973 to 1981, he edited the journal Norsk Pedagogisk Tidsskrift.

His publications include Fra parallelle skoler til enhetsskole from 1974, Vår nye videregående skole from 1975, Norsk skoleutvikling etter 1945 from 1982, and Norsk utdanningspolitisk retorikk 1945–2000 from 1999. He was a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.

[[Giuseppe Virgili]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, Italian footballers, People from Udine

Giuseppe Virgili (24 July 1935 – 10 June 2016) was an Italian footballer. He played as a striker.

He was born in Udine, Italy. Virgili played for Udinese, Fiorentina, Torino, Bari, Livorno and Taranto. He entered the Fiorentina Hall of Fame in 2013.

He also scored two goals in 7 appearances for the national team.

Virgili died in hospital at the age of 80, following an illness.

[[Rudi Altig]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, German cyclists, People from Mannheim, Sportspeople from Baden-Württemberg

Rudi Altig (18 March 1937 – 11 June 2016) was a German professional track and road racing cyclist. He won the 1962 Vuelta a España and the world championship in 1966. After his retirement from sports he worked as a television commentator.

Altig died on 11 June 2016 in Remagen, Germany, as a result of cancer, aged 79.

[[Scotty Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, American guitarists, American engineers, Musicians from Tennessee

Winfield Scott "Scotty" Moore III (December 27, 1931 – June 28, 2016) was an American guitarist and recording engineer. He was best known for his work with Elvis Presley in the first part of his career, between 1954 and the beginning of Elvis's Hollywood years. 

Moore died on June 28, 2016, in Nashville, Tennessee, at the age of 84.

[[Buddy Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in the United States, American football coaches, Sportspeople from Oklahoma

James David "Buddy" Ryan (February 17, 1931 – June 28, 2016) was an American football coach in the National Football League (NFL) and American Football League (AFL). During his 35-season coaching career, Ryan served as the head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles and Arizona Cardinals, and the defensive coordinator of the Chicago Bears and Houston Oilers of the NFL.

Ryan died at his ranch in Shelbyville, Kentucky on June 28, 2016 from cancer, aged 85.

[[Lake Chungará]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of South America, Geography of Chile

Lake Chungará (from Aymara: chunkara "moss on the stone") is a lake in the extreme north of Chile, in the Altiplano of the Arica y Parinacota region. It is the 29th highest lake in the world (and the 10th highest in South America).

The lake is near the volcanos Parinacota (6342) and Pomerape (6222). It is part of the Lauca National Park, in the Putre comuna. The lake is at about 54 to the east of the town of Putre and about 9 to the west of the border with Bolivia.

In the lake and streams nearby, there are some small fish that are endemic to the lake basin: pencil catfish, Trichomycterus chungaraensis, and Orestias chungarensis.

[[Shaibu Amodu]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2016 deaths, Nigerian footballers, Nigerian football managers

Shuaibu Amodu (18 April 1958 – 10 June 2016) was a Nigerian football coach and player. Amodu has managed a number of club sides in Nigeria, such as BCC Lions, El-Kanemi Warriors, and Shooting Stars; he also managed Orlando Pirates in South Africa.

He first managed the Nigerian national team from April 2001 to February 2002.

Amodu died on 10 June 2016 in Benin City, aged 58.

[[Dan Patrick]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winners, 1956 births, Living people, American radio personalities, American movie actors, Actors from Ohio, People from Zanesville, Ohio

Daniel Patrick Pugh (born May 15, 1956), known professionally as Dan Patrick, is an American sportscaster, radio personality, and actor. He currently hosts The Dan Patrick Show broadcast on radio and on television. He also currently co-hosts NBC's Football Night in America and serves as a senior writer for Sports Illustrated. He previously worked at ESPN for 18 years, where he often anchored the weeknight and Sunday 11 p.m. edition of SportsCenter.

[[Sully (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 drama movies, 2010s biographical movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in the 2000s, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Clint Eastwood

Sully is a 2016 American biographical drama movie directed and co-produced by Clint Eastwood. It is written by Todd Komarnicki. It is about the US Airways Flight 1549 and Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger, based on the autobiography Highest Duty by Sullenberger and Jeffrey Zaslow.

The movie stars Tom Hanks as Sullenberger, with Aaron Eckhart, Laura Linney, Anna Gunn, Autumn Reeser, Holt McCallany, Jamey Sheridan, and Jerry Ferrara. The movie was released by Warner Bros. on September 9, 2016.

[[Asghar Bichareh]]

CATEGORIES: Iranian actors, 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from laryngeal cancer, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Photographers, People from Tehran

Asghar Bichareh (Persian اصغر بیچاره; June 11, 1927 – June 11, 2016) was an Iranian photographer and actor. Bichareh was a photographer for the Iranian movie and music industries. He acted in over 23 movies. Bichareh was known for his collection of old cameras and cinema and theater photos. 

Bichareh died of laryngeal cancer on his 89th birthday on June 11, 2016 in Los Angeles, California.

[[Bryan Robinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2016 deaths, African American players of American football, American football defensive ends, American football defensive tackles, Arizona Cardinals players, Chicago Bears players, Cincinnati Bengals players, Miami Dolphins players, People from Toledo, Ohio, Sportspeople from Ohio, St. Louis Rams players

Bryan Keith Robinson, nicknamed "Big Dog", (June 22, 1974spaced ndashJune 11, 2016) was an American football defensive tackle. He was originally signed by the St. Louis Rams as an undrafted free agent in 1997. 

Robinson also played for the Chicago Bears, the Miami Dolphins, the Cincinnati Bengals, and the Arizona Cardinals.

On June 11, 2016, Robinson was found dead in a Milwaukee motel room, aged 41.

[[Lars Skytøen]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Norwegian politicians, Civil servants

Lars Mauritz Skytøen (13 December 1929 – 11 June 2016) was a Norwegian politician. He was a member of the Labour Party. He was Minister of Industry and Craft 1979-1981.

[[Kunio Hatoyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2016 deaths, Japanese politicians, Civil servants

Kunio Hatoyama was a Japanese politician. He served as Minister of Internal Affairs and Communications under Prime Minister Tarō Asō until 12 June 2009.

Hatoyama died on 20 June 2016 in a hospital in Tokyo, at the age of 67.

[[Henk Hofland]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Dutch columnists, Dutch essayists, Dutch journalists, Writers from Rotterdam

Hendrik Johannes Adrianus "Henk" Hofland (ˈɦɛndrɪk joːˈɦɑnəs aːdriˈaːnʏs ˈɦɛŋk ˈɦɔflɑnt; 20 July 1927 – 21 June 2016) was a Dutch journalist, commentator, essayist and columnist. H.J.A. Hofland, as he is also commonly known, is often referred to as the éminence grise of Dutch journalism.

In 1999 he was named Dutch "Journalist of the century" in a nationwide poll among his fans. He once called himself as belonging to the "anarcho-liberal community", though his political orientation is that of the secular center of society.

[[Al Howie]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in Canada, Canadian sportspeople, People from Glasgow

Al Howie (September 16, 1945 – June 21, 2016) was a Canadian long-distance runner. He was born in Glasgow to Canadian parents. He won more than fifty marathons, ultramarathons and multiday races in over 20 years. He won the 1991 Trans Canada Highway run (7295 kilometers) in the record time of 72 days and 10 hours. He won six-day foot races in California and seven-day races in New York. He was known as theSpartan Tartan. In 1987, Mr. Howie married Claudia Cole.

Howie died in Duncan, British Columbia from complications of diabetes, aged 70.

[[Joan Acker]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2016 deaths, American sociologists, American educators, Writers from Illinois

Joan Elise Robinson Acker (March 18, 1924 – June 22, 2016) was an American feminist sociologist, researcher, writer, and educator. She was a part of the University of Oregon faculty since 1967. Acker was thought as one of the leading analysts regarding gender and class within the second wave of feminism.

[[John William Ashe]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2016 deaths, Antigua and Barbuda people, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Presidents of the United Nations General Assembly

John William Ashe (20 August 1954 – 22 June 2016) was an Antiguan politician. He was the President of the United Nations General Assembly at its 68th session, which ran September 2013 to September 2014. He was also the ambassador to the United Nations for Antigua and Barbuda between 1995 and 2004.

Ashe died from a heart attack at his home in Dobbs Ferry, New York on 22 June 2016 while awaiting trial by the United States Federal Court. He was 61.

[[Zurlon Tipton]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths by firearm in the United States, Accidental deaths in the United States, Indianapolis Colts players, Sportspeople from Detroit, Michigan

This is about the American football player. For other people called Tipton, see Tipton (disambiguation).

Zurlon Tipton (April 27, 1990 – June 28, 2016) was an American football running back. He played college football at Central Michigan and signed with the Indianapolis Colts as an undrafted free agent in 2014. He was born in Detroit, Michigan.

Tipton died on June 28, 2016 at a hospital in Detroit, Michigan after accidentally shooting himself in the stomach, aged 26.

[[Mrinal Sen]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian movie directors

Mrinal Sen (also spelled Mrinal Shen, 14 May 1923 – 30 December 2018) was an Indian filmmaker. He was born in Kolkata. He was thought to be one of the greatest ambassadors of Indian parallel cinema on the global stage. His works was known for its artistic depiction of social reality. 

Sen died on 30 December 2018 in Kolkata, West Bengal at the age of 95. The cause was a heart attack.

[[Inocente Carreño]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Venezuelan people, Composers

Inocente José Carreño (28 December 1919 – 29 June 2016) was a Venezuelan composer and academic. He won the Venezuelan National Prize for Music in 1989. He was born in Porlamar, Venezuela.

Carreño died on 29 June 2016 from complications of pneumonia in Porlamar, Venezuela, aged 96.

[[Pee-wee's Big Holiday]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 comedy movies, 2010s road movies, American comedy movies, American road movies, Comedy road movies, Netflix movies

Pee-wee's Big Holiday is a 2016 American adventure comedy movie. It was directed by John Lee and written by Paul Reubens and Paul Rust. The film stars Reubens as Pee-wee Herman. The film was released on March 18, 2016 on Netflix.

[[UEFA Euro 1992]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA European Championship, 1992 in association football, 1992 in Europe, 1990s in Sweden, Football in Sweden, June events

The UEFA Euro 1992 was the 9th UEFA European Football Championship tournament. Its formal name was the 1992 UEFA European Football Championship. It was held in 10 June to 26 June. All the European football teams could compete. The defending champion was Netherlands. The tournament was hosted in Sweden. 8 teams were qualified for the final group stage. The winner of the tournament was Denmark after defeating Germany.

[[UEFA Euro 2016 qualifying]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in association football, UEFA Euro 2016, 2014 in association football

The UEFA Euro 2016 qualifying tournament was a football competition that was played from September 2014 to November 2015. It 

was played to determine who will qualify for the UEFA Euro 2016. The top scorer of the tournament was Poland's Robert Lewandowski with 13 goals. 53 teams participated in the qualification tournament.

France automatically qualified because they are hosts. 23 other teams qualified for the tournament.

[[Kuk (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Kuk (also spelled as Kek or Keku) is the ancient Egyptian deity of night and darkness. As a concept, Kuk was viewed as having male and female qualities. His female form was known as Kauket (also spelled as Keket), which is simply the female form of the word Kuk.

Kuk's male form was seen as a frog, or as a frog-headed man. The female form was seen as a snake, or a snake-headed woman. He also symbolized the unknown and chaos. Kuk was the god of the hours before dawn and was known as "Bringer-in-of-the-Light" as he guided the sun barge of the god Ra toward the sky from the underworld. Kauket, his feminine balance, was depicted as a woman with the head of a serpent also called "Bringer-in-of-the-Darkness" who presided over the hours of twilight when the sun was setting and guided the sun barge into the underworld.

[[Schönwald, Bavaria]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bavaria

Schönwald is a municipality in Bavaria, Germany. It is next to the border of the Czech Republic. In 2014, the population was at 3,270 people.

[[Ingólfr Arnarson]]

CATEGORIES: Icelandic people

Ingólfr Arnarson (Ingólfur Arnarson) and his wife, Hallveig Frodesdatter, are commonly said to be the first permanent Nordic settlers of Iceland. According to tradition, they founded Reykjavík in 874.

According to the Landnámabók (a book which describes the settlement of Iceland by the Norsemen), he built his house in modern-day Reykjavík and named the city as well. Medieval historian Ari Þorgilsson claimed that Arnarson was the first Nordic settler in Iceland, but Irish monks and hermits lived there before he arrived. He also claimed that the they left because they did not want to live with the newly arrived Norse pagans.

The Landnámabók claims that Arnarson left modern-day Norway after becoming involved in a blood feud. He had heard about an island that Garðar Svavarsson, Flóki Vilgerðarson and others found while sailing in the Atlantic ocean. With his step-brother, Hjörleifr Hróðmarsson, he sailed for Iceland. When land was in sight, he threw his high seat pillars overboard and promised to settle where the gods decided to bring them ashore. Two of his slaves then searched the coasts for three years before finding the pillars in the small bay which eventually became Reykjavík.

Meanwhile, Hjörleifr Hróðmarsson was murdered by his Irish slaves because of how badly he was treating-them. Ingólfr hunted them down and killed them in Vestmannaeyjar (Westman Islands). The islands got their name from that event, but vestmenn (west men) is a name that the Norsemen at this time sometimes used for Irishmen. He continued to live in southwestern Iceland, but nothing is known about what happened to him after settling. His son, Torstein (Þorsteinn Ingólfsson), was said to have founded the first parliament, in Iceland. It later became known as the Althing.

[[Keflavík]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Iceland, 16th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in Iceland

Keflavík (meaning Driftwood Bay) is a town in the Suðurnes region in southwest Iceland. In 2009 its population was at 8,169 people.

In 1995, the town merged with Njarðvík and Hafnir to form the Reykjanesbær municipality.

[[Hochdorf, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Hochdorf is a municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Melchnau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Melchnau is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Berken]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Berken is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Merzligen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Merzligen is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Spanish treasure fleet]]

CATEGORIES: Spain, 16th century, 17th century, 18th century

The Spanish treasure fleet, or West Indies Fleet from Spanish Flota de Indias, was a convoy system adopted by the Spanish Empire from 1566 to 1790. It linked Spain with its territories in America across the Atlantic. The convoys were general purpose cargo fleets used for transporting a wide variety of items. These included agricultural goods, lumber, various metal resources, luxuries, silver, gold, gems, pearls, spices, sugar, tobacco, silk, and other exotic goods from the Spanish Empire. They were sent to the Spanish mainland. Passengers and goods such as textiles, books and tools were transported in the opposite direction. The West Indies fleet was the first permanent transatlantic trade route in history. Similarly, the Manila galleons were the first permanent trade route across the Pacific.

[[Node.js]]

CATEGORIES: Free software, Linux software, Microsoft Windows software, JavaScript

Node.js is a runtime system used mostly for making server side applications with JavaScript. It runs on the V8 JavaScript engine. It contains a package manager called NPM.

[[World Population Day]]

CATEGORIES: Days

World Population day is an annual event. It is observed on July 11 every year. This event was made to increase awareness of the problems faced by global population and overpopulation. It was made by the Governing Council of the United Nations Development Programme in 1989. It was inspired by the public interest in Five Billion Day on July 11, 1987 (approximately the date on which the world's population reached five billion people).

The world population as of October 29, 2020 is approximately 7.694 billion.

[[Stayin' Alive]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 songs

"Stayin' Alive" is a disco song by the Bee Gees from the Saturday Night Fever motion picture soundtrack. The song was written by the Bee Gees members (Barry, Robin, and Maurice Gibb) and produced by the Bee Gees, Albhy Galuten, and Karl Richardson.

[[Mirchel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Mirchel is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Monible]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Monible is a former municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Monible, Châtelat, Sornetan and Souboz merged into the new municipality of Petit-Val.

[[Romesh Chandra]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2016 deaths, Indian activists

Romesh Chandra (30 March 1919 – 4 July 2016) was an Indian leader of the Communist Party of India (CPI). He took part in the Indian independence movement as student leader of CPI after joining it in 1939. He held many posts within the party. He became president of the World Peace Council in 1977.

[[Turgay Şeren]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Turkish footballers

Turgay Sabit Şeren (15 May 1932 – 6 July 2016) was a Turkish footballer. He was the former goalkeeper of Galatasaray. He played at Galatasaray between 1947 and 1966 and was capped 52 times for Turkey, including two matches at the 1954 FIFA World Cup. 

Şeren was awarded a testimonial match by the club in 1967 in Istanbul.

[[Valentino Zeichen]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, Italian writers, Poets

Valentino Zeichen (24 March 1938 – 5 July 2016), was an Italian poet and writer. He was born in Fiume, Italy. Zeichen's poetry has been praised for its ability to quickly hook the reader. His works include humor. A literary award named after him, the Premio Zeichen, is held every December in Rome. Zeichen himself was the only member of the jury.

Zeichen died on 5 July 2016 in Rome, Italy, aged 78.

[[Gunnar Garbo]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2016 deaths, Ambassadors of Norway, Norwegian journalists, Norwegian politicians

Gunnar Garbo (19 April 1924 – 29 June 2016) was a Norwegian journalist, politician and ambassador. 

He represented the Liberal Party of Norway at the Norwegian Parliament during four electoral periods. He served from 1958 to 1973. He was leader for the party from 1964 to 1970. He was ambassador in Dar es Salaam from 1987 to 1992.

[[Ojo Maduekwe]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, Nigerian politicians

Chief Ojo Maduekwe (May 6, 1945 – June 29, 2016) was a Nigerian politician. He served as the Foreign Minister of Nigeria from July 26, 2007 through March 17, 2010. He was appointed by President Umaru Musa Yar'Adua. He left office in March 2010 when Acting President Goodluck Jonathan dissolved his cabinet. He was National Secretary of the ruling political party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). 

[[Donald Carr]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, English cricketers

Donald Bryce Carr OBE (28 December 1926 –11 June 2016) was an English cricketer. He played for Derbyshire from 1946 to 1967, for Oxford University from 1948 to 1951, and twice for England in 1951/52. He captained Derbyshire between 1955 and 1962, and scored over 10,000 runs for the county.

Carr later became an ICC match referee. After his retirement, he became assistant secretary of the MCC from 1963 to 1976, and then secretary to the Cricket Council and the Test and County Cricket Board – both forerunners of the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) – for ten years after that. He also managed several MCC tours in the 1960s and 1970s.

[[Vladimir Dolgopolov]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2016 deaths, Russian footballers, People from Saint Petersburg

Vladimir Mikhailovich Dolgopolov (Владимир Михайлович Долгополов; born 24 December 1961, Leningrad – died 12 June 2016, St. Petersburg) was a Russian professional footballer. He made his professional debut in the Soviet Top League in 1980 for FC Zenit Leningrad.

[[Alfonso Portugal]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, Mexican footballers

Alfonso Portugal Díaz (21 January 1934 – 12 June 2016) was a Mexican footballer. He played as defender for Mexico in the 1958 FIFA World Cup. He was born in Mexico City. Portugal captained Club América to the 1965–66 Mexican Primera División title. He also played for Club Necaxa. In 1967 he appeared in one match for the Chicago Spurs of the NPSL.

Portugal died on 12 June 2016 in Atlixco, Puebla, aged 82.

[[Vasily Bochkaryov]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2016 deaths, Russian politicians

Vasily Kuzmich Bochkaryov (Васи́лий Кузьми́ч Бочкарёв; 29 April 1949 – 22 June 2016) was a Russian politician. He served as Head of Zheleznodorozhny District of Penza from 1987 to 1998. He was elected Head of the Administration of Penza Oblast in April 1998. He became Governor of Penza Oblast in June 1998.

[[Jim Boyd (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Los Angeles County, California, Actors from Washington, American movie actors, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Los Angeles County, California, Singers from Washington, Writers from Los Angeles County, California, Writers from Washington

Jim Boyd (1956 – June 22, 2016) was an American singer-songwriter, actor and member of The Jim Boyd Band on the Colville Indian Reservation in Washington. He was born in Lancaster, California.

Boyd has performed in several groups, including XIT, Greywolf and Winterhawk. Boyd sang four songs with lyrics by Sherman Alexie on the soundtrack for the 1998 movie Smoke Signals, and also appeared in Alexie's The Business of Fancydancing.

Boyd died on June 22, 2016 in Colville Indian Reservation, Washington, aged 60.

[[David J. Hickson]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, British educators, People from Manchester

David John Hickson (20 April 1931 – 22 June 2016) was a British organizational theorist. He was the Emeritus Professor of International Management and Organization at Bradford University School of Management. He was known for his work in the field of organisational development (OD).

[[Yaşar Nuri Öztürk]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, Turkish politicians, Turkish lawyers, Turkish educators

Yaşar Nuri Öztürk (February 5, 1951 – June 22, 2016) was a Turkish university professor of Islamic theology, Quranist Muslim, lawyer, columnist and a former member of Turkish parliament.

Öztürk died on June 22, 2016 at his home in Istanbul from stomach cancer, aged 65.

[[Harry Rabinowitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2016 deaths, Composers, Conductors, Jewish centenarians, Jewish musicians, People from Johannesburg, South African entertainers, South African Jews, White South African people

Harry Rabinowitz MBE (26 March 1916 – 22 June 2016) was a South African conductor and composer of movie and television music. He was born in Johannesburg, South Africa. He was of Jewish descent.

[[Samir Roychoudhury]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Indian poets

Samir Roychowdhury (Bengali: সমীর রায়চৌধুরী) (1 November 1933 – 22 June 2016) was an Indian poet and writer. He was one of the founding fathers of the Hungry Generation. 

[[Amjad Sabri]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths by firearm, Pakistani singers

Amjad Farid (Fareed) Sabri (23 December 1976 – 22 June 2016) was a Pakistani singer. He became one of South Asia's most famous qawwali singers. 

Sabri was shot dead in Karachi in a targeted killing by a splinter group of the Pakistani Taliban on 22 June 2016, aged 39.

[[James Green]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, American historians, American educators, American activists, Writers from Illinois, People from Oak Park, Illinois

James Robert Green (November 4, 1944 – June 23, 2016) was an American historian. He was the Professor of History Emeritus at the University of Massachusetts Boston. He was also a well-known author and labor activist.

Green's research focuses on radical political and social movements in the U.S. (including new social movements), as well as the history of labor unions in the United States. Green writes social and political history from "the bottom up." He writes from a leftist theoretical standpoint.

Green died in Boston on June 23, 2016, of complications from leukemia. He was 71.

[[Stanley Mandelstam]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, American physicists, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Johannesburg, South African Jews, Theoretical physicists

Stanley Mandelstam (12 December 1928 – 23 June 2016) was a South African-born American theoretical physicist of Jewish descent. He introduced the Mandelstam variables into particle physics in 1958. It was a coordinate system for creating his double dispersion relations. 

He was the Professor of Mathematical Physics at the University of Birmingham (1960-63), the Professeur Associé at Université de Paris-Sud (1979–80; 1984–85) and the Professor of Physics at the University of California, Berkeley from 1963 until his death and was also the Professor Emeritus from 1994 until his death.

[[Paul Cox]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2016 deaths, Australian educators, Australian movie directors, Australian screenwriters, Cancer deaths in Australia, Deaths from liver cancer, Naturalised citizens of Australia, People from Venlo, Photographers, Writers from Limburg (Netherlands)

Paulus Henrique Benedictus "Paul" Cox (16 April 1940 – 18 June 2016) was an award-winning Dutch-born Australian filmmaker. He was known as 'Australia's most prolific film auteur'. 

He published Reflections: An Autobiographical Journey in 1998.

His movie-essay The Remarkable Mr. Kaye (2005) is a portrait of his sick friend, the actor Norman Kaye, who appeared in many of Cox movies, such as Lonely Hearts and Man of Flowers. In 2006 he became the Patron of the Byron Bay Film Festival.

[[William J. Livsey]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, American military people, People from Georgia (U.S. state)

William James "Lipp" Livsey (June 8, 1931 – June 18, 2016) was a United States Army general. He served as the Commander in Chief of United Nations Command/Commander in Chief, ROK/U.S. Combined Forces Command/Commander, United States Forces Korea/Commanding General, Eighth United States Army (CINCUNC/CINCCFC/COMUSFK/CG EUSA), from 1984 to 1987.

[[Claude Confortès]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, French movie directors, French movie actors, French stage actors, Actors from Paris

Claude Confortès (28 February 1928 – 15 June 2016) was a French movie and stage director and actor. As an actor, he starred in Yves Robert's War of the Buttons (La Guerre des boutons) in 1962. He played a supporting role in Germinal in 1993. He was born in Saint-Maur-des-Fossés, a suburb of Paris.

Confortès died on 15 June 2016 in Paris, aged 88.

[[Ofelya Hambardzumyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, Armenian people, Folk singers

Ofelya Karapeti Hambardzumyan (Օֆելյա Կարապետի Համբարձումյան, January 9, 1925 – June 13, 2016) was an Armenian folk singer. She was known as the "Queen of Armenian Song". During her career, she was known for her soft voice.  In 1944, she became a solo-singer for the Ensemble of Folk Instruments of the Radio of Armenia, where she dedicated her efforts to the ensemble headed by Aram Merangulyan.

Hambardzumyan died on June 13, 2016, aged 91.

[[Giuseppe Ferrara]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from pneumonia, Italian movie directors, Italian screenwriters, People from Florence

Giuseppe Ferrara (15 July 1932 – 25 June 2016) was an Italian movie director and screenwriter. He was known for directing The Moro Affair (1986).

Ferrara died in Rome, Italy on 25 June 2016 from cardiac arrest after suffering from pneumonia, aged 83.

[[Vittorio Merloni]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Italian businesspeople

Vittorio Merloni (30 April 1933 – 18 June 2016) was an Italian entrepreneur and industrialist. He was the honorary chairman of Indesit.

Merloni died on 18 June 2016 in Fabriano, Italy, aged 83.

[[Wu Jianmin]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, Chinese politicians, Ambassadors of China

Wu Jianmin (吴建民; March 30, 1939 – June 18, 2016) was a Chinese diplomat. He worked as the spokesman of Chinese Foreign Ministry. He was an ambassador of China to the Netherlands, Geneva and France. He was the president of the Bureau International des Expositions. 

On June 18, 2016, Wu died when the car in which he was traveling struck a median while exiting the Donghu Lake Tunnel in Wuhan, China. Wu was on his way to lecture at Wuhan University. He was 77.

[[Randy Jones (drummer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2016 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, British drummers, British jazz musicians, American jazz musicians, American drummers, Musicians from Berkshire

Randy Jones (January 23, 1944 – June 23, 2016) was a British-born American jazz drummer. He was born in Berkshire, England. He was known for his albums M.F. Horn (1970), M.F. Horn Two (1972), M.F. Horn 3 (1973), and M.F. Horn 4&5: Live At Jimmy's.

Jones died at the Calvary Hospital in the Bronx on June 23, 2016 from heart failure at the age of 72.

[[Oleg Karavaychuk]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Russian composers, Russian writers, People from Kiev

Oleg Nikolayevich Karavaichuk (Оле́г Никола́евич Каравайчу́к; December 28, 1927 – June 13, 2016) was a Soviet and  Russian composer, author of music for many movies and theater performances. He was born in Kiev. Karavaychuk worked with Sergei Parajanov, Vasily Shukshin, Ilya Averbakh, Kira Muratova (Brief Encounters,  The Long Goodbye) and others. Karavaychuk also worked with the avant-garde, in particular Sergey Kuryokhin.

Karavaychuk died on June 13, 2016, in St. Petersburg, aged 88.

[[Bur’i Mohamed Hamza]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 deaths, Somali politicians, 1940s births

Bur’i Mohamed Hamza (Burci Maxamed Xamza, البرعي محمد حمزة, died 25 June 2016) was a Somali politician. From August 2012 to January 2014, he was a Member of the Federal Parliament of Somalia.

He later served as the State Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Somalia from January to October 2014. He served as the State Minister of Finance until December 2014. He was the State Minister of the Premier's Office for Environment at the time of his death.

Hamza died during an attack by at least four al-Shabab militants on the Hotel Naso-Hablod in Mogadishu on 25 June 2016. His room collapsed on him after it was damaged by a car bomb. The hotel was "frequented by apostate government workers", explained spokesman Sheikh Abdiasis Abu Musab to Reuters.

[[Freehold Township, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey, Monmouth County, New Jersey

Freehold Township is a township in New Jersey

[[Ocean City, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Jersey

Ocean City, New Jersey is a city in New Jersey.

[[Titan (Six Flags Over Texas)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in the United States, Roller coasters in Texas, 2000s establishments in Texas

Titan is a steel roller coaster in Six Flags Over Texas

[[Chips Moman]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, American guitarists, American songwriters, Deaths from emphysema, Disease-related deaths in Georgia (U.S. state), Grammy Award winners, Musicians from Georgia (U.S. state), Writers from Georgia (U.S. state)

Lincoln Wayne "Chips"  Moman (June 12, 1937 – June 13, 2016) was an American record producer, guitarist, and Grammy Award-winning songwriter. He was born in LaGrange, Georgia.

In the 1960s, Moman worked for Stax Records before founding the American Sound Studio in Memphis, Tennessee, and later in Nashville.  

As a record producer, Moman was known for recording Elvis Presley, Bobby Womack, Carla Thomas, and Merrilee Rush, as well as guiding the career of the Box Tops. As a songwriter, he was known for standards associated with Aretha Franklin, James Carr, Waylon Jennings, and B. J. Thomas, including the Grammy-winning "(Hey Won't You Play) Another Somebody Done Somebody Wrong Song". 

He was also a session guitarist for Franklin and other musicians.

Moman died from complications of emphysema in LaGrange, Georgia on June 13, 2016, aged 79.

[[Patrick Mayhew]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, British politicians

Patrick Barnabas Burke Mayhew, Baron Mayhew of Twysden (11 September 1929 – 25 June 2016) was a British barrister and Conservative politician.

He was Member of Parliament (MP) for the Tunbridge Wells constituency from its creation at the February 1974 general election, standing down at the 1997 election.

He was Under-Secretary for Employment from 1979-81, then Minister of State at the Home Office from 1981 to 1983. After this he served as Solicitor General for England and Wales from 1983-87, and then Attorney General for England and Wales and Attorney General for Northern Ireland from 1987-92. He was Secretary of State for Northern Ireland from 1992-97, the longest anyone has served in this office.

Mayhew had lived with cancer and Parkinson's disease in his later years. He died on 25 June 2016 from complications from Parkinson's disease, aged 86.

[[James Gilbert (producer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, Television directors, Television producers, People from Edinburgh

Cecil James Gilbert (5 May 1923 – 7 July 2016) was a Scottish television producer and director. He was the BBC's Head of Comedy from 1973–77. He was probably best known for his work on The Two Ronnies, Last of the Summer Wine and Open All Hours. 

In 2003, Gilbert appeared on the documentary special 30 Years of Last of the Summer Wine to discuss his role in helping to create the series.

Gilbert died on 7 July 2016 in Scotland, aged 93.

[[Riddick Bowe]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, African-American boxers, American Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 1988 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Brooklyn

Riddick Bowe (born August 10, 1967) is an American amateur boxer. He won a Silver medal at the 1988 Summer Olympics. He later became a Heavyweight professional boxer. He defeated other boxers like Evander Holyfield and Andrew Golota. The latter was disqualified for giving too many low blows to Bowe in 1996.

Bowe was born in Brooklyn, New York City.

[[Bill Berkson]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American poets, American art critics, American educators, Writers from New York City

William Craig "Bill" Berkson (August 30, 1939 – June 16, 2016) was an American poet, critic, teacher and sometime curator. He was mainly active in Manhattan during the 1960s and 1970s.

Berkson died of a heart attack on June 16, 2016 in San Francisco, California, aged 76.

[[Mohapatra Nilamani Sahoo]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Indian writers

Mohapatra Nilamani Sahoo (22 December 1926 – 25 June 2016) was an Indian Odia language short story writer. He won several literary awards over his career, including the 1979 Odisha Sahitya Academy Award for Akasha Patala, and the 1983 Sarala Award and the 1984 Sahitya Akademi Award in Odia, for Abhisapta Gandharba. 

Sahoo died on 25 June 2016 after suffering from multiple organ failure, aged 89.

[[Irving Moskowitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, American Jews, American philanthropists, American physicians, Businesspeople from New York City, Jewish businesspeople, Jewish philanthropists

Irving Moskowitz (January 11, 1928 – June 16, 2016) was an American physician, businessman and philanthropist. His philanthropy, in part, helped create a Jewish majority in Arab neighborhoods of East Jerusalem.

Moskowitz was of Jewish descent.

[[Anatoli Grishin]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, Soviet sportspeople, People from Moscow

Anatoli Kuzmich Grishin (Анатолий Кузьмич Гришин; 8 July 1939 – 14 June 2016) was a Soviet sprint canoeist who competed in the mid-1960s. 

He won a gold medal in the K-4 1000 m event at the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo.

Grishin also won two medals at the ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships with a gold medal (K-4 10000 m: 1966) and a bronze medal (K-2 1000 m: 1963).

Grishin died on 14 June 2016, at the age of 76.

[[Ann Morgan Guilbert]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Minneapolis, Minnesota

Ann Morgan Guilbert (October 16, 1928 – June 14, 2016), sometimes credited as Ann Guilbert, was an American television and movie actress. She played a number of roles, from the 1950s on, most notably as Millie Helper in 61 episodes of the early 1960s sitcom The Dick Van Dyke Show, and later Yetta Rosenberg, Fran Fine's doddering grandmother, in 56 episodes of the 1990s sitcom The Nanny. 

Guilbert died of cancer of unknown primary origin in Los Angeles on June 14, 2016, aged 87.

[[UEFA Euro 1988]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA European Championship, 1988 in association football, 1980s in Germany, Football in Germany

The 1988 UEFA European Football Championship final tournament took place in West Germany between 10 and 25 June 1988. It was the eighth European Football Championship, which is held every four years and supported by UEFA.

The final match was played on 25 June between the Soviet Union and the Netherlands. The Netherlands won the match 2–0, and became the European champions for the first, and so far only time.

[[Pat Suggate]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, New Zealand scientists, Geologists, Scientists from London

Richard Patrick "Pat" Suggate (17 March 1922 – 16 June 2016) was a New Zealand geologist. He was known for his research into coal properties and coal rank, and into the advances and retreats of New Zealand's glaciers. From 1974 to 1986 he served as director of the New Zealand Geological Survey.

In the 2003 New Year Honours Suggate was appointed a Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to geology.

Suggate died in Wellington on 16 June 2016, aged 94.

[[Jerome Teasley]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Deaths from liver cancer, American drummers, American soul musicians, Musicians from Detroit, Michigan

Jerome Teasley (August 13, 1948 – June 16, 2016) was an American Soul Drummer. He was a member of the Motown Hall of Fame. He has toured with Junior Walker and the All Stars, and has also worked with Al Green, Jimi Hendrix, Wilson Pickett, Tina Turner, Bill Carr and Jazz saxophonist Sonny Stitt among many others. 

Teasley died on June 16, 2016 in a hospital in Phoenix, Arizona from complications of lung and liver cancer, aged 67.

[[Elmer Cravalho]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, American mayors, Politicians from Hawaii, US Democratic Party politicians

Elmer Franklin Carvalho (February 19, 1926–June 27, 2016) was an American politician and former teacher. He was a member of the Democratic Party. Carvalho served as the first Mayor of Maui from 1969 to 1979 and the first Speaker of the Hawaii House of Representatives following statehood.

[[Pelle Gudmundsen-Holmgreen]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Danish composers, People from Copenhagen

Pelle Gudmundsen-Holmgreen (21 November 1932 – 27 June 2016) was a Danish composer.

Gudmundsen-Holmgreen was born in Copenhagen, Denmark. He was the son of the sculptor Jørgen Gudmundsen-Holmgreen. He studied at the Royal Danish Academy of Music in Copenhagen, with Finn Høffding, Svend Westergaard, Bjørn Hjelmborg, and Vagn Holmboe (instrumentation), graduating in 1958.

Amongst other works, he composed fourteen string quartets and a Concerto Grosso for string quartet and orchestra, written for the Kronos Quartet, which he referred to as "Vivaldi on Safari".

He won the Nordic Council Music Prize in 1980 for his Symfoni/Antifoni.

Gudmundsen-Holmgreen died of cancer on 26 June 2016, aged 83.

[[Harry Halbreich]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Belgian musicians, Belgian writers, Belgian educators, Musicologists, Writers from Berlin

Harry Halbreich (February 9, 1931, Berlin – June 27, 2016, Uccle) was a Belgian musicologist of (partly) Jewish descent. He was known for a number of books, articles and studies on modern and contemporary music, including monograph works on Olivier Messiaen, Claude Debussy, Arthur Honegger and Bohuslav Martinů.

[[Mack Rice]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Mississippi, Writers from Mississippi

Bonny "Mack" Rice (November 10, 1933 – June 27, 2016), sometimes credited as Sir Mack Rice, was an American songwriter and singer. His best-known composition, and biggest hit as a solo performer, was "Mustang Sally."  He also wrote "Respect Yourself" with Luther Ingram.  

Rice died on June 27, 2016 in Detroit, Michigan from complications of Alzheimer's disease, aged 82.

[[Alvin Toffler]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Businesspeople from New York City, Futurists, Writers from New York City

Alvin Toffler (October 4, 1928 – June 27, 2016) was an American writer and futurist. He was known for his works discussing modern technologies, including the digital revolution and the communication revolution, with emphasis on their effects on cultures worldwide.

Toffler was an associate editor of Fortune magazine. In his early works he focused on technology and its impact, which he termed "information overload." In 1970 his first major book about the future, Future Shock, became a worldwide best-seller and has sold over 6 million copies.

Toffler died in his sleep on June 27, 2016, at his home in Los Angeles, aged 87.

[[Gertrude Kerbis]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Cancer deaths in Chicago, Architects from Chicago

Gertrude Lempp Kerbis (1926 – June 14, 2016) was an American architect.  She worked for and studied under some of the most significant modernists of her day, including Carl Koch, Walter Gropius and Mies Van Der Rohe. She was born in Chicago, Illinois. 

She played a leading role in designing several major milestones in the development of American modernism. Her projects including the Lustron house, the US Air Force Academy, and the O'Hare International Airport rotunda. She was one of the most famous female architects in the country. She founded the Chicago Women in Architecture in 1973. 

Kerbis died on June 14, 2016 in Chicago from liver cancer, aged 89.

[[Henry McCullough]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2016 deaths, Irish musicians, Irish singers, Songwriters

Henry Campbell Liken McCullough (21 July 1943 – 14 June 2016) was a Northern Irish guitarist, vocalist and songwriter. He was best known for his work as a member of  Spooky Tooth, Paul McCartney & Wings, The Grease Band and Sweeney's Men. He also performed and recorded as a solo artist and session musician.

[[Gregory Rabassa]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, American educators, Writers from New York City

Gregory Rabassa (March 9, 1922 – June 13, 2016) was an American literary translator from Spanish and Portuguese to English. He taught for many years at Columbia University and Queens College. 

He worked primarily out of Spanish and Portuguese. He made English-language versions of the works of several major Latin American novelists, including Julio Cortázar, Jorge Amado and Gabriel García Márquez. On the advice of Cortázar, García Márquez waited three years for Rabassa to schedule translating One Hundred Years of Solitude. He later declared Rabassa's translation to be better to the Spanish original.

[[Austin Clarke (novelist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, Barbadian people, Canadian educators, Canadian writers, People from Toronto

Austin Ardinel Chesterfield "Tom" Clarke (July 26, 1934 – June 26, 2016) was a Barbadian-Canadian novelist, essayist and short story writer. He worked in Toronto, Ontario.

Clarke was a reporter in the Ontario communities of Timmins and Kirkland Lake before joining the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation as a freelance journalist. He taught subsequently at several American universities, including Yale University (Hoyt fellow, 1968–70), Duke University (1971–72), and the University of Texas (visiting professor, 1973).

[[Military orders, awards and decorations]]

CATEGORIES: Orders, decorations, and medals

A military decoration is an award, usually a medal that consists of a ribbon and medallion given to an person for either gallantry, or outstanding service or achievement.

Civil decorations awarded to military personnel are not considered military decorations, although some of them have civil and military divisions. Decorations received by police and fire brigade personnel may sometimes be considered alongside military decorations, on which they may be modelled, although they are strictly not military awards.

[[Arrondissements of the Corrèze department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Corrèze department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The 3 arrondissements of Corrèze are:

[[Barbara Goldsmith]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American journalists, American philanthropists, Writers from New York City

Barbara Goldsmith (Barbara Joan Lubun; May 18, 1931 – June 26, 2016) was an American author, journalist and philanthropist. She was born in New York City. She received critical and popular acclaim for her best selling books, essays, articles and her philanthropic work. Her best known work was Little Gloria.

[[Irma Roy]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Argentine politicians, Argentine movie actors, Actors from Buenos Aires

Irma Roy (10 June 1932 – 14 June 2016) was an Argentine actress and politician. She served in the Chamber of Deputies from 1995 to 2005. She was a member of the Justicialist Party. Roy was born in Buenos Aires.

When she was an actress, Roy was known for her roles in La serpiente de cascabel (1948), Al Compás de tu Mentira (1950), Cinco grandes y una chica (1950), Historia de una noche de niebla (1950), The Beautiful Brummel (1951), Caídos en el infierno (1954), Requiebro (1955), Mi marido y mi novio (1955), El Derecho a la felicidad (1968) and in Las Venganzas de Beto Sánchez (1973).

Roy died on 14 June 2016 at a hospital in Buenos Aires after suffering from a fall, aged 84. 

[[Robert T. Paine]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from acute myeloid leukemia, Cancer deaths in the United States, Ecologists, American educators, Scientists from Massachusetts, Scientists from Washington, People from Cambridge, Massachusetts

Robert Treat "Bob" Paine III (April 13, 1933 – June 13, 2016) was an American ecologist. He spent most of his career at the University of Washington. 

Paine created the keystone species idea to explain the relationship between Pisaster ochraceus, a species of starfish, and Mytilus californianus, a species of mussel. Paine's research, and the work of his students, has been hugely influential in the field of ecology.

Paine died from acute myeloid leukemia, a type of blood cancer, at the Swedish Medical Center in Seattle, Washington on June 13, 2016, aged 83.

[[Acute myeloid leukemia]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Acute myeloid leukemia (AML), also known as acute myelogenous leukemia or acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANLL), is a cancer of the myeloid line of blood cells. It is the rapid growth of uncommon white blood cells that build up in the bone marrow and harm the production of normal blood cells. AML is the most common acute leukemia affecting adults.

[[Appendix cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Appendix cancer or appendiceal cancers are rare malignancies of the vermiform appendix.

Gastrointestinal stromal tumors are rare tumors with malignant potential. Primary lymphomas can occur in the appendix. Breast cancer, colon cancer, and tumors of the female genital tract may metastasize to the appendix.

[[Gastrointestinal cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Gastrointestinal cancer refers to malignant conditions of the gastrointestinal tract (GI tract) and accessory organs of digestion, including the esophagus, stomach, biliary system, pancreas, small intestine, large intestine, rectum and anus. 

The symptoms relate to the organ affected and can include obstruction (leading to difficulty swallowing or defecating), abnormal bleeding or other associated problems. The diagnosis often requires endoscopy, followed by biopsy of suspicious tissue. 

The treatment depends on the location of the tumor, as well as the type of cancer cell and whether it has invaded other tissues or spread elsewhere. These factors also determine the prognosis.

[[Ryan Jimmo]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2016 deaths, Murder victims, Canadian sportspeople, Mixed martial artists, People from New Brunswick

Ryan Jimmo (November 27, 1981 – June 26, 2016) was a Canadian mixed martial artist. He competed in the light heavyweight division of the Ultimate Fighting Championship. 

He mostly fought in Canada. He competed on the eighth season of The Ultimate Fighter. He was the former MFC Light Heavyweight Champion.

Jimmo died, aged 34, at a hospital in Edmonton, Alberta on June 26, 2016 after being run-over by a truck because he was involved in a fight with the truck driver.

[[Kim Sung-min]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2016 deaths, Suicides by hanging, South Korean movie actors, South Korean television actors, People from Seoul

Kim Sung-min (Korean: 김성민, February 14, 1973 – June 26, 2016) was a South Korean actor. He was known for his roles as Lee Joo-wang in the televisions series Miss Mermaid, the Plastic surgeon in Time (2006) and as himself in The Weight (2013).

Sung-min committed suicide by hanging himself at his home in Seoul, South Korea, aged 43.

[[Kavalam Narayana Panicker]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Indian poets, People from Kerala

Kavalam Narayana Panicker (28 April 1928 – 26 June 2016) was an Indian dramatist, theatre director and poet. 

He has written over 26 Malayalam plays, many adapted from classical Sanskrit drama and Shakespeare, mainly Madhyamavyayogam (1979), Kalidasa's Vikramorvasiyam (1981, 1996), Shakuntalam (1982), Karnabharam (1984, 2001), Bhasa's Uru Bhangam (1988), Swapnavasavadattam and Dootavakyam (1996). 

He was the founder  director of theatre troupe, Sopanam, which led to the foundation of Bhashabharati: Centre for Performing Arts, Training and Research, in Trivandrum.

He was awarded the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for Direction in 1983 by Sangeet Natak Akademi, and its highest award for lifetime achievement, the Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship in 2002.

[[Rostislav Yankovsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2016 deaths, Belarusian people, Movie actors, Stage actors, People from Odessa

Rostislav Ivanovich Yankovsky (Расціслаў  Іванавіч Янкоўскі, Ростислав Иванович Янковский; 5 February 1930 – 26 June 2016) was a Belarusian actor. He was born in Odessa. He studied in Leninabad. 

He debuted in the Tajik theatre in 1951. Since 1957, he worked in the Minsk Drama Theatre. Yankovsky was named a People's Artist of the USSR in 1978. 

Yankovsky died in Minsk on 26 June 2016 in Minsk, Belarus, aged 86.

[[Nicolás García Uriburu]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, Artists, Architects, Ecologists, People from Buenos Aires

Nicolás García Uriburu (December 24, 1937 – June 19, 2016) was an Argentine contemporary artist, landscape architect and ecologist. His work in land art was aimed at raising consciousness about environmental issues such as water pollution. He was born in Buenos Aires.

Uriburu died on June 19, 2016 in Buenos Aires, aged 78.

[[Sverre Kjelsberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2016 deaths, Norwegian singers, Norwegian composers, Guitarists

Sverre Kjelsberg (18 October 1946 – 18 June 2016) was a Norwegian singer, musician (guitar, bass), composer and lyricist. He was a member of the band The Pussycats from 1964.  He and Mattis Hætta represented Norway in the Eurovision Song Contest 1980 with the entry Sámiid Ædnan, which was composed by Kjelsberg and Ragnar Olsen.

On 18 June 2016, Kjelsberg was found dead in his home, aged 69. He had been ill with cancer, but was declared cancer-free in 2015.

[[Ricardo Obregón Cano]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2016 deaths, Argentine politicians

Ricardo Obregón Cano (April 4, 1917 – June 19, 2016) was an Argentine Justicialist Party politician. He was born in Río Cuarto, Córdoba. He was Governor of Córdoba from May 25, 1973, to February 28, 1974.

[[Götz George]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, German movie actors, German television actors, Actors from Berlin

Götz George (23 July 1938 – 19 June 2016) was a German actor. He was the son of actor couple Berta Drews and Heinrich George. His was best known for his role of Duisburg detective Horst Schimanski in the TV crime series Tatort.

[[Frank Chapot]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Sportspeople from New Jersey, People from Camden, New Jersey

Francis Davis "Frank" Chapot (February 24, 1932 – June 20, 2016) was an American equestrian. He competed at six Olympic Games from 1956 until his final effort in 1976 where he won two silver medals in the Team Show Jumping.

[[Benoîte Groult]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2016 deaths, French journalists, Activists, Writers from Paris

Benoîte Groult (January 31, 1920, in Paris – June 20, 2016 in Hyères) was a French journalist, writer and feminist activist.

Her novel Les vaisseaux du cœur, published in 1988, was called pornographic by some because of its explicit sexual depictions. It was filmed by Andrew Birkin in 1992 as Salt on Our Skin.

In April 2010, she became Commander of the Légion d'honneur.

[[Rich Olive]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2016 deaths, Politicians from Maryland, Politicians from Iowa, Businesspeople from Iowa, Businesspeople from Maryland, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Bethesda, Maryland

Richard Warren Olive (December 2, 1949 – June 20, 2016) was an American realtor and politician from Iowa. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He served the Fifth District in the Iowa Senate from 2007 until 2011.

On June 20, 2016, Olive died of cancer in Story City, Iowa at the age of 66.

[[Chayito Valdez]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Mexican singers, Mexican movie actors, Sinaloa, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Singers from Los Angeles, California

Chayito Valdez (born María del Rosario Valdez Campos; May 28, 1945 – June 20, 2016) was a Mexican-born American singer and actress. She was born in Guasave, Sinaloa. She was sing about folk music of Mexico.

In the early 1970s she recorded four songs the Sinaloan city of Los Mochis: "Besos y Copas", "Una Noche me Embriagué", "Una Sombra" and "Amor que Muere", which earned her a reputation as a Mexican folk singer. She won the fifth Festival de la Canción Ranchera with the song "No me pregunten por él". She was also an actress, who appeared in the movie Zacazonapan.

Valdez moved to Los Angeles, California in 1982 and became a US citizen. On September 17, 1985, she suffered an automobile accident that left her in a wheelchair.

Valdez died from complications of a cerebral hemorrhage in Coronado, California on June 20, 2016, aged 71.

[[Edgard Pisani]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2016 deaths, 20th century philosophers, 21st century philosophers, French philosophers, French writers, Government ministers of France

Edgard Pisani (pizani; 9 October 1918 – 20 June 2016) was a French statesman, philosopher, and writer. 

He held positions in various governments in France: Senator (1954–1961; 1974–1981), Minister of Agriculture (1961–1966), Parliamentarian (1967–1968), European Commissioner (1981–1985), Minister of New Caledonia (1985), President of the Arab World Institute (1988–1995). In 1992, with Bertrand Hervieu, he formed the Groupe de Seillac followed in 1995 by the Groupe de Bruges, both being think tanks.

[[Cinna Lomnitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, Chilean scientists, German Jews, Jewish scientists, Mexican Jews, Mexican scientists, People from Cologne, South American Jews

Cinna Lomnitz Aronsfrau (4 May 1925 – 7 July 2016) was a German-born Chilean-Mexican geophysicist of Jewish descent. He known for his work in the fields of rock mechanics and seismology. 

Lomnitz was born in Cologne, Germany. He graduated as engineer from the University of Chile in 1948. He then studied with Karl von Terzaghi in Harvard University and obtained a Master's degree in soil mechanics there. 

He became editor of the journal Geofísica Internacional in 1990. He is the father of Claudio Lomnitz. Lomnitz died in 2016 at the age of 91.

[[Leonard Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from vascular dementia, Canadian businesspeople, People from Saskatchewan

Leonard G. Lee, CM (July 17, 1938 – July 7, 2016) was a Canadian entrepreneur. He was the founder of Lee Valley Tools and Canica Design. In 1991, he founded Algrove Publishing. In 2002, he was made a Member of the Order of Canada for "being a successful entrepreneur."

Lee died of vascular dementia in Ottawa, Ontario on July 7, 2016, aged 77.

[[Eora]]

CATEGORIES: People from New South Wales, Indigenous Australian people

The Eora people are a group of Aboriginal Australians. They were skilled hunter–fisher–gatherers. They lived in family groups (clans) along the coastal area of what is now known as the Sydney basin, in New South Wales, Australia. Their traditional territory spreads from Botany Bay north to Pittwater at the mouth of the Hawkesbury River.

Rock engravings, shell mounds and other evidence found by archaeologists suggests that Eora people may have lived in Australia for over 50 000 years.

Many of the Eora people died during the 1800s as a result of smallpox and other diseases. There are still people who identify as the descendants of the Eora and are living in Sydney today.

[[2016 shooting of Dallas police officers]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in Texas, 2016 mass shootings, 2016 murders in the United States, 2010s crimes in Texas, 2010s mass shootings in the United States, 21st century in Dallas, Texas, July 2016 events, Law enforcement in the United States, Mass murder in 2016, Mass murder in Texas, Mass shootings in Texas, Murders by firearm in Texas

The 2016 shooting of Dallas police officers was an incident in which five police officers were killed by a man with a gun in Dallas, Texas. Six other officers and a civilian were also injured.

Earlier in the week, two black men were killed by police: one in Louisiana, another in Minnesota.  In Dallas on July 7, people protested against police brutality.  The protest was not violent.July 2016  But just before 9 p.m. (Central time) while the protest was ending, Micah Xavier Johnson began shooting police officers.  A suspicious package was found near the area.

President Barack Obama spoke against the attacks, saying the shootings were a "vicious, calculated, despicable attack" and a "tremendous tragedy."

[[Thrift Shop (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 songs

"Thrift shop" is a song by Macklemore and Ryan Lewis. It was released on August 27, 2012. This song is Macklemore's eighth career single and the fourth single from their album The Heist. The song has vocals from Wanz. The song was written to show Macklemore's esteem for thrift shops and saving money. The lyrics go against the displaying of expensive items many rappers do. Music reviewers liked the song for its funny  lyrics and social critique. It was released in the United Kingdom in January 2013.

[[Mont-Tramelan]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Mont-Tramelan is a municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Moosseedorf]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Moosseedorf is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. The village is located south of Moossee, the lake that gives it its name.

[[Mörigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Mörigen is a municipality of the administrative district of Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

It is located on the southern shore of Lake Biel.

[[Javed Akhtar (cricketer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2016 deaths, Pakistani cricketers

Javed Akhtar (21 November 1940 – 8 July 2016) was a Pakistani cricketer. He played in one Test in 1962. He was an off spinner. He had success at first-class level, taking his wickets at an average of 18.17, but struggled in his only Test, failing to take a wicket. He played for the Pakistan national cricket team.

He later became an umpire, standing in 18 Tests and 40 ODIs from 1980 to 1999.

[[John O'Rourke (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, English footballers, People from Northampton

John O'Rourke (11 February 1945 – 7 July 2016) was a former professional English footballer. His position was Centre Forward.

During his career, he played for Ipswich Town F.C., Middlesbrough F.C., Coventry City F.C., Luton Town F.C., Queens Park Rangers and A.F.C. Bournemouth.

[[Rahul Dravid]]

CATEGORIES: Indian cricketers, 1973 births, Living people

Rahul Dravid is a sports player who has stopped playing professionally.  He used to play cricket and was captain of the national cricket team of India. He was famous, and many people think he is one of the best cricket players ever. He scored the fourth-moust runs of any player, after Sachin Tendulkar, Ricky Ponting and Jacques Kallis. He was born in January 11, 1973 in Indore, Madhya Pradesh in India. He is the only player in the world to score a century against all ten test playing countries. 

[[Bühl]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Bühl or Bühl bei Aarberg is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Mötschwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Mötschwil is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Moutier]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Bern

Moutier is a town of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Altenhohenau]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Bavaria, Christianity in Germany, Monasteries

Altenhohenau was a Dominican convent in Bavaria, Germany. It is in the municipality of Griesstätt, near Wasserburg on the Inn river.

[[Mühleberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Mühleberg is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Arrondissement of Brive-la-Gaillarde]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Brive-la-Gaillarde is an arrondissement of France, in the Corrèze department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Brive-la-Gaillarde (or Brive for short).

[[Mühledorf, Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Mühledorf is a former municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2018 the former municipalities of Gelterfingen, Mühledorf and Noflen merged into the municipality of Kirchdorf.

[[Mühlethurnen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Mühlethurnen is a former municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2020 the former municipalities of Kirchenthurnen, Lohnstorf and Mühlethurnen merged to form the new municipality of Thurnen.

[[Carmelo Borg Pisani]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1942 deaths, British artists, Italian military people, Maltese activists, Military personnel of World War II, People executed by hanging, People who lost citizenship, Spies

Carmelo Borg Pisani (August 10, 1915–November 28, 1942) was a Maltese artist who considered himself to be Italian. Politically he was a Pro-Italian fascist. He was born in Senglea (Malta) and executed at Corradino prison in Malta for fighting for the Axis Powers as an Italian soldier.

The Italian government considers him an "Italian citizen", having received the highest Italian military medal (the "Medaglia d'oro al Valor Militare alla memoria") from the King of Italy Victor Emmanuel III.

[[Arrondissement of Tulle]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Tulle is an arrondissement of France, in the Corrèze department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Tulle.

[[Arrondissement of Ussel]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Ussel is an arrondissement of France, in the Corrèze department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Ussel.

[[Choi-Yong-kun]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1976 deaths, North Korean politicians, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Communists

Choi Yong-kun(Korea:최용건;hanja:崔庸健, July 21, 1900 - September 19, 1976) was Chinese and North Korean soldier, Korea independence activist and politician. nickname was Seokcheon(석천;石泉), ohtername was Chuhae(추해;秋海), Ryong-gun(룡건;龍健).

[[Comma-separated values]]

CATEGORIES: Data structures

In computing, a comma-separated values (CSV) file stores information you might find in a spreadsheet, such as a table of text, numbers, and dates, in a plain text file.

[[Mülchi]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Mülchi is a former municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Mülchi, Büren zum Hof, Etzelkofen, Grafenried, Limpach, Schalunen and Zauggenried merged into the municipality of Fraubrunnen.

[[Münchenbuchsee]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Münchenbuchsee is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. It is famous as the birthplace of painter Paul Klee.

[[Angiosperm Phylogeny Group]]

CATEGORIES: Plant taxonomy, Scientific organizations

The Angiosperm Phylogeny Group (APG) is an informal international group of botanists who came together to get a consensus on the taxonomy of flowering plants (angiosperms). They wanted to base it on plant relationships got from phylogeny.

Four versions of a classification system have come from this collaboration. They were published in 1998, 2003, 2009 and 2016. Earlier angiosperm classifications were not based on monophyletic groups (i.e., groups that include all the descendants of a common ancestor).

[[Attiswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Attiswil is a municipality of the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Abdul Sattar Edhi]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Asian philanthropists, Activists, Pakistani people

Abdul Sattar Edhi (Memoni, عبدالستار ایدھی; 1 January 1928 – 8 July 2016) was a Pakistani philanthropist, social activist, ascetic, and humanitarian. He was the founder and head of the Edhi Foundation in Pakistan. He ran the organization for 60 years. He was known as Angel of Mercy. He was thought to be Pakistan's "most respected" and legendary figure. 

In 2013, The Huffington Post said that he might be "the world's greatest living humanitarian."

[[Kapil Dev]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Indian cricketers, Living people

Kapil Dev is a former Indian cricket player. He was an all rounder, a right hand batsman and right arm fast bowler. He captained the Indian cricket team when it won the 1983 World Cup. 

Kapil Dev Ramlal Nikhanj was born on 6 January 1959 in Chandigarh, Haryana, India. As a technical bowler, he was known as the "Haryana hurricane". He got a joint man of the match with the Australian cricketer Dean Jones.

[[Münchenwiler]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Münchenwiler (Villars-Les-Moines) is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Münchringen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Münchringen is a former municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Münchringen and Scheunen merged into the municipality of Jegenstorf.

[[Münsingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Münsingen (Munisenges, Bernese German: Münsige)  is a town and municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipality of Trimstein merged into the municipality of Münsingen and On 1 January 2017 the former municipality of Tägertschi merged into the municipality of Münsingen.

The municipality lies on the River Aare between the cities of Bern and Thun.

[[Müntschemier]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Müntschemier (Monsmier) is a little municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Battle of Shepherdstown]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1862 in the United States, Maryland Campaign, September 1862 events

The Battle of Shepherdstown (also known as the Battle of Boteler's Ford) was fought on September 19 and 20, 1862. It was the last of four battles that made up the Maryland Campaign of the American Civil War.

[[Ussel, Corrèze]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Corrèze

Ussel (Ussèl) is a French commune, a subprefecture in the Corrèze department in central France. It is in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. It is also the capital of the arrondissement of Ussel.

It is the capital of the old, historical region of Haute-Corrèze.

[[Hekatonkheires]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures

The Hekatonkheires ( Ἑκατόγχειρες - "Hundred-handed ones") are one of the three races of beings born to Ouranos and Gaia, the primordial gods of the sky and the Earth. Their names are Kottos (Greek: Κόττος), Briareos (Greek: Βριάρεως) and Gyges (Greek: Γύγης). 

The Hekatonkheires received their name because they each have a hundred arms, fifty on each side of their bodies. Despised by their father, the Hekatonkheires were thrown into Tartarus alongside their brothers, the Elder Cyclopes, guarded by the monster Kampê. Many years later, Zeus, alongside his brothers and sisters, freed the Hekatonkheires and the Elder Cyclopes from their prison so that they might help them in their war against the Titans. During the war, the Hekatonkheires threw rocks at Mount Othrys, the Titans' base, reducing the mountain to half its original size. After the Titanomachy, the Titans were cast into Tartarus, and Zeus appointed the Hekatonkheires to be their jailers. 

[[Neuenegg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Neuenegg is a municipality of the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Nidau]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Bern

Nidau is a municipality of the administrative district Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Niederbipp]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Niederbipp is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the Swiss canton of Berne. On 1 January 2020 the former municipality of Wolfisberg merged into Niederbipp.

[[Ebbs]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Tyrol (state)

Ebbs is a small village in the Kufstein district in the Austrian state of Tyrol. It is 7 north of Kufstein at the border with Bavaria, Germany. The village has seven parts. It was mentioned for the first time as Episas in 788. Rumors came up that settlement began in the Roman age. The main source of income is tourism but the village also has commuters.

[[Milos Raonic]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Canadian tennis players, Canadian Olympians, Competitors at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Male tennis players, Montenegrin sportspeople, Naturalized citizens of Canada, Sportspeople from Ontario

Milos Raonic (born December 27, 1990) is a Canadian professional tennis player. 

Raonic was born in Titograd, Socialist Republic of Montenegro, Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. He moved to Brampton, Ontario, Canada in 1994. He lives in Monte Carlo, Monaco. His uncle is Montenegrin politician Branimir Gvozdenovíc.

Raonic is the most successful Canadian singles player. He turned pro in 2008. He represented Canada at the 2012 Summer Olympics. His world ranking peaked at no. 3 in November 2016. He was the losing finalist of the 2016 Wimbledon Championships.

[[Antonino Natoli of Patti]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic priests

Antonino da Patti, also called Antonio da Patti, was a Sicilian priest. In 1596 he was made an apostolic visitor for the Order of Reformed Friars Minor in the Terra di Lavoro. He suffered many persecutions, and died in Rome the 6th January 1618. He was buried at the church of San Francesco a Ripa.

[[Greg Rusedski]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 1996 Summer Olympics, 2000 Summer Olympics, British columnists, British male tennis players, British Olympians, Canadian tennis players, Dancing on Ice participants, Living people, Sportspeople from Montreal, Tennis broadcasters

Gregory Rusedski (born 6 September 1973) is a retired Canadian-British tennis player.

Rusedski was born in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. His mother is English. His father was born in Germany and was of Polish and Ukrainian descent.

Rusedski turned pro in 1991 and played for Canada until 1995. From 1995 until his retirement in 2007, he played for Great Britain. He was the losing finalist in the 1997 U.S. Open. His world ranking peaked at no.4 later that year. He was the British number 1 in 1997 and 1999. He competed in the 1996 and 2000 Summer Olympics.

Rusedski was a contestant on Dancing on Ice in 2008. He lives in London.

[[Eugenie Bouchard]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, Canadian tennis players, Female tennis players, Sportspeople from Montreal, Twin people from Canada

Eugenie Bouchard (born February 25, 1994) is a Canadian professional tennis player. She was born in Montreal, Quebec. She lives in Miami Beach, Florida.

Bouchard turned pro in 2009. She was the losing finalist at the 2014 Wimbledon Championships. Her world ranking peaked at no.5 later that year.

[[Niederhünigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Niederhünigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Dotzigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Dotzigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Niedermuhlern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Niedermuhlern is a municipality of the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Niederönz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Niederönz is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

It is 1 km west of Herzogenbuchsee.

[[Niederösch]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern, 2016 disestablishments in Switzerland

Niederösch is a former municipality of the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2016 the former municipalities of Niederösch and Oberösch merged into the municipality of Ersigen.

[[Johnny Barnes]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, Bermudian people, North American entertainers

Johnny Barnes (born John James Randolf Adolphus Mills, June 23, 1923 – July 9, 2016) was a Bermudian entertainer. He was known for waving to passing traffic at the Foot of the Lane roundabout in Hamilton, Bermuda. He became so loved and well known that the government of Bermuda created a statue of Barnes and be placed in Hamilton. 

Barnes died on July 9, 2016 in Hamilton, aged 93.

[[Geneviève Castrée]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2016 deaths, Comics artists, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Musicians from Quebec

Geneviève Castrée Elverum (1981 – 9 July 2016) was a Canadian comics artist, illustrator, and musician. She was from Loretteville, Quebec. She once recorded under the name Woelv and later switched to Ô PAON.

Castrée died on 9 July 2016 from pancreatic cancer in Anacortes, Washington, aged 34.

[[Vaughn Harper]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, American radio personalities, People from New York City

Vaughn Harper (March 7, 1945 – July 9, 2016) was an American broadcast announcer and DJ. In 1976, Harper became a nighttime Radio DJ for WBLS (107.5 FM) in New York City. He was known for his soft voice so he was nicknamed "the Quiet Storm". He was an active basketball broadcaster for small teams.

Harper died from complications of diabetes on July 9, 2016 in Syracuse, New York, aged 71.

[[Wolfram Siebeck]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, German critics, German journalists, People from Duisburg

Wolfram Siebeck (19 September 1928 – 7 July 2016) was a German journalist, author and food critic. He used to criticize fast food, TV dinners, subsidized agriculture and Intensive animal farming. Siebeck was born in Duisburg.

[[Silvano Piovanelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2016 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Italian Roman Catholics, People from Florence, Roman Catholic archbishops

Silvano Piovanelli (21 February 1924 – 9 July 2016) was an Italian prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as Archbishop of Florence from 1983 to 2001. He was elevated to the cardinalate in 1985. He was born in Borgo San Lorenzo, Kingdom of Italy.

Piovanelli died on 9 July 2016 in Florence, Italy, aged 92.

[[Jacques Rouffio]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, French movie directors, French screenwriters

Jacques Rouffio (14 August 1928 – 8 July 2016) was a French movie director and screenwriter. His 1986 movie My Brother-in-law Killed My Sister was entered into the 36th Berlin International Film Festival.

Rouddio died on 8 July 2016 in Paris, aged 87.

[[Harold A. Linstone]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2016 deaths, American academics, American mathematicians, Futurists, German mathematicians, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Hamburg

Harold Adrian Linstone (June 15, 1924 – July 8, 2016) was a German-born American mathematician, consultant, futurist and University Professor Emeritus of Systems Science at Portland State University and a specialist in applied mathematics. He was born in Hamburg.

Linstone was editor-in-chief of the professional journal "Technological Forecasting and Social Change", which he founded in 1969.

Linstone died on July 8, 2016 in Portland, Oregon, aged 92.

[[Mamnoon Hussain]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, Presidents of Pakistan, Pakistani businesspeople, Deaths from cancer

 Mamnoon Hussain (ممنون حسین ; 23 December 1940 – 14 July 2021) was a Pakistani businessman, nationalist conservative, and politician. He served as the President of Pakistan from 9 September 2013 to 9 September 2018.

Hussain briefly served as Governor of Sindh in 1999. His term as governor was cut short by the military coup d'état staged in 1999. After the PML(N) secured majority in general elections held in 2013, Hussain was nominated and elected as President of Pakistan on 30 July 2013. He won the election in a landslide victory winning 432 votes to his rival Wajihuddin Ahmed's 77 votes.

In February 2020, Hussain was diagnosed with cancer. He died from the disease on 14 July 2021 at a hospital in Karachi, aged 80.

[[FreeThe20 campaign]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights

FreeThe20 is a campaign to call attention to women who are political prisoners around the world.  The campaign names twenty women who are imprisoned unjustly. Samantha Power, the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, started the campaign for the twentieth anniversary of the Beijing Declaration.

The reason for the campaign was to tell governments to stop putting women in prison, and to tell the women and their families that they are not alone.   There were twenty names of women in twenty days, one for every year since the Beijing Declaration. 

In September 2015, a bipartisan "#FreeThe20" bill was introduced to the U.S Senate.  All twenty women senators of the two political parties supported the bill.  They said,

[[Sydney Schanberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, American war correspondents, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Pulitzer Prize winners, Writers from Massachusetts

Sydney Hillel Schanberg (January 17, 1934 – July 9, 2016) was an American journalist. He was best known for his coverage of the war in Cambodia. He has been the recipient of a Pulitzer Prize in 1976 for his reporting on the war.

Schanberg died on July 9, 2016 in Poughkeepsie, New York on July 9, 2016 from a heart attack, aged 82.

[[Clinton, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Massachusetts, 1654 establishments, 1650s establishments in Massachusetts

Clinton is a town in Worcester County, Massachusetts, United States. The population was 13,606 at the 2010 census.

[[Anatoli Isayev]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Russian footballers, Sportspeople from Moscow

Anatoli Konstantinovich Isayev (Анатолий Константинович Исаев; 14 July 1932 – 10 July 2016) was a Soviet football player and Soviet and Russian coach. Isayev made his debut for USSR in 1955. He first played against West Germany. He played in the 1958 FIFA World Cup qualifiers but was not selected for the final tournament squad. He was born in Moscow.

Isayev died on 10 July 2016 in Moscow, aged 84.

[[Aziza Siddiqui]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Afghan activists, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, Human rights activists

Aziza Siddiqui is a human rights activist from Afghanistan. In 2007, Siddiqui received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Sundus Abbas]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, Iraqi people, Human rights activists, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Sundus Abbas is an Iraqi activist for women's rights.  She is the Executive Director of the Women's Leadership Institute in Baghdad.  In 2007, Abbas received the International Women of Courage Award.

Abbas teaches women about government and making decisions.

Abbas is from the Iraqi Turkmen ethnic group. In 2016 she represented the Turkmen people at a meeting at the European Parliament.  

[[Shatha Abdul Razzak Abbousi]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Human rights activists, Iraqi politicians, People from Baghdad, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Shatha Abdul Razzak Abbousi (Arabic: شذى عبد الرزاق عبوسي ) is an Iraqi politician.  She is a representative in the Iraqi Council of Representatives. In 2007 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Corrèze (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine

The Corrèze (Corresa) is a river in southwestern France, left tributary of the Vézère river. The Corrèze department is named after this river.

[[Alfred G. Knudson]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, Scientists from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Scientists from Los Angeles, California

Alfred George Knudson, Jr. M.D., Ph.D. (August 9, 1922 – July 10, 2016) was an American geneticist. He worked in cancer genetics. He was known for the formulation of the Knudson hypothesis in 1971. It explains the effects of mutation on carcinogenesis (the development of cancer).

Knudson died on July 10, 2016 at his home in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania from a long-illness at the age of 93.

[[Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Presidents of Portugal, Current national leaders, People from Lisbon

Marcelo Nuno Duarte Rebelo de Sousa (mɐɾˈsɛlu ˈnunu ˈdwaɾtɨ ʁɨˈbelu dɨ ˈsozɐ), ComSE, GCIH (born 12 December 1948) is a Portuguese politician. He has been the President of Portugal since 9 March 2016.

[[António Ramalho Eanes]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Generals, Portuguese military people, Presidents of Portugal, Roman Catholics

António dos Santos Ramalho Eanes, GColL GCL GColTE CavA (ɐ̃ˈtɔniu ʁɐˈmaʎu iˈɐnɨʃ; born 25 January 1935) is a Portuguese general and politician. He was the 16th President of Portugal from 1976 to 1986.

[[Manuel Alegre]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Portuguese politicians, Portuguese writers, Poets, Socialists

Manuel Alegre de Melo Duarte, GCL (born 12 May 1936) is a Portuguese poet and politician. He is a member of the Socialist Party. He was a candidate to the Portuguese presidential election, 2006. He was a presidential candidate, in the 2011 presidential election, this time being backed up by the Left Bloc and the Socialist Party.

[[Dith Pran]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in New Jersey, Cambodian people, Photojournalists, War correspondents

Dith Pran (ឌិត ប្រន; 27 September 1942 – 30 March 2008) was a Cambodian photojournalist. He was best known as a refugee and survivor of the Cambodian genocide. 

Pran died on 30 March 2008 in New Brunswick, New Jersey from pancreatic cancer, aged 65.

[[Sally Yates]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American lawyers, Politicians from Atlanta, Georgia, United States Attorneys General, US Democratic Party politicians, United States Deputy Attorneys General

Sally Caroline Quillian Yates (born August 20, 1960 in Atlanta) is an American lawyer. She studied at the University of Georgia and was the acting Attorney General of the United States from January 20, 2017 through January 30, 2017. She was also serving as Deputy Attorney General from March 2015 until her dismissal on January 30, 2017.

[[Sylvia Mathews Burwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Politicians from West Virginia, United States Secretaries of Health and Human Services, Directors of the Office of Management and Budget

Sylvia Mathews Burwell was born June 23, 1965 and served as the United States Secretary of Health and Human Services from 2014 to 2017. Previously she was the Director of the White House Office of Management and Budget from 2013 to 2014.

She was nominated by President Barack Obama on April 11, 2014, to the position of the United States Secretary of Health and Human Services after Kathleen Sebelius resigned. Burwell's nomination was confirmed by the Senate on June 5, 2014 by a vote of 78-17.

[[Simone Veil]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Abortion-rights activists, Christian democrats, Civil servants, Former MEPs, French lawyers, Government ministers of France, Holocaust survivors, Jewish activists, Jewish French politicians, Jewish lawyers, Jewish women politicians, Legion of Honour, MEPs for France, People from Nice, Presidents of the European Parliament

Simone Veil, DBE (simɔn vɛj; 13 July 1927 – 30 June 2017) was a French lawyer and politician. She served as Minister of Health under Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, President of the European Parliament and member of the Constitutional Council of France.

She was awarded the Grand Cross of the Légion D'Honneur in 2012.

She was of Jewish descent and survived the Holocaust.

Veil died in Paris on 30 June 2017, aged 89.

[[United States Deputy Attorney General]]

CATEGORIES: United States Attorneys General, 1950 establishments in the United States, United States Deputy Attorneys General

The United States Deputy Attorney General is the second highest ranking official in the United States Department of Justice. The Deputy Attorney General manages the day-to-day activities of the Department of Justice. It may act as Attorney General during the absence of the Attorney General. President of the United States appoints the Deputy Attorney General with the advice and consent of the United States Senate. The Office of the Deputy Attorney General was created in 1950.

[[Pteraspid]]

Pteraspids were early agnathan vertebrates. They lived from later Silurian to the end of the Devonian. Fossils are found in Europe and North America.

The whole group has the head and front of the body armoured. Delicate, finger-like parts of the plates were at the edges of the mouth. This suggests they were filter feeders taking plankton from the water column.

[[List of prime ministers of India]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of India, India-related lists

The prime minister of India, is the chief administrative authority of the government of India, the chief adviser to the president of India, head of the Council of Ministers and the leader of the majority party in the parliament of India. The prime minister leads the executive branch of the Government of India.

Since the Independence of India, India has had fifteen prime ministers. The first was Jawaharlal Nehru of the Indian National Congress party.

The current prime minister is Narendra Modi of Bharatiya Janta Party. He was sworn in on 30 May 2019.

[[Prugiasco]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

Prugiasco is a village and former municipality in the district of Vallemaggia in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 4 April 2004 the former municipalities of Prugiasco, Castro, Corzoneso, Dongio, Largario, Leontica, Lottigna, Marolta and Ponto Valentino merged into the new municipality of Acquarossa.

[[Niederried bei Interlaken]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Niederried bei Interlaken is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Jens, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Jens is a municipality in the administrative district Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Niederried bei Kallnach]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Niederried bei Kallnach is a former municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipality of Niederried bei Kallnach merged into the municipality of Kallnach.

[[Vindhyas]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges, Mountains of India

The Vindhyas are a mountain range in west-central India.

The highest point of the Vindhyas is the Sad-bhawna Shikhar ("Goodwill Peak").

[[Niederstocken]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Niederstocken is a former municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Niederstocken, Höfen and Oberstocken merged into the new municipality of Stocken-Höfen.

[[Nods, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Nods is a municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Noflen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Noflen is a former municipality of the Swiss canton of Berne. It is in the Bern-Mittelland administrative district. On 1 January 2018 the former municipalities of Gelterfingen, Mühledorf and Noflen merged into the municipality of Kirchdorf.

[[Antiarchi]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Placoderms

The Antiarchi  is an order of heavily armored placoderms. The antiarchs were the second-most successful group of placoderms (after the arthrodires) in terms of numbers of species and range of environments.  

The front part of their bodies were heavily armoured. The rear parts were sometimes scaled, sometimes naked. The pectoral fins were modified.  In primitive forms, such as Yunnanolepis, the limbs were thick and short, while in advanced forms, such as Bothriolepis, the limbs were long and had elbow-like joints. Probably they helped the fish pull themselves across the substrate, or allow their owners to bury themselves into the substrate.

[[Sally Beauman]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, English journalists, Writers from Devon

Sally Beauman (25 July 1944 – 7 July 2016) was an English journalist and writer. She was the author of eight widely translated and best-selling novels. She was known for re-writing William Shakespeare plays. She was known for writing the 1987 novel Destiny. She also wrote Rebecca's Tale and The Landscape of Love.

Beauman died of pneumonia on 7 July 2016 at a London hospital in her sleep, aged 71.

[[Robert E. Cooper, Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2016 deaths, American judges, People from Chattanooga, Tennessee, Politicians from Tennessee

Robert E. Cooper, Sr. (October 14, 1920  July 11, 2016) was an American judge. He was a justice on the Tennessee Supreme Court from 1974 until his retirement in 1990. Cooper was born in Chattanooga, Tennessee. He was a former chairman of the Tennessee Judicial Council. He has served on the Sixth Judicial Circuit (1953–1960) and Tennessee Court of Appeals (1960–1974).

Cooper, Sr. died in Chattanooga, Tennessee on July 11, 2016, aged 95.

[[Odette Krempin]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, African businesspeople, People from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, African philanthropists

Princess Odette Maniema Krempin (October 30, 1973) is an Congolese entrepreneur. She was a former honorary consul of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in Frankfurt am Main. She was a member of the Kuba Kingdom. She was born in Maniema, Zaire.

Krempin disappeared in 2014 while being sought for questioning by Belgian police in the Duferco corruption scandal.

[[Racine, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin

Racine (ˈ RAY) or (r rə) is a city in and the county seat of Racine County, Wisconsin, United States. It is located on the shore of Lake Michigan at the mouth of the Root River.  Racine is centrally located between Milwaukee and Chicago. As of the 2013 U.S. census, the city had a population of 78,199,

[[Oberbalm]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oberbalm is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Green Party (Norway)]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Norway, Green political parties

The Green party (Norwegian: Miljøpartiet de Grønne) is a green political party in Norway.

They gained one representative in the Storting (the Norwegian Parliament) in the 2013 election.

The representative, Rasmus Hansson, was also the spokesperson of the party.

[[Motion of no confidence]]

CATEGORIES: Voting, Politics

A motion of no confidence, is a vote on whether a group of people still has confidence in a government or leader. This is mainly a statement or vote which states that a person in a superior position, be it government, managerial, etc., is no longer deemed fit to hold that position.

The first motion of no confidence occurred in March 1782 when, following news of the British defeat at Yorktown in the American Revolutionary War the previous October, the Parliament of Great Britain voted that they "can no longer repose confidence in the present ministers". In modern times, passage of a motion of no confidence is relatively rare in two-party democracies. Party discipline is usually enough to allow a majority party to defeat a motion of no confidence.

There are variations of this in different countries. For example, in Germany, Spain, and Israel, a vote of no confidence requires that the opposition, on the same ballot, propose a candidate of their own whom they want to be appointed as successor by the respective head of state. A motion of no confidence in some countries can be proposed in the government collectively or by any individual member, including the Prime Minister. In Spain it is presented by the Prime Minister after consultation.

Sometimes a party proposes a confidence vote even though it is not likely to pass. The no confidence vote may pressure the government. Or when the government proposes the vote it can embarrass critics who do not vote against the government.

[[Angela Eagle]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, English LGBT people, Labour MPs (UK), Lesbians, LGBT politicians, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from Yorkshire, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019

Angela Eagle (born 17 February 1961) is a British Labour Party politician. She has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Wallasey since the 1992 general election. She is openly lesbian.

[[Heidi Alexander]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK), People from Wiltshire

Heidi Alexander (born 17 April 1975) is a British Labour Party politician who has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Lewisham East since the 2010 general election. She was appointed Shadow Secretary of State for Health on 13 September 2015. She resigned from the shadow cabinet on 26 June 2016.

[[Gloria de Piero]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK), British journalists

Gloria De Piero (born 21 December 1972) is a British Labour Party politician and journalist. She has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Ashfield since 2010. She was last known for her work on GMTV.

After serving as a shadow minister from October 2010, De Piero was promoted to the shadow cabinet in 2013 as Shadow Minister for Women and Equalities. In 2015 she was appointed Shadow Minister for Young People and Voter Registration. She resigned that position on 26 June 2016.

[[Ian Murray (British politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK)

Ian Murray (born 10 August 1976) is a British Labour Party politician. He has represented Edinburgh South as Member of Parliament (MP) since the 2010 general election.

[[Lilian Greenwood]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK)

Lilian Rachel Greenwood (born 26 March 1966) is a British Labour Party politician. She has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Nottingham South since 2010.

[[John McDonnell]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, British anti–Iraq War activists, Labour MPs (UK), UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, UK MPs 2019–, People from Liverpool

John Martin McDonnell MP (born 8 September 1951) is a British Labour Party politician. He was appointed the Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer in September 2015. He became the Member of Parliament (MP) for Hayes and Harlington at the 1997 general election.

[[Jon Trickett]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK)

Jon Hedley Trickett (born 2 July 1950) is a British Labour politician. He has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Hemsworth in West Yorkshire since a 1996 by-election. 

He served as the Parliamentary Private Secretary to Prime Minister Gordon Brown from 2008 to 2010 and was promoted to the Shadow Cabinet by Ed Miliband in 2011 as Shadow Minister for the Cabinet Office. He is currently the Shadow Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills.

[[Angela Smith, Baroness Smith of Basildon]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK), Politicians from London

Angela Evans Smith, Baroness Smith of Basildon (born 7 January 1959) is a Labour Co-operative politician from England. She was Member of Parliament (MP) for Basildon from 1997 until losing her seat to the Conservatives at the 2010 General Election. 

Smith was a Minister of State in the Cabinet Office, incorporating the offices of Minister for the Third Sector and Minister for Social Exclusion.

[[Emily Thornberry]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK), People from Surrey

Emily Anne Thornberry MP (born 27 July 1960) is a British Labour Party politician. She has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Islington South and Finsbury since the 2005 general election. Since June 2016, she has been Shadow Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Shadow First Secretary of State under the leadership of Jeremy Corbyn.

In December 2019, Thornberry launched her leadership campaign for the 2020 Labour Party leadership race. She was eliminated from the race on February 14, 2020.

[[Steve Bassam, Baron Bassam of Brighton]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Labour Party (UK) people, Members of the House of Lords, Politicians from Essex, Privy Councillors (UK)

John Steven Bassam, Baron Bassam of Brighton, PC (born 11 June 1953) is a British Labour and Co-operative politician and member of the House of Lords.

On 8 July 2009 he was made a Privy Councillor.

[[Lucy Powell]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK)

Lucy Maria Powell (born 10 October 1974) is a British Labour and Co-operative politician and Member of Parliament for Manchester Central in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. 

She was first elected at the Manchester Central by-election in November 2012. In September 2015 she was appointed Shadow Secretary of State for Education in Jeremy Corbyn's shadow cabinet, but resigned in June 2016.

[[Kerry McCarthy]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK)

Kerry Gillian McCarthy (born 26 March 1965) is a British Labour Party politician. She has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Bristol East since 2005 and  was the Shadow Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs from September 2015 to June 2016.

[[Seema Malhotra]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK)

Seema Malhotra (born 7 August 1972) is a British Labour and Co-operative Party politician. She has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Feltham and Heston since a by-election was held following the death of Alan Keen in 2011.

[[Vernon Coaker]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from London, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019

Vernon Rodney Coaker (born 17 June 1953) is a British Labour Party politician. He has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Gedling since 1997.

He also served as the Minister of State for Schools from 2009 to 2010, Shadow Secretary of State for Defence from 2013 to 2015 and Shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland from October 2011 to October 2013, and again from September 2015 until his resignation in June 2016 from the Shadow Cabinet.

[[Charles Falconer, Baron Falconer of Thoroton]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British lawyers, People from Edinburgh

Charles Leslie "Charlie" Falconer, Baron Falconer of Thoroton, PC, QC, (born 19 November 1951) is a British Labour peer and barrister.

Falconer became the Lord Chancellor and the first Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs in 2003 under Prime Minister Tony Blair. He is the first Secretary of State for Justice in a 2007 reorganization and enlargement of the portfolio of the Department for Constitutional Affairs. He held this role for over a month until Gordon Brown became Prime Minister in June 2007. 

Falconer was replaced by Jack Straw. He was named Shadow Justice Secretary under the acting leadership of Harriet Harman, and continued in this role after the election of Jeremy Corbyn as leader of the party, until he resigned on 26 June 2016.

[[Chris Bryant]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, BBC people, Labour MPs (UK), LGBT Christians, LGBT politicians, Members of the British House of Commons for Welsh constituencies, People from Cardiff, Politicians from Glamorgan, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019

Christopher John "Chris" Bryant (born 11 January 1962) is a British Labour Party politician.

He has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Rhondda since the 2001 general election and most recently the Shadow Leader of the House of Commons until resigning on June 26th, 2016. He was previously the Shadow Minister for the Arts, Minister of State for Europe, Deputy Leader of the House of Commons and Shadow Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport.

Bryant is openly gay.

[[John Chilcot]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, Civil servants

Sir John Chilcot, GCB PC (ˈ; born 22 April 1939) is a British Privy Counsellor and former civil servant. He is the chairman of the Iraq Inquiry.

[[Time in Algeria]]

CATEGORIES: Time by country, Algeria

Algeria uses Central European Time (CET) which is 1 hour ahead of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC+1). Algeria does not observe daylight savings time from 1981. Before 1981, it used Western European Time (WET) and Western European Summer Time (WEST).

[[Tarapacá Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The I Tarapacá Region (I Región de Tarapacá) is one of Chile's 15 first order administrative divisions. The present Tarapacá Region was created in 2007 by subdividing the former Tarapacá Region under Law 20.175. It became operational on 8 October 2007.

The port city of Iquique is the capital of the region.

[[Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, British movie actors, British television actors, British voice actors, Actors from London

Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje (ˌ; born 22 August 1967) is a British actor and former model. He is of Nigerian origin. 

He is best known for his roles as Lock-Nah in The Mummy Returns, Nykwana Wombosi in The Bourne Identity, Mr. Eko on Lost, and Simon Adebisi on Oz. 

His more recent roles include Malko in the fifth season of the HBO series Game of Thrones. He played Dave Duerson in the NFL biopic drama Concussion. He played Killer Croc in the 2016 movie Suicide Squad.

[[John Brademas]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, American educators, American Methodists, Harvard University alumni, Politicians from New York City, United States representatives from Indiana, US Democratic Party politicians

Stephen John Brademas Jr. (March 2, 1927 – July 11, 2016) was an American politician and educator. He served as Majority Whip of the United States House of Representatives for the Democratic Party from 1977 to 1981.

He served as the 13th president of New York University from 1981 to 1992, and is a former chairman of the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and board member of the New York Stock Exchange and Rockefeller Foundation.

Brademas died on July 11, 2016 in New York City, aged 89.

[[Jusztin Nándor Takács]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Hungarian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops

Jusztin Nándor Takács (15 January 1927 – 11 July 2016) was a Hungarian Roman Catholic prelate. He was born in Rábacsanak, Hungary. He served as the Bishop of Székesfehérvár from 1991 until his retirement in 2003.

Takács died on 11 July 2016 from complications of pneumonia in Székesfehérvár, Hungary, aged 89.

[[Smart material]]

Smart materials, called also intelligent or responsive materials, are designed materials that have one or more properties that can be significantly changed in a controlled fashion by external stimuli, such as stress, temperature, moisture, pH, electric or magnetic fields, light, or chemical compounds.

[[CS Pandurii Târgu Jiu]]

CATEGORIES: Romanian football clubs, 1963 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Romania

Clubul Sportiv Pandurii Lignitul Târgu Jiu (English: Târgu Jiu Lignite Pandurs Sports Club) is a Romanian association football club from Târgu Jiu, Gorj County. They currently play in the Liga II.

Pandurii Târgu Jiu was founded in August 1963 after two clubs, Flacăra-Unirea Târgu Jiu and CIL Târgu-Jiu, came together. Their best performance in the Liga I was 2nd place in the 2012/13 season. They then qualified for the 2013–14 UEFA Europa League, and made it to the group stage after defeating Levadia Tallinn, Hapoel Tel Aviv and Braga in the qualification and play-off rounds.

Since 1963, the club has played at the Stadionul Tudor Vladimirescu. The stadium was demolished in 2015, and a new stadium will be built which will hold 12,000 people.

[[2015–16 Liga I]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in association football

The 2016–17 Liga I was the 98th season of Liga I, which is the top division football league in Romania. The season began on 10 July 2015 and ended in May 2016. It was won by Astra Giurgiu.

[[Hooghly River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of India, Rivers of West Bengal

The Hooghly River Ganga is an 260 km long river. It is a distributary river of Ganges River. Farakka Barrage a dam diverts water from Ganges into a canal near the town of Tildanga of Murshidabad district. This canal supplies Hooghly river with adequate water. The river has two tributaries: the Rupnarayan River and Damodar River. Hooghly also reaches Bay of Bengal at Nurpur and then empties into the sea.

[[Oberbipp]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oberbipp is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

It is 12 km northeast of Solothurn.

[[Oberburg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oberburg is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Oberdiessbach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oberdiessbach is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2010 the former municipality of Aeschlen and on 1 January 2014, Bleiken bei Oberdiessbach merged into the municipality of Oberdiessbach.

[[Wegberg]]

Wegberg is a town in the very west of Germany, in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It has 40 town subdivisions.

[[Hematopoiesis]]

CATEGORIES: Blood cells

Hematopoiesis (or haematopoiesis; sometimes also haemopoiesis)  is the formation of blood cells. In a healthy adult person, about 1011–1012 new blood cells are produced daily to keep steady state levels in the blood circulation.

Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) or hemocytoblasts are the stem cells that give rise to all the other blood cells. The process is called hematopoiesis. They are in the core (bone marrow) of most bones.

As a stem cell matures it undergoes changes in gene expression which limit the cell types it can become. It moves closer to a specific cell type (cellular differentiation). These changes can often be tracked by monitoring the presence of proteins on the surface of the cell. Each successive change moves the cell closer to the final cell type and limits its potential to become a different cell type.

HSC studies through much of the past half century have led to a much deeper understanding. More recent advances have resulted in the use of HSC transplants in the treatment of cancers and other immune system disorders.

[[Møre og Romsdal]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Norway

Møre og Romsdal is a county in Norway. Norway has 19 counties.

[[Ålesund]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Norway, Municipalities of Norway, 1837 establishments, 1830s establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in Norway

Ålesund (or Aalesund) is a city and municipality in Møre og Romsdal county, Norway. Ålesund was founded in 1837. The city has gotten attention worldwide for being one of the best small sea ports in Europe.

[[Iquique Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Iquique Province (Provincia de Iquique) is one of two provinces in the northern Chilean region of Tarapacá (I). Its capital is the port city of Iquique.

[[William H. McNeill (historian)]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2016 deaths, American educators, American historians, American military personnel of World War II, American writers, Canadian educators, Canadian historians, Cornell University alumni, People from Vancouver, University of Chicago alumni, Writers from British Columbia

William Hardy McNeill (October 31, 1917 – July 8, 2016) was a Canadian-American world historian and author. He was known for his writings on Western civilization. He was Professor Emeritus of History at the University of Chicago where he had taught since 1947.

[[María Dolores Pradera]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2018 deaths, Spanish movie actors, Spanish singers, People from Madrid

María Dolores Fernández Pradera (29 August 1924 in Madrid – 28 May 2018) was a Spanish melodic singer and actress. She was one of the most famous singers in Spain and Latin America. She is also known as María Dolores or La Pradera. She started her career as an actress, working in the theatre and in some of the most famous Spanish movies from the 1940s: “¡A mí la legión!” (1942), “La Lola se va a los puertos” (1947), or “Agustina de Aragón” (1950).

Pradera died May 28, 2018 at the age of 93.

[[Emma Cohen]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in Spain, Spanish movie actors, Spanish movie directors, Spanish movie producers, Spanish screenwriters, People from Barcelona

Emma Cohen (born Emmanuela Beltrán Rahola; November 21, 1946 – July 11, 2016) was a Spanish actress, director, producer and writer. She appeared in many Spanish language movies. She was known for roles in The Glass Ceiling, Voyage to Nowhere, and in The Grandfather.

Cohen was married to actor Fernando Fernán Gómez until his death in 2007.

Cohen died on July 11, 2016 of cancer in Madrid at the age of 69.

[[Corrado Farina]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Italian movie directors, Italian screenwriters

Corrado Farina (18 March 1939 – 11 July 2016) was an Italian movie director, screenwriter and novelist. He directed two feature movies in the seventies, many documentaries and commercials. He published seven novels. He was known for his movie Baba Yaga (1973).

Farina died of a heart attack in Rome on 11 July 2016, aged 77.

[[Jim Metzen]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in Minnesota, Politicians from Minnesota

James P. "Jim" Metzen (October 26, 1943 – July 11, 2016) was a American politician and member of the Minnesota Senate. He is a member of the Minnesota Democratic–Farmer–Labor Party (DFL). He represents District 52, which includes portions of Dakota County in the southeastern Twin Cities metropolitan area.

Metzen died on July 11, 2016 from lung cancer in South St. Paul, Minnesota, aged 72.

[[Tamarugal]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Tamarugal (Provincia de Tamarugal) is one of  two provinces in the northern Chilean region of Tarapacá (I). The capital is the city of Pozo Almonte.

Tamarugal means "a place where there are many tamarugos"; tamarugo (Prosopis tamarugo) is a tree endemic to the arid lands of northern Chile.

[[Goran Hadžić]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Presidents (government), Serbian people

Goran Hadžić (ɡǒran xǎd͡ʒiːt͡ɕ; 7 September 1958 – 12 July 2016) was the former president of the Republic of Serbian Krajina. He was in office during the Croatian War of Independence. He was accused of crimes against humanity and of violation of the laws and customs of war by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.

Hadžić died of brain cancer on 12 July 2016 in Sremska Kamenica, Republic of Serbia, aged 57.

[[Terence Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Italian movie actors, People from Venice

Terence Hill (born Mario Girotti; 29 March 1939) is an Italian actor. He was known for his roles in Lo chiamavano Trinità (They Call Me Trinity, 1971) and Il mio nome è Nessuno (My Name Is Nobody, 1973), co-starring Henry Fonda. His movie Django, Prepare a Coffin, shot in 1968 by director Ferdinando Baldi, and co-starring Horst Frank and George Eastman, was featured at the 64th Venice Film Festival in 2007. He was also known for making many movies with actor Bud Spencer.

[[Gopher (disambiguation)]]

Gopher may refer to:

[[Time in Jordan]]

CATEGORIES: Time by country, Jordan

Time in Jordan is primarily Arabia Standard Time (AST). But however, even though AST is 3 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC+3), in the winter, it is 2 hours ahead of UTC (UTC+02:00). When DST is in effect, it is the same time as bordering Iraq and Saudi Arabia. Jordan observes Daylight saving time from March to October.

[[Time in Belarus]]

CATEGORIES: Time by country, Belarus

Belarus Time or Minsk Time is since September 2011 three hours ahead of UTC (UTC+03:00) and is used in Belarus. It is the same as Further-eastern European Time (FET), Eastern European Summer Time (EEST) during the summer, Moscow Time, Arabia Standard Time, and East Africa Time.

Until 2011, Belarus Time was equivalent to Eastern European Time (EET) and Eastern European Summer Time (EEST) with Belarus observing yearly clock changes. In 2011, Belarus stopped observing DST and moved to UTC+03:00 all year round.

[[Alexander Chizhevsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1964 deaths, Russian scientists, Soviet people

Alexander Leonidovich Chizhevsky (Алекса́ндр Леони́дович Чиже́вский) (7 February 1897 – 20 December 1964) was a Soviet-era interdisciplinary scientist, a biophysicist. He is most notable for his use of historical research techniques to link the 11-year solar cycle, Earth’s climate and the mass activity of peoples.

His other notable works include "cosmo-biology" and hematology". 

[[Andrés Bello Catholic University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in South America, Caracas, 1953 establishments in South America, 20th-century establishments in Venezuela

Andrés Bello Catholic University, also known in Spanish as Universidad Católica Andrés Bello (UCAB), is a private university with main campus located in Caracas, Venezuela. One of the largest universities in Venezuela and it was established in 1953 by the Society of Jesus.

[[FC Pyunik]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian football clubs

Football Club Pyunik (Armenian: Ֆուտբոլային Ակումբ Փյունիկ; usually just called Pyunik) is a professional Armenian association football club from Yerevan. Pyunik is one of the most popular football clubs in Armenia.

The club was founded in 1992 as Homenetmen Yerevan, and they won the first Armenian Premier League held. The club was renamed in 1995 to FC Pyunik (Armenian for "Phoenix"). The club absorbed the newly promoted club FC Armenicum and automatically gained position in the Armenian Premier League without playing a single game in the lower leagues. Pyunik improved a lot after the arrival of many foreign players from Mali, Cameroon, Argentina and later from Romania.

They are the most successful team in Armenia, winning the Armenian Premier League 14 times and Armenian Independence Cup 8 times.

[[2017 Africa Cup of Nations]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in association football, 2017 in Africa, Africa Cup of Nations, February 2017 events, January 2017 events, Sport in Gabon

The 2017 Africa Cup of Nations (also called AFCON 2017 and CAN 2017) was the 31st edition of the Africa Cup of Nations tournament. The tournament hosted by Gabon. It was held from 14 January to 5 February 2017.

The winner of this tournament qualified for the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup tournament in Russia.

[[Bridge Road (Impington)]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 establishments in England, Football stadiums in England, Cambridgeshire

Bridge Road, also known as the Glassworld Stadium, is a football stadium in a village in Impington, a mile away from Histon. The stadium has a capacity of 4,300 with approximately 1,700 covered seats.

[[Jamui]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bihar, Towns in India

Jamui is a town in Bihar State in India.Its population is 10,51,527	(Rural 9,76,960 and Urban 74,567).Sub Divisions	Jamui consists of 11 Blocks(Jamui, Chakai, Laxmipur, Jhajha, Sono, Khaira, Sikandra, Barhat, Asalmanagar, Aliganj, Gidhaur). Main agriculture are Paddy, Wheat, Lentils. Ganga, Mohane, Harohar, Kiul, rivers flows through this region.

[[International Braille Chess Association]]

CATEGORIES: Disability, Chess organizations, International organizations

The International Braille Chess Association (IBCA) is an organization for blind and visually impaired chess players. The International Braille Chess Association originated unofficially in 1951 with the organization of the first international correspondence chess tournament for blind players, by Reginald Walter Bonham; the tournament included 20 players representing 10 countries. It first organized a tournament in 1958, with representatives from seven countries. Today, it has grown to encompass over 50 member nations around the world.1 The IBCA hosts two important competitions: the Blind Chess Olympiad and the Blind World Chess Championship.

[[Padma Shri]]

CATEGORIES: Indian awards

Padma Shri is the fourth highest civilian award of India after Bharat Ratna, Padma Vibhushan and Padma Bhushan awards. These civilian awards are awarded by the Government of India on 26 January, the Republic Day of India each year.

Padma Shri award was first given in the year 1954. This award is awarded to citizens of India in recognition of their contribution in various activities such as the arts, education, literature, industry, cinema, sports, medicine, social service, public affairs, and others.

[[Marit Nybakk]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Norwegian politicians

Marit Nybakk (born 14 February 1947) is a Norwegian Labour Party politician. She has been a Member of Parliament for Oslo since 1986. She is the First Vice President of the Norwegian parliament since 2013, and is also the woman who has served the longest time in the parliament during its entire history. She is also President of the Norwegian Association for Women's Rights since 2016.

[[Padma Vibhushan]]

CATEGORIES: Indian awards

Padma Vibhushan is the second highest civilian award of India after the highest civilian award Bharat Ratna. This award was followed by Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri. This award was started to be awarded to the citizens of India since 1954. This award was awarded to the recipients on the Republic Day of India.

The first recipients to be awarded with Padma Vibhushan are Satyendra Nath Bose, Nand Lal Bose, Zakir Hussain, Balasaheb Gangadhar Kher, Jigme Dorji Wangchuk and V.K.Krishna Menon. Vikram Sarabhai became the first person to be awarded Padma Vibhushan posthumously in 1972.

[[Oberhofen am Thunersee]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oberhofen am Thunersee is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Oberhünigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oberhünigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. The municipality was made in 1980 by splitting from the municipality of Schlosswil.

[[Padma Bhushan]]

CATEGORIES: Indian awards

Padma Bhushan is the third highest civilian award awarded by Government of India after Bharat Ratna and Padma Vibhushan but before Padma Shri. This award was also awarded in the Republic Day of India.

Padma Bhushan award was started to be awarded to the citizens of India from 1954. As of 2015, 1230 peoples were awarded with Padma Bhushan. Some citizens refused to get the award.S.Janaki, a renowned singer of the Southern parts of India refused to get the award in 2013 as the honour came to her too late and she also stated that South Indian artists are not recognised. 

[[Oberlangenegg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oberlangenegg is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Duncan Fletcher]]

CATEGORIES: Cricketers

Duncan Andrew Gwynne Fletcher is a former Zimbabwe cricketer. He is a left hand batsman and Right arm medium fast bowler. He was born in 27 September 1948 in Salisbury (modern Harare), Southern Rhodesia (modern Zimbabwe). He was the former coach of India national cricket team. He was also the coach of England cricket team from 1999-2007. Fletcher played for Zimbabwe cricket team and took the team for victory in the 1982 ICC Trophy. But he had never played Test cricket.

Under Fletcher, England cricket team achieved famous victories against Sri Lanka national cricket team, Pakistan national cricket team, West Indies cricket team and South Africa national cricket team between 2000-2004. He coached the England team to win the Ashes series for 18 years when the team secured 2-1 victory over the Australia national cricket team.India national cricket team won 8 series in a row including the ICC Champions Trophy under Fletcher's coaching from 2011. 

[[Oberönz]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Oberönz was a municipality in Wangen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2008 Oberönz became part of Herzogenbuchsee.

[[Oberösch]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern, 2016 disestablishments in Switzerland

Oberösch is a former municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2016 the former municipalities of Oberösch and Niederösch merged into the municipality of Ersigen.

[[Elaine Fantham]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, British educators, Writers from Liverpool

Elaine Fantham (25 May 1933 – 11 July 2016) was a British classicist. She was Giger Professor of Latin at Princeton University from 1986 to 1999. She was chair of the Department of Classics at Princeton from 1989 to 1992 and the president of the American Philological Association serving only in 2004.

Fantham was an expert on Latin literature, especially comedy, epic poetry and rhetoric, and Roman religion. She was classics commentator on NPR's Weekend Edition.

[[Oberried am Brienzersee]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oberried am Brienzersee is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Bernardo Provenzano]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from bladder cancer, Criminals, People from Sicily

Bernardo Provenzano (berˈnardo provenˈtsaːno; 31 January 1933 – 13 July 2016) was a member of the Sicilian Mafia (Cosa Nostra). He was suspected of having been the head of the Corleonesi, a Mafia faction from the town of Corleone. He was the de facto capo di tutti capi (boss of all bosses) of the entire Sicilian Mafia until his arrest in 2006.

On 13 July 2016, Provenzano died from complications of bladder cancer at a hospital in prison at age 83.

[[Obersteckholz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Obersteckholz is a municipality of the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Zygmunt Zimowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Polish Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops

Zygmunt Zimowski (7 April 1949 – 12 July 2016) was a Polish prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. Zimowski had served until his death in July of 2016 as President of the Pontifical Council for the Pastoral Care of Health Care Workers. He was born in Kupienin, Poland.

He has been head of that office since his appointment by Pope Benedict XVI on 18 April 2009. He lastly served as bishop of Radom from 2002 until 2009.

Zimowski died on 12 July 2016 from pancreatic cancer in Dąbrowa Tarnowska, Poland, aged 67.

[[Oberstocken]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Oberstocken is a former municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Oberstocken, Höfen and Niederstocken merged into the new municipality of Stocken-Höfen.

[[Stocken-Höfen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, 2014 establishments in Switzerland

Stocken-Höfen is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Höfen, Niederstocken and Oberstocken merged into the new municipality of Stocken-Höfen.

[[Oberthal, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oberthal is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Oberwil bei Büren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oberwil bei Büren is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Oberwil im Simmental]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oberwil im Simmental is a municipality in the administrative district of Frutigen-Niedersimmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Ochlenberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Ochlenberg is a municipality of the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Oeschenbach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oeschenbach is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Oppligen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Oppligen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Bui Thi Minh Hang]]

CATEGORIES: Vietnamese people, Political activists, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, Political prisoners

Bui Thi Minh Hang (Vietnamese Bùi Thị Minh Hằng) is a Vietnamese activist and blogger. In 2016, Samantha Power, the U.S. Ambassador to the U.N., named her one of twenty women political prisoners in the Free the 20 campaign.  Bui Thi Minh Hang was released Feb. 11, 2017.

In 2011, Bui Thi Minh Hang protested in Hanoi and in Ho Chi Minh City.  She protested against Chinese land claims on the Spratly and Paracel Islands. Police arrested her and sent her to sent her to Thanh Ha Education Center, a reeducation camp in Vinh Phuc province. There was an international protest about her arrest. She was in the reeducation camp for six months without a trial.

In 2012, Bui Thi Minh Hang was free again, and started to work for human rights again. She wrote about her time in the Thanh Ha Education center. She also gave people a “Manual for the Implementation of Human Rights” (Cam nang thuc thi quyen lam nguoi). In 2014, Bui Thi Minh Hang and a group of 21 bloggers and Hoa Hao Buddhist activists went to visit a political prisoner.  The police arrested Bui Thi Minh Hang and two others. She was charged with disrupting traffic under Article 245 of the Penal Code. She was sentenced to three years in prison.

In 2016, Amnesty International said Bui Thi Minh Hang had health problems in prison, but she did not get medical care.

Bui Thi Minh Hang was released on Saturday Feb. 11, 2017. Her family and supporters were with her, and the traffic police escorted her back to Ho Chi Minh City.

[[El Lebrijano]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, Spanish singers

Juan Peña Fernández (8 August 1941 – 13 July 2016), also known as Juan Peña "El Lebrijano" or simply El Lebrijano, was a Spanish flamenco singer. He was born in Lebrija, Spain. 

In 1964, he won the championship at the Competition of Mairena del Alcor, one of the most important Flamenco music festivals. He was known for working with famous flamenco musician Paco de Lucía. His most famous albums were Casablanca, Open Door and Encuentros.

In 1997 the Spanish Ministry of Culture awarded him the Medalla de Oro al Trabajo (Gold medal working labour) His most recent song was a tribute to his friend, writer Gabriel García Márquez in 2014.

Peña died at his home in Seville, Spain on July 13, 2016, aged 75.

[[Armando León Bejarano]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Mexican politicians, Mexican physicians, Surgeons

Armando León Bejarano Valadez (April 11, 1916 – July 6, 2016) was a Mexican orthopedic surgeon, physician, and politician. He was a member of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI). He served as the Governor of Morelos from 1972 until 1982.

Bejarano died on July 6, 2016 in Cuernavaca, Morelos from pneumonia, aged 100. 

[[Amber Rudd]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Writers from London, Conservative MPs (UK), UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, Secretaries of State for the Home Department, Privy Councillors (UK)

Amber "Smug" Rudd (born 1 August 1963) is a British Conservative Party politician. She has served as Member of Parliament (MP) for the East Sussex constituency of Hastings and Rye since 2010 and was the Home Secretary between July 2016 and April 2018. Her appointment as Home Secretary made her the fifth woman to hold one of the Great Offices of State.

In 2018 Rudd resigned as Home Secretary following the Windrush scandal and was replaced by Sajid Javid. She returned to government as Secretary of State for Work and Pensions in November 2018.

[[Michael Fallon]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Conservative MPs (UK)

Sir Michael Cathel Fallon KCB MP (born 14 May 1952) is a British Conservative politician and Member of Parliament for Sevenoaks.

From 2014 until 2017, he served as Secretary of State for Defence. He was also a member of the National Security Council. He was previously Vice Chairman of the Conservative Party.

[[Xavier Becerra]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Health and Human Services, United States representatives from California, Politicians from Sacramento, California, US Democratic Party politicians, State legislators of the United States, 21st-century American politicians, 20th-century American politicians

Xavier Becerra (h hah-vee; born January 26, 1958) is an American politician. Becerra is the 25th and current United States Secretary of Health and Human Services since 2021 during the Joe Biden administration. He was the Attorney General of California from 2017 until 2021.

He previously served in the United States House of Representatives for CA. He had represented Downtown Los Angeles in Congress from 1993 to 2017. Becerra, a member of the Democratic Party, was Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. 

He was chosen to become Attorney General of California after Kamala Harris was elected to the United States Senate. He is the first Latino to serve as Attorney General of California.

On December 6, 2020 then President-elect Joe Biden nominated Becerra to be the United States Secretary of Health and Human Services. His nomination was confirmed by the United States Senate on March 18, 2021 with a narrow 50-49 vote.

[[James G. Stavridis]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, American military people, American educators, People from Florida

James George Stavridis (born February 15, 1955) is a retired United States Navy  admiral and the current dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. He is also chairman of the board of the U.S. Naval Institute.

[[Tim Ryan (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, 2020 United States presidential candidates, American Roman Catholics, United States representatives from Ohio, US Democratic Party politicians

Timothy John "Tim" Ryan (born July 16, 1973) is an American politician. He is the U.S. Representative for OH, serving since 2003. The district, numbered as the OH from 2003 to 2013, takes in a large swath of northeast Ohio, from Youngstown to Akron. He is a member of the Democratic Party. He previously served in the Ohio Senate.

Ryan was seen as a possible presidential candidate in 2020 following the 2018 midterms. On April 4, 2019, Ryan announced his candidacy for president. On October 24, 2019 Ryan dropped out of the election citing low polling numbers and lack of qualifications for the debates.

In February 2021, Ryan said that he was planning to run for United States Senator in Ohio in the 2022 Senate race, replacing retiring Republican Senator Rob Portman. He official announced his candidacy in late April 2021.

[[Hallard White]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, New Zealand rugby union players, People from Auckland

Hallard Leo "Snow" White (27 March 1929 – 14 July 2016) was a New Zealand rugby union player. White played a record 195 games for Rut Auckland between 1950 and 1963. He was a member of the New Zealand national side, the All Blacks, from 1953 to 1955, appearing in 16 matches including four internationals. 

Following his retirement as a player, White served in both coaching and administrative roles: as assistant coach of Auckland; president of the Auckland Rugby Football Union from 1989 to 1989; and president of the New Zealand Rugby Union in 1990.

White died on 14 July 2016 from Alzheimer's disease, aged 87.

[[The Adventures of Milo and Otis]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 drama movies, 1980s adventure movies, 1980s family movies, Japanese-language movies, Japanese movies, Movies about cats, Movies about dogs

The Adventures of Milo and Otis is a 1986 Japanese-French adventure comedy-drama movie. It is about two animals, Milo (an orange tabby cat) and Otis (a pug). The original Japanese version, narrated by Shigeru Tsuyuki and with poetry recitation by Kyōko Koizumi, was released on June 27, 1986. Columbia Pictures removed 15 minutes from the original movie and released a shorter English-language version, narrated by Dudley Moore, on August 25, 1989.

At minute 46:25 of Milo and Otis footage, seagulls eat a kitten, showing a live terrified, running kitten eaten into flying blood flesh into the air of a cliff, which clearly evidences that the Japanese filmmaker in Japan and those related in the Japanese film industry refused to stop the attacking on the kitten running for its life. Everyone can see for oneself through free live streaming. There is no cover up or dead end in seeing it with one's own eyes. The bureaucracy and red tape claims bring into question excuse-making.

[[Orpund]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Orpund is a municipality in the administrative district of Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Orvin]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Orvin is a municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Ostermundigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Ostermundigen (Bernese German: Oschtermundige or Mundige) is a municipality of the Swiss canton of Berne. It is the capital of the Bern-Mittelland administrative district.

The municipality was made in 1983 when it and Ittigen were splitting from the municipality of Bolligen.

It is famous as the birthplace of actress, Ursula Andress.

[[Ashoka Chakra (military decoration)]]

CATEGORIES: Indian awards

The Ashoka Chakra Award is India's highest peacetime military decoration or award for courageous action or self-sacrificing away from the battlefield. This is awarded for the most notable bravery. Ashoka Chakra was awarded either to military-men as well as civilians.

Lieutenant Suhas Biswas was the first person to be awarded with Ashoka Chakra award in 1952.The awarded persons were paid Rs.1400 monthly.Ashoka Chakra was established on 4 January 1952.

[[The Missing Link (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 comedy movies, French animated movies, Belgian movies

The Missing Link (Le Chaînon manquant) is a 1980 French–Belgian adult animated movie. It was written and directed by Picha. Though it was not as successful as Picha's previous movie, it was entered into the 1980 Cannes Film Festival.

Picha was encouraged to address another subject, that of Darwin and his theory of evolution. Production lasted from 1965 to 1979. In 1974, Picha left for Tarzoon:Shame of the Jungle. In 1977, 2 years after Tarzoon's release, Picha returned to the project and selected Columbia Pictures as the movie's distributor. In 1980, the movie was completed and released.

[[Dadasaheb Phalke Award]]

CATEGORIES: Indian awards, 1962 establishments in Asia, Movie awards, 1960s establishments in India

The Dadasaheb Phalke Award is the highest award of Indian cinema. It is given by the Government Of India. The award honours Dadasaheb Phalke's contribution to Indian cinema. Phalke is known as "The Father of Indian Cinema". The award is presented annually at the National Film Awards ceremony by the Directorate of Film Festivals. 

The recipient is honoured for his outstanding contribution to the growth of the Indian cinematic field. As of 2014, the award consists of a Swarna Kamal (Golden Lotus) medal, a shawl, and a cash price of Rs.10,00,000 (US$15000).

The award was instituted in the year 1962. The first recipient of the award was Devika Rani, who was honoured at the 17th National Film Awards ceremony. Actor Prithviraj Kapoor was the first recipient to be awarded posthumously. His son, actor Raj Kapoor, received the award in his father's place at the 19th National Film Awards ceremony. The great actor of Tamil cinema, world famous Sivaji Ganesan was awarded with Dadasaheb Phalke Award in the year 1992 on the 44th National Film Awards ceremony. Raj Kapoor received the award in 1987 and Shashi Kapoor, his brother, received the award in 2014.

[[Arrondissements of the Charente department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Charente department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The 3 arrondissements of Charente are:

[[Perrefitte]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Perrefitte is a municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Coglio]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 disestablishments in Switzerland, Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

Coglio is a village and former municipality in the district of Vallemaggia in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 4 April 2004 the former municipalities of Aurigeno, Coglio, Giumaglio, Lodano, Moghegno and Someo merged into the municipality of Maggia.

[[Exo discography]]

CATEGORIES: Exo, Discographies

This is the discography of the South Korean boy band Exo. There are three studio albums, a live album, four extended plays, eleven singles, twenty-six music videos, eight guest appearances and eight soundtracks.

[[Overdose (EP)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 albums, Exo albums

Overdose is the second extended play of the South Korean boy band Exo. It was released on May 7, 2014 by the label S.M. Entertainment and distributed by KT Music.

[[2016 Nice attack]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in France, 2010s crimes in France, 2010s murders in Europe, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2016, Islamic terrorist incidents in Europe, July 2016 events, Massacres in Europe, Mass murder in 2016, Mass murder in France, Nice, Terrorist incidents in Europe in 2016, Terrorist incidents in France, Terrorist incidents involving vehicular attacks

The 2016 Nice attack happened on 14 July 2016 in Nice, France. A man drove a truck into people celebrating Bastille Day, the national day of France. He killed 86 people during the incident. Gunfire was reported; at first, people thought it was fireworks.

At around 22:45 local time, a truck was driven into a large crowd of people at Promenade des Anglais. Later, guns were fired. The driver, Tunisian truck driver Mohamed Lahouaiej-Bouhlel, was killed by police. 

[[Miracles in December]]

CATEGORIES: Exo albums, 2013 albums

Miracles in December is the second extended play of the South Korean boy band Exo. It was released by the label S.M. Entertainment on December 9, 2013. Was presented as a special winter album, Miracles in December is the follow-up to the first studio album of the group titled XOXO which was released in June 2013. As all music group , the EP has versions in Korean and Chinese. The EP is also the second release and first EP group to be widely promoted as a combined group. Its main singles were "Miracles in December" and "Christmas Day."

[[Wilfredo Gómez]]

CATEGORIES: Boxers, Sportspeople from Puerto Rico, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Wilfredo Gómez Rivera is a Puerto Rican who was a boxer. He won three world professional boxing championships.

[[Zuzana Stevulova]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Slovakian people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Human rights activists

Zuzana Števulová (born 1983) is a Slovakia lawyer and lecturer. She helps migrants. She was given an International Women of Courage Award.

[[Péry]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Péry is a former municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Péry and La Heutte merged into the new municipality of Péry-La Heutte.

[[Péry-La Heutte]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, 2015 establishments in Switzerland

Péry-La Heutte is a new municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of La Heutte and Péry merged into the new municipality of Péry-La Heutte.

[[Pieterlen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Pieterlen is a municipality of the administrative district of Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Hohenrain]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Hohenrain is a municipality of the district Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland. Since January 1, 2007, Lieli became part of the municipality.

[[Plagne, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Plagne is a former municipality of the administrative district Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Plagne and Vauffelin merged into the new municipality of Sauge.

[[Pohlern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Pohlern is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Pontenet]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern, 2015 disestablishments in Switzerland

Pontenet is a former municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Pontenet, Bévilard and Malleray merged into the new municipality of Valbirse.

[[Valbirse]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, 2015 establishments in Switzerland

Valbirse is a new municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Bévilard, Malleray and Pontenet merged into the new municipality of Valbirse.

[[Port, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Port is a municipality of the administrative district Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Sivaji Ganesan]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2001 deaths, Indian actors, Tamil actors

Sivaji Ganesan was an actor of Tamil Cinema. He is also known as "Nadigar Thilagam", which means 'the pride of actors' (நடிகர் திலகம்). He was one of the most respected movie actors in India. He was well known for his acting skills and versatility. He became an actor after performing as a stage actor in his childhood.

[[Prêles]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Prêles is a former municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Prêles, Diesse and Lamboing merged into the new municipality of Plateau de Diesse.

[[Plateau de Diesse]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, 2014 establishments in Switzerland

Plateau de Diesse is a new municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Diesse, Lamboing and Prêles merged into the new municipality of Plateau de Diesse.

[[Pokémon Go]]

CATEGORIES: Android (operating system) games, 2016 video games, IOS games, Pokémon video games

Pokémon Go (or  Pokémon GO) is a free-to-play Android and iOS game. It was developed by Niantic. It is licensed by The Pokemon Company. It was released in July 2016 in the US, Europe, and Australia. The game lets players catch and train fictional living beings, called Pocket Monsters (in Japan) or Pokémon (everywhere else). The game makes them exist in real life by using GPS and a smartphone's camera.

As players walk in the real world, their character in the game moves as well.  Players can find Pokemon by using the game map to walk to places where the grass is moving. They can then throw a Pokeball at the Pokemon to see if they can catch it.  Players can also walk to special places in the game called "PokeStops" or "Gyms".  At PokeStops, players can find extra PokeBalls and candy to feed their Pokemon.  At Gyms, players can get their pokemon to fight another pokemon to try to win that gym for their team.

An earlier game by Niantic called Ingress was used to make the special places in the game. Pokemon GO got its start in an April Fool's joke by Google and The Pokemon Company in 2013, called "Pokemon Challenge".

An item called Pokemon GO Plus is being sold to let people play the game without looking at their smartphones all the time. Pokemon GO looks like a Gameplay of Pokémon mixed with the Google Maps pin shape.

Pokémon Go has a current score of 69 critic score and a user score of 5.5 on Metacritic.

The game became more popular after they released the Generation 2 Pokémon, featuring more items and Pokemon. In that update, berries (a type of fruit that makes the Pokémon flee, higher chance on catching, etc.) were added, and evolution items were added in (things that are used to evolve Pokemon to become one certain), such as the Metal Coat and Kings Rock.

[[Sing for You]]

CATEGORIES: Exo albums, 2015 albums

Sing for You is the second winter special album and fourth EP of the South Korean boy band Exo. The album was released by the label S.M. Entertainment in two versions, Korean and Mandarin on 10 December 2015. Sing for You currently has the largest first week sales recorded by the web site monitoring, Hanteo.

[[Time in North Korea]]

CATEGORIES: Time by country, North Korea

Time in North Korea is given Korea Standard Time (KST) which is 8.5 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). If it is 16:00 UTC, it is 01:00 the next day in North Korea. It has never observed summer time.

North Korea was originally 8:30 hours ahead of UTC (UTC+08:30) from 2015 to 2018, 30 minutes behind neighboring South Korea and Japan, as announced in August 2015, but reverted to UTC+09:00 now on the same time as Seoul and Tokyo beginning at 23:30 on 4 May 2018. 

[[Radelfingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Radelfingen is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Nassau (state)]]

CATEGORIES: Former countries in Europe

Nassau was a duchy which was created after the Holy Roman Empire ended in 1806. It was absorbed by different other states before becoming part of Germany in 1866.

[[Exo's Showtime]]

CATEGORIES: Exo

Exo's Showtime (Exo's 쇼타임) is a reality TV show South Korean starring members of the boy band EXO, was issued by the pay channel MBC Every 1 from 28 November 2013 until 13 February 2014.

[[Arrondissement of Angoulême]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Angoulême is an arrondissement of France, in the Charente department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Angoulême.

[[Rise (Katy Perry song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 songs, Katy Perry songs, Pop songs

"Rise" is a song co-written and recorded by American singer-songwriter Katy Perry.  The song was released on July 14, 2016.  It was used in the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.  She released the song because "she was inspired to finish it now, rather than save it for her next album, because now more than ever, there is a need for our world to unite."

"Rise" has topped the iTunes charts of over 25 countries worldwide, including the U.S., UK, Canada, and Australia.  The song entered the Australian ARIA Singles Chart at number 1 and reached number 3 in Scotland.  The song reached the top 20 in the US and Canada.  On October 17, 2017, the song was certified platinum in the US.

[[Arrondissement of Cognac]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Cognac is an arrondissement of France, in the Charente department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Cognac.

[[Time in China]]

CATEGORIES: Time by country, China

There is one time zone named China Standard Time (CST) or Beijing Standard Time. It is 8 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), but Xinjiang (East Turkestan) unofficially uses UTC+06:00. Since 1992, there has been no daylight saving time.

China used to have five time zones, but now it has one.

[[Arrondissement of Confolens]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Confolens is an arrondissement of France, in the Charente department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Confolens.

[[List of districts in Jammu and Kashmir]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Jammu and Kashmir, India-related lists

Jammu and Kashmir consists of two divisions: Jammu and Kashmir Valley. Earlier a state, now Union territory of India.

[[2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in Turkey, Ankara, Coups d'état, Istanbul, July 2016 events, Politics of Turkey

A coup d'état attempt took place in Turkey on 15 July 2016, when a group of people tried to take over the government because they disagreed with the way the president, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, is running the country. It is believed that most of these people were from the Turkish army. Over 100 people were killed and over 1,000 injured. Thousands of soldiers were  arrested because they joined the rebellion or for other reasons. Hundreds fled to Greece or other foreign countries. Thousands of teachers, judges and other government employees were fired in the 2016 Turkish purges.

[[Rapperswil, Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rapperswil is a municipality in the Seeland administrative district in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. It lies 13 north of the capital Bern.  On 1 January 2013 the former municipality of Ruppoldsried merged into Rapperswil.  On 1 January 2016 the former municipality of Bangerten merged into Rapperswil.

[[Army of Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Confederate States of America, 1862 establishments in the United States

The Army of Mississippi (also called the Confederate Army of the Mississippi) was a Confederate army during the American Civil War. It should not be confused with the Union Army of the Mississippi. It was formed on March 29, 1862. The commander was Full General Albert Sidney Johnston with Full General P. G. T. Beauregard as second-in-command. After Johnston's death at the Battle of Shiloh, Beauregard took over. After that there were a series of commanders. In November 1862, the Army of Mississippi was renamed the Army of Tennessee. The second army called the Army of Mississippi was created in December 1862, under Lieutenant general John C. Pemberton. This army had a confusing number of additional names. The II corps, under Major general Sterling Price was called the "Army of West Tennessee". It was also called the Army of the West. When both corps (I corps and II corps) were changed into divisions in January 1863, they dropped the name Army of Mississippi. Leonidas Polk had commanded I corps. In May 1864, Polk's troops joined with Joseph E. Johnston's Army of Tennessee to form the third Army of Mississippi. Polk was killed in June 1862 after which the army was simply called Alexander P. Stewart's corps.

[[Holding company]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Economics

A Holding company is a company, which has the purpose of owning stock  (or shares) of other companies. In most cases, such companies do not sell products or services, they manage the companies they (partly) own. Probably one of the best known holding companies was the "Standard Oil of New Jersey", founded in 1889, which is called ExxonMobil today.

In general, there are three forms:

[[Blen Mesfin]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century births, Ethiopian people, Ethiopian politicians, Living people, Political activists, Political prisoners

Blen Mesfin (Amharic: ብሌን መስፍን) is an official in Ethiopia’s opposition Semayawi (Blue) Party.   In 2016 she was named one of twenty women political prisoners in the FreeThe20 campaign by Samantha Power, the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. 

Mesfin was arrested at a protest in Addis Ababa in April 2015.  The protest was for 26 Ethiopians killed by the a group called Islamic State in Libya.  More than 30 members of the Semayawi Party were arrested before an April 27  political rally.

Two other members of the Semayawi Party, Meron Alemayehu (ሜሮን አለማየሁ ) and Nigist Wondifraw (ንግስት ወንዲፍራው), were also arrested.  They were #5 and #6 in the FreeThe20 campaign.  They are now free. 

Mesfin was released in December 2016, along with a mass release of 9,800 people detained under the state of emergency. According to Ethiopian journalist Tesfalem Waldyes she was re-arrested during a wave of arrests in October 2016.  

== References == 

[[Confolens]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Charente

Confolens (Confolents) is a commune in southwestern France. Confolens is the administrative centre of a largely rural area, which has had an important growth of tourism in recent years.

It is one of the two subprefectures of the Charente department and the capital of the  canton of  Charente-Vienne.

[[Bluebird]]

CATEGORIES: Thrushes

The bluebirds are a group of medium-sized, mostly insectivorous or omnivorous Passerine birds. They are in the genus Sialia of the thrush family (Turdidae). 

Bluebirds are one of the few thrush genera in the Americas. They have blue, or blue and rose beige, plumage. Female birds are less brightly colored than males, although color patterns are similar and there is no noticeable difference in size between the two sexes.

Bluebirds are territorial and prefer open grassland with scattered trees. Predators of young bluebirds in the nests may include snakes, cats, and raccoons. Bird species competing with bluebirds for nesting locations include the common starling, American crow, and house sparrows. House sparrows take over the nesting sites of bluebirds, killing young, smashing eggs, and probably killing adult bluebirds.

Bluebirds species include:

[[Lemon Tree (Fool's Garden song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 songs, Pop songs

Lemon Tree is a 1995 song by indie rock band Fools Garden. It became a major hit in Europe and Asia. The song is about a person's depressions and his miserable mind.

[[Corps]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

A corps is a military unit usually made up of two or more divisions. In the United States Army, a corps is the largest tactical unit that can plan and carry out its own missions. The term can also be applied to a military unit with a specific function such as a Quartermaster Corps or an Intelligence Corps. It can be applied to a branch of a military such as the United States Marine Corps. It can also mean a body of officers such as a Cadet Corps. The word has other uses. A group of people engaged in the same work can be called a corps. An example is the Peace Corps. The word comes from the Old French cors meaning "body, person, corpse, life". That word, in turn, is based on the Latin word corpus meaning "body".

[[Carnivorous fungus]]

CATEGORIES: Fungi

Carnivourous fungi are fungi that get some of their nutrients from trapping animals. These animals are microscopic, or very small. Over two hundred species are known.

Two basic trapping mechanisms have been observed in carnivorous fungi that are predatory on nematodes:

[[Army of the Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Union Army

Army of the Mississippi was the name given to two Union armies during the American Civil War. Both operated around the Mississippi River and both were active for only a short time.

[[Battle of Chancellorsville]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1863 in the United States, 1860s in Virginia

The Battle of Chancellorsville  (April 30 to May 6, 1863) was a major battle in the American Civil War. It is generally considered to be Confederate General Robert E. Lee’s greatest victory over the Union Army. But the Confederate victory was lessened by the loss of Lieutenant general Stonewall Jackson. Jackson was shot and mortally wounded by his own men who mistook the general and his staff for Union cavalry. For this reason Lee's win at Chancellorsville was considered a pyrrhic victory.

[[Hugo Niebeling]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, German movie directors, German movie producers

Hugo Niebeling (2 February 1931 – 9 July 2016) was a German movie director and producer.

He was known for his work on industrial and music movies. He is thought to be one of the most important figures of these genres in Germany. His work has been said helped create the modern music video. His feature-movie documentary Alvorada was nominated for an Academy Award in 1963.

[[Erny Brenner]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, European footballers, Luxembourgian sportspeople

Erny Brenner (13 September 1931 – 9 July 2016) was a Luxembourgian association football player. He was a member of the Luxembourg national football team from 1955 to 1965. He was born in Dudelange, Luxembourg.

Brenner died on 9 July 2016 in Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg, aged 84.

[[Robert Burren Morgan]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, United States senators from North Carolina, US Democratic Party politicians

Robert Burren Morgan (October 5, 1925 – July 16, 2016) was an American politician. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He was the United States Senator from the state of North Carolina. He served as senator for a single term from 1975 until 1981.

Morgan died of heart failure on July 16, 2016 at his home in Buies Creek, North Carolina, aged 90.

[[Kazimieras Uoka]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2016 deaths, Lithuanian politicians

Kazimieras Uoka (4 March 1951 – 16 July 2016) was a Lithuanian politician. He signed the 1990 Act of the Re-Establishment of the State of Lithuania.

He was born in Kaunas. Uoka graduated from Vilnius University in 1976. He was a leader of the labor movement in the early years of the independence movement.

Uoka died on 16 July 2016 in Vilnius, aged 65.

[[Torpor]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology

Torpor is a physiological state of the body. It occurs in some small warm-blooded animals when food is scarce.

Some animals have periods of torpor every day, including hummingbirds.

So do some small mammals, for example, rodent species (such as mice), and bats. Many small marsupials also have daily periods of torpor.

Torpor is a well controlled thermoregulatory process. It is not the result of switching off thermoregulation.

[[Moju Chowdhury Hat]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bangladesh

Moju Chowdhury Hat or Rahmat Khali is a town and tourism in Lakshmipur Sadar Upazila of Lakshmipur District, in south-eastern Bangladesh. It is commonly known as Moju Chowdhury Hat but it used to be called Rahmat Khali. It was renamed Moju Chowdhury in 1965. It is spelled as M.C.H. for short  (মজু চৌধুরীর হাট). This town is 12 km² south of Lakshmipur City. It is across the Meghna River from Bhola 38 km² to the southwest. Moju Chowdhury Hat is 76 km² east of Barisal. Moju Chowdhury Hat is itself municipality and a tourist destination. It is also a ransport hub for passengers from the Bhola Barisal Division and Chittagong Division, serving about four thousand people per day.

[[The Da Vinci Code (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Controversies, 2006 drama movies, American drama movies, British drama movies, French drama movies, Maltese movies, Buena Vista International movies, Columbia Pictures movies, Movies directed by Ron Howard, Screenplays by Akiva Goldsman

The Da Vinci Code is a religious 2006 American drama movie. Ron Howard directed the movie.

[[Fatshe leno la rona]]

CATEGORIES: National anthems, Botswana

"Blessed Be This Noble Land" is called "Fatshe leno la rona" in the Tswana language. It is the national anthem of Botswana. Kgalemang Tumediso Motsete wrote the lyrics (words) and composed the music of this song in 1962. Four years later when the country got its independence from the United Kingdom, this anthem was adopted.

[[God Bless America]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century songs

"God Bless America" is an American patriotic song. It was written by Irving Berlin in 1918. The song was revised in 1938. The latter was recorded by Kate Smith; it became her signature song. 

In 1938, with the rise of Adolf Hitler, Berlin felt it was time to revive the song. On Armistice Day, 1938, Kate Smith performed the song on the radio.

The song is played at Major League Baseball games. 

Céline Dion and LeAnn Rimes did cover versions of the song.

[[Cochineal]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

The cochineal (Dactylopius coccus) is a scale insect in the suborder Sternorrhyncha, from which the natural dye carmine is made. 

The insect lives in tropical and subtropical South America, Mexico and Arizona. Its larvae eat cacti in the genus Opuntia, feeding on plant moisture and nutrients. These insects are found on the pads of prickly pear cacti, then are brushed off and dried.

The insect produces carminic acid, which deters predation by other insects. Carminic acid is extracted from the body and eggs, then mixed with aluminium or calcium salts to make carmine dye, also known as cochineal. Today, carmine is primarily used as a colorant in food and in lipstick.

[[Battle of Fredericksburg]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1862 in Virginia, December events

The Battle of Fredericksburg (December 11, 1862 – December 15, 1862) was a major battle in the American Civil War fought at Fredericksburg, Virginia. The battle saw almost 200,000 men engaged—more than any other Civil War battle. It involved the first major opposed river crossing in the history of the United States. 

[[Charente (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine

The Charente (Saintongeais: Chérente, Charanta) is a river in southwestern France that flows through the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Two departments, Charente and Charente-Maritime, are named after the river.

It rises in the Massif Central and flows into the Atlantic Ocean (Bay of Biscay) near Rochefort.

[[Nate Thurmond]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Golden State Warriors players, Cleveland Cavaliers players, Chicago Bulls players, Sportspeople from Akron, Ohio, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers

Nathaniel "Nate" Thurmond (July 25, 1941 – July 16, 2016) was an American basketball player. He spent the majority of his 14-year career in the National Basketball Association (NBA) with the Golden State Warriors. He played the center and power forward positions.

Thurmond was a seven-time All-Star and the first player in NBA history to record an official quadruple-double. Thurmond was named both a member of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame and one of the 50 Greatest Players in NBA History.

He was known to fans as "Nate the Great", Thurmond has had his No. 42 jersey retired by both the Golden State Warriors and the Cleveland Cavaliers.

Thurmond died at the age of 74 on July 16, 2016 after a short battle with leukemia in San Francisco.

[[Bloeme Evers-Emden]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Dutch academics, Dutch columnists, Dutch Jews, Dutch scientists, Holocaust survivors, Jewish academics, Jewish scientists, Jewish writers, Dutch psychologists, Writers from Amsterdam

Bloeme Evers-Emden (blumə eːvərs ɛmdən; 26 July 1927 – 18 July 2016) was a Jewish-Dutch academic and child psychologist. She researched the phenomenon of "hidden children" during World War II and wrote four books on the subject in the 1990s.

Her interest in the topic grew out of her own experiences during World War II, when she was forced to go into hiding from the Nazis and was arrested and deported to Auschwitz on the last transport leaving the Westerbork transit camp on 3 September 1944. Together with her on the train were Anne Frank and her family, whom she had known in Amsterdam. She was freed on 8 May 1945.

She wrote columns for the Jewish weekly Nieuw Israëlietisch Weekblad.

[[Qandeel Baloch]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2016 deaths, Activists, Actors, Deaths from asphyxiation, Models, Pakistani people, People murdered in Pakistan, Assassinated people, Murdered musicians, Pakistani murder victims, Pakistani singers

Fouzia Azeem (فوزیہ عظیم; March 1, 1990 – July 15, 2016), better known by the name Qandeel Baloch (قندیل بلوچ), was a Pakistani model, actress, feminist activist and social media celebrity. Baloch became famous due to her videos discussing her daily routine and many controversial issues.

[[Janez Bernik]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Slovenian poets, Painters, Educators

Janez Bernik (6 September 1933 – 15 July 2016) was a Slovenian painter and academic. He was born in Gunclje, now part of Ljubljana. His works include painting, sculpture, graphic design, illustration, tapestry, book design, and poetry. He won the Prešeren Fund Award in 1963.

Bernik died on 15 July 2016 in the Municipality of Prebold, Slovenia, aged 82.

[[Billy Name]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2016 deaths, American photographers, LGBT people from New York, People from Poughkeepsie, New York

Billy Name (William Linich, Jr., February 22, 1940 – July 18, 2016) was an American photographer, filmmaker and lighting designer. He was the archivist of the Warhol Factory, from 1964 to 1970. His brief romance and friendship with Andy Warhol led to collaboration on Warhol's work, including his movies, paintings and sculpture. 

[[Duncan M. Gray, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, American civil rights activists, Bishops, Episcopalians, People from Jackson, Mississippi

Duncan Montgomery Gray, Jr. (September 21, 1926 – July 15, 2016) was an American bishop and activist. He was the 7th Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Mississippi (a middle judicatory of the Episcopal Church, USA). He was a priest in the southern United States. Gray was best known for his work as a civil rights activist, and his story was included in the University of Southern Mississippi's Civil Rights Digital Archive.

[[Sharon Runner]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Politicians from California, Businesspeople from California, US Republican Party politicians, State legislators of the United States

Sharon Runner (May 17, 1954 – July 14, 2016) was an American politician. She was a Republican California State Senator. She represented the 21st Senate District at the time of her death, and lastly represented the 17th Senate District from 2011 to 2012.

She was also a member of the California State Assembly from 2002 to 2008, representing the 36th district.   She was the wife of California State Board of Equalization Member George Runner. From 2004 to 2008, then-Senator George Runner and then-Assemblywoman Sharon Runner were the first husband and wife in California history to serve at the same time in the California State Legislature.

Runner died at her home in Lancaster, California on July 14, 2016 from complications of respiratory failure, aged 62.

[[Helena Benitez]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2016 deaths, Filipino politicians, Activists, Centenarians, People from Manila

Helena Zoila Tirona Benitez (June 27, 1914 – July 14, 2016) was a Filipino academic and administrator of the Philippine Women's University. She served in the Senate of the Philippines from 1967 until Congress was closed when martial law was declared in 1972, and at the Batasang Pambansa from 1978 until it was abolished in 1986.

Benitez also founded the Bayanihan Dance Company.

Benitez died on July 14, 2016 in Manila, aged 102.

[[Péter Esterházy]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Hungarian writers, People from Budapest

Péter Esterházy (14 April 1950 – 14 July 2016) was a Hungarian writer. He was born in Budapest. He was one of the most widely known contemporary Hungarian and Central European writers.  He has been called a "leading figure of 20th century Hungarian literature" and his books are thought to be significant contributions to postwar literature.

Esterházy died of pancreatic cancer in Budapest on 14 July 2016, aged 66.

[[Rappahannock River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Virginia

The Rappahannock River is a river in eastern Virginia, in the United States. It is about 195 in length. It crosses the entire northern part of the state, from the Blue Ridge Mountains in the west, across the Piedmont, to the Chesapeake Bay, south of the Potomac River. The river drains an area of 2,848 which is about 6% of Virginia. Much of the watershed is rural and forested. But it has experienced increased development in recent decades because it is so close to the Washington, D.C. suburbs. 

It was an important river in American history. The Rappahannock was the site of early settlements in the Virginia Colony. Later, it was at the center of Eastern Theater of the American Civil War. It was a significant obstacle to north-south movements via land. As a result it functioned as the war's eastern-theatre boundary, between the "North" (the Union) and the "South" (the Confederate States of America).

[[Dronne]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine

The Dronne (Drona) is a river in southwestern France, right tributary of the Isle river. It flows through the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region.

Its name appears, in an old form, in two communes of the Dordogne departmentː Saint-Méard-de-Drône and Saint-Pardoux-de-Drône. Its modern name appears in three communesː Aubeterre-sur-Dronne, Saint-Méard-de-Drône, Saint-Pardoux-de-Drône.

[[Michael J. Elliott]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2016 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Cancer deaths in Washington, D.C., Deaths from bladder cancer, Disease-related deaths in Washington, D.C., English journalists, Writers from Liverpool

Michael J. Elliott, OBE (1951 – 14 July 2016) was a British journalist and executive. He was the president and chief executive officer of the anti-poverty advocacy organization ONE. He was awarded an OBE in 2003 for services to journalism. 

Elliott previously held senior executive positions at Time magazine, Newsweek, and The Economist.

Elliott died on 14 July 2016 in Washington, D.C. from bladder cancer, aged 65.

[[Gary S. Paxton]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Award winners, 1939 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from hepatitis, Disease-related deaths in Missouri, American songwriters, Writers from Kansas

Gary Sanford Paxton (Larry Wayne Stevens; May 18, 1939 – July 16, 2016) was an American record producer, recording artist, and Grammy and Dove Award winning songwriter. 

Paxton was a member of the Skip & Flip and The Hollywood Argyles and was the producer of two number one Billboard Hot 100 singles: "Alley Oop for The Hollywood Argyles in 1960 and "Monster Mash" for Bobby "Boris" Pickett in 1962.

Paxton died on July 16, 2016 in Branson, Missouri from complications of hepatitis C, aged 77.

[[Abu Omar al-Shishani]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths by airstrike, Asian military people, European military people, Georgian people, Islamic State people

Tarkhan Tayumurazovich Batirashvili (თარხან ბათირაშვილი; 11 February 1986 – presumedly dead in July 2016), known by his nom de guerre Abu Omar al-Shishani (أبو عمر الشيشاني, Abū ‘Umar ash-Shīshānī , "Abu Omar the Chechen") or Omar al-Shishani, was a Georgian Kist jihadist. He served as a commander for the Islamic State in Syria, and previously as a sergeant in the Georgian Army. In 2013, Batirashvili joined the Islamic State and rapidly became a senior commander in the organization, directing a series of battles and ultimately earning a seat on ISIS's shura council.

U.S. officials reported that Batirashvili died from injuries several days after being the target of a 4 March 2016 U.S. airstrike, near the Al-Shaddadah district in Northern Syria, however, the Islamic State denied these claims and its Amaq News Agency confirmed that Shishani was killed in July 2016 during fighting in the Iraqi city of Shirqat, south of Mosul, Iraq.

[[Carolyn See]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in California, American educators, American critics, Writers from California, People from Pasadena, California

Carolyn See (born Caroline Laws; January 13, 1934 – July 13, 2016) was an American educator and critic. She was the professor emerita of English at the University of California, Los Angeles. 

See was the author of ten books, including the memoir, Dreaming: Hard Luck and Good Times in America, an advice book on writing, Making a Literary Life, and the novels There Will Never Be Another You, Golden Days, and The Handyman. She was also a book critic for the Washington Post for 27 years.

See died on July 13, 2016 in Santa Monica, California from cancer, aged 82.

[[Hollis L. Harris]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Businesspeople from Georgia (U.S. state)

Hollis Loyd Harris (November 25, 1931 – July 14, 2016) was an American businessman. He served as President and COO of Delta Air Lines (1987-1990) and Chairman, President, and CEO of Continental Airlines (1990-1991), Air Canada (1992-1996), and World Airways (1999-2004).

In 1997, Harris and Steve Wolf signed a strategic agreement between Air Canada and United Airlines, producing what is now the Star Alliance, which grew to become the world's largest global airline alliance.

Harris died at the age of 84 on July 14, 2016 in Peachtree City, Georgia.

[[Héctor Babenco]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Argentine movie directors, Argentine movie producers, Argentine movie actors, Brazilian screenwriters, Brazilian movie producers, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian movie directors, People from Buenos Aires

Héctor Eduardo Babenco (February 7, 1946 – July 13, 2016) was an Argentine-born Brazilian movie director, screenwriter, producer and actor. He worked in several countries including Argentina, Brazil and the United States. 

His best known movies are Pixote (1980), Kiss of the Spider Woman (1985), Ironweed (1987), At Play in the Fields of the Lord (1990) and Carandiru (2003).

Babenco died on July 13, 2016 from a heart attack in São Paulo, Brazil, aged 70.

[[Robert Ross (Royal Marines officer)]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 1794 deaths, First Fleet, Majors, Royal Navy officers

Major Robert Ross (c.1740spaced ndash9 June 1794) was the officer in charge of the marines sent with the First Fleet to start a convict settlement in Australia. He later became the Lieutenant-Governor of Norfolk Island.

[[Quota]]

CATEGORIES: Latin words used in English

A quota is a number that says how much or how many of something or someone is allowed or required. It comes from a Latin language word meaning "How many?" Examples include: 

[[The Intern]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 comedy movies, American comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Brooklyn, Warner Bros. movies

The Intern is a 2015 American comedy movie co-produced, written, and directed by Nancy Meyers. The movie stars Robert De Niro, Anne Hathaway, Rene Russo, Anders Holm, Andrew Rannells, Adam DeVine, Christina Scherer, and Zack Pearlman. The movie was released on September 25, 2015 by Warner Bros.

[[Manuel G. Batshaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2016 deaths, Civil servants, Centenarians, People from Montreal

Manuel Gilman Batshaw, (17 April 1915 – 18 July 2016) was a Canadian social worker. Batshaw was born in Montreal. He was best known for being the founder of Batshaw Youth and Family Centres. He spent more than 50 years in the field of social work in Quebec.  

In the 1970s, he was active in helping Vietnamese boat people refugees. In 1975, he was in charge of an inquiry into abuses at institutions housing troubled young people, and the Batshaw Committee submitted a report. In 1993, five institutions were merged and were named the Batshaw Youth and Family Centres in his honour.

He received an honorary degree from McGill University in 1998 and the National Order of Quebec in 2003, as well as the Order of Canada.

[[XOXO]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums, Exo albums

XOXO is the first studio album of the boy band Chinese-South Korean EXO, released on June 3, 2013 by the label S.M. Entertainment. The album is the follow-up to the EP debut of EXO, MAMA (2012). Like all the music from the group, the album was released in two versions - "Kiss" is the Korean edition and "Hug" is the Chinese edition.

Two main singles were released from XOXO: "Wolf" and "Growl", with the latter being the first single from the album of the repackaged version released on August 5, 2013. Both singles went to the list in the top 10 of Gaon Singles Chart, and "Growl" was at number three in Billboard Korea K-Pop Hot 100. The album won "Álbum of the Year" in 2013 Mnet Asian Music Awards and sold about a million copies, becoming the best-selling album in Korea since 2001.

[[Ex'Act]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 albums, Exo albums

Ex'Act (stylized as EX'ACT) is the third studio album of the Chinese-South Korean boy band EXO. The album was released in Korean and Chinese by S.M. Entertainment on June 9, 2016.

[[List of awards and nominations received by Exo]]

CATEGORIES: Exo, Lists of awards and nominations

This is a list of awards and nominations received by EXO, a Chinese-South Korean boy band formed in 2011 by S.M. Entertainment. The group was divided into two subgroups, EXO-K ("K" Korean in English) by South Korea and EXO-M ("M" Mandarin) by China. EXO has received a total of 142 awards and was nominated for 216 awards. They have also won 104 awards of Korean music programs and 2 Chinese, making them the Korean artist with the highest number of victories in programs. On June 14, 2013, one year after its official debut, the band received their first number-one in the Music Bank with the single "Wolf."

[[Thrombus]]

CATEGORIES: Blood

A thrombus, or blood clot stops bleeding. It keeps blood inside a damaged blood vessel, and stops the hemorrhage.

A blood clot is the final product of the coagulation. There are  aggregated platelets and red blood cells. Together with fibrin they form a plug, and stop the bleeding. 

The substance making up a thrombus is sometimes called cruor. 

A thrombus is a healthy response to injury to prevent bleeding, but can be harmful in thrombosis, when clots block blood flow through otherwise normal blood vessels.

[[Mud March]]

CATEGORIES: Union Army, 1863 in the United States, 1860s in Virginia

The Mud March (January 20, 1863 – January 23, 1863) was an attempt by Union Army Major General Ambrose Burnside to attack Lee's Confederate Army of Northern Virginia. After the disastrous defeat of the Army of the Potomac at the Battle of Fredericksburg, Burnside was anxious to redeem himself. He planned for his Army to make a winter march across the Rappahannock River on December 30, 1862. But he had not informed President Abraham Lincoln of his plan. Lincoln called him back. Three weeks passed and this time, with Lincoln's implied approval, the army marched southward. However, winter rains made the roads nearly impassable. After four days the attempt ended in failure.

[[Political prisoner]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights abuses, Freedom

A political prisoner is a person imprisoned for political activities, or because they oppose or criticize the government in their country.

[[Yuya Matsushita]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese singers, 1990 births

Yuya Matsushita is a Japanese singer and actor. He is signed under Japanese Dream Records. Yuya released his single "Foolish foolish" on November 26, 2008. He played Sebastian Michaelis in the Black Butler Musical.

[[Matlyuba Kamilova]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Uzbekistani people, Human rights activists, Political prisoners

Matlyuba Kamilova or Matluba Kamilova is an Uzbeck human rights activist and school principal.  In 2016, Samantha Power, the U.S. Ambassador to the U.N., named her one of twenty women political prisoners in the Free the 20 campaign.

Kamilova spoke out about police corruption. In September 2010, she was arrested and charged with possession of drugs. She is still in prison. 

[[David Farragut]]

CATEGORIES: 1801 births, 1870 deaths, Admirals, Military personnel of the American Civil War, People from Knoxville, Tennessee, American folklore, Freemasons, United States Navy

David Glasgow Farragut (July 5, 1801 in Knoxville, Tennessee - August 14, 1870 in Portsmouth, New Hampshire) was an American officer of the United States Navy during the American Civil War. He was the first rear admiral, vice admiral, and admiral in the United States Navy. He commanded the naval forces of the Union Navy in the Battle of Mobile Bay.

David Farragut was the son of George Farragut, a naval officer during the American Revolutionary War.

[[Graeae]]

CATEGORIES: Greek mythology

The Graeae, sometimes called the Grey Sisters, are characters from Greek mythology. They are a trio of hags, called Deino, Enyo and Pemphredo.  They are called the Grey Sisters because they were born with grey skin and hair. They also share one tooth and one eye. They take turns using the tooth and eye. The Graeae are affiliated with the gorgons. The hero Perseus made them say where Medusa was by taking their eye. Perseus said he would not give the eye back until the Grey Sisters told him where Medusa was. 

[[Mymensingh Division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Bangladesh

Mymensingh Division is an administrative division of Bangladesh. The division has an area of 10,485 km², and a population of 11,370,000.

The division of Mymensingh is next to the Indian state of Meghalaya to the north, Dhaka Division on the south, Sylhet Division to the east, Rangpur  and Rajshahi Division to the west.

[[Demonstration (military)]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

In military terminology, a demonstration is an attack or show of force on a battlefield designed to trick or mislead an enemy. Unlike a feint, a demonstration does not make contact with the enemy. It is usually used as a supporting attack intended to deceive an enemy into thinking the demonstration is the main attack.

An example of a demonstration in the American Civil War was at the Battle of Gettysburg.  On July 2, 1863, General Robert E. Lee ordered Lieutenant General Richard S. Ewell to stage a demonstration against Culp's Hill on the Union right flank. This was in support of Lieutenant General James Longstreet's main attack against the Union left flank.

[[Battle of Falling Waters]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1863 in the United States, 19th century in Maryland, July 1863 events

The Battle of Falling Waters (July 6, 1863 – July 16, 1863), also called the Battle of Williamsport and the Battle of Hagerstown, was fought as part of the Gettysburg Campaign during the American Civil War. It was an inconclusive battle in that it did not end in a clear victory for either side. Having been defeated at the Battle of Gettysburg, General Robert E. Lee's army retreated along the Fairfield Road toward Hagerstown and Williamsport, Maryland. Blocked from escaping into Virginia by the flooded Potomac River, Lee's forces created a defensive line with their backs to the river. The Union army was cautiously following Lee and arrived in the area beginning on July 12. There were a number of skirmishes and heavy fighting on July 13. That evening the river was low enough and Lee's army began crossing into Virginia. On July 14, Union cavalry attacked the Confederate rearguard taking about 700 prisoners.

[[Rasha Sharbaji]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Syrian people, Living people

Rasha Sharbaji, also Shurbaji or Chorbaji, (Arabic: رشا شربجي) (born 1982 in  Darayya, Syria) is a Syrian mother.  When Sharbaji went to get a passport, she was arrested with her children, to put pressure on her husband. Sharbaji's husband died in 2014.

In 2016, Samantha Power, the U.S. Ambassador to the U.N., named Sharbaji one of twenty women political prisoners in the Free the 20 campaign.

[[Elizabeth Morgan case]]

CATEGORIES: Trials in the United States, 20th century in law, 20th century in Washington, D.C., 20th century in New Zealand

The Elizabeth Morgan case was a local and international child custody contest between Elizabeth Morgan and Eric Foretich over their daughter, Hilary Antonia Foretich. It lasted from 1983 to 1997 and took place in Washington D.C. and later in Christchurch, New Zealand. It cost the parties over $4 million in legal fees. The trials and hearings generated more than 4,000 pages of transcripts. In excess of 1,000 news, magazine and legal articles about the case were published.

[[Frankfurt Galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: Frankfurt Galaxy

The Frankfurt Galaxy were a professional American football team in the NFL Europa. They are based in Frankfurt, Germany. Frankfurt Universe is the successor of the Frankfurt Galaxy.

[[Colobinae]]

CATEGORIES: Old World monkeys

The Colobinae are a subfamily of Old World monkeys. The family includes 61 species in 11 genera, including the Colobus monkeys, the large-nosed proboscis monkey, and the grey langurs.

Some classifications split the colobine monkeys into two tribes, while others split them into three groups. Both classifications put the three African genera Colobus, Piliocolobus, and Procolobus in one group; these genera are distinct because they have stub thumbs (Greek κολοβός kolobós = "docked").

The various Asian genera are placed into one or two groups. Analysis of mtDNA shows the Asian species form two distinct groups, one of langurs and the other of the "odd-nosed" species. The grey langurs are not closely related to either.

[[Vervet monkey]]

CATEGORIES: Old World monkeys, Mammals of Africa

The vervet monkey (Chlorocebus pygerythrus), or simply vervet, is an Old World monkey of the family Cercopithecidae. It is native to Africa. The term "vervet" is also used to refer to all the members of the genus Chlorocebus. They are found mostly throughout Southern Africa, as well as some of the eastern countries.

Vervets were introduced to the Americas, where there were originally no Old World monkeys. They are now in Florida, Texas, Alabama, Louisiana, Arizona, California, Ascension Island, Cape Verde, Barbados, Saint Kitts, Bermuda, Bahamas, Cuba, Jamaica, Haiti, Dominican Republic, and Nevis.

Vervets are mostly herbivorous monkeys. They have black faces and grey body hair color, ranging in length from about 50 for males to about 40 for females.

Vervet monkeys serve as a primate model for understanding genetic and social behaviors of humans. They have some human-like characteristics, such as hypertension, anxiety, and social and dependent alcohol use. Vervets live in social groups ranging from 10 to 70 individuals. Males change groups when they become sexually mature. The most significant studies done on vervet monkeys are on their their communication and alarm calls. Communication helps kin and group recognition, and alerting to predators.

[[Wagon train]]

CATEGORIES: Land transport

A wagon train is a convoy or group of wagons who travel together for safety. A baggage train is a military wagon train used to carry the equipment and supplies needed by an army. They needed to carry enough supplies, including feed for the draft animals, for the entire journey. Wagon trains are most closely associated with American pioneers traveling west. As the population of the Thirteen Colonies grew, people migrated westward looking for inexpensive lands and new opportunities. The wagon had to carry all the supplies for the trip and all a family's personal belongings. While military use of wagon trains is ancient, the Romans built a network of roads for their armies and baggage trains to move throughout the empire.

[[D minor]]

CATEGORIES: Musical keys, Minor scales

D minor is a musical minor scale starting on D. Its key signature has one flat.

Its relative major is F major and its parallel major is D major.

[[Stephen Manley]]

Stephen Manley may refer to:

[[List of communes of the Province of Terni]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Umbria, Lists of settlements in Europe

The following is a list of the 33 communes of the Province of Terni, Umbria, in Italy.

[[Ballotpedia]]

CATEGORIES: Websites, Non-profit organizations of the United States, 2007 establishments in the United States

Ballotpedia is a non-partisan online political encyclopedia. Founded in 2007, it covers American federal, state, and local politics, elections, and public policy. 

Ballotpedia is sponsored by the Lucy Burns Institute, a non-profit organization based in Middleton, Wisconsin. According to their website, the organization employed over 60 writers and researchers in 2016.

[[Anne Holton]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American educators, Politicians from Virginia

Anne Bright Holton (born February 1, 1958) is an American politician and educator. She served as the Virginia Secretary of Education from 2014-2016. She is also the wife of United States Senator and former Governor Tim Kaine. She served as First Lady of Virginia from 2006 to 2010. Her father is former Virginia Governor Linwood Holton.

[[Karen Pence]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American educators, American painters, People from Indianapolis, Indiana, People from Kansas, Second Ladies of the United States

Karen Sue Pence (née Batten, formerly Whitaker; November 18, 1958) is an American educator and painter. She was the Second Lady of the United States from January 20, 2017 to January 20, 2021. She was the First Lady of Indiana from 2013 to 2017. 

She is married to former Vice President of the United States and former Governor of Indiana Mike Pence. They were married in 1985. They have three children.

In May 2021, the Pences bought a home north of Indianapolis.

[[Football at the 2016 Summer Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 Summer Olympics, 2016 in association football, Olympic football tournaments

The association football tournament at the 2016 Summer Olympics were held from 3 to 20 August in Brazil.

The tournament were feature both the men's and women's teams. The men's teams can only have players who were born on or after 1 January 1993, and the women's teams have no age limit.

The tournament were played in six cities: Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, Brasília, Salvador, São Paulo, and Manaus.

[[Pointe-Noire]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Republic of the Congo

Pointe-Noire is the second largest town of the Republic of the Congo. It is in the south in Kouilou Department. As of 2007, 715,000 people lived there.

Pointe-Noire is a commune divided into six urban districts (arrondissements):

[[Bouenza Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of the Republic of the Congo

[[Cuvette Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of the Republic of the Congo

Cuvette is a departement of Republic of the Congo, in the northeast. Its capital is Owando.

Cuvette is divided into one commune and ten districts:

[[Cuvette-Ouest Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of the Republic of the Congo

[[Lékoumou Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of the Republic of the Congo

Lékoumou is a departement of the Republic of the Congo, in the south. Its capital is Sibiti.

Lékoumou is divided into four districts:

[[Likouala Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of the Republic of the Congo

Likouala is a departement of the Republic of the Congo, in the north. Its capital is Impfondo.

[[Niari Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of the Republic of the Congo

Niari is a departement of the Republic of the Congo, in the south. Its capital is Dolisie.

[[Plateaux Department (Republic of the Congo)]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of the Republic of the Congo

Plateaux is a departement of the Republic of the Congo, in the center. Its capital is Djambala.

Plateaux is divided into four districts:

[[The Fold]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from Chicago

The Fold is a music rock band in Chicago, Illinois. Its genre is alternative rock. It is known for making "The Weekend Whip", which is the main theme song for Ninjago: Masters of Spinjitzu. The band's vocal leader is Daniel Castady. It has 4 other members. They also released the album called 'Secrets Keep You Sick' in 2007. 

[[Gambler's fallacy]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

The term Gambler's fallacy refers to a misconception about statistics. It is also known Monte Carlo fallacy or fallacy of the maturity of chances. In statistics, a random event has a certain probability of occurring. The fallacy is that if the event has occurred more frequently in the past, it will occur less frequently in the future; or that if it has been less frequent in the past, it will be more frequent in the future.

[[Repentless]]

CATEGORIES: Slayer albums, 2015 albums

Repentless is the twelfth studio album by the American thrash metal band Slayer. It was released on September 11, 2015, and is the band's first album to be released on Nuclear Blast. It is also the first Slayer album to feature guitarist Gary Holt of Exodus and the first to feature drummer Paul Bostaph since 2001's God Hates Us All.

The album made it to #4 on the Billboard 200, which was the highest charting album from the band in the United States. It also topped the chart in Germany and was featured in the top ten of almost twenty charts around the world. It got mixed to positive reviews from critics.

[[Remi Sonaiya]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Nigerian politicians, Nigerian writers

Oluremi Comfort Sonaiya (born March 2, 1955), is a Nigerian politician, educationist and writer.

Sonaiya is notable for being Nigeria's first female presidential candidate. She contested the position in the 2015 general election under the platform of the KOWA Party.

[[David Woodard]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Writers from California, American conductors, People from Santa Barbara, California, American artists

 David Woodard (Pronunciation_of_the_English_surname_Woodard.ogg; born April 6, 1964 in Santa Barbara, California) is an American postmodern writer and conductor, and a descendant of prominent colonial families.250 He invented the concept and portmanteau word prequiem, which designates a musical composition to be rendered as its beneficiary lay dying.

Woodard invented a fictional psychoactive machine called the Feraliminal Lycanthropizer. At the end of the 20th century he fabricated replicas of an actual psychoactive device called the Dreamachine.98–101

Woodard is also known for his work with Nueva Germania, a settlement in Paraguay. His German book of correspondence Five Years, coauthored by Swiss novelist Christian Kracht, describes some of the humanitarian work performed there.

[[Field artillery in the American Civil War]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War, Artillery

Field artillery in the American Civil War were cannon that could be moved around the battlefield or could travel with an army unit. Field artillery could only fight unlimbered (disconnected from the cart and horses that pulled it). The limber (or caisson) along with the team of six horses would be moved to a safe area nearby. Gun crews were organized into an artillery battery, six guns (later in the war, four) were deployed along a line about 82 wide with the guns spaced about 15 apart. 

At times the horses remained hitched to the limber or caisson so the battery could move quickly. An artillery crew was made up of eight highly trained men. An artillery battery had a total of between 70 and 100 soldiers. There were several types of field artillery used during the Civil War. These included the 6 pounder gun, 12 and the 24 pound Howitzer, the famous Model 1857 12-Pounder Napoleon Field Gun, the 3 inch Ordnance rifle and the 10 and 20 pound Parrott rifle. 

Most cannons were muzzleloading weapons. Cannon barrels were of two types. One was the older smoothbore cannons as used during the Mexican–American War. 

They usually had barrels made of bronze and fired round iron cannonballs. The newer type was the rifled cannon that were made of cast iron and wrought iron. They fired Bullet-shaped shells. Both guns and ammunition had a tendency to be unreliable and they were dangerous to shoot.

[[Rebévelier]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rebévelier is a municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Reconvilier]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Reconvilier is a municipality of the administrative district Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Pome]]

CATEGORIES: Fruits, Rosaceae

A pome is a type of fruit produced in plants of subtribe Malinae (in the tribe Maleae in the subfamily Amygdaloideae) in the family Rosaceae. Examples include pears and apples. They consist of carpels surrounded by accessory tissue.

[[Nera (Italy)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Italy

The Nera (Nar) is a river in central Italy that starts in the Marche region but flows mainly through the  Umbria region. It is the main tributary of the Tiber river.

[[Jacqueline Fernandez]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Sri Lankan people, Beauty pageant winners, University of Sydney alumni

Jacqueline Fernandez is a Sri Lankan actress, former model, and the winner of the 2006 Miss Universe Sri Lanka pageant.

[[John Abraham]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Indian actors, People from Mumbai

John Abraham (born 17 December 1972), is an Indian film actor, producer and a former model who appears in Hindi films.

[[Agadir]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Morocco

Agadir is a city in southwestern Morocco, located on the Atlantic coast in the region of Souss.

[[Cheap Thrills]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 songs, Reggae songs

"Cheap Thrills" is a song by Australian singer-songwriter Sia.  It was recorded for her seventh studio album, This Is Acting, after it was rejected by Barbadian recording artist Rihanna.  On February 11, 2016, the song was released as a remix with Jamaican recording artist Sean Paul.

The remix of the song has been very successful, reaching the top ten in Sia's country of Australia, the top two in the UK, and number one in Canada, most of mainland Europe, and the United States.  "Cheap Thrills" became Sia's first Billboard Hot 100 number-one hit and Sean Paul's fourth.  Sean Paul's last number-one U.S. song was "Temperature" in 2006. She never shows her face or even is in her music videos because of privacy.

The song reached number 11 on the year-end Billboard Hot 100 of 2016. It was certified double-Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America.

The remix was nominated for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance at the 2017 (59th) Grammy Awards.

[[Merced, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, County seats in California, Settlements in Merced County, California

Merced is a city in Merced County, California, United States. As of 2014, 81,743 people lived there.  Merced is the county seat of Merced County in the San Joaquin Valley of California. Merced has the first research university built in the 21st century, University of California Merced. UC Merced is the newest school in the University of California system.

[[Slaughterhouse-Five]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction books, 1969 books, Time travel

Slaughterhouse-Five is a science fiction book by American author Kurt Vonnegut. It has been popular all over the world since its was published in 1969. It is often picked as one of the best books of all time.  Slaughterhouse 5 is about a time travelling American soldier during World War II who is in the German city of Dresden when it is bombed by the Allies. The author experienced this event in his real life and so the novel is semi autobiographical.

[[Antofagasta Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The II Antofagasta Region (II Región de Antofagasta) is one of Chile's 15 first order administrative divisions. It is the second-largest region of Chile. To the east it borders Bolivia and Argentina.

The capital of the region is the port city of Antofagasta.

[[Levi's Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: San Francisco 49ers, Stadiums in the San Francisco Bay Area, Santa Clara County, California, Santa Clara, California

Levi's Stadium is a stadium in Santa Clara, California. The San Francisco 49ers play there.

[[Gunmetal]]

CATEGORIES: Alloys

Gunmetal, or red brass in the United States, is a metal alloy. It is a type of bronze – an alloy of copper, tin and zinc. 

Proportions of its metals vary. 88% copper, 8-10% tin and 2-4% zinc is usual. 

Originally it was used for making cannons. Guns are now made of steel. Gunmetal is easy to cast and work on a lathe. It resists corrosion from steam and salt water. It is used to make steam and hydraulic castings, valves, gears, statues, and various small objects such as buttons. 

[[GNK Dinamo Zagreb]]

CATEGORIES: Establishments in Croatia, 1945 establishments in Europe, Croatian football clubs

GNK Dinamo Zagreb is a football club which plays in Croatia.

[[FC Astana]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Asia, Football clubs, Nur-Sultan

Football Club Astana (Kazakh: «Астана» футбол клубы; usually just called FC Astana or simply Astana) is a professional association football club from Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan. They currently play in the Kazakhstan Premier League. They were founded as Lokomotiv Astana in 2009 from football clubs Almaty: Megasport and Alma-Ata, the club changed its name to Astana in 2011. 

Their short history already included two league titles, two Kazakhstan Cups and two Kazakhstan Super Cups. In 2015, Astana qualified to the UEFA Champions League group stage, becoming the first Kazakh team to do so.

[[Ashdod]]

CATEGORIES: Ports and harbours of Israel, Cities in Israel

Ashdod (Hebrew: אַשְׁדּוֹד; Arabic: اشدود‎‎, إسدود) is the sixth-largest city in Israel. Ashdod is Israel's largest port, since about 60% of the country's imported goods come through the city.

[[The end justifies the means]]

CATEGORIES: Phrases, Political philosophy, Ethics

The end justifies the means is a phrase of Sergey Nechayev, the 19th century Russian revolutionary.  It means that if a goal is morally important enough, any method of getting it is acceptable.

The idea is ancient, but it was not meant to justify unnecessary cruelty. It was part of a political philosophy called consequentialism. The basic idea is that a policy can be judged by its outcome. All modern versions of consequentialism have to deal with the limitations necessary to prevent tyrants abusing this  idea.

[[Political philosophy]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Politics

Political philosophy is the study of politics, liberty, justice, property, and rights. Also the law, and its enforcement (a legal code) by authority. It concerns not the details, but the basic principles, reasons and arguments.

Topics studied include the purpose of government, what rights and freedoms it should protect, what form it should take, and what the law is. Also, what duties citizens owe to a legitimate government, and when it may be legitimately overthrown, if ever.

Political philosophy is a philosophical back-up to political science, which is the social science study of politics.

[[Courtelary (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Courtelary in the Swiss canton of Bern has 18 municipalities in an area of 266 km²:

[[Reichenbach im Kandertal]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Villages in Bern

Reichenbach im Kandertal is a village and municipality in the administrative district of Frutigen-Niedersimmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Reisiswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Reisiswil is a municipality of the administrative district Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Renan, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Renan is a municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Model 1857 12-Pounder Napoleon Field Gun]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War, Artillery

The Model 1857 12-Pounder Napoleon Field Gun, officially called the “light 12-pounder gun” by the United States Army, was the most popular smoothbore cannon used during the American Civil War. The cannon was named after French president and emperor, Napoleon III, nephew of Napoleon Bonaparte.

[[Reutigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Reutigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Riggisberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Riggisberg is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On January 1, 2009, the municipality of Rüti bei Riggisberg became part of the municipality of Riggisberg.

[[Ringgenberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Ringgenberg is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

It is located on Lake Brienz.

[[Roches, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Roches is a municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Rohrbach, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rohrbach is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the Swiss canton of Berne.

[[Rohrbachgraben]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rohrbachgraben is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Romont, Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Romont is a municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Loa River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Chile

The Loa is a U-shaped river in Chile's northern Antofagasta region. It is the longest river of the country and the main river in the Atacama Desert.

[[Rajesh Hamal]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century births, Living people, Nepalese movie actors, People from Kathmandu, Year of birth missing (living people), Nepalese movie producers

Rajesh Hamal (also Known as Mahanayak) is a Nepali actor. He is known for his Nepali films, such as Hami Teen Bhai, Basanti, Bagmati,etc.

[[Nepal Standard Time]]

CATEGORIES: Time by country, Nepal

Nepal Standard Time (NPT) is the time zone for Nepal. With a time offset from Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) of +5:45, all over Nepal Standard Time is one of only three time zones with a 45-minute offset from

UTC. (The others are Chatham Island Standard Time, with an offset of UTC+12:45, and the

unofficial Australian Central Western Time, with an offset of UTC+08:45.) NPT is an approximation of Kathmandu mean time, which is 5:41:16 ahead of

UTC. 

[[Erlach (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Erlach in the Swiss canton of Bern has 12 municipalities in an area of 84.7 km².

[[Fraubrunnen (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Fraubrunnen in the Swiss canton of Bern has 27 municipalities in an area of 123.5 km².

[[Gamboma]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Republic of the Congo

Gamboma is a town of the Republic of the Congo, located on the center in the Plateaux departement. It has an military airport, a diocese and a stadium.

It is located 273 km from Brazzaville, the capital of the country and founded in 1909.

[[Frutigen (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Frutigen in the Swiss canton of Bern has 7 municipalities in an area of 489 km².

[[Djambala]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Republic of the Congo

Djambala is a town of the Republic of the Congo, located on the center in the Plateaux departement. It has an national airport, a diocese and a stadium.

[[Ewo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Republic of the Congo

Ewo is a town of the Republic of the Congo, located on the west in the Cuvette-Ouest departement. It has an national airport, a diocese and a stadium.

[[Impfondo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Republic of the Congo

Impfondo is a town of the Republic of the Congo, located on the center in the Likouala Region. It has an national airport, a diocese and a stadium.

[[Jenny von Westphalen]]

CATEGORIES: 1814 births, 1881 deaths

Freiin Johanna Bertha Julie Jenny von Westphalen or better known as Jenny von Westphalen or also Jenny Marx (born 12 February 1814 in Salzwedel, now Germany, and died 2 December 1881 in London) was the wife of philosopher Karl Marx, and daughter of Baron Ludwig von Westphalen, a professor at Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität in Berlin.

[[Röthenbach bei Herzogenbuchsee]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Röthenbach bei Herzogenbuchsee was a municipality in Wangen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 Wanzwil and Röthenbach bei Herzogenbuchsee became part of Heimenhausen.

[[Röthenbach im Emmental]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Röthenbach im Emmental is a municipality in the administrative district Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Rubigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rubigen is a municipality of the Bern-Mittelland administrative district in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Rüderswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rüderswil is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Rüdtligen-Alchenflüh]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rüdtligen-Alchenflüh is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Smoothbore]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms, Weapons

A smoothbore weapon is one that has a barrel without rifling.  Smoothbores range from handheld firearms to powerful tank guns and large artillery mortars. The majority of shotguns are smoothbores and the terms "shotgun" and "smoothbore" can be synonymous.

[[Rüeggisberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rüeggisberg is a municipality in the Bern-Mittelland administrative district in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

The municipality is on a plateau along the southern flank of the Längenberg.

[[Rüegsau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rüegsau is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Rumendingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rumendingen is a municipality of the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Rumisberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rumisberg is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Rümligen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rümligen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Muzzleloader]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms, Weapons

A muzzleloader is any firearm where the projectile and usually the propellant charge is loaded from the muzzle of the gun. This is distinct from the more popular modern designs of breech-loading firearms. The term "muzzleloader" may also apply to the marksman who shoot muzzleloading firearms. The term of art includes rifled muzzleloaders and smoothbore muzzleloaders. There are several different calibers of muzzleloading firearms. Modern muzzleloading firearms a variety of firing mechanisms. These include sidelock, flintlock and percussion models of the Pennsylvania rifle (after the early 1800s called the Kentucky rifle). Muzzleloading can apply to anything from cannons to pistols. But in modern use the term most commonly applies to black powder small arms. It usually, but not always, involves the use of a loose propellant (like gunpowder) and a projectile, as well as a separate method of ignition or priming.

[[The Charge of the Light Brigade (poem)]]

CATEGORIES: British poems

"The Charge of the Light Brigade" is a poem written in 1854 by Alfred, Lord Tennyson. It is about a British brigade in the Battle of Balaclava in the Crimean War.

[[Blowback]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms

Blowback is a system of operation for self-loading firearms that obtains energy from the motion of the cartridge case as it is pushed to the rear by expanding gases created by the ignition of the propellant charge.

Several blowback systems exist within this broad principle of operation, each distinguished by the methods used to control bolt movement. In most actions that use blowback operation, the breech is not locked mechanically at the time of firing: the inertia of the bolt and recoil spring(s), relative to the weight of the bullet, delays opening of the breech until the bullet has left the barrel. A few locked breech designs use a form of blowback (example: primer actuation) to perform the unlocking function.

Other operating principles for self-loading firearms include blow forward, gas operation, recoil operation, revolver, Gatling, and chain. The blowback principle may be considered a simplified form of gas operation, since the cartridge case behaves like a piston driven by the powder gases.

[[Llullaillaco]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Chile, Mountains of Argentina, Andes, Archaeological sites

Llullaillaco is a 6739 stratovolcano in the Andes range, in Argentina and Chile. It is the 7th highest mountain in the Andes.

It lies in the Puna de Atacama, a region of very high volcanic peaks on a high plateau within the Atacama Desert, one of the driest places in the world.

[[List of Nepalese actors]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of entertainers, Nepalese actors

This is a list of Nepali actors.

[[Province of Antofagasta]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Province of Antofagasta (Provincia de Antofagasta) is one of three provinces in the northern Chilean region of Antofagasta (II).  The capital is the port city of Antofagasta.

[[Province of El Loa]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Province of El Loa (Provincia de El Loa) is one of three provinces of the northern Chilean region of Antofagasta (II). It is named after the longest river of Chile, the Loa. The provincial capital is Calama.

[[Bill Burr]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, American comedians, Living people

William Frederic "Bill" Burr (born June 10, 1968) is an American comedian, writer and actor. He is the host of the Monday Morning Podcast, and appeared in the AMC crime-drama show Breaking Bad. In 2013, The New York Times wrote that Burr "has been one of the funniest, most distinctive voices in the country for years. He has released six stand-up specials.

Burr was born in Canton, Massachusetts. His parents are of German and Irish ancestry. His father worked as a dentist. He married producer, director and screenwriter Nia Hill in 2013. Their daughter was born in 2017. As of May 2015, Burr is a licensed helicopter pilot and he has played the drums for a long time.

Rolling Stone magazine called Burr "the undisputed heavyweight champ of rage-fueled humor." Burr often makes himself look like "that loud guy in the bar" with "uninformed logic." In an interview with the The Boston Globe, Burr stated, "I'm the 'dude, bro' guy." He has also been known to not care about being politically correct."

[[Asprovalta]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Greece

Asprovalta (Ασπροβάλτα) is a town near Thessaloniki in northern Greece. It was the seat of the Agios Georgios municipality. Since January 2011, Asprovalta belongs to the Municipality of Volvi. The population is around 3,039 people.

[[Elizabeth Lada]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, American academics, American astronomers, Yale University alumni

Elizabeth Lada (born 19??) is an American astronomer. 

The American Astronomical Society honored her work by awarding her the Annie Jump Cannon Award in Astronomy Prize in 1992.  She also was named as a Hubble Fellow during her work at the University of Maryland. She was awarded a National Science Foundation's CAREER Award in 1999. In 1998 she received a Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE).  Lada got her Bachelor of Science in Physics degree at Yale University in 1965. She did her Ph.D. in Astronomy at the University of Texas in 1990.  Lada is currently Professor of Astronomy at the University of Florida.

[[Meessen De Clercq]]

CATEGORIES: Art, Belgian culture, Brussels

Meessen De Clercq is a contemporary art gallery in Brussels, Belgium. The gallery is in an old building with three floors.

In 2007, art historian Olivier Meessen and art lover Jan De Clercq began to work to start a contemporary art gallery in Brussels. In April 2008 the gallery opened, with a group show of works by seven artists. After this first show, the gallery closed to rebuild it. From September 2008 the gallery re-opened with group and solo shows by both older and new artists.

[[Ruppoldsried]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern, 2013 disestablishments in Switzerland

Ruppoldsried is a former municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipality of Ruppoldsried merged into the municipality of Rapperswil.

[[Rüschegg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rüschegg is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. It is also a Swiss Reformed Church parish.

[[Rüti bei Büren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rüti bei Büren is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Rüti bei Lyssach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rüti bei Lyssach is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Rüti bei Riggisberg]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Rüti bei Riggisberg was a municipality of the district Seftigen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipality of Rüti bei Riggisberg merged into the municipality of Riggisberg.

[[Rütschelen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Rütschelen is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Saanen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Saanen (Gessenay) is a municipality and ski resort in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. It is the capital of the administrative district of Obersimmental-Saanen.

[[Ignasi Aballí]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Spanish artists

Ignasi Aballí (born in 1958) is a Spanish artist. He is one of Spain's well known artists.

[[Gstaad]]

CATEGORIES: Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland, Villages in Bern

Gstaad is a village in the municipality of Saanen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Chevron (geology)]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

A chevron in geology is a sharply-folded rock formation. Chevron folds are regular folded beds with straight limbs and sharp hinges. Well developed, these folds produce a set of v-shaped beds.  

They develop in response to compressive stress. The angles of the folds are generally 60 degrees or less. Chevron  folding  is helped if the bedding alternates between beds of different make-up. Turbidites, with alternating sandstones and shales, are the typical geological setting for chevron folds to occurs.

Chevrons can also form in land deposits, especially where there are sand dunes.

[[Meteorite strewnfield]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorites

A meteorite strewnfield is the area where meteorites and glassy tektites from a single meteor fall are found.

[[Rifling]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms

Rifling consists of spiral grooves cut into the inside of a barrel of a gun. It causes the bullet or projectile to spin as it flies through the air. This greatly improves the accuracy of the bullet over longer distances. The first muskets to use this technology were called rifles. Barrels are rifled using a left or right twist. The number of turns per inch is called the "twist rate". These are expressed as a ratio. For example, a 1:7 twist means the bullet will turn once for each seven inches of barrel length. As a general rule, the heavier the bullet, the higher the twist rate.

[[Interlaken (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Interlaken in the Swiss canton of Bern has 23 municipalities in an area of 724 km².

[[Province of Tocopilla]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Province of Tocopilla (Provincia de Tocopilla) is one of three provinces of the northern Chilean region of Antofagasta (II). The provincial capital is Tocopilla.

[[Konolfingen (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Konolfingen in the Swiss canton of Bern has 29 municipalities in an area of 214 km².

[[Laupen (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Laupen in the Swiss canton of Bern has 11 municipalities in an area of 88 km².

[[Moutier (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Moutier in the Swiss canton of Bern has 26 municipalities in an area of 216 km².

[[La Neuveville (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of La Neuveville in the Swiss canton of Bern has 5 municipalities in an area of 59 km².

[[Nidau (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Nidau in the Swiss canton of Bern has 25 municipalities in an area of 88 km².

[[Frederick McDonald]]

CATEGORIES: Missing people, Members of the Australian House of Representatives, Year of death unknown

Frederick Albert McDonald (c. 1872spaced ndash? April 1926) was an Australian politician and possible murder victim.

McDonald studied at the University of Sydney. He became a teacher, and rose to become President of the Teachers Federation of New South Wales. In 1922 he stood for election to the Australian House of Representatives, and won the new seat of Barton for the Labor Party. His main opponent was Hector Lamond, who had been the Nationalist member for the abolished seat of Illawarra.

[[Aster Yohannes]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Living people, African people, Eritrea, Prisoners

Aster Yohannes is the wife of an Eritrean political activist.  In 2016, Samantha Power, the U.S. Ambassador to the U.N., named her one of twenty women political prisoners in the Free the 20 campaign.

Yohannes' husband, Petros Solomon, is a member of the G-15, a group of politicians who called for reforms. He was arrested in 2001. Yohannes was arrested in 2003, when she returned from the United States.  She was never accused of a crime or tried in a court.  No one knows where she is.

Aster Yohannes and Petros Solomon fought for the Eritrean People's Liberation Front.  They helped Eritrea get independence from Ethiopia in 1993.  Solomon was the Minister of Marine Resources in the Eritrean government.

When her husband was arrested, Aster Yohannes was studying in the USA. After she graduated, she returned to Eritrea to be with her children. The Eritrean government told her she would not be arrested. When she arrived in Eritrea in December 2003, she was arrested at Asmara International Airport. They took her to Karchele security prison in Asmara.  She did not see her children.  They did not let her speak to her family.  Her health is not good.  She has asthma and a heart problem.

[[Tocopilla]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Tocopilla is a city and commune in the Antofagasta region in the north of Chile. It is the capital of the province of Tocopilla.

[[Damian Lillard]]

CATEGORIES: Portland Trail Blazers players, 1990 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Oakland, California

Damian Lamonte Ollie Lillard (born July 15, 1990) is an American professional basketball player for the Portland Trail Blazers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). 

In 2014, he made a game winning buzzer beater in game 6 against the Houston Rockets to help the Blazers win the playoff series. It was the first time the Blazers had won a playoff series in 14 years. 

He has been selected twice for the NBA All-Star Game. In 2014, he became the first player ever to compete in all 5 All-Star Weekend events. He competed in the 3-Point Contest, Slam Dunk Contest, Skills Challenge, Rising Stars Challenge, and the All-Star Game. 

He is also a music artist that goes by the stage name Dame D.O.L.L.A, releasing most recently releasing the rap album, Confirmed.  

[[Niedersimmental (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Niedersimmental in the Swiss canton of Bern has 9 municipalities in an area of 306 km².

[[Oberhasli (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Oberhasli in the Swiss canton of Bern has 6 municipalities in an area of 551.0 km².

[[Obersimmental (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Obersimmental in the Swiss canton of Bern has 4 municipalities in an area of 334 km².

[[Saanen (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Saanen in the Swiss canton of Bern has 3 municipalities in an area of 241 km².

[[Schwarzenburg (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Schwarzenburg in the Swiss canton of Bern has 4 municipalities in an area of 157 km².

[[Seftigen (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Seftigen in the Swiss canton of Bern has 26 municipalities in an area of 189 km².

[[Signau (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Signau in the Swiss canton of Bern has 9 municipalities in an area of 320 km².

[[Thun (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

Thun was a district in the Swiss canton of Bern. It had 26 municipalities in an area of 267 km².

[[Big Hero 6]]

Big Hero 6 may refer to:

[[Trachselwald (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

Trachselwald was a district in the Swiss canton of Bern. It had 10 municipalities in an area of 191 km².

[[Wangen (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Bern

The district of Wangen was one of the 26 districts in the canton of Bern, Switzerland. It had an area of 129 km².

[[Bern-Mittelland (administrative district)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bern, 2010 establishments in Switzerland

The administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the Swiss canton of Bern has 98 municipalities in an area of 947 km².

[[Year 100 problem]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

The Year 100 problem (also known as the Y1C problem, Y1C Bug, and Y1C) was a problem. It happened because some early computer programs of Taiwan were made to handle only years containing 2 digits of the Minguo calendar system, and people started fearing that date-related processing would happen incorrectly for dates and times after December 31 2010. The event caused a big concern that very important industries (such as electricity or financial) and government functions would stop working at exactly midnight, January 1 2011, and on other critical dates which were called "event horizons". 

However, the government sector restricted themselves to using the Minguo calendar system, so it didn't affect most of the private sector. More people were panicked by press coverage and other media reports, as well as corporate and government reports. Companies and organisations in Taiwan had to check and upgrade their computer systems. 

The preparation for Y1C thus had a huge effect on the computer industry. No major computer failures occurred when the year changed to 100. Debate continues on whether the absence of computer failures was the result of the preparation undertaken or whether the problem had been bigger than expected.

[[Frank E. Sagendorph, 2nd]]

CATEGORIES: American inventors, 1883 births, 1972 deaths, Businesspeople from Cincinnati, Ohio

Frank Elijah Sagendorph, 2nd (March 28, 1883 – May 5, 1972) was a leading Philadelphia industrialist and president of the Penn Metal Corporation of Pennsylvania, also known as Penco, which was headquartered in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

[[L. Lewis Sagendorph]]

CATEGORIES: American inventors, 1842 births, 1909 deaths, People from Virginia, People from New York

L. Lewis Sagendorph (September 26, 1842 - April 13, 1909) was an American inventor and leading manufacturer of sheet metal products in the late 19th and very early 20th centuries. He founded what later became the Penn Metal Company in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

[[Adam Basanta]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, 21st century composers, Canadian composers

Adam Basanta (born 1985) is a Canadian sound artist and experimental composer. 

[[Pennsylvania rifle]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles

The Pennsylvania rifle, from about 1815 on, almost universally known as the Kentucky rifle, is a special American gun. For decades in American History, it was the best shooting long-distance rifle in America. The Pennsylvania rifle was the product of German gun makers who moved to Pennsylvania hundreds of years ago. This was in the early 1700s. Settlers and people who lived on frontiers started to really like the gun. One of the early frontiers was Kentucky. People like Daniel Boone used the gun there. So the rifle started to be known as the "Kentucky rifle". 

[[Company (military unit)]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

A company is a military unit which usually has from 80 to 250 soldiers. A company is usually led by a captain or a major. Most companies are made up of from three to six platoons, although the exact number may vary by country. Several companies are grouped to form a battalion or regiment. In the United States military, before the September 11 attacks, companies trained in conventional warfare for basic offensive and defensive operations. Since then companies have had to train for a much wider variety of tasks. These may include humanitarian aid missions, providing security and maintaining order in an area. Different elements in an army may assign different tasks or have different names for a company. For example, a corps of engineering such as the Royal Engineers use the term squadron for a company. In other examples, the name company may be replaced by the name battery.

[[Selçuk İnan]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Turkish footballers

Selçuk İnan(born 10 February 1985) is a Turkish football player. He plays for Galatasaray and Turkey national team.

[[Arrondissements of the Vienne department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Vienne department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Vienne are:

[[Hakan Balta]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Turkish footballers, Sportspeople from Berlin

Hakan Balta (born 23 March 1983 in Berlin) is a retired Turkish football player. He played for Galatasaray and the Turkey national team.

[[Arrondissement of Châtellerault]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Châtellerault is an arrondissement of France, in the Vienne department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Châtellerault.

[[Gunsmith]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations, Firearms

A gunsmith  is someone who makes and or designs guns. The job of a gunsmith is similar, but not the same as an armorer.  The origin of the word gunsmith dates back to the 1580s.

[[Mehmet Topal]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish footballers, 1986 births, Living people

Mehmet Topal (born 3 March 1986) is a Turkish football player. He plays for Fenerbahçe and Turkey national team.

[[Binali Yıldırım]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Speakers of the Parliament of Turkey, Prime Ministers of Turkey

Binali Yıldırım (born 20 December 1954) is a Turkish politician who was the 27th Prime Minister of Turkey and the leader of the Justice and Development Party (AKP) from May 2016 to 2018. He was the Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communication from 2002 to 2013 and again between 2015 and 2016. Between 2014 and 2015, he served as Senior Advisor to President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.

[[Arrondissement of Montmorillon]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Montmorillon is an arrondissement of France, in the Vienne department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Montmorillon.

[[List of programs broadcast by Playhouse Disney]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of television series by network, Disney

This is a list of television programs broadcast by Playhouse Disney in the United States, now known as Disney Junior.

[[Arrondissement of Poitiers]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Poitiers is an arrondissement of France, in the Vienne department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Poitiers.

[[Ozan Tufan]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, Turkish footballers, UEFA Euro 2016 players

Ozan Tufan (born 23 March 1995) is a Turkish football player. He plays for Fenerbahçe and Turkey national team.

[[Jura bernois (administrative district)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments in Switzerland, Districts of Bern

The administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Bern has 49 municipalities in an area of 541.75 km².

[[Ashton Gate Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in England, Bristol

Ashton Gate Stadium is the home of Bristol City F.C. and the Bristol Bears RFC.

Its capacity is 27,000. The ground was renovated in 2014 which increased the number of seats by 6000.

[[Door bolt]]

CATEGORIES: Locks

A door bolt is a type of lock that is used to keep doors shut. They are often fastened with padlocks for extra security.

[[Armorer]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms, Occupations

A modern armorer is someone whose job is repairing, assembling and testing of small arms. Originally, an armorer was a person who created armor for medieval knights and noblemen. Today an armorer is someone who belongs to an organization such as the police or military and who maintains guns and weapons belonging to that organization. An armorer keeps these weapons in top working condition always ready for trouble-free use in the field. By doing this an armorer extends the service life of these weapons at minimum cost to the organization. A failure of a weapon in a crucial situation could cost lives. Their job is similar (but not the same) as that of a civilian gunsmith.

[[Ashton Gate]]

Ashton Gate might refer to;

[[Montmorillon]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Vienne

Montmorillon is a commune in the Vienne department, in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region, in central-western France. The clay mineral montmorillonite (a silicate) was named after Montmorillon when it was discovered there in 1847.

It is one of the two subprefectures of the Vienne department and the capital of the canton of Montmorillon.

Montmorillon is well known for its macarons, and has a museum dedicated to it.

[[List of renamed cities in Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Azerbaijan, Lists of cities in Asia, Azerbaijan-related lists, Lists of cities by country

The following is a list of cities in Azerbaijan that have undergone a name change in the recent past:

[[Ananta Bijoy Das]]

CATEGORIES: Bloggers, Murders by blade weapons, Murder in the 21st century

[[Gartempe]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Centre-Val de Loire

The Gartempe is a French river that flows through the Nouvelle-Aquitaine and Centre-Val de Loire regions.

It rises in the Massif Central and flows into the Creuse river, as a left tributary, in the Vienne department.

[[Safnern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Safnern is a municipality of the administrative district Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Saicourt]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Saicourt is a municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Saint-Imier]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Saint-Imier is a municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

Saint-Imier is the hometown of the Longines watchmaking company. The Breitling watchmaking company was founded in Saint-Imier, but moved to Grenchen, Canton of Solothurn.

[[Saules, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Saules is a municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Saxeten]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Saxeten is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Schalunen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Schalunen was a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Schalunen, Büren zum Hof, Etzelkofen, Grafenried, Limpach, Mülchi and Zauggenried merged into the municipality of Fraubrunnen.

[[Schangnau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Schangnau is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Schattenhalb]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Schattenhalb is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Schelten]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Schelten (La Scheulte) is a municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. This is one of two German speaking cities in the majority French-speaking Bernese Jura (Jura Bernois). The other is Seehof.

[[Etching]]

CATEGORIES: Printmaking

Etching is done by drawing lines through a protective coating on a copper or zinc plate. The plate is then placed into acid. The acid cuts into the unprotected parts of the surface to create a design in the metal.

The printing is done by rolling an ink pad across the surface. The ink sinks into the intaglio (cut) surface, and rolls off the waxed surface off the plate. The metal plate is then pressed onto paper.

[[Colgan Air Flight 3407]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 in New York (state), 2009 aviation disasters, Aviation disasters in the United States, February 2009 events

Colgan Air Flight 3407 was a passenger flight from Newark to Buffalo, the plane was a Bombardier Dash 8 with 49 people on board. On February 12, 2009 the plane stalled and crashed into a house in Clarence Center. Everyone on board the flight died as well as one man on the ground.

[[Metonic cycle]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy, Calendars

The Metonic cycle is a period of about 19 years used in astronomy and calendar studies. In particular, it is often used in the structure of lunisolar calendars, because 19 solar years is almost exactly the same length of time as 235 lunar months.

[[Shahidul Alam]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladeshi people, Bangladeshi bloggers, Photographers, Living people, CPJ International Press Freedom Award winners, 1955 births

Shahidul Alam is a photographer and blogger from Bangladesh.  Alam was born in Dhaka, Bangladesh in 1955.

Alam received a PhD in chemistry from London University, then he decided to study photography.  He started the Drik Agency, the Bangladesh Photographic Institute, and Pathshala, the South Asian Institute of Photography; which National Geographic calls "one of the finest schools of photography in the world". 

[[Nazimuddin Samad]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladeshi people, 2016 deaths, Bangladeshi bloggers

Nazimuddin Samad (Bengali:নাজিমুদ্দিন সামাদ)(c. 1988 - April 6, 2016) was a law student, activist, and blogger from Sylhet in Bangladesh. He was a student at Jagannath University in Dhaka.  On April 6, three or four young men killed him with machetes and shot him in the head.

Samad was a member of the ‘Sylhet Bangabanghu National Youth Parishad’. He was also an activist in Ganajagaran Mancha, for bloggers.  He spoke against religious fundamentalism.

Samad received many threats.  His name was on an Islamist list of 84 bloggers in Bangladesh in 2013.  A local al-Qaeda group said they killed him.

== References == 

[[Ahmed Rajib Haider]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladeshi bloggers, 2013 deaths

Ahmed Rajib Haider (Bengali: আহমেদ রাজীব হায়দার)(? - Feb. 15, 2013) was an architect and blogger from Bangladesh. Haider was killed on February 15, 2013. More than 100,000 people attended his funeral in Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh. 

Haider organized protests against war criminals from the 1971 war.  He also spoke against the fundamentalist Islamist political party Jamaat-e-Islami.

The protests started on February 5, and continued for 12 days.  A group of bloggers stated the protests.   They protested against a verdict by the special war tribunal that sent Abdul Quader Mollah, a Jamaat leader, to prison.  Mollah was convicted of murder, rape and torture. The protesters wanted the death sentence.  

In December 2015, two students were sentenced to death for killing Haider. Police said the students got their ideas from Jashim Uddin Rahmani, the leader of a mosque in Dhaka, who said it was legal to kill bloggers. 

== References == 

[[Creuse (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Centre-Val de Loire

The Creuse (Cruesa) is a river in western France that flows through the Nouvelle-Aquitaine and Centre-Val de Loire regions.

It rises in the Massif Central and flows into the Vienne river, as a right tributary.

[[Guðni Th. Jóhannesson]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Presidents of Iceland, Current national leaders, People from Reykjavík

Guðni Thorlacius Jóhannesson (born June 26, 1968) is an independent politician and the President of Iceland. He became president on August 1 2016. Guðni holds a PhD in history from Queen Mary University of London.

[[Hapoel Be'er Sheva F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Israeli football clubs, 1949 establishments in Asia, 1940s establishments in Israel

Hapoel Be'er Sheva Football Club (Hebrew: מועדון הכדורגל הפועל באר שבע‎‎, Moadon HaKaduregel Hapoel Be'er Sheva) is a professional association football club that is from Beersheba, Israel. The club currently plays in the Israeli Premier League, and has been one of the best Israeli clubs since the 1970's. Hapoel Be'er Sheva was founded in 1949.

The team's colours are red and white. They play their home games at the Turner Stadium (which can hold around 16,000 people). The clubs first game was against a team made up of mostly South American players and was from southern Israel. They won that game 5-4.

[[2016–17 UEFA Champions League]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in association football, UEFA Champions League seasons, 2017 in association football

The 2016-17 UEFA Champions League is the 62st season of Europe's premier club football tournament organised by UEFA. It is the 25th season since it was renamed from the European Champion Clubs' Cup to the UEFA Champions League.

The 2017 UEFA Champions League Final was  played at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff, Wales. Real Madrid are the defending champions.

[[FK Vardar]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 establishments in Europe, Football clubs, Sport in North Macedonia, Skopje

FK Vardar (Macedonian: ФК Вардар; usually just called Vardar) is a professional association football club from Skopje, North Macedonia. The club was founded in 1947and have played in every Macedonian First Football League saeson since it's creation. The club was named after the Vardar river (which runs right through the middle of Macedonia and ends at the Thermaic Gulf in Greece). FK Vardar is the most successful Macedonian team, winning 9 national championships and 5 national cups.

[[Lincoln Red Imps F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs, Gibraltar, 1976 establishments in Europe

The Lincoln Red Imps Football Club is a semi-professional association football club from Gibraltar. They currently play in the Gibraltar Premier Division and share the Victoria Stadium with all other clubs in the territory. They have won 22 league titles and 17 cup titles. The football club was first formed in 1976 by Charles Polson and Charles Head.

[[Falmouth, Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Virginia

Falmouth is a  census-designated place (CDP) in Stafford County, Virginia,  United States. It is situated on the north bank of the Rappahannock River at the falls. The community is north of and opposite the city of Fredericksburg. Recognized by the U.S. Census Bureau as a census-designated place (CDP), Falmouth's population was 4,274 as of the 2010 census.

[[Vienne (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Centre-Val de Loire

The Vienne (Vinhana) is one of the most important rivers in southwestern France, a main left tributary of the lower Loire river. It supports numerous hydroelectric dams.

It flows through the Nouvelle-Aquitaine and Centre-Val de Loire regions, and two French départements are named after the Vienne: the Haute-Vienne (87) and the Vienne (86).

[[Aquia Creek]]

CATEGORIES: Waterways, Rivers of Virginia

Aquia Creek (pron) is a 27.6 tributary of the tidal portion of the Potomac River and is located in Northern Virginia. The creek's headwaters lie in southeastern Fauquier County, and it empties into the Potomac at Brent Point in Stafford County, 45 south of Washington, D.C.

[[C96]]

CATEGORIES: Pistols

The Mauser C96, is a German semi-automatic pistol that has a broomhandle-style pistol grip made by Mauser. Nicknames for the gun include the Broomhandle (named for its grip), the Red 9, and the box cannon. Although there were some semi-automatic pistols made before it was invented, the C96 was one of the first that was successful. The C96 was used by many countries including Germany, Spain, China, and the Soviet Union. The C96 was produced by Germany from 1896 and ended in 1937. Spain and China made many of their own unlicensed models of the C96 Although it was invented in Germany, it was never a standard pistol for the German military. Nonetheless, it was still very popular pistol for German soldiers and officers until the end of World War II. The only country that made the C96 its standard pistol was China.

The C96 had many different models that fired different types of bullets. The first models fired 7.63x25mm Mauser bullets, but Germany later made a 9x19mm Parabellum version. 9x19mm versions of the gun have a red number 9 imprinted on the handle so that people would know to only load 9x19mm bullets and not the 7.63x25mm bullets. This is how the 9x19mm versions got the nickname "Red 9". In China, .45 ACP versions were made for the police and the military. The Chinese Army nicknamed the C96 the boxcannon, but the official name was the Type 17 pistol.

The gun comes with a magazine built in the gun. Most magazines for the C96 could hold 6 bullets, 10 bullets, or 20 bullets. Unlike most semi-automatic pistols, in order to load the C96, the shooter must load the bullets through the top of the gun using a stripper clip (like what you see in the picture above), rather than load a box magazine inside the grip. The C96 can also attach a wooden buttstock to the grip so that the shooter can aim more easily. The buttstock is also used as the gun's holster. The gun was also one of the first machine pistols, since some models allow the shooter to shoot the gun in full automatic fire.

Although the C96 is a little awkward to use, especially compared to most pistols today, it's old and unusual appearance make it a popular weapon in video games, like Resident Evil 4, the Metal Gear series, the Zombies game mode in the Call of Duty series, Bioshock: Infinite, Battlefield 1, Call of Duty: WWII, Far Cry 4, and many others.

[[Plumcot]]

CATEGORIES: Plums

The plumcot is a hybrid fruit. A plumcot is part plum and part apricot. There are many different types of plumcot. Some of them are about half plum and half apricot, while others are mostly plum. One well-known type of plumcot is called the pluot, which is a trademarked name for plumcots that were developed in the 1980s by Floyd Zaiger.  The first plumcots were bred in the late 1800s by Luther Burbank.

[[Flintlock]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms

A flintlock is a general term for firearms that use the flintlock firing mechanism. It can also refer just to the firing mechanism itself. A flintlock uses a piece of flint held in a locking jaw. When the trigger is pulled, a hammer with the flint attached falls, striking a piece of steel called a "frizzen". This causes a spark which causes the gunpowder in the pan (directly below the flint) to ignite. Through a small hole, this ignites the main powder charge in the breech of the gun causing it to fire the round ball, shot or bullet. The flintlock was a very popular type of musket for over 200 years. Flintlocks were available with smoothbore and later rifled gun barrels.

[[War of Attrition]]

CATEGORIES: Middle East, War, 1967, 1968, 1969, 1970, 20th century in Egypt, 1960s in Israel, 1970s in Israel

The War of Attrition (1967–1970) was a war between Egypt and Israel. It ran from March 1969 to 7th August 1970 when the ceasefire was restored. It followed the Six-Day War in 1967, when Israel won a victory and captured the Golan Heights, Gaza Strip and the West Bank.

[[Secret (Madonna song)]]

CATEGORIES: Madonna songs, Pop songs, 1994 songs

"Secret" is a pop song from Madonna's studio album Bedtime Stories. This song is about a lover having a secret. It hit #3 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.

The song was released on September 27, 1994. It was declared Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America.

[[Express Yourself (Madonna song)]]

CATEGORIES: Madonna songs, Dance-pop songs, 1989 songs

"Express Yourself" is a 1989 dance-pop song by Madonna. The lyrics are about female empowerment and inspire women to go for the best. The song was a tribute to American R&B-funk band Sly and the Family Stone.August 2016

The song peaked at #2 on the American Billboard Hot 100. It was certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America.

There are many versions of the song. One is almost eleven minutes long.

[[Fast & Furious (2009 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s action movies, 2009 thriller movies, Fast & Furious movies, Movies directed by Justin Lin

Fast & Furious (also known by Fast & Furious 4) is a 2009 American action movie directed by Justin Lin. The story was written by Chris Morgan. The movie is the fourth one of the Fast and the Furious movies. The movie gets back together the actors Vin Diesel, Paul Walker, Michelle Rodriguez and Jordana Brewster. The movie follows from The Fast and the Furious, the 2001 movie into a the time right now. The same actors are in both movies. The movie came out on April 3, 2009. The movie got bad comments when it came out. The movie made $363 million dollars all over the world.

[[Arda Turan]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Turkish footballers, Muslims, UEFA Euro 2016 players

Arda Turan (born 30 January 1987) is a Turkish football player. He plays for F.C. Barcelona and Turkey national team.

[[FN F2000]]

CATEGORIES: Bullpup rifles, Assault rifles

The F2000 is an Belgian bullpup 5.56×45mm NATO assault rifle. 

The F2000 has been in production since 2001.  It is used in many countries including Belgium, Libya, Peru, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and more. The F2000 is a replacement of the FN FNC. 

The FS2000 is a civilian version of the gun. FS2000 is only semi-automatic and has a long barrel. It began production in 2006.

[[Gold Star family]]

CATEGORIES: Military

Gold Star families (or Gold Star American families) are the relatives of US military members who died in battle.

[[Sex hormone]]

CATEGORIES: Steroid hormones

Sex hormones, also called sex steroids, are steroid hormones that interact with androgen or estrogen receptors. 

The non-steroid luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone and gonadotropin-releasing hormone are usually not regarded as sex hormones, although they play major sex-related roles.

Natural sex steroids are made by the gonads (ovaries or testes), by adrenal glands, or by conversion from other sex steroids in tissues such as liver or fat.

[[Darwin Day]]

CATEGORIES: Charles Darwin, Evolution, Secularism

Darwin Day is celebrated in the United States on 12 February, the birthday of Charles Darwin. This recognizes the importance of his book The Origin of Species, the basis of the theory of evolution. The decision was taken by the US Congress. 

The date is not widely known or celebrated in the UK. However, 2009 was the 200th anniversary of Darwin's birth and was also the 150th anniversary of the publication of Origin of Species. Events were planned, with celebrations in Shrewsbury (his birthplace), the University of Cambridge, and the Natural History Museum in London.

== References == 

[[SPAS-12]]

CATEGORIES: Shotguns

The SPAS-12 is a Italian combat shotgun that was produced from 1979 until 2000. The SPAS-12 is a dual-mode shotgun, adjustable for semi-automatic or pump-action operation. The SPAS-12 has been popular in many movies, TV shows, and video games including Call of Duty, Battlefield, Grand Theft Auto, Left 4 Dead and more.

[[Lucille Dumont]]

CATEGORIES: Musicians from Quebec, Canadian pop singers, 1919 births, 2016 deaths

Lucille Dumont (January 20, 1919 – July 29, 2016) was a Canadian singer, radio host and television host. She was credited by the Canadian Songwriters Hall of Fame for having "served and personified" Quebec popular music. She was also credited with being "at the birth of Quebec television", having been in Radio Canada's first television shows.

Dumont was inducted into the Canadian Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2006.

Dumont was born in Montreal, Quebec. She died at age 97.

[[Mukto-Mona]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights organizations in Asia, Organisations based in Bangladesh

Mukto-Mona (Bengali: মুক্তমনা ) is the first online platform for Bengali speaking freethinkers, atheists, and secular bloggers and writers, started by Avijit Roy.  The meaning of Mukto-Mona is "free mind".  The website supports free expression and criticizes religious fundamentalism, especially Islamic religious fundamentalism. 

The Council for Secular Humanism called Mukto-Mona "the largest and the fastest-growing collection of contemporary freethinkers in Bangladesh and within South Asia". The group worked with international NGOs like the Center for Inquiry and the International Humanist and Ethical Union.  

The website was moderated by Avijit Roy. Roy was killed on February 26, 2015.  Ananta Bijoy Das also wrote for the blog. Das was killed on May 12, 2015. The group al-Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent said they were responsible for Roy's death.  Ananta Bijoy Das was on a list of targets by the same group of Islamists who were behind the murder of Avijit Roy. 

[[International Humanist and Ethical Union]]

CATEGORIES: Humanism

The International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU) is a humanist NGO based in the U.K. It has members on United Nations committees and other international organizations.  It was started in Amsterdam in 1952.

[[Thesis statement]]

CATEGORIES: Writing

In an essay or research paper, a thesis statement is a statement at the start or the end of an introduction that shows the reader the argument of the essay. A thesis statement gives concise information about what the whole essay is about, including the topic of the paper. It is usually just one sentence but it may have more than one sentence. The thesis statement is explained further using body paragraphs. Thesis statements are not obscure, because obscurity happens when a "writer is himself not quite sure of his meaning.  He has a vague impression of what he wants to say, but has not, either from lack of mental power or from laziness, exactly formulated it in his mind, and it is natural enough that he should not find a precise expression for a confused idea.” (W. Somerset Maugham). Clarity and unity of a thought in an essay flows from a good thesis statement. Rubrics of a good essay involve good sentence development and formation acceptable to grammatical standards and relevant word choices organized in forms of phrases, clauses and sentences.   

[[Metropolitan City of Bari]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Apulia

The Metropolitan City of Bari (Città Metropolitana di Bari) is a metropolitan city in the Apulia region of Southern Italy. Its capital, and of the Apulia region, is the city of Bari.

It replaced the Province of Bari and includes the city of Bari and some forty other municipalities (comuni). It was first created by the reform of local authorities (Law 142/1990) and then established by the Law 56/2014. It has been operative since January 1, 2015.

[[California Republic]]

CATEGORIES: 1846, 1840s in California, 1840s in Mexico

[[Scheunen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Scheunen is a former municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Scheunen and Münchringen merged into the municipality of Jegenstorf.

[[BC Budivelnyk]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball teams

BC Budivelnyk Kyiv - is a Ukrainian basketball team. It was founded in 1945.

[[Scheuren]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Scheuren is a municipality of the administrative district Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Candidate]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A candidate, or nominee, is a person (or a thing) which is being considered for something. For a person, it might be an award or honor or membership of a group. An election, for example, often chooses one or a few, among two or more candidates. The word comes from a Latin word for white, because men who wanted to be chosen would wear white so everyone would notice them. 

The word is also used in problem-solving. In chess, a distinction is made between legal moves and candidate moves. The candidate moves are those selected for a more detailed examination.

[[Biel/Bienne (administrative district)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments in Switzerland, Districts of Bern

The administrative district of Biel/Bienne in the Swiss canton of Bern has 19 municipalities in an area of 97.63 km².

[[Brown Bess]]

CATEGORIES: British Army equipment, Firearms

The Brown Bess is a nickname for the British Short Land Pattern Musket. It was produced from 1725–1838. The Land Pattern, or more popularly known as the "Brown Bess", and its versions were all .75 caliber smoothbore flintlock muskets. They were the standard guns for all land forces in the British Empire. It was one of the most important military firearms ever designed. It helped win the British Empire. The Brown Bess was replaced after 1838 by smoothbore percussion cap muskets. Its effective range was about 100 but in most battle situations the distance between forces was only about 50. Even at that range the gun was not particularly accurate. The British tactic was to fire in vollies followed by a bayonet attack. While the origins of the name Brown Bess are uncertain, a plausible explanation is the name was based on the German Braun buss, meaning strong gun. The gun was commissioned during the reign of King George I of Great Britain, who was from Germany.

[[Emmental (administrative district)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments in Switzerland, Districts of Bern

The administrative district of Emmental in the Swiss canton of Bern has 42 municipalities in an area of 691 km².

[[Schlosswil]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Schlosswil is a former municipality of the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2018 the former municipality of Schlosswil merged into the municipality of Grosshöchstetten.

[[Battle of Pirano]]

CATEGORIES: Battles involving France, 1812, Battles involving the United Kingdom

The Battle of Pirano was a naval battle of the Adriatic campaign of the Napoleonic Wars. It was between France and the United Kingdom. The battle was fought around Piran and Grado. 

[[Emirates Flight 521]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 disasters in Asia, August 2016 events, Aviation disasters in Asia, Aviation disasters in the 2010s, Dubai

Emirates Flight 521 was an Emirates airline crashed upon landing in Dubai International Airport on 3 August 2016. One person was killed and 39 others injured. 

[[Province of Barletta-Andria-Trani]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Apulia

The Province of Barletta-Andria-Trani (Provincia di Barletta-Andria-Trani) is a province in the Apulia region of Southern Italy. The capital is shared by three cities: Barletta, Andria and Trani. The province borders the Adriatic Sea.

[[Schüpfen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Schüpfen is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Dissociative]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Dissociatives are a type of hallucinogenic drug. Dissociatives can make the user feel separated or dissociated from their body and environment. They are often used as anesthetic, to make people unconscious during operations or for other medical uses. 

Dissociatives change users perceptions and can cause hallucinations, trance and euphoria. They are usually only used on animals or children, who won't notice these effects. However, for this reason they are also used recreationally or for fun. In many countries however, they are illegal to use for this purpose. Some dissociatives, like that produced from Salvia divinorum, enter the bloodstream and attach to opioid receptors in the brain. Others attach to dopamine receptors. Most block the chemical glutamate from its normal action in the brain. Glutamate is important in how the brain processes memory and pain. The most commonly available dissociatives around the world are ketamine, phencyclidine (PCP) and dextromethorphan or DXM.

[[Schwadernau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Schwadernau is a municipality in Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Springfield Model 1795 Musket]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms, 1795 establishments in the United States

The US Springfield Model 1795 Musket was the first smoothbore flintlock musket produced in the United States. It was based on the French Model 1763 Charleville musket and like the French design was a .69 caliber musket. The Charleville and the Brown Bess were the two most famous muskets during the 18th century. The Charleville musket had been the primary musket used by Americans during the American Revolutionary War. The Charleville being the more accurate of the two, it was selected as the model for a new American musket.

[[Schwanden bei Brienz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Schwanden bei Brienz is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Schwarzhäusern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Schwarzhäusern is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Roggwil, Berne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Roggwil is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[RPK machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: Machine guns

The RPK is a Soviet machine gun that was designed by Mikhail Kalashnikov. The RPK is a replacement of the older RPD. The RPK production began in 1961 and ended in 1978. The RPK-74 began in 1974 replacing the older RPK. The RPK was based on the AK-47. The RPK was used by the NVA and Viet Congs in the Vietnam War.

[[South Italy]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Italy

South Italy (Italia meridionale or just Sud Italia) is one of the five official statistical regions of Italy used by the National Institute of Statistics (ISTAT), a NUTS1 level region.

South Italy is defined only for statistical and for some elections. It should not to be confused with the Mezzogiorno, or Southern Italy, which generally refers to all the southern half of the Italian State, including the island of Sicily and sometimes even Sardinia. The two islands form a distinct statistical region.region.

[[Champdor-Corcelles]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France

Champdor-Corcelles is a commune in the Ain department of eastern France. It was established on 1 January 2016. It is made of the former communes of Champdor and Corcelles.

[[Le Poizat-Lalleyriat]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France

Le Poizat-Lalleyriat is a commune in the Ain department of eastern France. It was established on January 1, 2016. It is made of the former communes of Lalleyriat and Le Poizat.

[[Val-Revermont]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France

Val-Revermont is a commune in the Ain department of eastern France. It was established on January 1, 2016. It is made of the former communes of Treffort-Cuisiat and Pressiat.

[[Schwendibach]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Schwendibach was a municipality in Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2020 the former municipality of Schwendibach became part of of Steffisburg.

[[Seeberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Seeberg is a municipality of the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. The lake Burgäschisee is on the border with Aeschi. On 1 January 2016 the former municipality of Hermiswil merged into Seeberg.

[[Laws of motion]]

In physics, a number of noted theories of the motion of objects have developed. Among the best-known are:

[[Interchangeable parts]]

CATEGORIES: Manufacturing, History of technology

Interchangeable parts is a  basic concept of creating identical or nearly identical parts to be mass produced. These parts can then be put together to form a product. For example, cars, computers, furniture, almost all products used today, are made from interchangeable parts. These parts are made with precision machines so each part can fit in any product that uses this part. Since it is no longer necessary to make each part one at a time and by hand, assembling products takes fewer workers. This lowers the cost of the product. Interchangeability of parts also allows products to be repaired by replacing a broken part with an identical new part. Eli Whitney was the first to use interchangeable parts in manufacturing.

[[Social media in the 2016 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: Social networking, 2016 United States presidential election

In 2016, social media had the biggest effect ever on the United States presidential election. For the first time, social media created the change (of plans for Democratic and Republican primaries) rather than talking about it. Many journalists expected this.

[[FN BRG-15]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy machine guns

FN BRG-15 was a heavy machine gun. It was designed by Fabrique Nationale de Herstal to replace Browning M2HB .50 caliber heavy machine gun. However, the project was cancelled in the early 1990s.

[[Mettauertal]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Aargau, 2010 establishments in Switzerland

Mettauertal is a municipality of the district Laufenburg in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2010 the former municipalities of Etzgen, Hottwil, Mettau, Oberhofen and Wil merged into the new municipality of Mettauertal.

[[Münchwilen, Aargau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Aargau

Münchwilen is a municipality of the district Laufenburg in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland.

[[Unterehrendingen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Aargau, Villages in Aargau

Unterehrendingen is a village and former municipality in the district of Baden in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2006 the former municipalities of Unterehrendingen and Oberehrendingen merged into the new municipality of Ehrendingen

[[Lodano]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 disestablishments in Switzerland, Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

Lodano is a village and former municipality of the district of Vallemaggia in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 4 April 2004 the former municipalities of Aurigeno, Coglio, Giumaglio, Lodano, Moghegno and Someo merged into the municipality of Maggia.

[[Honoré Blanc]]

CATEGORIES: 1736 births, 1807 deaths, French inventors

Honoré Blanc (1736–1807) was a French gunsmith and inventor. He was one of the first to use the concept of interchangeable parts. Blanc was born in Avignon, France in 1736. At age 12 he became an apprentice to a gunsmith. He was an armorer at the Charleville armory in Charleville-Mézières, Ardennes, France. In 1763 he became the controller of gunlocks at the Saint-Étienne arms factory. Just before the French Revolution, he came up with the idea of interchangeable parts for gun locks. 

[[Seedorf, Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Seedorf is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Seehof, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Seehof (Elay) is a municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. This is one of two German speaking cities in the majority French-speaking Bernese Jura (Jura bernois). The other is Schelten.

[[Long range shooting]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms

Long range shooting is a relative term generally meaning accurate shooting at distances ordinary shooters with ordinary rifles could not hit. For example, Daniel Boone, using a flintlock rifle could probably hit a target at up to 100. Today, expert marksmen are hitting targets well over 1 away. Modern long range shooting is more than just using modern machined actions and precision gun barrels. These produce a rifle that a decent shooter can hit targets at about 250 yards, ranges that were unheard of by black powder shooters. 

[[Battle rifle]]

CATEGORIES: Battle rifles

A battle rifle is a select fire rifle that fires a powerful bullet such as 7.62×51mm NATO. The FAL, G3, and M14 are the most common battle rifles used in the Cold War. They are more powerful than assault rifles. Assault rifles shoots a 5.56×45mm NATO which is less powerful than a 7.62×51mm NATO.

[[Ofanto]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Italy

The Ofanto (Aufidus) is a river in South Italy that flows through the regions of Campania, Basilicata, and Apulia, and into the Adriatic Sea.

[[Apple Maps]]

CATEGORIES: Cartography, Apple software

Apple Maps is a mapping service. It is an app that comes with every iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac, and Apple Watch, but not available on the web. It gives information about local businesses and their ratings, and reads driving directions as you are driving; or on an Apple Watch, it will vibrate when you need to turn. Apple Maps is also known for its 3D views of many major metro areas, which has been compared favorably to Google Earth.

It started in 2012, but when it started many users did not trust it and went back to using Google Maps. Apple has been busy fixing it so users can trust it, and nowadays Apple Maps is used 3.5 times as much as Google Maps on devices Apple Maps is supported. At first, Apple Maps was only on iOS, but Apple has made it so Apple Maps can also be used on Macs and Apple Watches.

[[Ajamu Baraka]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, African American politicians, American educators, American human rights activists, Politicians from Chicago, Politicians from Washington, D.C., 2016 United States vice-presidential candidates, Green Party of the United States politicians

Ajamu Baraka (born October 25, 1953) is an African American human rights activist. He is the Green Party's presumptive nominee for Vice President of the United States, in the 2016 election running with Jill Stein. Baraka has taught political science at Clark Atlanta University, Spelman College, and other academic institutions.

[[The Parent Trap (1998 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 romance movies, 1998 comedy movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Disney movies

The Parent Trap is a 1998 American romantic comedy movie co-written and directed by Nancy Meyers, and produced and co-written by Charles Shyer. It is a remake of the 1961 movie of the same name.

Dennis Quaid and Natasha Richardson star as a divorced couple who separated shortly after their identical twin daughters' birth; Lindsay Lohan stars (in her movie debut) as both twins.

[[Seftigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Seftigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Signau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Signau is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Frutigen-Niedersimmental (administrative district)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bern, 2010 establishments in Switzerland

The administrative district of Frutigen-Niedersimmental in the Swiss canton of Bern has 13 municipalities in an area of 774 km².

[[Interlaken-Oberhasli (administrative district)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments in Switzerland, Districts of Bern

The administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the Swiss canton of Bern has 29 municipalities in an area of 1,229 km².

[[Tonia Sotiropoulou]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Actresses who played Bond girls, Greek actors, Models

Tonia Sotiropoulou (born on 28 April 1987 in Glyfada, Athens, Greece) is a Greek actress and model. She left Greece to begin her international career when she was 21 years old. She is best known for being in the 2012 film Skyfall. She also played in the 2014 film Hercules with Dwayne Johnson and Ian McShane.

[[Shermine Shahrivar]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, German models, People from Tehran

Shermine Shahrivar (شرمینه شهریورتهرانی,; born on 20 November 1982) is a German model and beauty pageant titleholder who won Miss Europe in 2005. She was born in Tehran, Iran.

[[Sigriswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Sigriswil is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Social structure]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology

Social structure is the framework of a society founded by a distinct tradition of hierarchy by birth in the social group and by occupation or tradition of work as a distinct social class.

[[Social Investment]]

CATEGORIES: Finance, Social sciences

Social Investments are resource inputs in any social groups or society that may bring about a social change.

[[Siselen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Siselen (Zezèle) is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Sonceboz-Sombeval]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Sonceboz-Sombeval is a municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Sonvilier]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Villages in Bern

Sonvilier is a municipality of the administrative district Jura bernois in the Swiss canton of Berne.

[[List of flag bearers for Azerbaijan at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Olympic Games, Sport in Azerbaijan, Azerbaijani sportspeople

This is a list of flag bearers who have represented Azerbaijan at the Olympics.

Flag bearers carry the national flag of their country at the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games.

[[List of programs broadcast by Disney Junior (USA)]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of television series by network, Disney

[[Combat boot]]

CATEGORIES: Footwear, Military

Combat boots are military boots designed to be worn by soldiers during combat or combat training. They are not intended for wear during parades and other ceremonial duties. 

Modern combat boots are designed to provide a combination of grip, ankle stability, and foot protection suitable for a rugged environment. They are traditionally made of hardened and sometimes waterproofed leather. Today, many combat boots incorporate technologies originating in civilian hiking boots, such as Gore-Tex nylon side panels, which improve ventilation and comfort. They are also often specialized for certain climates and conditions, such as jungle boots, desert boots, and cold weather boots as well as specific uses, such as tanker boots and jump boots.

[[Jump boot]]

CATEGORIES: Footwear

Jump boots are the combat boots worn by paratroopers. They have calf-length lacing and hard toes. During World War II, many countries came up with their own type of jump boots. The uppers are usually made of smooth black leather that is easy to shine. It is also a paratrooper tradition to lace jump boots in a ladder or cobweb style which increases ankle support during a parachute jump.

[[Vogue (Madonna song)]]

CATEGORIES: Madonna songs, Dance-pop songs, 1990 songs

"Vogue" is a 1990 dance-pop song by Madonna. The song is about Hollywood fashion. The song's rap section talks about 16 stars from the 1920s to the 1950s, such as Greta Garbo, Katharine Hepburn and Marilyn Monroe.

The song hit #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 in May 1990. The song also hit #1 on several other charts worldwide.

The song won awards for Best Single and Best Video in the Rolling Stone Reader's Poll Awards.

The song comes in many remixes. One of them is eight minutes/twenty five seconds long.

[[Assassination of Orlando Letelier]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 in the United States, 1970s explosions, 1970s in South America, 1970s in Washington, D.C., 20th century in Chile, Assassinations in the United States, Car and truck bombings, Crime in Washington, D.C., Explosions in the United States, Murder in the 1970s, Murder in the United States, Political scandals, September events, Terrorist attacks in the United States, Terrorist incidents in the 1970s

The Assassination of Orlando Letelier was a car bombing which killed Orlando Letelier, a Chilean socialist political figure when Salvador Allende was president of Chile during those years. It all starts when he was based in the United States as an activist but Letelier was assassinated in Washington, D.C. with mainly his American assistant, Ronni Karpen Moffitt and her husband Michael (who worked for Letelier) by some Chilean DINA agents in September 21, 1976. Until 9/11, it was known as the most infamous act of international terrorism in the capital of the US.

Declassified U.S. intelligence documents show and confirm that Pinochet ordered the killing.

[[Beauty of Loulan]]

CATEGORIES: History of China, Xinjiang, European people

The Beauty of Loulan (楼兰美女) or Loulan Beauty (Other aliases: Loulan middle-aged woman(楼兰長女)) is the preserved dead body of a woman who lived about 4000 years ago, during the Bronze Age.  She was found on April 1, 1980 near the Silk Road in the Xinjiang region of China, by Chinese archaeologists Mu Sun-ing (穆舜英) and members of the Archaeological Institute of the Xinjiang Academy of Social Sciences. She is one of the Tarim mummies, named after where they were found, the Tarim Basin.

Unlike Egyptian mummies, which were preserved on purpose, the Loulan Beauty was preserved almost by accident. She was buried near a salt lake in a desert, where the arid and dry conditions preserved even the finer details of her face such as her eyelashescn.

For many years, the Chinese government forebode the testing of the mummy's DNA, due to fears that it would lead to it being used by nationalist local Uighurs. In 1993, Victor H. Mair and Italian geneticist Paolo Francalacci, were able to test some tissue samplescn, and although the Chinese government confiscated the samples, Mair claims a Chinese scientist later 'slipped in to their hands' as they were leaving. They found that the Loulan Beauty was probably Indo-European but also probably came from Siberia. Later, in 2007 and 2009, scientists from China's Jilin University and Fudan University both tested the Loulan Beauty's DNA. cn. They found she was at least part European, but her people might have lived in Siberia before migrating to Xinjiangcn. But they all found that the Loulan Beauty was not an Uighur womancn, which meant there was less reason for people to argue about her. In 2015, the Chinese government let the Loulan Beauty and other mummies tour foreign museums as an exhibit about the Silk Road.

Her ancestry on her father's side was said to be Indo-European, with a notable feature being her red haircn. The woman is approximated to have been between 40-48 years old at the time of her deathcn. The body is of 152-155 cm in staturecn, and her blood type was Ocn. 

Scientists learned things about her life by looking at her body and clothes. Her shoes and clothing having been worn out and fixed repeatedly. Her hair was infested with lice. She had inhaled a great amount of sand, dust and charcoal. She may have died of lung problems. She lived around B.C 1900~B.C 1800.

The mummy is wrapped in a wool cloth, cowhide leather, and linen. She is wearing leather shoes. Several items made out of clay and some grain were found with her.

In 1980, she was restored by a Japanese painter named Yamaguchi Terunari(山本耀也). Her ancestry on her father's side was of Indo-European origin, but her mother seems to have been at least of mixed Asian heritage. The mummy is currently displayed on the second floor of the Xinjiang Museum, "Mummy Hall"(古尸馆). She was possibly an ancestor of Tocharians.

[[Orlando Letelier]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 1976 deaths, Ambassadors, Chilean politicians

Orlando Letelier del Solar (April 13, 1932 – September 21, 1976) was a Chilean socialist politician during the presidency of Salvador Allende.

Looking for a refuge from the military regime of General Augusto Pinochet, Letelier accepted academic positions in Washington, D.C. He was assassinated by agents of the Pinochet regime's secret police (DINA) in 1976, in collaboration with members of the "Coordination of United Revolutionary Organizations".

[[42 (disambiguation)]]

42 may mean:

[[2015 Rugby World Cup]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in sports, 2015 in the United Kingdom, Rugby union, Sport in the United Kingdom, September 2015 events, October 2015 events

The 2015 Rugby World Cup was the 8th Rugby World Cup tournament. It was played in England from 18 September to 31 October. Scotland won the tournament over Australia to win their 3rd title. 20 nations competed in the tournament.

[[Qarabağ FK]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs, 1951 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Azerbaijan, 1951 establishments in Asia

Qarabağ Futbol Klubu (usually just called Qarabağ) is a professional association football club from Baku, Azerbaijan. The club was originally from Agdam, but moved to Baku because of the Nagorno-Karabakh War. The club plays in the Azerbaijan Premier League.

Qarabağ was formed in 1951, and were the founding members of the Azerbaijan Premier League in 1992. A season later they won their first league championship, which made them the first non-Baku based club to win the Azerbaijan Premier League title.

The clubs plays at the Tofiq Bahramov Republican Stadium, which has a capacity of around 31,200. The Azerbaijan national football team also uses that stadium. They used to play at the Imarat Stadium, but it was destroyed by the Armenian military during the Nagorno-Karabakh War.

The club won their first league title in 21 years in 2014. Qarabağ  have won the Premier league four times and Azerbaijan Cup five times. In the same year, Qarabağ became the second Azerbaijani team to advance to the group stage of a European competition after they beat Twente in the play-off round of the 2014–15 UEFA Europa League.

[[Maryam Zakaria]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Swedish actors, Iranian actors, Living people

Maryam Zakaria (Persian: مریم زکریا; born on 27 September 1985 in Tehran) Swedish-Iranian actress. She has worked in Bollywood and the South Indian Cinema. She is best known for her work in the 2012 film Agent Vinod.

[[Sornetan]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Sornetan is a former municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Sornetan, Châtelat, Monible and Souboz merged into the new municipality of Petit-Val.

[[Fusil de chasse]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms

The French-made Fusil de chasse (fu-zi dee chā-se), originally meant "gun of the hunt”, was a light smoothbore flintlock musket designed for hunting. They were an elegant flintlock with a distinctive "cow's foot" shape to the buttstock that softened recoil. This La Peid stock shape is typical of long guns made at Tulle. The Fusil de Chasse was made at the Tulle (France) arms factory. The fusils were very similar to the Charleville musket, also made at Tulle. Fusils were typically lighter and shorter than the Charleville muskets. The name fusil is phonetically pronounced "fusee" in English." The French name Fusil is a corruption of the Italian fucile meaning flint. Both the French and the British had versions of the officer's fusil. The British fucils were based on the Brown Bess musket. Also from the name fusil comes the term fusilier. A very similar but cheaper version was the fusil de traite (trade gun). The officer's fusil is fitted for a sling and the stock is 4 shorter than the barrel in order to fit a socket bayonet. The officer's fusil was much better made. But there is some confusion between the two versions. At 20 gauge (.62 caliber) the fusil was also used as a fowling gun (early predecessor of the shotgun). Fusils were a common musket in 18th century Colonial America and were used by Americans during the American Revolution.

[[List of programs broadcast by Discovery Kids]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of television series by network

This is a list of programs on Discovery Kids.

[[Sorvilier]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Sorvilier is a municipality of the administrative district Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

The municipality is in the Tavannes valley on both sides of the Birs river.

[[Sun Myung Moon]]

CATEGORIES: Korean people, Conservatives, 1920 births, 2012 deaths

Sun Myung Moon (25 February 1920 – 3 September 2012) was a Korean religious leader, businessman and political activist. He believed he was the second coming of Jesus Christ. He founded the Unification Church. He was an ardent anti-communist and advocate for Korean reunification. He was recognized by the governments of North and South Korea. His business interests included New World Communications, an American news group that owned The Washington Times.

Moon was born in what is now North Korea. He moved to the United States in 1971. He became well-known after giving a series of public speeches based on his beliefs.

Critics called Moon a cult leader because he made high demands on his followers. He was criticized for his relationships with political and religious people, such as Presidents of the United States Richard Nixon, George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush. His wedding ceremonies drew criticism, especially when they involved members of other churches, such as the Roman Catholic bishop Emmanuel Milingo.

Moon died on 3 September 2012 of pneumonia and its complications.

[[The Dream Job]]

CATEGORIES: Singapore, Chinese language, 2010s television series, Drama television series

The Dream Job (Chinese: 绝世好工) is a Singaporean drama television series. It is produced and shown on Mediacorp Channel 8. It began its run from 28 June 2016. There are 30 episodes. It stars Hugo Ng, Shaun Chen, Jeanette Aw, Rebecca Lim, Zhang Zhenhuan and Ian Fang as the main characters.

A vast fortune and inheritance is at stake when a mysterious man offers three young candidates a dream job at his horticulture estate. They are eventually discovered to be his illegitimate children from the many affairs he had during his younger days. In the beginning, revenge and family politics are at play, but when one of them gets falsely accused of committing murder, the "siblings" finally overcome differences and band together.

Some scenes of this drama were shot in Perth, Australia.

[[Souboz]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern, Villages in Bern

Souboz was a municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Souboz, Châtelat, Monible and Sornetan merged into the new municipality of Petit-Val.

[[Oberaargau (administrative district)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments in Switzerland, Districts of Bern

The administrative district of Oberaargau in the Swiss canton of Bern has 50 municipalities in an area of 354 km².

[[Sirkazhi]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Tamil Nadu, Nagapattinam district

Sirkazhi is the major town in the Mayiladuthurai district, Tamil Nadu, India. The town covers an area of 13.21sq.km. The population according to 2011 census is 34,927. This city is the part of Cauvery delta region.

Sirkazhi is the motherland of the shaiva saint Thirugnanasambandhar, world renowned actor Sivaji Ganesan and many famous people.

The literacy rate of Sirkazhi population is 81.5%.87% of the population is Hindus, 9.5% are Muslim, 2.1% are Christians and 1% are others.

Famous temples here are the Bhrammapureeshwarar temple, also known as Sattainathar Temple,Vaitheeswaran temple and Kazheesirama Vinnagaram temple.

[[Gypsy Taub]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American political activists

Oxane "Gypsy" Taub (born 1970) is one of San Francisco's most well-known activists in naturism and "body freedom" of the past decade.

[[E-flat major]]

CATEGORIES: Musical keys, Major scales

Eb major is a musical major scale starting on Eb. Its key signature has three flats.

Its relative major is C minor and its parallel minor is Eb minor.

[[D-flat major]]

CATEGORIES: Musical keys, Major scales

Db major (or D-flat major) is a major scale based on Db. Its key signature has five flats.

Its relative minor is Bb minor, and its parallel minor is Db minor. This is usually replaced by C♯ minor because D♭ minor's eight flats (including the double-flat) make it generally impractical to use. Therefore, D♭ minor is often used as the parallel key of C♯ minor.

For example, Chopin's Prelude No. 15 in D-flat major ("Raindrop"), modulates from D-flat major to C-sharp minor for the middle section in the parallel minor, and in his Fantaisie-Impromptu, primarily in C-sharp minor, Chopin switches to D-flat major for the middle section for the opposite reason. Claude Debussy also switches from D-flat major to C-sharp minor in the significant section in his famous Clair de lune. Antonín Dvořák's New World Symphony likewise switches to C-sharp minor for a while for the significant section in the slow movement.

[[C-flat major]]

CATEGORIES: Musical keys, Major scales

C-flat major (or the key of C-flat) is a major scale based on Cflat, containing the pitches Cflat, Dflat, Eflat, Fflat, Gflat, Aflat, and Bflat. Its key signature has seven flats. The B major is the same as C-Flat, B major is a key signature with five sharps.

The C-flat major scale is:

[[Rafida Bonya Ahmed]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladeshi bloggers, Activists, Bangladeshi writers, American writers

Rafida Bonya Ahmed, better known as Bonya Ahmed, (Bengali: রাফিদা আহমেদ বন্যা, b. 1969), is a Bangladeshi-American author, humanist activist, and blogger.

On February 26, 2015, Bonya and her husband Avijit Roy were attacked by  machete wielding Islamic extremists while they were visiting Dhaka, Bangladesh, on a book signing trip. They were attacked in the middle of the street at a very crowded book fair. Avijit died after he was taken to the hospital, and Bonya was seriously injured.

[[Hayes School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in London, 1956 establishments in Europe, 1950s establishments in England

Hayes School is a mixed secondary school in Hayes, Bromley. This school is an academy. The head teacher is Mr. Whittle, as of July 2016. This school has an Ofsted rating of "Outstanding". This school has some of the highest GCSE and A-Level results in the country. In 2016, the school was announced as one of the top 100 schools in England for its GCSE results. Hayes School has a long waiting list and is very popular.

[[Petit-Val]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, 2015 establishments in Switzerland

Petit-Val is a new municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Châtelat, Monible, Sornetan and Souboz merged into the new municipality of Petit-Val.

[[Obersimmental-Saanen (administrative district)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments in Switzerland, Districts of Bern

The administrative district of Obersimmental-Saanen in the Swiss canton of Bern has 7 municipalities in an area of 575 km².

[[Spiez]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Spiez is a town and municipality in the administrative district of Frutigen-Niedersimmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

It is located on Lake Thun.

[[Recoil]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms

Recoil or kick (sometimes incorrectly called kickback) is the tendency of a firearm to move backwards and at the same time the muzzle of the gun to rise when fired. This is a reaction to the explosive force of a bullet leaving the barrel of a firearm. A handgun shooter feels the recoil in the hands and arms. A rifle or shotgun shooter feels most of the recoil in his or her shoulder.

[[Lego Ninjago]]

CATEGORIES: Lego

Lego Ninjago is a line of sets (video games, television series, and toys) produced by Lego. It is based on the sets of six Ninja: Lloyd, Kai, Jay, Nya, Zane, and Cole,  and many other characters from the television series. 

[[Ceratonia]]

CATEGORIES: Fabaceae

Ceratonia is small genus of flowering trees in the pea family, Fabaceae, endemic to the Mediterranean region and the Middle East.  Its best known member, the carob tree, is cultivated for its fruits (called pods) and has been widely introduced to regions with similar climates.

It belongs to the subfamily Caesalpinioideae.

The genus was created by Carl Linnaeus and published in Species Plantarum 2: 1026 en 1753. The type specimen is Ceratonia siliqua.

The genus was long considered monotypic (with only one species), but a second species, Ceratonia  oreothauma, was identified in 1979 from Oman and Somalia. 

[[Carob]]

CATEGORIES: Fabaceae, Fruits

The carob is a species of flowering evergreen tree  in the pea family, Fabaceae. Its  scientific name is Ceratonia siliqua L.

It is widely grown for its edible pods, and as an ornamental tree in gardens. The ripe, dried pod is often ground to carob powder, which is used to replace cocoa powder. Carob bars, an alternative to chocolate bars, are often available in health-food stores.

[[2016 Turkish purges]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in Turkey

The 2014–2016 Turkish judicial purges were purges of the judicial system of Turkey that took place in January 2014 and July 2016 during the presidency of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. In January 2014, 120 judges and prosecutors were reassigned during a major corruption enquiry and on 16 July 2016, 2,745 judges were dismissed immediately following the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt.

[[Araucanía Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The IX Araucanía Region (IX Región de La Araucanía) is one of Chile's 15 first order administrative divisions. Its capital and largest city is Temuco.

The Auracanía means "place where the Araucanians live". Araucanian (Araucano) was the name given by the Spanish to the Mapuche people that live in the region.

[[Los Ríos Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The XIV Los Ríos Region (XIV Región de Los Ríos, Region of the Rivers) is one of Chile's 15 first order administrative divisions. Its capital and largest city is Valdivia.

It began to operate as a region on 2007, having been created by subdividing the Los Lagos Region in southern Chile. It consists of two provinces: Valdivia and the new El Ranco province, that was part of the Valdivia province.

[[Los Lagos Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The X Los Lagos Region (X Región de Los Lagos) is one of the fifteen regions of Chile. It has four provinces.

The capital city of the region is Puerto Montt. Other towns are Puerto Varas, Ancud and Frutillar.

[[Maule Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The VII Maule Region (VII Región del Maule) is one of Chile's 16 first order administrative divisions. Its capital is Talca.

The region is named after its main river: the Maule river.

[[Hurricane Earl]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in weather, August 2016 events, Hurricanes in Mexico, 2010s in Mexico, 21st century in the Dominican Republic, 2010s in Belize, 2016 in North America

Hurricane Earl was a tropical cyclone in the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico in August 2016. The storm struck Belize and Mexico with wind of around 80 mph.

The storm caused 13 deaths in the Dominican Republic. More than fifty other deaths took place, mostly in Mexico. Damage totaled over $115 million.

[[Gwangju]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Korea

Gwangju is the sixth largest city in South Korea. It is in the southwest of Korea and is the center of Honam's economy, culture, education and government.

[[Kerckhoffs's principle]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

Kerckhoffs's principle (axiom, or law) is an idea in cryptography. It was stated by Dutch cryptographer Auguste Kerckhoffs in the 19th century. It is:

Kerckhoffs's principle was more briefly stated by American mathematician Claude Shannon as "the enemy knows the system", that is, "one ought to design systems under the assumption that the enemy will immediately gain full familiarity with them". In that form, it is called Shannon's maxim. It is opposite to the idea of "security through obscurity".

[[Charleville musket]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms, 1717 establishments, 1710s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies

The Charleville muskets were .69 caliber French smoothbore flintlock muskets used in the 18th and 19th centuries. The Charleville was used during the American Revolutionary War by the Americans and was later copied and manufactured in the US as the Springfield Model 1795 Musket.

[[Kirchhoff's laws]]

There are several Kirchhoff's laws, all named after Gustav Kirchhoff:

[[Arrondissements of the Charente-Maritime department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 5 arrondissements in the Charente-Maritime department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The 5 arrondissements of Charente-Maritime are:

[[Arrondissement of Jonzac]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Jonzac is an arrondissement of France, in the Charente-Maritime department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Jonzac.

[[Atacama Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The III Atacama Region Region (III Región de Atacama) is one of Chile's 15 first order administrative divisions. The southern portion of the Atacama Desert is in the region; the rest of the desert is in the other regions to the north (Norte Grande natural region).

The capital of the region is the city of Copiapó; it is at 806 north of Santiago, the capital of country.

[[Coquimbo Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The IV Coquimbo Region (IV Región de Coquimbo) is one of Chile's 15 first order administrative divisions.

The capital of the region is the city of La Serena; it is at 400 north of Santiago, the capital of the country. Other important cities include the seaport Coquimbo and the agricultural centre Ovalle.

[[Valparaíso Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The V Valparaiso Region (V Región de Valparaiso) is one of Chile's 15 first order administrative divisions.

The capital of the region is the city of Valparaiso, an important Chilean seaport. Other important cities are Viña del Mar, Quillota, Quilpué and Villa Alemana.

[[Arrondissement of Rochefort]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Rochefort is an arrondissement of France, in the Charente-Maritime department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Rochefort.

[[Arrondissement of La Rochelle]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of La Rochelle is an arrondissement of France, in the Charente-Maritime department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital, and the prefecture of the department, is the city of La Rochelle.

[[St. Stephan]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

St. Stephan is a municipality in the administrative district of Obersimmental-Saanen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Stettlen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Stettlen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Studen, Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Studen is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Sumiswald]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Sumiswald is a municipality of the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Sutz-Lattrigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, World Heritage Sites in Switzerland

Sutz-Lattrigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

It is on the southern shore of Lake Biel.

It is home to a number of Neolithic and Bronze Age lake shore archeological sites, including one that is part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

[[Tägertschi]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Tägertschi is a former municipality of the administrative district Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2017 the former municipality of Tägertschi merged into the municipality of Münsingen.

[[Siege of Petersburg]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, Sieges, 1864 in Virginia, 1865 in the United States

The Richmond–Petersburg Campaign was a series of battles around Petersburg, Virginia, fought from June 9, 1864, to March 25, 1865. Fought during the American Civil War, it is more popularly known as the Siege of Petersburg. But it was not a classic military siege, in which a city is usually surrounded and all supply lines are cut off. Nor was it strictly limited to actions against Petersburg. The campaign consisted of nine months of trench warfare in which Union forces commanded by Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant assaulted Petersburg unsuccessfully. Then the Union Army constructed trench lines that eventually extended over 50. They ran from the eastern outskirts of Richmond, Virginia, to around the eastern and southern outskirts of Petersburg. Petersburg was critical to the supply of Confederate Lieutenant General Robert E. Lee's army and the Confederate capital of Richmond. Numerous raids were conducted and battles fought in attempts to cut off the railroad supply lines through Petersburg to Richmond. Many of these caused the lengthening of the trench lines, overloading dwindling Confederate resources.

Lee finally gave in to the pressure and abandoned both cities on April 3, 1865. This led to Lee's final surrender at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865. The trench warfare of Petersburg became common in World War I, earning it a prominent position in military history. Of the 4,000 African American troops of the 4th Division, IX Corps, who fought at the Battle of the Crater on July 30, 1864, over half were killed, wounded or captured.

[[Arrondissement of Saintes]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Saintes is an arrondissement of France, in the Charente-Maritime department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Saintes.

[[Arrondissement of Saint-Jean-d'Angély]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Saint-Jean-d'Angély is an arrondissement of France, in the Charente-Maritime department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Saint-Jean-d'Angély.

[[Attacks by Islamic extremists in Bangladesh]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladesh, Secularism, Islamic terrorism, Journalism

In 2015, Islamic extremists killed four bloggers and a publisher in Bangladesh. A report by the Committee to Protect Journalists said Bangladesh was the fourth most deadly country for journalists.

In 2013, a local al-Qaeda group called Ansarullah Bengali Team had a list of 84 names of people it wanted silenced. By 2015, 8 of them were dead: Avajit Roy, Rajeeb Haider, Jafar Munshi, Mamun Hossain, Jagatjyoti Talukder, Arif Hossain Dwip, Ziauddin Zakaria Babu and Wasikur Rahman.

Jafar Munshi ( জাফর মুন্সি ) and Anjali Devi ( অঞ্জলী দেবীর ) were killed for supposed "defamation of religion", such as refusing to enforce hijab on students. Some of the people murdered were supporter of the Shahbag movement (শাহবাগ আন্দোলন ) named for the Shahbag (শাহবাগ) district: Ashraful Alam (আশরাফুল আলম ), Arif Raihan Deep (আরিফ রায়হান দীপ ), Nurul Islam Faruki (নুরুল ইসলাম ফারুকী), Jagat Jyoti Talukder (জগৎজ্যোতি তালুকদার ), and Jakaria Babu (জাকারিয়া বাবু ).

[[Aysén Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The XI Aysén Region (XI Región Aysén del General Carlos Ibáñez del Campo) is one of the fifteen regions of Chile. It has four provinces.

The capital city of the region is Coyhaique. Other towns are Puerto Cisnes and Río Ibáñez.

[[Magallanes Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The XII Magallanes Region (XII Región de Magallanes y de la Antártica Chilena) is one of the fifteen regions of Chile. It has four provinces.

It contains the chilean territory claim in Antarctica.

The capital city of the region is Punta Arenas. Other towns are Puerto Natales, Porvenir and Puerto Williams.

This region has the world famous Torres del Paine National Park.

[[Santiago Metropolitan Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The Santiago Metropolitan Region (Región Metropolitana de Santiago) is one of the fifteen regions of Chile. It has six provinces.

The capital city of the region is Santiago. Other towns are Providencia, Peñalolén and Lo Barnechea.

[[Täuffelen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Täuffelen is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Tavannes, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Tavannes is a municipality in Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Île d'Oléron]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Île d'Oléron (il doleʁɔ̃) is an island and canton in the Atlantic coast of France (to the west of Rochefort). It is the second largest island of Metropolitan France, after Corsica. The capital, and largest town, is  Saint-Pierre-d'Oléron; it is in the centre of the island.

Since 1966, there is a bridge that connects the island with mainland.

[[Owen Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK), Lobbyists, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, Politicians from Lancashire

Owen Smith (born 2 May 1970) is a British Labour Party politician. He has been the Member of Parliament for Pontypridd in Wales since 2010. In July 2015 he challenged Jeremy Corbyn for the leadership of the Labour Party. Before he became an MP he worked for the BBC and as a lobbyist for Pfizer, a company that makes drugs or pharmaceuticals. 

[[Lobbying]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Lobbying is the act of trying to persuade people or governments to make decisions or support something. Lobbying can be done by many sorts of people, alone or in groups. Often it is done by big businesses, political parties, or social movements. It can also be done by politicians and by ordinary citizens. Lobbyists are people whose job it is to lobby for big businesses or political parties. The word lobbying comes from the lobby of the Palace of Westminster in London. The lobby is between the House of Commons and the House of Lords, and there people would try to meet politicians as they came in and went out.

[[Pontypridd]]

CATEGORIES: Wales

Pontypridd is a town in southern Wales. It is about ten miles south of Wales' capital city, Cardiff. Its name comes from the Welsh "Pont-y-ty-pridd” which means 'bridge by the earthen house'.

[[Princess of Xiaohe]]

CATEGORIES: European people, History of China, Xinjiang

The Princess of Xiaohe (小河公主), also known as the Beauty of Xiaohe (no), is a female mummy discovered in 1934 by Swedish archaeologist Folke Bergman, at Xiaohe Tomb (小河墓地; literally "Little River Tomb"), Luobu Po (罗布泊), Ruoqiang County (若羌县), Xinjiang. Because of its beauty, this mummy was also nicknamed Marlene Dietrich of the Desert and Sophia Loren of Xiaohe.

The mummy was discovered in the Tarim Basin, 60 km south of the river Konqi He (孔雀河) at the coordinates 40. 

Estimated to have lived between 1900 BC and 1613 BC, the mummy was between 20 and 40 years old at the time of death, and is noteworthy for its Indo-European features. The mummy's hair, teeth and eyelashes are well preserved; its facial features are accentuated by a sharp nose and cavernous eyes.

[[Teuffenthal]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Teuffenthal is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Thierachern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Thierachern is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Thörigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Thörigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Thun]]

CATEGORIES: Thun

Thun (Thoune) is a city of the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. The city has about 43,783 inhabitants (around 90,000 in the agglomeration), as of 31 December 2013.

It is located where the Aare flows out of Lake Thun (Thunersee), 30 km (19 mi) south of Berne.

[[Jerusalem Archaeological Park]]

CATEGORIES: Jerusalem, Archaeological sites in Israel

Jerusalem Archaeological Park (also known as Ophel Garden) is an archaeological park and visitor centre. It is in the Old City of Jerusalem. The park is south of the Western Wall Plaza and under the Dung Gate.

[[Kawhi Leonard]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, African-American basketball players, Basketball players from California, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, Living people, San Antonio Spurs players, Toronto Raptors players, American basketball players

Kawhi Leonard (born June 29, 1991) is an American professional basketball player for the Los Angeles Clippers. He used to play for the San Antonio Spurs.He played two seasons of college basketball for the San Diego State Aztecs and was named a consensus second-team All-American as a sophomore.

Leonard won Defensive Player of the Year in 2015 and 2016. He won the Most Valuable Player for the 2014 Finals win. He was not drafted by the Spurs. Rather he was traded on draft night from the Indiana Pacers.

In 2018, Leonard joined the Toronto Raptors. He helped the team to the 2019 NBA Finals. His contract ended on June 30, 2019.

Leonard has scored more than 30 points in a game thirteen times in the 2019 playoff season. He has been compared to LeBron James, Kevin Durant, and Stephen Curry.

[[Jonzac]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Charente-Maritime

Jonzac is a commune and a sub-prefecture in southwestern France, in the Charente-Maritime department (Nouvelle-Aquitaine region).

It is the capital of the southern arrondissement of the Charente-Maritime department.

[[Alex Higgins]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2010 deaths, British Anglicans, Deaths from bronchopneumonia, Northern Irish Christians, Northern Irish sportspeople, Snooker players, Sportspeople from Belfast

Alex Higgins (March 18, 1949 – July 24, 2010) was a snooker player from Northern Ireland. He was born in Belfast and started playing snooker at the age of 11. He became a professional player in 1972 when he was 22. He won the 1972 World Snooker Championship by beating John Spencer 37 frames to 32. Ten years later, he won the 1982 World Snooker Championship by defeating Ray Reardon 18 frames to 15. Higgins was nicknamed the "Hurricane" because of his fast play around the table. Higgins retired from professional snooker in 1997.

Higgins smoked 60 cigarettes a day for many years. In June 1998, He was found to have throat cancer. On July 24, 2010, he died in Belfast at the age of 61. The cause of death was a combination of malnutrition, pneumonia, and a bronchial condition. He was clear from throat cancer when he died.

[[Thunstetten]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Thunstetten is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Toffen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Toffen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Stitch (Lilo & Stitch)]]

CATEGORIES: Animated characters, Disney characters, Fictional characters introduced in 2002, Kingdom Hearts characters, Lilo & Stitch

Stitch is the main character of the Disney Lilo & Stitch franchise. He is voiced by creator Chris Sanders and is an alien that poses as a dog.

[[Berga (Spain, Catalonia)]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia, Former national capitals

Berga is the capital of the comarca (county) of Berguedà, in Catalonia, northeast Spain.

Berga name is from the Bergistani, an Iberian tribe who lived in the area before the Roman conquest. Berga was ruled by viscounts in the Early Middle Ages. It had its own counts starting in 988. Berga was sold to King Peter II of Aragon in 1199.

Berga is perhaps most famous for its traditional festival of "La Patum". The celebration occurs every Corpus Christi, lasting for five days.

[[Planum]]

CATEGORIES: Journals, Urban planning

Planum is a Italian academic journal about urban planning and design. It is published in Italy by the Italian National Institute of Urban Planning. 

[[Power (Kanye West song)]]

CATEGORIES: Kanye West songs

"Power" is a song by American hip hop performer Kanye West. It was released as the main single from his album My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy. It peaked at #22 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. It got very good reviews from critics.

[[The Life of Pablo]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 albums, Kanye West albums, Hip hop albums

The Life of Pablo is the seventh studio album by American rapper Kanye West. It was released in early 2016 by Roc-A-Fella Records, GOOD Music and Def Jam Recordings. Most recording of the album took place between 2013 and 2016 and production was done mainly by West as well as other big producers like Mike Dean and Rick Rubin. It got good reviews from music critics and also debuted at number one on the Billboard 200.

[[T24]]

CATEGORIES: Television networks, 2015 establishments in Asia, Television stations, Moscow

T24 (Techno 24, Russian: "Техно 24") - Russian scientific educational TV channel of male`s interests. It is devoted to the achievements of science in the civil and military technologies, development of engineers and designers; it explains the newest types of weapons, space exploration, sports science, engineering and strategic sites. It is a part of the "Digital TV" package of media holding VGTRK

[[Seugne]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine

The Seugne is a  river in southwestern France and a left tributary of the Charente river. It flows through the Charente-Maritime department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region.

[[Trachselwald]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Trachselwald is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the Swiss canton of Berne.

[[Tramelan]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Tramelan is a municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[National Liberation Day of Korea]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, Korean culture

The National Liberation Day of Korea, is a holiday on August 15 in both North and South Korea. It is to celebrate Victory over Japan Day, the day when Korea was freed from Imperial Japanese control by the United States and the Soviet Union. In South Korean, it is written as 광복절 or 光復節, and pronounced gwangbokjeol. In North Korea, it is written as 조국해방의 날 or 祖國解放의 날, and is pronounced jogukhaebangui nal.

[[United States of America Mathematical Olympiad]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Competitions

United States of America Mathematical Olympiad, or USAMO, is a highly selective (only very good people take it) mathematics competition that takes place in the United States. The first USAMO was in 1972. It is the final round of the AMC series of contests. The United States of America Junior Mathematical Olympiad (USAJMO) was created in 2010 to recognize top scorers based on their AMC10-based index (score). Qualifying for the USAMO is considered one of the most prestigious, or best, awards for high school students in the United States, with only 264 students qualifying in 2013 out of over 350,000 students competing. Top scorers on the USAMO are invited to the Mathematical Olympiad Summer Program to represent the United States at the International Mathematical Olympiad.

[[Joey Graceffa]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT people from Massachusetts, American YouTubers

Joseph Michael "Joey" Graceffa (born May 16, 1991) is an American YouTuber who became known for his musical parodies, including the 2012 Hunger Games song "I Wanna Go." He competed in the 22nd and 24th seasons of The Amazing Race. In 2014, he won a Streamy Award for Best Actor in a Drama for Storytellers. He started his YouTube career making videos (short movies) with Brittany Joyal. In 2012 they stopped working together.

Graceffa launched his own web series on Teen.com called Joey's Dystopia. He released a book in 2015 titled In Real Life: My Journey to a Pixelated World. In the book he came out as gay. He also later released a music video called "Don't Wait" introducing his boyfriend, Daniel Preda. Graceffa has 3.9 million followers on Twitter (October 2017). He has also released a storybook series, called the Children of Eden. On October 4, 2016, Graceffa, along with co-author Laura L. Sullivan, released a young adult novel titled Children of Eden. The sequel, Elites of Eden, was published on October 3, 2017.

[[Lake Erie Monsters]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Ohio, 2016 disestablishments in the United States, Disestablishments in Ohio

[[Treiten]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Treiten (Treiteron) is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Trimstein]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Trimstein was a municipality in Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 Trimstein became part of Münsingen.

[[Departments of Paraguay]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

Paraguay has 17 departments and one capital district (Distrito Capital). The departments are formed by districts.

The departments are grouped in two geographic regions, separated by the Paraguay river:

[[Trubschachen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Trubschachen is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Tschugg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Tschugg is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Kalika purana]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu texts

The Kalika Purana is a Hindu script. It is one of the 18 uppurana. There are 98 lesson and 9000 sloka in this holy book. This is the only book written for Godess Kali and her special form. It explains the kamrupa mountain, river and kamakhya temple. It also records how to worship Kali, Kamakhya and Durga. It is the main book of the Shakta branch in Hinduism. Probably this book was written in Kamrup (present Assam) or Bengal. This Purana is an important scripture. Most modern writers mention that it is a main script of shaktadharma. This Purana mentions the mythological story. It is the rare book where we find the term of Hindu.

The oldest printed version of the Kalika Purana was printed in Mumbai in 1907 by Venkateswar Press. Later  the first Bengali version of was printed by Kolkata Bangabasi Press in 1909.

[[Trabzon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Trabzon,  is a city on the Black Sea coast of northeastern Turkey. It is the capital of Trabzon Province. Trabzon is well known for its fish production which it meets 20% of the total fish production in Turkey. It was started as a trading colony of ancient Greece and later became capital of the Empire of Trabizond.

[[Wabern bei Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bern

Wabern bei Bern is a village in the municipality of Köniz in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Branching]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics

Branching is a term in linguistics. It refers to the way a phrase or sentence is made up. There is a head word and various other words to make the phrase or sentence.

[[Mürren]]

CATEGORIES: Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland, Villages in Bern

Mürren is a village in the municipality of Lauterbrunnen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Ghasem Rezaei]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Competitors at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Sportsmen, Mazandaran Province

Ghasem Rezaei (Persian: قاسم رضايى‎‎, born August 18, 1985 in Amol) is an Iranian wrestler from Mazandaran Province of Iran.

He won the gold medal in the men’s 96 kg Greco-Roman at the 2012 London Olympics. Rezaei won the bronze medal in the men's 96 kg Greco-Roman at the 2016 Summer Olympics. Rezaei's first success at the international level was 2007 when he won bronze in the FILA Senior World Championships.

[[Seeland (administrative district)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments in Switzerland, Districts of Bern

The administrative district of Seeland in the Swiss canton of Bern has 46 municipalities in an area of 335 km².

[[Concepción Department, Paraguay]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

The Concepción department (Departamento de Concepcion) is a department of Paraguay. The capital is the city of Concepción.

Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-1.

[[Calonico]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

[[Rossura]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

[[Angora goat]]

CATEGORIES: Domesticated animals

The Angora goat (Ankara keçisi) is a breed of domestic goat. It is named for Ankara, Turkey (before 1930, Angora). The Angora produces fine quality white or coloured mohair which is very similar to wool. Angoras were imported into Europe in 1554 by Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor. In 1765 they were imported into Spain and about 1785 they were introduced into France. None of these were able to set up a successful mohair production. But in 1838 Angoras were successfully introduced in South Africa. Today, the Union of South Africa is one of the world's top mohair producers. Angora goats are kept mostly for their output of mohair.

[[Tüscherz-Alfermée]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Tüscherz-Alfermée (Daucher-Alfermée) was a municipality in the district Nidau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2010 the former municipalities of Tüscherz-Alfermée and Twann merged into the new municipality of Twann-Tüscherz.

[[Twann]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Twann (Douanne) is a former municipality of the district Nidau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2010 the former municipalities of Twann and Tüscherz-Alfermée merged into the new municipality of Twann-Tüscherz.

[[Bümpliz]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bern, Former municipalities of Bern, Bern

Bümpliz is a quarter of the city of Bern in Switzerland.

Until 1919 it was a municipality of its own. It was then incorporated into Bern.

[[Spencer repeating rifle]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles, 1860s, American Civil War

The Spencer repeating rifle was a lever-action, seven shot repeating rifle with a rotating block. It had a tubular magazine that fed 56-56 rimfire cartridges into the chamber. The rifle was invented by Christopher Miner Spencer and patented in 1860. 

[[Strongpoint]]

CATEGORIES: Fortification, Military terminology

A strongpoint is a key point in a defensive fighting position which the rest of the positions rely on. Its primary requirement is that it should not be easy to defeat by the enemy. In general, high ground is preferred. But any good tactically important terrain can be used as a strongpoint. Examples from history include Battle of Thermopylae, where 300 Spartans held off an entire Persian army at a narrow pass in the mountains. In the Battle of Monte Cassino in Italy in World War II, the area around the abbey of Monte Cassino was used by the German army as a strongpoint until it was destroyed by American bombers.

[[Banshee]]

CATEGORIES: Mythology, Celtic peoples

In Celtic mythology, a Banshee is a female spirit, who usually announces that a person from the family will die soon. The word is from bean sí, which literally means woman from the hills. An older spelling is bean sidhe. Bean sith, and  bean-nighe are variants.

[[Ethnic minorities in Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Azerbaijan, Ethnic groups in Asia, Ethnic groups in Europe

This article is about the ethnic minorities in Azerbaijan.

Although more than 91% of the people are ethnic Azerbaijanis, Azerbaijan has many ethnic minorities including Russians, Ukrainians, Georgians, Jews and other minorities. However the numbers of most of these ethnic minorities are small.

After the end of the Soviet Union with the independence of Azerbaijan and the Nagorno-Karabakh War, almost all Armenians (outside the separatist region of Nagorno-Karabakh) fled or were deported from the country. At the same time, almost all Azerbaijanis fled or were deported from Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh. 

Most Russians and other minorities have also left the country and are continuing to leave the country. As a result, Azerbaijan has become ethnically more "pure".

[[Waterloo International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Ontario, Airports in Canada

Waterloo International Airport is an airport  in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.

It is an international airport because it does flights to Chicago, Illinois in the United States.

[[Chañaral Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Chañaral Province (Provincia de Chañaral) is one of three provinces in the northern Chilean region of Atacama (III). The capital is the small coastal town of Chañaral.

[[Chamber (firearms)]]

CATEGORIES: Firearm components

The chamber is that part of a firearm into which the cartridge is loaded. The chamber is also the place the cartridge is fired from.  In a breech-loading weapon the chamber is directly behind and in line with the barrel. In a revolver there are multiple chambers contained in a revolving cylinder. 

The typical number is 6, which is the reason for the nickname Six Shooter and indicates the cylinder has six chambers each holding one cartridge. Most rifles and pistols have a single chamber. To chamber a round means to load a cartridge into the chamber.

[[Uebeschi]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Uebeschi is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Trump]]

TrumpTrump most commonly refers to:

Trump may also refer to:

[[Uetendorf]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Uetendorf is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[2013 Africa Cup of Nations]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in association football, Africa Cup of Nations, Football in South Africa, 2010s in South Africa

The 2013 Africa Cup of Nations was the 29th Africa Cup of Nations held from 19 January to 10 February 2013. It was organized by the Confederation of African Football (CAF). South Africa hosted the tournament for the second time. This was also the first tournament to be held on an odd-numbered year. This was done so that it doesn't get in the way of the FIFA World Cup.

Nigeria won the tournament after a 1–0 victory over Burkina Faso in the final. Mali also won the third-place game. Nigeria later represented Africa in the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup.

[[Unterlangenegg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Unterlangenegg is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[1994 African Cup of Nations]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 in association football, Africa Cup of Nations, Football in Tunisia, 1994 in Africa, 20th century in Tunisia

The 1994 African Cup of Nations was the 19th Africa Cup of Nations held from 26 March to 10 April. It was hosted by Tunisia and had 12 teams who qualified.

Nigeria won their 2nd title after defeating Zambia 2−1 in the final. The Zambian team featured new players because the 1993 Zambia national football team air disaster occurred a few months earlier.

[[Unterseen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Unterseen is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Castro, Ticino]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

[[Corzoneso]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

[[Largario]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

[[Lottigna]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

[[Marolta]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

[[Bosco Luganese]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

[[Ulsan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Korea

Ulsan is a metropolitan city in the southeast of South Korea. Big companies like Hyundai Heavy Industries, Hyundai Hysco, Hyundai Mipo Dockyard, Hyundai Motor Company, SK Innovation, S-Oil, etc. are in Ulsan. Motors, shipbuilding and petrochemical industries are developed here. It has the largest area among Korean metropolitan cities but has the lowest population. In Ulsan there is a Whale Festival every year to celebrate whales.

[[AC Sparta Prague]]

CATEGORIES: Prague, Czech football clubs

Athletic Club Sparta Praha (ˈaː ˈt͡sɛː ˈsparta ˈpraɦa), commonly known as Sparta Prague, is a Soccer club from the Czech Republic.  It is the most successful football club in the Czech Republic.  Its nickname is Iron Sparta.  Its biggest rival is Slavia Prague.

[[George Meade]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War generals, 1815 births, 1872 deaths

George Gordon Meade (1815-1872) was one of the few Union Army generals in the American Civil War who was born and began his career in a foreign country. He was born in Cadiz, Spain on December 31, 1815. He came to the United States after his family was financially ruined during the Napoleonic Wars. Meade was made commander of the Union Army of the Potomac just before the Battle of Gettysburg. After the Civil War he stayed in the army, serving in the South during the Reconstruction. Meade served as commissioner of Fairmount Park in Philadelphia until his death in 1872.

[[Clementi MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Clementi MRT Station (EW23) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station in Singapore. It is part of the East West MRT Line. Part of the East West Line, Clementi MRT Station is heavily used by commuters who live in Clementi itself or further west to go to work and also, by students of the National University of Singapore, Ngee Ann Polytechnic and other schools around Clementi. Hence, the station experiences high passenger traffic throughout the day due to it serving a wide range of passengers.

The tracks between this station and Jurong East is the second longest between any two stations on the East West Line, the longest being the tracks between Expo and Changi Airport MRT Stations. It takes four minutes for trains to travel between these two stations.

The station is also directly linked to the Clementi Mall and Clementi Bus Interchange. Together, they form the Clementi Integrated Transport Hub (ITH).

It was opened on 12 March 1988.

On 5 August 1993, at around 7.53 am, two trains collided in the station. It appeared that one train had stopped at the station for longer than usual after experiencing a technical fault, and then a second westward train hit the first. It was caused by a 50 litre oil spill. 156 commuters were injured, many of whom were on their way to work. Eight were admitted to three hospitals, while the rest received outpatient treatment. In the aftermath of the accident, SMRT said that it would replace the faulty maintenance locomotives and purchase new ones. It also introduced a new policy for station managers to inspect tracks for oil or foreign objects before the start of service.

[[Queenstown MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Queenstown MRT Station (EW23) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station in Singapore. It is part of the East West MRT Line. It was opened on 12 March 1988.

[[Commonwealth MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Commonwealth MRT Station (EW20) is an MRT station in Singapore. It is part of the East West MRT Line. It was opened on 12 March 1988.

[[Chañaral]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Chañaral is a small coastal city and commune in the Atacama region in the north of Chile. It is the capital of the province of Chañaral.

Its name, Chañaral means a "place where there are many trees of chaña" (the Chilean name for Geoffroea decorticans).

[[Linda Partridge]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Knights and Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire, 1950 births, Fellows of the Royal Society, British geneticists, Female scientists

Dame Linda Partridge DBE FRS (born 18 March 1950) is a British geneticist. She studies the biology and genetics of ageing (biogerontology) and age-related diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.

Partridge is the Weldon Professor of Biometry at University College London, and director of UCL's Institute of Healthy Ageing.

She is also founding director of the Max Planck Institute for the Biology of Ageing.

[[Now That You Got It]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs, 2007 songs, Gwen Stefani songs, Hip hop songs, Reggae songs, R&B songs

"Now That You Got It" is a song by American singer and songwriter Gwen Stefani from her second solo studio album, The Sweet Escape (2006). Stefani co-wrote the song with its producers Sean Garrett and Swizz Beatz. The album version of the song is a hip hop and R&B song and the remix is a reggae song.

[[Diego de Almagro, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Diego de Almagro is a small Chilean city and commune in the Chañaral Province, Atacama Region. The commune is named after Diego de Almagro, a Spanish conquistador.

Its inhabitants are called dieguinos (women: dieguinas).

[[Copiapó Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Copiapó Province (Provincia de Copiapó) is one of three provinces of the northern Chilean region of Atacama (III). Its capital is the city of Copiapó.

[[Huasco Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Huasco Province Provincia de Huasco) is one of three provinces of the northern Chilean region of Atacama (III). Its capital is the city of Vallenar.

[[Sun Life Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 establishments in the United States, 2010s establishments in Florida, 2016 disestablishments in the United States, 2010s disestablishments in Florida

[[Cimo, Ticino]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

Cimo is a village and former municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 4 April 2004 the former municipalities of Bosco Luganese and Cimo merged to form the municipality of Bioggio.

[[Breno, Ticino]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Ticino, Villages in Ticino

Breno is a village and former municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 13 March 2005 the former municipalities of Arosio, Breno, Fescoggia, Mugena and Vezio merged into the new municipality of Alto Malcantone.

[[Sirtuin]]

CATEGORIES: Enzymes

Sirtuin or Sir2 proteins are a class of enzymes that are important in cell biology. 

Sirtuins regulate important biological pathways in bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes. The name Sir2 comes from the yeast gene 'silent mating-type information regulation 2', the gene responsible for cellular regulation in yeast.

Sirtuins influence many cellular processes like ageing, transcription, apoptosis, inflammation and stress resistance, as well as energy efficiency and alertness during low-calorie situations.  Sirtuins can also control circadian clocks and mitochondrial biogenesis.

[[Euryale]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures

Euryale is one of the gorgons in Greek myth. Her sisters are Stheno and the infamous Medusa. All three were once ravishing young women, particularly Medusa, who also happened to  a priestess in the temple of Athena and took a vow of chastity, until she was raped by Poseidon. This was much to the ire of Athena and to punish Medusa, she had her and her sisters, who had been watching, turned into monsters with snakes for hair and a killer gaze, which turned onlookers into stone. The trio of sisters were later banished to a remote island. 

A side effect of the transformation was that while Medusa's sisters were immortal, she herself wasn't, which would lead to Perseus killing her. Euryale is well known for her loud cries, particularly after her younger sister's death.

[[MTOR]]

CATEGORIES: Enzymes

mTOR is a protein, an enzyme which regulates cell growth, cell division, cell movement, cell survival, protein synthesis, autophagy, and transcription. It is a protein that in humans is encoded by the MTOR gene.

It has been given various names. It was originally called the 'mammalian target of rapamycin', but is also known as the 'mechanistic target of rapamycin' and 'FK506-binding protein 12-rapamycin-associated protein 1' (FRAP1).

The mTOR pathway is a central regulator of mammalian metabolism and physiology, with important roles in the function of tissues including liver, muscle, white and brown adipose tissue, and the brain.

[[Rapamycin]]

CATEGORIES: Antibiotics

Rapamycin, also known as sirolimus, is a compound produced by the bacterium Streptomyces hygroscopicus.

It is used in medicine to prevent organ transplant rejection. It has immunosuppressant functions in humans and is especially useful in preventing the rejection of kidney transplants. It inhibits activation of T cells and B cells by reducing the production of interleukin-2 (IL-2). Sirolimus is also used as a coating for coronary stents.

[[Bristoe Campaign]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1863 in the United States, 1860s in Virginia

The Bristoe Campaign was a series of minor battles fought in Virginia during October and November 1863, in the American Civil War. Major general George G. Meade, commanding the Union Army of the Potomac, began an unsuccessful attempt to defeat General Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia. Lee countered with a turning movement. Not willing to do battle on ground he did not choose, Meade gradually withdrew his army back toward Centreville. His object was to keep Lee from getting between his Union forces in Virginia and Washington, DC.

[[Turning movement]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology, Military tactics

A turning movement , also called a wide envelopment is a maneuver designed to pass around the enemy's front to strike a vital part of the enemy's rear. It is a military tactic where a command is divided into two parts. The first part holds the enemy from the front while the other part moves around to attack the enemy's rear or flank. Unlike an envelopment or a flanking maneuver, the two forces operate beyond the distance where they could usually support each other. It is often easier for an enemy force to avoid an envelopment than it is to avoid a turning movement. To counter a turning movement, the enemy must either abandon their position or turn to meet the new threat. The turning movement is a variation of the envelopment tactic. Another difference is that the turning movement often seeks to avoid enemy contact until they are deep in the enemy's rear. Faced with a new threat in his rear area, the enemy is "turned" out of his defensive position and forced to act.

[[Geoffroea decorticans]]

CATEGORIES: Trees, Fabaceae

The Geoffroea decorticans  or  Chañar  is a small tree in the pea family, Fabaceae. It is found in very arid places of southern South America. It is a deciduous tree that loses its leaves in winter with the cold and also in summer if it gets too dry.

[[Cyclone Bobby]]

CATEGORIES: 1995, Tropical cyclones in Oceania, 1990s in Australia, Western Australia

Cyclone Bobby took place on February 19, 1995. The cyclone hit parts of Western Australia. It moved slowly before hitting the east of Onslow. Cyclone Bobby had 40mm of rain and a maximum winds of 270km/h. Three people died from Bobby and many were injured. Cyclone Bobby was one of the most devastating cyclones in the history of Western Australia.

[[Postal codes in Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Azerbaijan, Postal codes

Postal codes in Azerbaijan consist of four digits.  

The four-digit postcode shows the nationwide format AZ NNNN. The first two digits show the regions of Azerbaijan in accordance with the modern administrative divisions, including the Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic and occupied Nagorno-Karabakh.

From 1970 until 1991, when Azerbaijan was part of the Soviet Union as the Azerbaijan SSR, the entire territory of the Soviet Union used the six-digit postcode 37NNNN. After gaining independence, Azerbaijan switched to the current four-digit postcode.

[[ENSAE ParisTech]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in Paris, 1942 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in France

École nationale de la statistique et de l'administration économique (ENSAE ParisTech) is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the University of Paris-Saclay.

Its curricula lead to these French & European degrees:

Academic activities and industrial applied research are taught mainly in French and English languages. The students are from a dozen nationalities.

[[Hayflick limit]]

CATEGORIES: Chromosomes

The Hayflick limit (or Hayflick phenomenon) is a phenomenon of cell division in tissue culture. It is the number of times a normal human cell population divides until cell division stops.

We now know that the telomeres on each cell's chromosomes get slightly shorter with each new cell division, until they reach a critical length.

The idea of the Hayflick limit was suggested by American anatomist Leonard Hayflick in 1961, at the Wistar Institute in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Hayflick showed that a population of normal human fetal cells in a cell culture will divide between 40 to 60 times. The population then goes into senescence. This refutes the idea of Nobel laureate Alexis Carrel that normal cells are potentially immortal.

Each mitosis slightly shortens each of the telomeres on the chromosomes of the cells. Telomere shortening eventually makes cell division impossible, and this ageing of the cell population may cause the overall physical ageing of the human body.

The process of telomere shortening leads to apoptosis, the technical name given to programmed cell death. Although the Hayflick experiments were done on human cells in tissue culture, there is nothing special about human cells which would not be found in the cells of other living organisms. Apoptosis is thought to happen in all multicellular organisms. The 2002 Nobel Prize in Medicine was awarded to Sydney Brenner, H. Robert Horvitz and John E. Sulston for their work identifying genes that control apoptosis. The genes were found by studies in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. These same genes function in humans for apoptosis.

[[Cantor's diagonal argument]]

CATEGORIES: Set theory

Cantor's diagonal argument is a mathematical method to prove that two infinite sets have the same cardinality. Cantor  published articles on it in 1877, 1891 and 1899. His first proof of the diagonal argument was published in 1890 in the journal of the German Mathematical Society (Deutsche Mathematiker-Vereinigung).  According to Cantor, two sets have the same cardinality, if it is possible to associate an element from the second set to each element of the first set, and to associate an element of the first set to each element of the second set. This statement works well for sets with a finite number of elements. It is less intuitive for sets with an infinite number of elements. 

[[Arrondissements of the Deux-Sèvres department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Deux-Sèvres department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Deux-Sèvres are:

[[Arrondissement of Bressuire]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Bressuire is an arrondissement of France, in the Deux-Sèvres department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Bressuire.

[[Cynthia Kenyon]]

CATEGORIES: Female scientists, American geneticists, American biochemists, Biophysicists, Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni, 1955 births, Living people

Cynthia Jane Kenyon (born February 21, 1954) is an American molecular biologist and geneticist. She does research on the genetics of aging in the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans, which is a roundworm.

[[Randall Woolf]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American composers

Randall Woolf (born 23 August 1959) is an American composer. He studied at Harvard University. Woolf received Guggenheim Fellowship in 1999. One of his piaces is called White Heat. He is a long time collaborator of Welsh musician John Cale. He arranged Cale's score for Mary Harron's movie American Psycho. His wife Kathleen Supové is a pianist.

[[Arrondissement of Niort]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Niort is an arrondissement of France, in the Deux-Sèvres department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Niort.

[[Arrondissement of Parthenay]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Parthenay is an arrondissement of France, in the Deux-Sèvres department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Parthenay.

[[Arosio, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

Arosio is a village and former municipality of the district of Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 13 March 2005 the former municipalites of Arosio, Breno, Fescoggia, Mugena and Vezio merged into the new municipality of Alto Malcantone.

[[Envelopment]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology, Military tactics

Envelopment is the military tactic of attacking the enemy's flank or rear. This is done while keeping the enemy's attention focused on his front by the use of diversionary attacks. The envelopment makes the enemy fight in a direction they are the least prepared for. The maneuver requires a flank that can be attacked. Unlike a flanking maneuver, which uses the enemy's forward movement to create an attackable flank, envelopment depends on the enemy's defensive position, any obstacles and the terrain. The envelopment has both advantages and disadvantages. Advantages include being able to capture or defeat all or part of an opposing army. It offers less risk than other offensive maneuvers. Disadvantages include the possibility of an enemy counterattack on the weakened center or on the other flank.

[[Knap of Howar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Scotland

Knap of Howar is a neolithic settlement on Papa Westray (one of the Orkney Islands) in Scotland. The farm was occupied from about 3700 to 2800 BC. The farm consists of two buildings: One has been interpreted as house where people lived, the other as a workshop of sorts.The houses have no windows, both entries face the sea. It is believed that the houses where lit by fires. 

[[DeAndre Yedlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, African-American sportspeople, American footballers, Jewish American sportspeople, Sportspeople from Seattle, Washington, Premier League players, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, Living people

DeAndre Yedlin (born July 9, 1993 in Seattle, Washington) is an American soccer player for Newcastle United.

[[Sèvre Nantaise]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Pays de la Loire

The Sèvre Nantaise is a river in western France, a left tributary of the Loire river.

It starts in the Deux-Sèvres department (named "Two Sèvres" after this and the Sèvre Niortaise river that flows through Niort) and ends in the city of Nantes (and is the origin of the second part of the river's name).

[[Ricardo Lucarelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Brazilian volleyball players, Competitors at the 2016 Summer Olympics

Ricardo Samuel Lucarelli Santos de Souza (born February 14, 1992) is a Brazilian volleyball player. He is a member of the Brazil national volleyball team and Brazilian club Funvic Taubaté. He competed on the winning volleyball team at the 2016 Summer Olympics.

[[Aaron Russell]]

CATEGORIES: American volleyball players, 1993 births, Living people, Competitors at the 2016 Summer Olympics

Aaron Russell (born June 4, 1993) is an American volleyball player. He is a member of the United States men's national volleyball team. He competed in the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. He won a bronze medal. Since late 2015, he plays for an Italian volleyball club.

[[Artem Volvich]]

CATEGORIES: Russian volleyball players, 1990 births, Living people, Competitors at the 2016 Summer Olympics

Artem Aleksandrovich Volvich (born 22 January 1990) is an Russian volleyball player. He is a member of the Russian National Volleyball Team. He competed in the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.

[[Lazarus]]

CATEGORIES: Given names, Surnames

Lazarus is a given name and surname (family name). It is derived from the Hebrew אלעזר, Elʿāzār (Eleazar) meaning "God has helped".

[[Cagiallo]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

Cagiallo is a village and former municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 15 October 2001 the former municipalities of Cagiallo, Lopagno, Roveredo, Sala Capriasca, Tesserete and Vaglio merged to form the new municipality Capriasca.

[[Lopagno]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

[[Roveredo, Ticino]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

[[Vaglio]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

[[Sala Capriasca]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

Sala Capriasca is a village and former municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 15 October 2001 the municipality was merged with the other, neighboring municipalities Cagiallo, Lopagno, Roveredo, Tesserete and Vaglio to form a new and larger municipality Capriasca.

[[Tesserete]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

Tesserete is a village and former municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

In 1976 the neighboring municipality Campestro was incorporated into Tesserete.

On 15 October 2001 the municipality was merged with the other, neighboring municipalities Cagiallo, Lopagno, Roveredo, Sala Capriasca and Vaglio to form a new and larger municipality Capriasca.

[[Ardfern]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Scotland, Argyll and Bute

Ardfern (Aird Fheàrna = "the head-land of alder-trees") is a village in Argyll and Bute, Scotland. It is on the south coast of the Craignish peninsula, facing Loch Craignish.

[[Rosh Chodesh]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish festivals and holidays

Rosh Chodesh or Rosh Hodesh (ראש חודש; trans. Beginning of the Month; lit. Head of the Month) is the name for the first day of every month in the Hebrew calendar, marked by the birth of a new moon. It is considered a minor holiday, like the middle days of Passover and Sukkot.

When a Hebrew calendar month is 30 days long, day 30 is considered Rosh Chodesh of the next month. Then Rosh Chodesh is two days long: day 30 of the old month and day 1 of the new month.

[[Sèvre Niortaise]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Pays de la Loire

The Sèvre Niortaise is a river in western France, flowing into the Atlantic Ocean.

It starts in the Deux-Sèvres department (named "Two Sèvres" after this and the Sèvre Nantaise) and flows through Niort (that is the origin of the second part of the river's name).

[[Intersectionality]]

CATEGORIES: Civil rights, Discrimination, Feminism

Intersectionality or intersectional theory studies the relation between the many different ways that people are kept in a lower social position, controlled, and left out of important parts of society because of their differences. Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw gave the name "intersectionality" to this concept in 1989. 

Sometimes a society decides that a group of people are different from themselves. When they do this, they other that group, or marginalize them. Intersectionality points out that people are often othered for more than one reason.

These reasons might be

Because of this, it suggests that these types of othering cannot be looked at by themselves. They must be looked at together. For example, a person can be othered because they are a woman, a person of color, a poor person, and a disabled person at the same time. These different forms of othering make each other worse, shape each other, and prop each other up. This means that the experience of being othered for all of these reasons is different from what would happen if you added them all up. Because of this, fighting each one alone would not help the people who experience many of them at the same time.

Intersectionality says that the different ways people are othered and forced into a lower social position, such as racism, sexism, classism, ableism, homophobia, transphobia, xenophobia and bigotry based on belief, create an entire system. In this system, each of the ways people are held down by society contributes to the other. So if someone wanted to understand how a society began to other a group of people as a race apart from themselves (racialization), they would have to look into the ways that gender, class, sexuality, and other parts of identity shaped this process.

Intersectionality began as a way to understand the ways that women of color in American society were othered. The women who developed the theory were challenging the feminism of their time. They saw it as being too focused on the issues of wealthy white women. They felt that this left behind the women who needed feminism the most, and only helped the women who already had the most power. They were also criticizing the Civil Rights Movement. They saw it as being too focused on men and leaving women of color behind. They believed they had a place in both of these movements, and that these parts of their lives could not be separated. Intersectional theory quickly grew to include the relation between all of the many other ways that people are othered and kept in a lower social position, such as sexuality, ability, and the gender binary.

[[Daniel Sickles]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 births, 1914 deaths, Ambassadors of the United States, American Civil War generals, American police officers, Politicians from New York City, United States Army Medal of Honor recipients, United States representatives from New York, US Democratic Party politicians

Daniel Edgar Sickles (1819–1914) was a controversial New York politician, diplomat, and political general during the American Civil War. He was the first person to successfully use the Insanity defense as a legal defense. As a result, he was acquitted of killing his wife’s lover, Francis Barton Key (son of Francis Scott Key). As a general, he was a political appointee who gained his high rank strictly through political influence. Without any military experience or training, Sickles found it difficult to follow orders. In spite of his battlefield failures, he managed to get himself awarded the Medal of Honor.

[[Thouet]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Pays de la Loire

The Thouet is a river in western France, flowing through the Deux-Sèvres and Maine-et-Loire departments, in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine and Pays de la Loire regions.

It is one of the last left tributary of the Loire river.

[[Amambay]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

The Amambay department (Departamento de Amambay) is a department of Paraguay. The capital is the city of Pedro Juan Caballero. Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-13.

The name comes from the name of a part of the Caaguazú Cordillera, the "Amambay Cordillera" (Cordillera de Amambay). Amambay (or amambái) means "fern" in Guaraní language; ferns are common in the forests of the region.

[[Darwin–Wallace Medal]]

CATEGORIES: Orders, decorations, and medals, Science awards

The Darwin–Wallace Medal is awarded by the Linnean Society of London for "major advances in evolutionary biology".

The medals have been awarded every 50 years, beginning in 1908. That year marked 50 years after the joint presentation of papers by Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace. These were On the Tendency of Species to form Varieties; and On the Perpetuation of Varieties and Species by Natural Means of Selection. The papers were both about natural selection as the main cause of evolution. The papers were presented to the Linnean Society of London on 1 July 1858. 

Wallace was one of the first to get of the medal. In his case it was made of gold, rather than the silver versions given to the six other medallists. However, in 2008 the Linnean Society announced that due to the continuing importance of evolutionary research, the medal will be awarded on an annual basis beginning in 2010.

[[Khan Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Educational organizations, American websites

Khan Academy is a non-profit educational organization. It has been created by Sal Khan. Khan Academy is available on the internet for free. Khan Academy teaches by using YouTube videos of short lectures of certain topics, as well as by using practice exercises and tools that help with learning. It is available in many different languages, but mostly English.

Khan Academy teaches mostly about mathematics, but also teaches biology, chemistry, physics, history, astronomy, cosmology, American civics, art history, economics, music, computer programming and computer science, healthcare, medicine, and finance. In the YouTube videos that Khan Academy makes, they record diagrams being drawn from a tablet using the screen capture software called Camtasia Studio.

[[Untersteckholz]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Untersteckholz was a municipality in Aarwangen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2010 the Untersteckholz became part of Langenthal.

[[Ursenbach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Ursenbach is a municipality of the administrative district Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Urtenen-Schönbühl]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Urtenen-Schönbühl is a municipality in the Bern-Mittelland administrative district in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Uttigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Uttigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipality of Kienersrüti merged into the municipality of Uttigen.

[[Political general]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A political general is a term used by historians and most often applies to the American Civil War. In this context, it means a General officer who does not have formal military training or experience and who gained his position through political influence. To a lesser degree, it can also mean generals who engaged in politics during or after their time as a general. A "political general" can seem to be a contradiction in terms in a country such as the United States where by law the military is under civilian authority. An example was Dwight D. Eisenhower, who graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in the class of 1915. He was an experienced staff officer who commanded the invasions of North Africa and Western Europe. Eisenhower developed the political skills to deal with his British and American officers as well as political leaders. He later became President of the United States.  

[[E. Ray Lankester]]

CATEGORIES: 1847 births, 1929 deaths, English biologists, British zoologists

Sir E. Ray Lankester KCB, FRS (15 May 1847 – 13 August 1929) was a British zoologist, born in London.

Ray Lankester was an invertebrate zoologist and evolutionary biologist. He was Professor of Zoology at University College London and Oxford University. He was the third Director of the Natural History Museum, and was awarded the Copley Medal of the Royal Society.

E. (Edwin: his first name was never used) Ray Lankester was the son of Edwin Lankester, a coroner and doctor-naturalist who helped abolish cholera in London. Ray Lankester was probably named after the naturalist John Ray.

[[August 2016 Central Italy earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 disasters in Europe, 2016 earthquakes, 2010s in Italy, Abruzzo, August 2016 events, Earthquakes in Italy, Lazio, Marche, Umbria

The August 2016 Central Italy earthquake was a natural disaster that struck Central Italy on 24 August 2016 at 03:36 CEST. Its epicentre was close to Accumoli. It was followed by 40 strong aftershocks.

More than 250 people were killed by the earthquake.

[[Citation]]

CATEGORIES: Writing

A citation or source citation is a reference to a published work (for example, a book, article, image, etc.,) that is used when creating a written work. It shows readers where specific pieces of information came from and where readers can locate it for themselves. It acknowledges or gives credit to the author who actually created the content being used in a paper. The opposite of a citation is plagiarism, or not giving credit to others for their ideas, concepts, or images. Plagiarism, especially in Academia, is considered taking the work of others and presenting it as one's own. The penalties for plagiarism can be severe. Source citations also give a work credibility. In other words, it shows the information is simply not made up.

[[Nihal Naj Ali Al-Awlaqi]]

CATEGORIES: Yemeni people, Living people, Lawyers, Politicians, 1977 births, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Nihal Naj Ali Al-Awlaqi or Nihal Naji Ali Al Awlaki (Arabic: نهال ناجي علي العولقي  ) is a Yemeni lawyer. She is Yemen’s Minister of Legal Affairs.  In 2016 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Elqui Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Elqui Province (Provincia de Elqui) is one of three provinces in the Chilean region of Coquimbo (IV). Its capital is the city of Coquimbo.

It is named after the main river of the province: the Elqui River river.

[[Limarí Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Limarí Province (Provincia de Limarí) is one of three provinces of the Chilean region of Coquimbo Region (IV). Its capital is the city of Ovalle.

It is named after the main river of the province: the Limarí River.

[[Choapa Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Choapa Province (Provincia de Choapa) is one of three provinces of the Chilean region of Coquimbo Region (IV). Its capital is the city of Illapel

[[LGBT rights in Tunisia]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT rights by country, Tunisia

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons in Tunisia may face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Homosexuality is illegal in the Republic of Tunisia and the law does not include sexual orientation or gender identity in its civil rights laws and there is no legal recognition for same-sex couples. According to the 2013 Pew Global Attitudes Project, 93% of Tunisian adults do not believe that homosexuality is acceptable by society.

Tunisia tends to be socially conservative when it comes to such issues as homosexuality. There are a few led organised LGBT Human rights movement such as the movement named "Shams". Mostly Tunisians are generally Muslims with traditional values, and traditional Islamic attitudes and mores look down upon Homosexuality and cross-dressing as signs of decadence and Immorality. But Tunisian Cross-dressers are not expressly Illegal in the country. Male prostitution workers occur in some Tunisian tourist resorts. The so-called Minister for Human Rights Samir Dilou stated that "Freedom of Speech has its limits", Homosexuality is a "perversion", and gay people needed to be "treated medically" for this. His comments were condemned by many in Tunisian society who posted pro-LGBT pictures on social networking sites. In June 2012, Dilou rejected the recommendation of the United Nations Human Rights Committee for Tunisia to decriminalise same-sex sexual acts, stating that the concept of "Sexual orientation is specific to the west" which is not true and is overridden by Tunisian Law, which "clearly describes Tunisia as an fellow Arab Muslim country".

In May of 2016, several LGBTI Associations organised a small, discreet Gay Pride reception in Tunis. Associations also organised events and public demonstrations to mark the International Day against Homophobia in May.

Public Tunisian Opinion:

Public opinion regarding its LGBT Human rights is complex. According to a 2014 Survey Poll by the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association, 18% of Tunisian people were in favour of legalising Same-sex marriages, with 62% being opposed to such legislation of legalisation.

[[Institut national des sciences appliquées de Toulouse]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in Toulouse, 1963 establishments in Europe, 1960s establishments in France

Institut national des sciences appliquées de Toulouse (INSA Toulouse, National Institute of Applied Sciences of Toulouse) is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the University of Toulouse (Southern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at INSA Toulouse.

[[1909 Cherry Mine disaster]]

CATEGORIES: 1909, 1900s in the United States, Disasters in the United States, 20th century in Illinois

The 1909 Cherry Mine disaster was a fire that occurred in Cherry, Illinois on November 13, 1909 in the Cherry Coal mine. Of the approximately 500 miners who reported to work that day, 259 men and boys (some as young as 10 years old) lost their lives. It was the second worst mine disaster in United States History.

[[Prosopis tamarugo]]

CATEGORIES: Trees, Fabaceae

Prosopis tamarugo, commonly known as tamarugo, is a species of flowering tree in the pea family, Fabaceae. It is found only in the dry northern regions of Chile.

[[Margaret Anstee]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British diplomats, People from Essex, United Nations officials

Margaret Anstee (June 26, 1926 - August 25, 2016) was a British diplomat. She worked with the United Nations for over 40 years, and became the first woman to reach the post of Under-Secretary-General. She was the Director-General of the UN office in Vienna. She also worked as the Director-General's Special Representative to Angola. She wrote an autobiography called Never Learn to Type.

[[Maria Eugénia]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Portuguese movie actors, Portuguese television actors, Portuguese voice actors, Portuguese stage actors, Portuguese singers, People from Lisbon

Maria Eugénia Pinto do Amaral (April 1, 1927, Lisbon - August 25, 2016, Lisbon) was a Portuguese actress and singer. She became known as the Radio Girl when she starred in the movie of the same name directed by Arthur Duarte in 1944.

[[Justin du Fresne]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 deaths, New Zealand radio personalities

Justin du Fresne (died August 25, 2016) was a New Zealand radio broadcaster, known as the Voice of Wellington. He began his career in 1960 working for the New Zealand Broadcasting Service. After a break, he returned to radio in 1984 as a morning talk show host, and retired in 2013. He died from cancer in 2016.

[[Warren Hinckle]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, American journalists

Warren Hinckle (October 28, 1938, San Francisco - August 25, 2016, San Francisco) was an American journalist. He became famous as the editor of Ramparts magazine in the 1960's. Hinckle was known for his no holds barred writing style (later called gonzo journalism), and as a supporter of the political left.

[[Neo-futurism]]

CATEGORIES: Art movements

Neo-futurism is a 21 century movement in the arts, design, and architecture with an attitude of post-modernism and represents an idealistic future and "a need to periodize the modern rapport with the technological".  Neo-futurism has absorbed sоme of the high-tech concept themes аnd ideas and incorporating elements of high-tech industry аnd technology.

[[Appeal to emotion]]

CATEGORIES: Logical fallacies

Appeal to emotion is a logical fallacy. It happens when the argument is designed to trigger an emotional response instead of giving reasons. An example of this would be "we have to donate to charity X; think of the children!", where instead of giving a reason why we should donate to charity, an emotive trigger is used instead- "think of the children". It is also called argumentum ad passiones or appeal to feeling.

Aristotle recognized that if you triggered someone's emotions, they were easier to persuade. He said this in his book, Rhetoric.

[[Appeal to tradition]]

CATEGORIES: Logical fallacies

Appeal to tradition (also known as argumentum ad antiquitatem, appeal to antiquity, or appeal to common practice) is a common fallacy.

In this fallacy, an idea is claimed to be right because it is the way it was often done in the past. The appeal takes the form of "this is right because we've always done it this way".

An example of appeal to tradition is, "drinking boiling hot water (and never cold water) is always healthy because Chinese people have done it for thousands of years."

An appeal to tradition essentially makes two mistakes:

In the case of drinking boiling water, traditional Chinese medicine claims that the health benefits come from re-balancing one's own qi, rather than the fact than un-boiled or un-chilled water may have dangerous germs in it.

The opposite of an appeal to tradition is an appeal to novelty, claiming something is good because it is new.

[[Red herring]]

CATEGORIES: Logical fallacies

A red herring is something that misleads or distracts from an issue.

There are two ways in which it is used. One, it may be used as logical fallacy during an argument so that someone arguing does not have to answer a difficult question. For example, if a journalist asks a politician if the politician used any taxpayer money for his or her personal use, the politician may instead talk about the importance of increasing the pay of government officials without ever answering the question.

Two, it can be used as a literary device that tricks readers or audiences into thinking that something is true when it really is not. It is common in stories like detective mystery books. For example, a character may own or hold a weapon similar to the weapon used to kill a character, but then it turns out that character was not the killer. The weapon was only a red herring.

It has long been thought that the phrase came from kippers (a strong-smelling smoked fish) to train dogs to follow a scent, or to distract them from the correct route when hunting. However, most researchers today believe that the term was probably invented in 1807 by English polemicist William Cobbett. He may have have been talking about a time which he had used a kipper to distract dogs from chasing a hare, and that hunters never actually used kippers to train dogs. The phrase was later borrowed to give a formal name for the logical fallacy and literary device.

[[Appeal to popularity]]

CATEGORIES: Logical fallacies

An appeal to popularity, also called argumentum ad populum (Latin for "appeal to the people"), is a logical fallacy. It happens when someone tries to argue that something is right because lots of people believe in it.

An example is saying "many people buy extended warranties, therefore we should buy one for our new computer".

[[Twann-Tüscherz]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Bern

Twann-Tüscherz (Douanne-Daucher) is a municipality of the administrative district of Biel/Bienne in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2010 the former municipalities of Twann and Tüscherz-Alfermée merged into the new municipality of Twann-Tüscherz.

[[Utzenstorf]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Utzenstorf is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. It is regionally famous for its medieva castle, Landshut Castle.

[[Inwil, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Inwil (Swiss German: Eibu) is a municipality of the district Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Lieli, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Lucerne, Former municipalities of Lucerne

Lieli is a village and former municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

Since 2007, it is part of the municipality of Hohenrain.

[[Feigned retreat]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology, Military tactics

A feigned retreat is a military tactic where a force will pretend to be defeated, fake a retreat, then while they are being pursued, turn and ambush the enemy. It can be used to cause confusion in the enemy ranks or to force some to leave and weaken their battle formations. Battlefield commanders have had to use this tactic carefully so the feigned retreat did not become a real retreat. It was a tactic used in ancient history and is still being used today. Sun Tzu wrote about it in his book The Art of War. He warned his readers: "When some are seen advancing and some retreating, it is a lure."

[[Magnicharters]]

CATEGORIES: Mexico, Airlines

Magnicharters is a low cost, charter airline from Mexico. It's headquarters are in Monterrey, Mexico. It was founded in 1994 by the Mexican tourist agency, Magnitur.  The airline currently focuses on transporting Mexicans to domestic beach destinations. It also goes to a few destinations in the United States. It has a fleet of 9 Boeing 737 airplanes.  

[[Constructive proof]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In mathematics, a constructive proof is a method of proof that shows the existence of a mathematical object—by giving a method on how to create the object. The other type of proof is called non-constructive proof, or existence proof: It shows that an object must exist, but does not give a way how to construct it.

A non-constructive proof is rejected by the so-called constructivists, who choose to interpret existence in a stricter way.

[[Vauffelin]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Vauffelin was a municipality in the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Vauffelin and Plagne merged into the new municipality of Sauge.

[[Involuntary celibacy]]

CATEGORIES: Internet memes, Sexuality

Involuntary celibacy or inceldom means being unable to get sex or a romantic partner. An incel or incelibate is a person who is in this situation. Female incels are sometimes called femcels. Homosexual incels are sometimes called gaycels. Transgender people going through inceldom are called transcels.

Discussions on the incelosphere (incel websites) are mostly by heterosexual males. But female incels and gay incels also exist. Incels, especially male incels, are often misogynistic and seem to feel a sense of entitlement to sex, with some supporting arranged marriage. Some incels even support violence against women, such as rape, and violence against romantically successful men (some of which are often refered to as "Chads"), who are resented.The Southern Poverty Law Center has described the subculture as "part of the online male supremacist ecosystem", and says self-described incels have committed several mass murders in North America.

The word "incel" was invented in 1993 by a college student 'Alana' from Toronto, Ontario. She made a website to discuss her sexual inactivity with others.  The website, titled "Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project", was used by people of all genders to share posts about the topic. During her college career and after, she realized she was queer, and became more comfortable with her identity. She later gave the site to a stranger. After reading about the 2014 Isla Vista killings, she wrote, "Like a scientist who invented something that ended up being a weapon of war, I can't uninvent this word, nor restrict it to the nicer people who need it". Another notable incel was Christine Chubbuck. She committed suicide on live tv in 1974. /r/incels on Reddit was one of the biggest Incel forums. On November 7, 2017, Reddit decided to get rid of it because of their new site rules. 

There are many subgroups of incels. For example lesbocels are a subgroup of gaycels meaning lesbian involuntary celibates. Some femcelish lesbians call themselves incelbians. Or for example disabledcels and mentalcels are subsets of inceldom whose involuntary celibacy is caused by them being disabled. Femcels who believe that their inceldom condition is permanent call themselves trufemcel or truefemcel. They call the state of being unable to get romance or a partner as femceldom. The largest inceldom-related forum at the turn of the 2020s decade was the subreddit trufemcels, a platform for femcels.

Many incels take views from fields like evolutionary psychology. Some incels believe that male incels have no chance against more attractive males, and women have things easier because of feminism and cosmetics. Incels may believe their lack of success is because of being shy, poor body image, penis size, or their appearance, and believe that having lots of money is the only chance to find an attractive partner. 

[[Sauge]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, 2014 establishments in Switzerland

Sauge is a new municipality of the administrative district of Jura bernois in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Plagne and Vauffelin merged into the new municipality of Sauge.

[[Jailhouse Rock (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 movies, Elvis Presley, 1950s musical movies, English-language movies

Jailhouse Rock is a 1957 American musical movie. It was directed by Richard Thorpe. Jailhouse rock stars Elvis Presley, Judy Tyler, and Mickey Shaughnessy. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM) and is based on a story written by Nedrick Young. The movie is about a young man sentenced to prison for manslaughter. There he is mentored in music by his prison cellmate who realizes his musical abilities. After his release from jail, while looking for a job as a club singer, the young man meets a musical promoter who helps him start his career. As he develops his musical abilities and becomes a star, his self-centered personality begins to affect his relationships. Jailhouse rock is considered one of Elvis Presley's best movies. When James Dean died in 1955, Hollywood began looking for a new actor to replace him. There were a lot of young actors trying to act tough and be rebellious. Presley was considered a replacement for Dean. He could sing and dance. He was good-looking and was a decent actor.

[[Vechigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Vechigen is a municipality of the Swiss canton of Berne. In 2014, 5075 people lived there. It consists of the villages: Sinneringen, Boll, Dentenberg, Utzigen, Lindental, Berg, Littewil and Radelfingen.

[[Villeret, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Villeret is a municipality of the administrative district Jura bernois of the Swiss canton of Berne.

[[Vinelz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Vinelz (Fenis) is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Thun (administrative district)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments in Switzerland, Districts of Bern

The administrative district of Thun in the Swiss canton of Bern has 35 municipalities in an area of 322 km².

[[The Beginning (The Black Eyed Peas album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, The Black Eyed Peas albums, Hip hop albums, Pop albums, Dance albums

The Beginning is the sixth studio album by American hip hop group The Black Eyed Peas. The album was released on November 26, 2010 by Interscope. The album was titled to be a prequel to the groups fifth album The E.N.D. (2009). It is the groups last album to feature Fergie as she left in 2017 to focus on her solo career.

[[Shock tactics]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology, Military tactics

Shock tactics are those military tactics designed to overwhelm an enemy with fear, causing panic and confusion. Shock tactics are as old as warfare itself. The Mongols got their reputation for being invincible by the use of shock tactics. Numbers of Medieval knights mounted on their warhorses made coordinated shock attacks into the ranks of enemy soldiers. Robert E. Lee saw the advantage of the shock attack as not so much killing enemy soldiers, but to "create a panic and virtually destroy the enemy army." The disadvantage of a shock attack is that the attacker may suffer heavy casualties. During World War I, for example, Germany suffered great losses with its use of the shock attack.

[[Monkey Business (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums, The Black Eyed Peas albums, Hip hop albums, R&B albums

Monkey Business is the fourth studio album by American hip hop group, The Black Eyed Peas. It was released on May 25, 2005, by the will.i.am Music Group and A&M Records. It was the groups second album to feature R&B singer Fergie as a member.

[[Elephunk]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, The Black Eyed Peas albums, Hip hop albums, R&B albums, A&M Records albums, Pop albums

Elephunk is the third studio album by American hip hop group The Black Eyed Peas. It was released on June 24, 2003, by the will.i.am Music Group and A&M Records. Although the album is the groups third album it is also the groups first in many ways; it was the first album to feature R&B singer Fergie and was the first album of the group to be billed as "The Black Eyed Peas".

[[Broglio, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

[[Azadliq (newspaper)]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Azerbaijan, Azerbaijani-language newspapers, 1989 establishments, 20th century establishments in Azerbaijan, Free Media Award winners

Azadliq (Azadlıq) a daily political newspaper in Azerbaijan. It is one of the most popular newspapers in Azerbaijan.

[[Behind the Front]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 albums, Debut albums, The Black Eyed Peas albums, Hip hop albums, Alternative hip hop albums

Behind the Front is the debut studio album by American hip hop group Black Eyed Peas, released on June 30, 1998 by Interscope, The original members of the group were rappers will.i.am, Taboo and apl.de.alp as well as R&B singer Kim Hill, although Hill was a member of the group her photo wasn't included on the album and she only appeared on a few of the songs on the album. Some of the songs were demos from will.i.am and apl.de.alp's group Atban Klann's scheduled debut album Grass Roots which was never released, with additional raps added by Taboo.

[[Bridging the Gap (Black Eyed Peas album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 albums, The Black Eyed Peas albums, Hip hop albums, Alternative hip hop albums

Bridging the Gap is the second studio album by American hip hop group Black Eyed Peas, released on September 26, 2000. This is their last album as Black Eyed Peas, before they changed their name to "The Black Eyed Peas" and the last album with Kim Hill as a member.

[[Arrondissements of the Haute-Vienne department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Haute-Vienne department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Haute-Vienne are:

[[Rodjaraeg Wattanapanit]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Activists, Thai people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Rodjaraeg Wattanapanit is a bookstore owner from Thailand. She also helped start Creating Awareness for Enhanced Democracy (CAFÉ Democracy), an organization for political ideas. In 2016 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Vicky Ntetema]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights activists, Living people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Journalists, Tanzanian people, 1958 births

Vicky Ntetema or Vicky Alice Ntetema (born c. 1958) is a journalist from Tanzania. She hid her identity to find out about the deaths of albino people. She is the director of Under the Same Sun, an NGO for the rights of albino people.  In 2016, she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Arrondissement of Bellac]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Bellac is an arrondissement of France, in the Haute-Vienne department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Bellac.

[[Awadeya Mahmoud]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Living people, Sudanese people, Activists

Awadeya Mahmoud or Awwadah Mahmoud Koko (Arabic: عوضية محمود كوكو ) is a tea seller and activist from Sudan.  She started the Women’s Food and Tea Sellers’ Cooperative and the Women’s Multi-Purpose Cooperative for Khartoum State.  In 2016, she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Forever Marilyn]]

CATEGORIES: Statues

Forever Marilyn is a giant statue of Marilyn Monroe designed by Seward Johnson. The statue is made to look like one of the most famous images of Monroe, taken from the movie The Seven Year Itch. The statue was created in July 2011. It has been displayed in the United States and Australia.

[[Arrondissement of Limoges]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Limoges is an arrondissement of France, in the Haute-Vienne department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Limoges.

[[Hysterical strength]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology

Hysterical strength or superhuman strength is a display of extreme strength by humans beyond the normal. Hysterical strength usually occurs in life or death situations. The usual explanation is a sudden release of adrenaline (epinephrine). There have been numerous reports of people exhibition hysterical strength while feeling negitive side effects on drugs like LSD, Phencyclidine and flakka and even fighting with the police.

[[India (disambiguation)]]

India, officially the Republic of India (Bhārat Gaṇarājya) is a country in South Asia.

India may also refer to:

[[Pot calling the kettle black]]

CATEGORIES: Logical fallacies

The pot calling the kettle black is an informal fallacy also called Tu quoque. 

Another name is appeal to hypocrisy. 

It happens when a person is guilty of the very thing of which they accuse another.

A fable, perhaps by Aesop, has a mother crab and its young, where the mother tells the child to walk straight, and is asked in return to demonstrate how that is done.

A present-day example:

It is a fallacy because a person's actions or character do not affect the logic of the argument.

[[Association fallacy]]

CATEGORIES: Logical fallacies

An association fallacy  is a logical fallacy that occurs when someone says that a quality of one thing must applies to another just because they share a similar quality or belief. It can be used in a positive or negative way.

It follows the general outline, A is a B, A is also a C, therefore, all Bs are Cs.

An example of an association fallacy being used in positive way (called pro hominem, or honour by association) is as follows:

An example of an association fallacy being used in a negative way (called guilt by association) is as follows:

[[Arrondissement of Rochechouart]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Rochechouart is an arrondissement of France, in the Haute-Vienne department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Rochechouart.

[[Rajasthani language]]

CATEGORIES: Indo-Aryan languages

Rajasthani language belongs to the Indo-Aryan languages group. It is estimated to be spoken by 80 million speakers throughout the world. Rajasthan, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat are the states where Rajasthani language is spoken. In Pakistan, Provinces of Sindh and Punjab. Rajasthani language is thought to be emerged or descended from the Old Gujarati language.

[[LoveWave]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 songs, Eurovision Song Contest

"LoveWave" is a song by Armenian-German singer Iveta Mukuchyan. It was released as a single on March 30, 2016. It represented Armenia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2016. The video for "LoveWave" premiered on March 2, 2016.

[[Oblique order]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology, Military tactics

The oblique order, also called the oblique attack is a military tactic to bring a larger force against one of the enemy's flanks. At the same time the remainder of the force is used to distract and keep the enemy line in place. This is a good tactic if the attacking force is larger in size. Frederick the Great is credited with inventing the oblique order. He would use a large number of troops on one of the flanks to destroy that section, then drive into the enemy from two directions. The word oblique comes from the Middle English word oblike, which comes from the Latin word oblīquus meaning "slanted". In military usage, oblique usually means at an angle, often 45 degrees. 

[[Haut-Bocage]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Haut-Bocage is a commune in the Allier department of central France, in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region.

The town hall is in Maillet.

[[Miami Lakes, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Florida

Miami Lakes is a town in Miami-Dade County, Florida, United States. At the 2015 U.S. Census, 30,791 people lived in Miami Lakes.

[[Armenia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2016]]

CATEGORIES: Eurovision Song Contest, 21st century in Armenia, 2016

Armenia participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 2016 with the song "LoveWave" written by Lilith Navasardyan, Levon Navasardyan, Iveta Mukuchyan and Stephanie Crutchfield. The song was performed by Iveta Mukuchyan, who was selected internally by the Armenian broadcaster Public Television of Armenia (AMPTV) to represent Armenia in the 2016 contest in Stockholm, Sweden. Mukuchyan's selection as the Armenian artist was announced on 13 October 2015, while the song "LoveWave" was later presented to the public on 2 March 2016.

[[Social issue]]

CATEGORIES: Social issues

A social issue (or social problem, social conflict, or social illness) is an issue which affects (or has an effect on) many people in a society. 

Social issues are different from economic issues. However, some issues, such as immigration, have both social and economic aspects. Racism, unemployment, poverty, violence, human rights are examples of social issues.

[[Poplar]]

Poplar may refer to:

[[Martin Ryle]]

CATEGORIES: Nobel Prize in Physics winners, 1918 births, 1984 deaths, People from Brighton

Sir Martin Ryle (27 September 1918, Brighton, Sussex  14 October 1984, Cambridge) was a British radio astronomer. 

Ryle developed revolutionary radio telescope systems. He used them for accurate location of weak radio sources. With improved equipment, he observed the most distant known galaxies of the universe. Ryle and Antony Hewish shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1974. That was the first Nobel Prize awarded in recognition of astronomical research.

[[Monte Cimone]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Italy, Emilia-Romagna

Monte Cimone is the highest mountain in the northern Apennines, in Italy

[[Richie Rich (comics)]]

CATEGORIES: Comics characters

Richie Rich is a fictional character created by Alfred Harvey and Warren Kremer, and published by Harvey Comics in the 1950s.  Richie Rich is called the poor little rich boy, or also the richest kid in the world. He appeared in comic book titles such as Richie Rich Millions (1961) and Richie Rich Dollars & Cents (1963).

[[Preemptive war]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology, Military tactics

A preemptive war is one in which a country takes military action against another country or group that poses a real threat of waging a war against them. The purpose is to stop the threat before the country or group has a chance to strike. This is an old philosophy of war or of preventing a war. Sun Tzu, the ancient Chinese general, military expert and philosopher, advised using preemptive war to make sure your enemy does not attack first. A declaration of war may or may not come before a preemptive first strike.  Preemptive war is thought of as a defensive act. This is true when it is clear an enemy is threatening an attack and that attack will do great harm. Also, a country which preemptively attacks another to defend itself can claim it was a moral act and avoid the label of an aggressor.

[[2006 Lebanon War]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in Asia, 21st century in Israel, 21st century in Lebanon, August events, Golan Heights, July 2006 events, Wars involving Israel, Wars involving Lebanon

The 2006 Lebanon War was fought between Israel and Hezbollah from 12 July - 14 August 2006.

[[Howard Wolowitz]]

CATEGORIES: Television characters

Howard Joel Wolowitz is a character on the sitcom The Big Bang Theory. He is played by Simon Helberg.

[[Vladimir Grbić]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2004 Summer Olympics, Living people, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Serbian volleyball players, Sportsmen, Yugoslavian sportspeople

Vladimir "Vanja" Grbić (born 14 December 1970) is a retired Serbian volleyball player. He is 193 tall. He played as passer-side attacker.

Grbić was born in Klek in Socialist Republic of Serbia, Yugoslavia. He is Nikola Grbić's brother. He is a member of the Volleyball Hall of Fame.

With the national volleyball team of Yugoslavia, he won a gold medal in the 2000 Summer Olympics and a bronze medal in 1996 at Atlanta. His international victories include a silver medal in the 1998 World Championship and a gold medal in the 2001 European Championship.

Grbić Yugoslav Olympic Committee has declared him for the best sportsman of the year in 1996 and 2000. In 1999 and 2000, he received a Golden Badge, award for best athlete in Yugoslavia.

[[Judy Martz]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 1964 Winter Olympics, 2017 deaths, American Olympians, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Governors of Montana, People from Butte, Montana, Speed skaters, Sportswomen, US Republican Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Montana

Judy Martz (July 28, 1943 – October 30, 2017) was an American politician who was the 23rd Governor of Montana from 2001 to 2005. She was elected Governor of Montana on 7 November 2000. She was the first woman to be elected Governor in Montana. She served only one term in office, from January 1, 2001 to January 3, 2005. 

[[Subliminal stimuli]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Subliminal stimuli are sensations just "below the threshold" of a person's conscious perception. They may be designed to influence the mental processes or the behavior of the individual without beiing noticed.

A recent review of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies shows that subliminal stimuli activate certain parts of the brain, but the subjects do not notice the stimulus. Visual stimuli may be quickly flashed before an individual can process them, or flashed and then masked, thereby interrupting the processing. Audio stimuli may be played below audible volumes or masked by other stimuli.

[[Rodolfo Illanes]]

CATEGORIES: Deaths by beating, 2016 deaths, Bolivian politicians, 1958 births

Rodolfo Illanes (19 August 1958 - 25 August 2016) was a Bolivian politician. In 2016 he was the deputy Interior Minister when he was kidnapped by striking miners. He had gone to meet with the miners at Pandura. The miners were demanding more mining, the right to work for private companies, and greater union representation. When talks between the government and the miners failed, Illanes was beaten to death by his kidnappers.

[[Sonia Rykiel]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2016 deaths, French fashion designers

Sonia Rykiel (25 May 1930 – 25 August 2016) was a French fashion designer and writer. She created the Poor Boy Sweater, which was featured on the cover of French Elle magazine. She was given the nickname "Queen of Knits" because of her knitwear designs. The Sonia Rykiel label began in 1968 when she opened her first store, making clothing, accessories and perfumes. Rykiel was also a writer and her first book was published in 1979. In 2012, Rykiel said she was suffering from Parkinson's disease. She died from complications of the disease on 25 August 2016.

[[Eddy Silitonga]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2016 deaths, Indonesian singers

Eddy Silitonga (born Charles Edison Silitonga in Siantar, Sumatra, January 17, 1949 - died in Jakarta, August 25, 2016) was an Indonesian singer. He was known for his high-pitched voice. He won several song contests, including Champion Pop Singer in Medan and the Popular Song Festival held at Taman Ismail Marzuki in Jakarta. Silitonga won the first Minang Song Contest in 1983. He studied at Mapua Institute of Technology in the Philippines. He formed his own group, "Eddy's Group", which was at its peak in 1976 - 1979. He suffered from heart disease and diabetes.

Some of his popular songs included "Bunga Tanjong", "Lancang Kuning", "Bunga Pujaan", and "Jatuh Cinta".Some of his popular songs included "Bunga Tanjong", "Lancang Kuning", "Bunga Pujaan", and "Jatuh Cinta".

[[Rudy Van Gelder]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 deaths, Engineers from New Jersey

Rudolph "Rudy" Van Gelder (November 2, 1924 – August 25, 2016) was an American recording engineer who specialized in jazz. 

He has been described as the most important recording engineer of jazz. Over a period of more than 50 years, Van Gelder recorded several thousand jazz sessions. Some of these recordings are recognized as classics. He recorded many of the great jazz musicians, including John Coltrane, Miles Davis, Thelonious Monk, Sonny Rollins, Art Blakey, Joe Henderson, Freddie Hubbard, Wayne Shorter, and Horace Silver. He worked with many record companies but was most closely associated with Blue Note Records.

[[Battle of New Market]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1864 in Virginia, May 1864 events

The Battle of New Market was an American Civil War battle fought on May 15, 1864 over control of the Shenandoah Valley in Virginia. The battle was part of the Union Army Valley Campaigns of 1864. Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant had ordered General Franz Sigel to take his army into the Shenandoah Valley and clear it of Confederate forces. Siegel had about 9,000 men when he started up the valley, but for some reason split his army. When he arrived outside the town of New Market, he had with him a force of about 6,500 Union soldiers. The Shenandoah valley was the breadbasket of the Confederacy and provided food to feed General Robert E. Lee's hungry army. Lee sent General John C. Breckinridge with about 4,100 men to stop Siegel and force the Union Army out of the valley. Breckenridge, with Lee's permission, called up the 500 cadets from the nearby Virginia Military Institute (VMI), some as young as 15 years old. The Confederates won the battle, defeating Siegel's larger force.

[[Amnesic shellfish poisoning]]

CATEGORIES: Toxicology, Protista

Amnesic shellfish poisoning is an illness caused by poisoning with a particular toxin called domoic acid.

At times, some diatoms produce domoic acid in ocean water. Shellfish accumulate this poison, and when they are eaten by people, the people get poisoned. The symptoms may be very severe: they include permanent memory loss, brain damage, and vomiting.

This disease was discovered in 1987 in eastern Canada when many people got poisoned after eating shellfish in a restaurant. Several people died of this disease then.

Birds can get this disease too when they eat poisoned shellfish. Such birds lose the coordination ability, and may crash into car and house windows.

Scientists found that the incidents of this disease occur more frequently in the recent years.

In the United States it is illegal to catch and sell shellfish without a license. Caught shellfish have to be frequently tested. When this toxin is found in the shellfish, government bans fishing and selling it in the area.

In the UK, all shellfish caught for restaurants or sale to the public are put in clean water for at least two days before being brought to market. This is the standard way to protect from poisoning.

[[Salak]]

CATEGORIES: Fruits

Salak fruit is grown in southeast Asia. It has a spiky look and has a leathery rap and a nut shaped inside. You can eat it with a little sugar or salt or even make it into a helpful eye cream.

[[Reno (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Italy

The Reno (Rhenus) is a river of northeastern Italy that starts in the Northern Apennines mountain range in Tuscany but flows mainly through the Emilia-Romagna region. It is one of the longest river in Italy.

[[Fatih Terim]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Turkish footballers, Turkish football managers

Fatih Terim (born 4 September 1953) is a Turkish football manager. He managed the Turkey national football team from 2013 to 2017.

He has been the manager of Galatasaray S.K. since 2017.

[[Agglutinative language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages

An agglutinative language is a type of language where words are made up of different types of morphemes to determine their meaning. What makes these languages different from others, is that if one removes the morphemes from the word, they will be able to stand on their own.

[[Suffocation (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 1988, Musical groups from New York

Suffocation is an American technical death metal band from Centereach, New York, United States. The band members are Frank Mullen (vocalist), Terrance Hobbs and Charlie Errigo (both guitarisits), Eric Morotti (drummer) and Derek Boyer (bassist). Their 1991 album, Effigy of the Forgotten, created a blueprint for the genre for the 1990s. The band has a raw death metal style that uses growled vocals with a downtuned guitar sound, fast and complex guitar riffs and drumming, open chord notes, breakdowns, and a complex sense of songwriting. Decibel Magazine has stated that Suffocation's music completely influenced the creation of deathcore.

[[Steve Hickner]]

CATEGORIES: American movie directors, American animators, Living people

Steve Hickner is an American animator and director who directed Bee Movie and The Prince of Egypt.

[[Paul Bostaph]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, American musicians

Paul Steven Bostaph (born 4 March 1964 in San Francisco, California) is an American metal drummer who is currently performing with the thrash metal band Slayer. He began his drumming career in 1984, and has since worked with bands like Forbidden, Exodus, Systematic, and Testament. Metal-Rules.com described Bostaph as "a true professional and one of the best drummers on today's metal music scene."

[[Homologous series]]

CATEGORIES: Organic chemistry

In chemistry, a homologous series is a series of chemical compounds with the same general formula. Usually these compounds vary by a single parameter such as the length of a carbon chain. Examples of such series are the straight-chained alkanes (paraffins), and some of their derivatives (such as the primary alcohols, aldehydes, and (mono)carboxylic acids). 

Compounds within a homologous series typically have a fixed set of functional groups that gives them similar chemical and physical properties. For example, the series of primary straight-chained alcohols has an hydroxyl at the end of the carbon chain. These properties typically change gradually along the series, and the changes can often be explained by small differences in molecular size and mass.

[[Canada men's national volleyball team]]

CATEGORIES: National volleyball teams, Sport in Canada

The Canada national volleyball team represents Canada in international volleyball competitions.

[[Czech Republic men's national volleyball team]]

CATEGORIES: National volleyball teams, Sport in the Czech Republic

The Czech Republic national volleyball team represents Czech Republic in international volleyball competitions.

[[Egypt men's national volleyball team]]

CATEGORIES: National volleyball teams, Sport in Egypt

The Egypt national volleyball team represents Egypt in international volleyball competitions.

[[Tunisia men's national volleyball team]]

CATEGORIES: National volleyball teams, Sport in Tunisia

The Tunisia national volleyball team represents Tunisia in international volleyball competitions.

[[Shenandoah Valley]]

CATEGORIES: Valleys of the United States

The Shenandoah Valley ˌ (nicknamed  "The Big Valley" ) is a geographic valley and cultural region of western Virginia and the Eastern Panhandle of West Virginia in the United States. The valley is bounded on the east by the Blue Ridge Mountains. On the west it is bounded by the eastern front of the Appalachians. To the north it goes to the Potomac River and to the south by the James River. The cultural region covers a larger area that includes all of the valley plus the Virginia highlands to the west, and the Roanoke Valley to the south. The Valley is about 200 long. It is the home of two well-known universities, James Madison and Shenandoah University.

[[Reductio ad Hitlerum]]

CATEGORIES: Logical fallacies

Reductio ad Hitlerum, also known as playing the Hitler card, is a logical fallacy described  by Leo Strauss, a philosopher, in 1951. It happens when someone compares their opponent's view with Hitler or something that he did.

It is a form of ad hominem, distracting from the argument by criticizing the opponent. It works because in the modern world, people think of Nazism as a bad thing.

During the 2016 US Presidential Election, Republican candidate Donald J. Trump has been repeatedly compared to Hitler by commentators and comedians.

An example is as follows:

As person 2 has criticized the opponent as opposed to the argument by comparing them to Hitler without giving any reasons as to why X is not true, they have committed reductio ad Hitlerum.

[[Leo Strauss]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1973 deaths, 20th century philosophers, American philosophers, American political scientists, Continental philosophers, German military personnel of World War I, German philosophers, Hebrew University of Jerusalem faculty, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish American writers, Jewish German scientists, Jewish German writers, Jewish philosophers, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Refugees from Nazism, Writers from Hesse

Leo Strauss (September 20, 1899 - October 18, 1973) was a German-American political philosopher and classicist who became an expert on political philosophy. He was born in Germany to Jewish parents and later went to the United States. He spent most of his time as a teacher of political science at the University of Chicago, where he taught students and put into print 15 books.

He was particularly concerned with the idea of whether freedom and excellence could go together, but his ideas were criticised by Nicholas Xenos as wanting to go back to an era of fascism.

He was against the idea of a world state as he thought it would lead to tyranny.

[[Wachseldorn]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wachseldorn is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Wahlern]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Wahlern was a municipality in Bern in Switzerland. On 1 January 2011, Wahlern and Albligen joined together to become the new municipality, Schwarzenburg.

[[Schwarzenburg]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Bern

Schwarzenburg is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

It was created on 1 January 2011 through the merger of the municipalities of Wahlern and Albligen.

[[Mosen, Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne

Mosen was a municipality of the district Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland. Since 1 January 2009, it became part of the municipality of Hitzkirch.

[[Müswangen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne

Müswangen is a former municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland. Since 1 January 2009, it became part of the municipality of Hitzkirch.

[[Brontallo]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

Brontallo is a village and former municipality of the district Vallemaggia in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 4 April 2004 the former municipalities of Broglio, Brontallo, Fusio, Menzonio, Peccia and Prato-Sornico merged to form the new municipality of Lavizzara.

[[Menzonio]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

[[Peccia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

Peccia is one of six small Swiss municipalities that merged on 4 April 2004 to form the new municipality of Lavizzara, with about 1000 people. The other municipalities were Broglio, Brontallo, Fusio, Menzonio, and Prato-Sornico.

[[Web crawler]]

CATEGORIES: Web browsers

A web crawler or spider is a computer program that automatically fetches the contents of a web page. The program then analyses the content, for example to index it by certain search terms. Search engines commonly use web crawlers.

[[Per capita income]]

CATEGORIES: Income, Economics, Economic indicators

Per capita income or average income is the average amount of money a person gets in a year. It is found by dividing the amount of money in an area by the number of people living there.

Per capita income is often used to measure an area's average income. The currency used is often the euro or the US dollar as they are widely used international currencies.

It has been criticised for not accounting for inflation. This means that it overstates economic growth. It also means that a small number of wealthy people can increase the country's per capita income whilst the rest of the population experience no change. It does not account for the differences in the cost of living between countries.

[[Sunnyvale, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area, Settlements in Santa Clara County, California

Sunnyvale is a city in the U.S. state of California. It is near San Francisco and San Jose. It is the seventh most populated city in the San Francisco Bay Area. As of the 2010 census, 140,095 people were living in Sunnyvale.

[[Booby trap]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons

A booby trap is a device or setup that is intended to kill, harm or surprise a person. It is usually triggered by the actions of the victim who did not know the booby trap was there. During the Vietnam War nearly 70% of American casualties were due to booby traps. In war, booby traps are a form of psychological warfare. They are designed to make soldiers slow down and be very cautious. As the word trap implies, they sometimes have some form of bait to attract the victim. At other times, the trap is set to act upon trespassers that come into personal or restricted areas. The device can be triggered when the victim performs some type of everyday action. For example opening a door, picking something up or switching something on. They can also be triggered by vehicles driving along a road such as an improvised explosive devices (IED's). Often booby traps are placed in a choke point where people or vehicles would normally move through. Lethal booby traps are often used in warfare, particularly guerrilla warfare. Traps designed to cause injury or pain are sometimes used by criminals wanting to protect drugs or other illicit property. They are also used some owners of legal property who wish to protect it from theft. 

[[San Pedro Department, Paraguay]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

The San Pedro department (Departamento de San Pedro) is a department of Paraguay. The capital is the city of San Pedro de Ycuamandiyú. Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-02.

The name San Pedro ("Saint Peter") was given after its capital.

[[Jeju Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of South Korea, World Heritage Sites in South Korea

Jejudo (also known as Jeju Island) is the largest island off the coast of the Korean Peninsula. It is the main island of Jeju Province of South Korea.  The island lies in the Korea Strait, southwest of South Jeolla Province. The island contains the natural World Heritage Site Jeju Volcanic Island and Lava Tubes. The highest point in South Korea is the Island's dormant volcano, Hallasan, which stands 6400 above sea level. Jejudo has a temperate climate. Even in winter, the temperature rarely falls below 0. The Island is a popular place for Korean newlyweds to honeymoon.

Jeju Island is 73 km wide from east to west and 31 km wide from north to south.  Most of Jeju Island is made out of volcanic rocks from the Holocene era.

First, the basalt lava erupted to make the Hallasan shield volcano about 2 million years ago.  Hallasan was still active into recorded history, but it is not active now.  Then this first layer of volcanic rock was covered up with sediment.  Then there was another set of eruptions, which made most of the rock on the surface of Jeju Island today.  In the third round of volcanic activity, Hallasan grew to its current, tall height, 1950 m.

[[Sinusitis]]

CATEGORIES: Medical signs, Symptoms

Sinusitis means infection or inflammation of the sinuses, which are air-filled spaces inside the bones of the face. There are many symptoms, including thick nasal mucus, a plugged nose, and pain in the face.

[[Rain, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Rain is a municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Retschwil]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne

Retschwil is a former municipality, in the municipality of Hitzkirch and the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Queen Anne of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, People from Paris, French people of World War II, Kings and Queens consort, Princes and princesses

Princess Anne of Bourbon-Parma, also known as Queen Anne of Romania (Anne Antoinette Françoise Charlotte Zita Marguerite of Bourbon-Parma, 18 September 1923 – 1 August 2016), was the wife of former king Michael I of Romania.

[[Colin Bean]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2009 deaths, Actors from Greater Manchester, Actors from Lancashire, English movie actors, English radio actors, English television actors

Colin Bean (15 April 1926 – 20 June 2009) was an English actor. He was best known for his role as Private Sponge in the BBC comedy series Dad's Army. He appeared in 45 episodes between 1968 and 1977. He also had roles in Are You Being Served?, Hi-de-Hi! and Z Cars.

Bean was born in Wigan, Lancashire (now Greater Manchester). He died on 20 June 2009, aged 83.

[[A. P. Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1825 births, 1865 deaths, American Civil War generals, Military people from Virginia, Military people killed in action

Ambrose Powell Hill, Jr. (1825–1865) was a career United States Army officer from Virginia who resigned and served as a Confederate States Army general and died near the end of the American Civil War. He had started his military career in 1847, graduating from the United States Military Academy at West Point, 15th out of a class of 38. While at the academy, he and his roommate George B. McClellan became close friends. He served during the last part of the Mexican-American War in Texas. He served during the Seminole War of 1849–50 in Florida. Hill is best known for commanding the "Light Division" under General Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson.

[[Römerswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Römerswil is a municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

Since 2005, Herlisberg part of the municipality.

[[Rothenburg, Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Rothenburg is a municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Schongau, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Schongau is a municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Lucerne (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Former districts of Switzerland, Districts of Lucerne, 2013 disestablishments in Switzerland

Lucerne is a former district of the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland. The capital was the city of Lucerne. On 1 January 2013 the district was divided into two districts, Lucerne-Stadt and Lucerne-Land.

It contains the following municipalities:

[[Frank Blas]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, Lieutenant Governors of Guam

Frank Flores Blas, Sr. (March 20, 1941 – August 1, 2016) was a Guamanian politician, businessman and member of the Republican Party of Guam. Blas served as the Lieutenant Governor of Guam from 1987 until 1995 under Governor Joseph Franklin Ada.

[[Dai Dower]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Boxers, Welsh sportspeople, Members of the Order of the British Empire, 1952 Summer Olympics

David William "Dai" Dower MBE (20 June 1933 – 1 August 2016), was a British, Empire and European Flyweight boxing champion. He was one of the most successful Welsh boxers of all time. Dower also competed for Britain at the 1952 Summer Olympics.

[[Hurricane Hermine]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in the United States, August 2016 events, Hurricanes in the United States, September 2016 events

Hurricane Hermine was a tropical cyclone in August and September 2016. It affected states from Florida to New England. The storm hit Florida on September 1, near the Big Bend region. Hermine had winds of 80 miles per hour at landfall. The storm also struck Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina.

Hermine was expected to affect areas from Virginia to Massachusetts and Rhode Island.

At least two deaths were blamed on the storm.

[[Jonathan Borwein]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2016 deaths, Scottish people, British mathematicians

Jonathan Borwein (born 20 May 1951 - died 2 August 2016) was a Scottish mathematician. An expert in experimental mathematics, he published 388 journal articles, as well being a regular contributor to The Conversation and The Huffington Post. He held a number of important positions including Governor at large of the Mathematical Association of America (2004–07), President of the Canadian Mathematical Society (2000–02), Chair of the Canadian National Science Library Advisory Board (2000–2003) and Chair of the Scientific Advisory Committee of the Australian Mathematical Sciences Institute (AMSI). At the time of his death he held the position of Laureate Professor of Mathematics at the University of Newcastle, Australia, and was in Canada as a Distinguished Scholar in Residence at Western University in London, Ontario.

[[Wald, Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wald is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2004, Englisberg and Zimmerwald joined together to become the new municipality, Wald.

[[Walkringen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Walkringen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Walliswil bei Niederbipp]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Walliswil bei Niederbipp is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Walliswil bei Wangen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Walliswil bei Wangen is a municipality of the administrative district Oberaargau of the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Jamkaran]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Asia, Settlements in Iran

Jamkaran (Jamkarān; also Romanized as Jamkarān, Jamgarān, Jam-i-Karān, and Jam‘karān) is a village in Iran. It is on the outskirts of the city of Qom.

[[Post hoc fallacy]]

CATEGORIES: Logical fallacies

The post hoc fallacy means "after this, therefore because of this". Its Latin name is Post hoc ergo propter hoc. It is a logical fallacy. When event B happens after event A, a person might think  "event A must have caused event B".

Example: 

It is a tempting error because sequence in time does sometimes suggest causality. When I press the light switch, the light comes on, and that is a cause and effect sequence. The difference is that it can be explained why the light comes on when the switch is pressed. On the other hand, no-one can explain why a rooster's crowing might affect the Sun.

[[Tarn Taran Sahib]]

CATEGORIES: Punjab, India, Cities in India

Taran Taran Sahib is a city of Punjab (India). This city was founded by 4th Sikh Guru, Guru Ramdas Ji.

[[Gurmukhī alphabet]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabets, Languages of India

The Gurmukhī alphabet is used to write the Punjabi language. Gurmukhī is primarily used in Punjab, India. It is the official script in Punjab.

There are 35 native characters in Gurmukhi, In the 18th-19th century a new character family called Naveen Toli was added. This helps to pronounce and write Persian words with proper tone. 

The word Gurmukhi literally means "from the mouth of Guru".

[[Gionee]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics companies, China

Gionee (Gionee Communication Equipment Co. Ltd.) is a Chinese smartphone manufacturer based in Shenzhen, Guangdong. They make the world's slimmest phone called Gionee Elife S5.1.  It is only 5.15mm thick. In August 2016, Gionee India introduced their plans to build a manufacturing plant in India.

[[Bözberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Aargau, 2013 establishments in Switzerland

Bözberg is a municipality of the district Brugg in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Gallenkirch, Linn, Oberbözberg and Unterbözberg merged into the new municipality of Bözberg.

[[Hans Schmidt]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic priests, 1881 births, 1916 deaths, German Roman Catholics, People from Bavaria

Hans B. Schmidt (1881 – February 18, 1916) was a German Roman Catholic priest. He was convicted of murder and he was the only priest to be executed in the United States.

[[Zhanna Nemtsova]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Activists, Russian journalists, Russian people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Zhanna Nemtsova (born 24 March 2016) is a Russian journalist and activist. She is the daughter of Boris Nemtsov, a Russian opposition politician who was killed in 2015.  In 2016, she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Fatimata M’baye]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Human rights activists, Lawyers, Mauritanian people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Women lawyers

Fatimata M’baye (Arabic: فاطمتا أمباي ) is a Mauritanian lawyer and human rights activist. She started the Mauritanian Association for Human Rights. In 2016 she received an International Women of Courage Award.

[[Bernardo Rezende]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Brazilian sportspeople, Volleyball coaches

Bernardo Rocha de Rezende known as Bernardinho (born August 25, 1959) is a Brazilian volleyball coach and former player. He is the current coach of both Brazil national volleyball team and the female volleyball team Rio de Janeiro Vôlei Clube. Rezende is the most successful coach in the history of volleyball, accumulating more than 30 major titles in twenty-year career directing the Brazilian male and female teams.

[[Los Andes Province, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Los Andes Province (Provincia de Los Andes) is one of eight provinces of the central Chilean region of Valparaíso (V).

The city of Los Andes is the capital of the province.

[[Deaths in August 2016]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 deaths, August 2016 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in August 2016. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Months".  Names under each date are reported in alphabetical order by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are reported here also if notable.

[[Arakkal Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in Asia

The Arrakkal Museum is a museum dedicated to the Arakkal family, the only Muslim royal family in Kerala, South India. The museum is actually a section of the Arakkalkettu(Arakkal Royal Palace). The durbar hall section of the palace has been converted into a museum by the Government of Kerala. It was opened in July 2005 after a Rs. 9,000,000 renovation.

Although renovated by the government, the Arakkalkettu is still owned by the Arakkal Royal Trust and does not fall under the control of the country's archaeology department, the Archaeological Survey of India. The government had taken a keen interest in preserving the heritage of the Arakkal Family, which had played a prominent role in the history of Malabar. A nominal entry fee is charged by the Arakkal Royal Trust from visitors to the museum.

[[Mount Kyllini]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Greece

Mount Kyllini or Mount Cyllene Κυλλήνη, sometimes Ζήρια, is a mountain on the Peloponnese peninsula in Greece. It is famous for its association with the god Hermes. Mount Kyllini rises to 2374 above sea level. This makes it the second highest point on the peninsula.  It is located near the border between the historic regions of Arcadia and Achaea—in the northeast of Arcadia. It is located west of Corinth, northwest of Stymfalia, north of Tripoli, and south of Derveni.

Much of the mountain is desolate and rocky. The area below 2000 is largely forested.  There is an observatory at 908, at 22.67 east longitude and 37.97 north latitude. Roads pass near the southern and western slopes, but there are not many on the mountain itself, as much of the mountain is part of a park. 

[[Walperswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Walperswil is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group C]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, 2017 in sports, 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)

The 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification UEFA Group C was one of the nine UEFA groups for 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification. The group was made up of six teams: Germany, Czech Republic, Northern Ireland, Norway, Azerbaijan, and San Marino. Germany won the group and qualified for the world cup, while Northern Ireland finished 2nd and moved on to the second round.

[[Walterswil, Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Walterswil is a municipality of the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Wangen an der Aare]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Wangen an der Aare is a city in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Wangenried]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wangenried is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Wanzwil]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Wanzwil was a municipality in Wangen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 Wanzwil and Röthenbach bei Herzogenbuchsee became part of Heimenhausen.

[[Railroad company]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport

A railroad company or railway company is an organization that operates a railroad track or trains. The company can either be private or public. Some railway companies operate both the trains and the track. In other cases, particularly in European Union (EU), ownership of track and train operation is run by separate companies. In the United States the railroad track system is owned by the railroad companies. In the 1800s, the federal government gave large land grants to the railroads.

[[Wattenwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wattenwil is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Wengi]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wengi (Bernese German: Wängi, væŋi) is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Wichtrach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wichtrach is a municipality of the administrative district Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2004 the former municipalities of Niederwichtrach and Oberwichtrach merged into the municipality of Wichtrach.

[[Wiedlisbach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Wiedlisbach is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau of the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Anthocyanin]]

CATEGORIES: Pigments, Plant physiology

Anthocyanin is a chemical compound which makes the red colour in plants. For example, red cabbage has anthocyanins which make it red.

[[Williamson County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Williamson County is a county in Central Texas. The county seat is Georgetown, Texas. The county population in July 2015 was 508,514. The county is named after Robert McAlpin Williamson, a veteran in the Battle of San Jacinto and a previous community leader.

[[Susanna Griso]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Spanish journalists, Writers from Barcelona

Susanna Griso Raventós (born 8 October 1969 in Barcelona, Catalonia) is a Spanish journalist and TV hostess. 

== Biography == 

[[Electric blanket]]

CATEGORIES: Home, Electronics

An electric blanket is a blanket with electric heating. 

The first electric blanket was invented in 1912 by an American inventor named Samuel Irwin Russell. 

Some modern "low voltage" electric blankets have thin carbon fiber wires and work on 12-24 volts.

[[Nguyen Van Thieu]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2001 deaths, Presidents (government), Vietnamese people

Nguyen Van Thieu or Nguyễn Văn Thiệu was the leader of South Vietnam from 1965 to 1975. He was a general in the Army of the Republic of Vietnam. Thieu became head of a military junta, meaning the military controlled the government. He was then elected president.

Thieu quit being president on 21 April 1975. He then left the country. On 30 April 1975 the city of Saigon was taken by North Vietnam. This marked the end of the Vietnam War.

[[U Nu]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1995 deaths, Prime Ministers of Myanmar, Writers, Buddhists

U Nu was the first Prime Minister of Burma. He served from 4 January 1948 to 12 June 1956, again from 28 February 1957 to 28 October 1958, and finally from 4 April 1960 to 2 March 1962.

Burma gained independence from Britain on 4 January 1948. Nu became the first prime minister of the new country. He quit being prime minister in 1956. He again served as prime minister between Ba Swe and Ne Win.

Nu was one of the leaders of the Anti-Fascist People's Freedom League (AFPFL) from 1942 to 1963. The AFPFL had two groups of power. Nu's group won the 1960 election. He then became prime minister. On 2 March 1962 General Ne Win took control of the government. Nu was then kept in an army camp. Nu continued to claim he was the legal prime minister. In 1988 he tried to form his own government with Win Maung as president.

Nu wrote an autobiography called Ta-Tei Sanei Tha (Naughty Saturday-born). It was published in India by Irrawaddy Publishing (U Maw Thiri) in 1975. He wrote several other books including The People Win Through (1951), Burma under the Japanese (1954), An Asian Speaks (1955), and Burma Looks Ahead (1951).

[[Iodine test]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

The iodine test is a test that is able to detect starch using iodine as a chemical indicator. Example uses include brewing beer, and determining when apples are ripe and can be harvested.

If starch is present, the iodine solution will turn dark blue/purple. If there is no starch, the iodine will stay brown.

[[Mauritanian Association for Human Rights]]

CATEGORIES: Mauritania, Human rights organizations, 1991 establishments in Africa

The Mauritanian Association for Human Rights or Association Mauritanienne des Droits de l'Homme (AMDH) (Arabic: للجمعية الموريتانية لحقوق الإنسان ) is a Mauritanian NGO. The organization started in 1991.  It works for human rights and watches for human rights violations. Fatimata M’baye is the co-founder and president.

[[Las Lomas, California]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in California, Settlements in Monterey County, California

Las Lomas is a town in Monterey County, California. At the 2010 census, 3,034 people lived there.

[[Arrondissements of the Creuse department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 2 arrondissements in the Creuse department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of the Creuse are:

[[Heart block]]

CATEGORIES: Heart disease

Heart block is a type of heart disease.  The human heart uses electrical signals to make the heart beat.  Electricity travels down pathways in the heart to make each part of the heart beat at the right time.  

When a person has a heart block, there is a “block” in one of these electrical pathways.  This blocks electricity from travelling normally through the heart.  This makes the heart beat more slowly.

In the most serious cases, the heart’s electrical pathways are blocked so badly that electricity cannot travel through the heart.  This means the heart’s electrical signals cannot control how the heart beats, or cannot make the heart beat at all.

[[W (New York City Subway)]]

CATEGORIES: New York City Subway

The W Broadway Local is a rapid transit service of the New York City Subway's B Division. Its route emblem, or "bullet", is colored sunflower yellow because it is used on the BMT Broadway Line in Manhattan. In addition to the Broadway Line, the W serves the BMT Astoria Line in Queens. This uses the 60th Street Tunnel to travel under the East River between Queens and Manhattan. It also ran in Brooklyn until 2004, serving the BMT Fourth Avenue and West End lines. The W is in service as of April 7, 2020. There was a six year delay due to Metropolitan Transportation Authority, or MTA, budget cuts on June 25, 2010.

==Route== 

Stations 

The W runs on weekdays from 6:00 a.m to 11:30 p.m. This route includes the BMT Astoria Line in Queens and BMT Broadway Line in Manhattan to its southern terminal of Whitehall Street-South Ferry. Also there are three Queens bound morning rush hour trains. They will start from the Coney Island yard that will serve from 86th Street subway in Brooklyn via Sea Beach Line, through the Montague Street Tunnel to its terminal of Astoria-Ditmars Blvd. There will be three trains from Queens to 86th Street, Brooklyn in the evening rush hour on weekdays. 

[[North Gyeongsang Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of South Korea

North Gyeongsang Province (경상북도) is a province in South Korea. Gyeongsang Province divided into North Gyeongsang and South Gyeongsang in 1896.

Daegu was the capital from 1896 to 1981, but Daegu left the province in 1981. The capital changed to Andong in 2016.

North Gyeongsang Province has 19% of South Korea's land.

[[Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Syndromes

Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS, also called postural tachycardia syndrome) is a medical problem.  When a person has POTS, their heart beats faster than normal when they stand up.  POTS may also cause many other symptoms.

[[Frederick County, Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Virginia counties, 1740s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies

Frederick County is a county located in the Commonwealth of Virginia. As of the 2010 census, the population was 78,305. Its county seat is Winchester. The county was formed in 1743 by the splitting of Orange County. It is Virginia's northernmost county.

Frederick County is included in the Winchester, VA-WV Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Orange County, Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Virginia counties, 1734 establishments, 1730s establishments in Virginia

Orange County is a county in the central piedmont region of the Commonwealth of Virginia. As of the 2010 census, the population was 33,481. Its county seat is Orange.

Orange County is home to "Montpelier", the 2700 estate of James Madison, the 4th President of the United States and "Father of the Constitution." The county celebrated its 275th anniversary in 2009.

[[Ne Win]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 2002 deaths, Asian military people, Generals, Presidents of Myanmar, Prime Ministers of Myanmar

Ne Win was a Burmese politician and military commander. He was President of Burma from 1962 to 1981. Before being President he was Prime Minister. Ne Win founded the Burma Socialist Programme Party in 1962.

On 2 March 1962 Ne Win took control of the government in Burma. He became head of state as Chairman of the Union Revolutionary Council and also Prime Minister. His new government ended the constitution. They also removed the Burma parliament. In 1964 he made the Burma Socialist Programme Party the only political party in Burma.

On 2 March 1974, Ne Win ended the Revolutionary Council and made the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma. He was elected President. Then he chose Brigadier General Sein Win as Prime Minister.

[[Wiggiswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wiggiswil is a municipality of the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Hua Guofeng]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2008 deaths, Premiers of the People's Republic of China, Chinese communist politicians

Hua Guofeng (16 February 1921 – 20 August 2008) was a Chinese communist politician who serve as Chairman of the Communist Party of China from 7 October 1976 to 28 June 1981. He was chosen to lead by Mao Zedong.

Hua was born 16 February 1921 in Jiaocheng County, Shanxi, China. He was named Su Zhu. He died 20 August 2008 in Beijing, China.

On 6 October 1976, Hua ended the Cultural Revolution. He also had the Gang of Four arrested. In 1979 he visited leaders in Europe. He was the first Chinese leader to visit since 1949.

[[Sulz, Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne, Villages in Lucerne

Sulz is a former municipality of the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland. Since 1 January 2009, it became part of the municipality of Hitzkirch.

[[Arrondissement of Aubusson]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Aubusson is an arrondissement of France, in the Creuse department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Aubusson.

[[Buchrain, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Buchrain is a municipality of the district Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Dierikon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Dierikon is a municipality of the district Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Barra do Bugres]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mato Grosso do Sul

Barra do Bugres is a city in Brazil, with about 30,000 people. It is located in the state of Mato Grosso Do Sul. It is located at the confluence of the Paraguay River and the Bugres River. Local economy is focused on agriculture. The city is about 150 from the state capital, Cuiabá.

[[Arrondissement of Guéret]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Guéret is an arrondissement of France, in the Creuse department, Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Its capital is the city of Guéret.

[[Yosemite Decimal System]]

CATEGORIES: Rock climbing

The Yosemite Decimal System (YDS) is a system that is used to rate the difficulty of walks, hikes, and climbs.  The system has three parts.  It is used mostly by mountaineers in the United States and Canada.

[[Function (biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Biology, Physiology, Words

Function in biology is what a part of the body or cell does in relation to the whole. It is the reason some part or process occurred in a system which evolved by natural selection.

A similar definition is "the function of a component in an organism is the contribution it makes to that organism's fitness".

The term is used especially in physiology, in phrases like "the function of the kidneys is to excrete urea from the body" or "the function of the heart is to push blood around the body". It is incorrect to use the word 'purpose' instead of 'function', because the word 'purpose' implies forethought.

[[British princess]]

CATEGORIES: British royalty

A British princess is a princess who has the title of a Princess of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. In Britain, the title "Princess" and the use of the style "Royal Highness" can only be used for these persons:

Queen Elizabeth II issued Letters Patent dated 21 August 1996 stating that any woman divorced from a Prince of the United Kingdom would no longer be entitled to the style "Royal Highness". This has so far applied to Diana, Princess of Wales, and Sarah, Duchess of York.

[[Amar Singh (cricketer)]]

CATEGORIES: Indian cricketers, 1910 births, 1940 deaths

Amar Singh was an Indian cricketer. His full name was Ladhabhai Nakum Amar Singh Lodha. He was a right arm fast bowler and an effective lower order batsman. Amar Singh was the first Indian to receive a test cap. He was born in Rajkot, Gujarat on 4 December 1910.

Amar Singh played for the Indian cricket team, Hindus cricket team and various teams in the first class cricket matches. He took 28 wickets and scored 292 runs in 7 Test cricket matches, playing for the Indian cricket team.

Amar Singh died due to typhoid on May 21 1940 in Jamnagar, Gujarat.

[[Pietro Martorana]]

CATEGORIES: 1705 births, 1759 deaths, 18th century Italian painters, People from Palermo

Pietro Martorana  (1705–1759), was an Italian painter. He was a member of a family of artists from Palermo. He was one of the main representatives of the classic late Baroque painting in Sicily.

Martorana painted frescos in Palermo in the churches of Santa Rosalia, St. Chiara and St. Carlo. With Olivio Sozzi. He decorated the palace of Michele Gravina Branciforte, prince of Butera in Palermo.

[[Siad Barre]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1995 deaths, Presidents of Somalia

Mohamed Siad Barre was the President of the Somali Democratic Republic from 1969–91.

In 1969 President Abdirashid Ali Shermarke was assassinated. The military took power of the government. Major General Barre became the leader of the country. The new government used a form of socialism called scientific socialism. The country was renamed to the Somali Democratic Republic.

In 1991 Somalia had a civil war. Barre was removed as the leader. He tried to take back the city of Mogadishu but lost. He then went into exile. Barre died on 2 January 1995.

[[Roger Binny]]

CATEGORIES: Indian cricketers, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Bangalore

Roger Binny is a former Indian cricket all rounder. He is best known for his impressive bowling performance in the 1983 Cricket World Cup in which India won the cup. Binny took the most wickets in the 1983 Cricket World Cup  with 18 wickets.He was born in Bangalore, Karnataka on July 19, 1955. His full name is Roger Michael Humphrey Binny.

Binny's batting style is right arm batting. He bowling style is right arm fast bowling.

Binny's son Stuart Binny plays for an Indian cricket team. Roger Binny scored 830 runs in test cricket and 629 runs in One Day International matches. He took 47 wickets in test cricket and 77 wickets in One Day International matches.

[[Mohammad Mosaddegh]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1967 deaths, Prime Ministers of Iran, Time People of the Year, Iranian writers, Humanitarians, People from Tehran

Mohammad Mosaddegh was an Iranian politician. He was elected Prime Minister of Iran from 1951 until 1953. He was also an author, administrator, lawyer, and parliamentarian.

On 19 August 1953 Mosaddegh was removed from office by the American Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and Britain's MI6. This was called Operation Ajax in the West. In Iran it is called the 28 Mordad 1332 coup. The change in power was one reason for the Iranian Revolution in 1979.

Mosaddegh was named man of the year in 1951 by Time magazine. He remains one of the most popular people in Iranian history.

[[First Battle of Kernstown]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1862 in Virginia, March 1862 events

The First Battle of Kernstown was fought on March 23, 1862, in Frederick County and Winchester, Virginia during the American Civil War. Confederate General Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson's Shenandoah Valley Campaign of 1862 was generally a success. However, the First Battle of Kernstown was one his few defeats. 

[[Jan Sokol]]

CATEGORIES: Czech politicians, Philosophers, European translators, 1936 births, 2021 deaths

Jan Sokol (18 April 1936 – 16 February 2021) was a Czech philosopher, translator and politician. He was son of architect Jan Sokol. He was a member of parliament from 1990 to 1992. He was minister of education from January to July 1998. In 2003, he was candidate for President of the Czech Republic. He was a member of Charles University faculty.

Sokol died on 16 February 2021, aged 84.

[[Anastasio Somoza Debayle]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1980 deaths, Presidents of Nicaragua, Assassinated people

Anastasio "Tachito" Somoza DeBayle was officially the 73rd and 76th President of Nicaragua. As the leader of Nicaragua's military he was really the leader of the country from 1967 to 1979.

Many people did not like Somoza as a leader. A group called the Sandinista National Liberation Front wanted to make Nicaragua a better country. They had support from inside and outside the country. In 1975 Somoza Debayle tried to stop the Sandinistas and anyone in Nicaragua who supported them. The Soviet Union and Cuba were giving the Sandinistas money to keep fighting the Somoza family. In 1979 the United States stopped supporting Somoza.

On 17 July 1979 Somoza quit the presidency. He fled to Miami but U.S. President Jimmy Carter would not allow him to enter the country. Somoza then went to Paraguay. 

On 17 September 1980 the Sandinistas assassinated Somoza DeBayle.

[[Autism Speaks]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 establishments in the United States, Non-profit organizations of the United States, Medical and health organizations, Autism

Autism speaks was founded in February 2005 by Bob and Suzanne Wright. Their earlier groups were Cure Autism Now (founded in 1995) and the National Alliance for Autism Research (founded in 1994).

Autism Speaks is a controversial network. It views autism as a disease. This has caused controversy in the autistic community.

[[Aubusson, Creuse]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Creuse

Aubusson (Occitan auvergnat: Le Buçon, formerly Aubuçon) is a commune of the  Creuse department in central France, in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region.

[[Institut des sciences et industries du vivant et de l'environnement]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in Paris, 2007 establishments in France

Institut des sciences et industries du vivant et de l'environnement (Agro ParisTech, Paris Institute of Technology for Life, Food and Environmental Sciences) is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the University of Paris-Saclay (Northern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at Agro ParisTech.

[[Tiger Electronics]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment companies, 1979 establishments in the United States

Tiger Electronics is an American toy manufacturer which was founded in 1979. It makes entertainment products for children. Tiger is based in Vernon Hills, Illinois. In 1998, Tiger Electronics, Ltd., became a subsidiary of the toy manufacturer Hasbro. Tiger Electronics is probably best known for Furby toys, Giga Pets and the Game.com handheld game console.

[[First Battle of Winchester]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1862 in Virginia, May events

The First Battle of Winchester was fought on May 25, 1862, in and around Frederick County and Winchester, Virginia during the American Civil War. The battle was a victory in Confederate Army Major General Thomas J. "Stonewall" Jackson's Campaign through the Shenandoah Valley. Jackson enveloped the right flank of the Union Army under Major General Nathaniel P. Banks. The Union forces retreated across the Potomac River into Maryland. Due to confusion among Confederate commanders, Jackson was unable to pursue Banks into Maryland.

[[Akasaka Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Tokyo

Akasaka Station (赤坂駅,あかさかえき) is a railway station of Tokyo Metro in Tokyo, Japan.

[[List of language regulators]]

CATEGORIES: Language regulators, Language-related lists

This is a list of language regulators - organisations which guard the evolution of a language.

[[Cordillera Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

The Cordillera department (Departamento de Cordillera) is a department of Paraguay. The capital is the city of Caacupé. Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-03.

[[Zhao Ziyang]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2005 deaths, General Secretaries of the Communist Party of China, Premiers of the People's Republic of China

Zhao Ziyang was a high-ranking politician in China. He was the Premier of the People's Republic of China from 1980 to 1987, Vice Chairman of the Communist Party of China from 1981 to 1982 and General Secretary of the Communist Party of China from 1987 to 1989.

Zhao did not like Maoist policies. He received support from Deng Xiaoping after the Cultural Revolution. Zhao tried to stop corruption and to make general market economic changes. His views made him unpopular with important leaders including Premier Li Peng, former President Li Xiannian and Party elder Chen Yun. After the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 Zhao was not allowed to be a politician. He was placed under house arrest.

[[Nikolai Ryzhkov]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Russian engineers, Heads of government of the Soviet Union, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Nikolai Ivanovich Ryzhkov (born 28 September 1929) is a former Soviet official. He became a Russian politician after the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Ryzhkov was Boris Yeltsin's leading opponent in the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR) 1991 presidential election.

Ryzhkov was awarded the Order of the Red Banner of Labour twice, the Order of the October Revolution in 1971, the Order of Lenin twice, and the Order of Merit for the Fatherland, 4th class. He was named a National Hero of Armenia.

In March 2014, after the Crimean crisis, Ryzhkov was sanctioned by both the European Union and United States.

[[Marga Marga Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Marga Marga Province (Provincia de Marga Marga) is one of eight provinces of the central Chilean region of Valparaíso (V). The city of Quilpué is the capital of the province.

The province of Marga Marga was created in 2010 with 2 communes of the Valparaíso province, Quilpué and Villa Alemana, and 2 communes of the province of Quillota, Limache and Olmué.

[[Missal]]

CATEGORIES: Christian genres

In the western-rite Church, the term Missal is used for a text that describes the different types of Mass there are, as well as how to celebrate a given type Mass. Pope Pius V published the first missal for the Roman Catholic Church 1570.

[[Wilderswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wilderswil is a municipality in the administrative district of Interlaken-Oberhasli in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[American Civil War casualties]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War

American Civil War casualties are those soldiers, both Union and Confederate, who died, were wounded, went missing or were captured. The American Civil War was the nation's bloodiest war. The violence in battles such as Shiloh, Antietam, Stones River and Gettysburg shocked everyone in the country, both North and South. It also shocked international observers. Of those who died, by far the leading cause of death was disease. The exact number of dead will never be known with any certainty. All Civil War casualty numbers are estimates, no matter what the source. For over a hundred years the total number of dead has been accepted by most historians as 618,222, generally rounded off to 620,000. Newer estimates have put the number at about 750,000 or about 20% higher than previously approximated.

[[Tuncay Şanlı]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Turkish footballers

Tuncay Şanlı (born 16 January 1982) is a former Turkish football player. He has played for Turkey national team.

[[Marko Podraščanin]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Serbian volleyball players, Sportsmen, Yugoslavian sportspeople

Marko Podraščanin (Марко Подрашчанин) (born 29 August 1987) is a Serbian volleyball player, a member of Serbia men's national volleyball team and Italian club Sir Safety Umbria Perugia. He has participated in two Olympic Games (Beijing 2008, London 2012), and is a bronze medalist of the World Championship 2010.

[[Andrea Sartoretti]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Italian volleyball players

Andrea Sartoretti (born June 19, 1971) is an Italian former volleyball player. He has won two silver medals and a bronze medal in three Olympic Games between 1996 and 2004.

[[Earvin N'Gapeth]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, French sportspeople, Competitors at the 2016 Summer Olympics, Volleyball players

Earvin N'Gapeth (born 12 February 1991) is a French volleyball player, a member of French national volleyball team and Italian club Modena. Ngapeth winner 2015 European Champion, a gold medalist of the 2015 World League, French Champion (2010), Italian Champion (2016).

[[North Chungcheong Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of South Korea

North Chungcheong Province, or Chungcheongbuk-do (Korean pronunciation: tɕʰuŋtɕʰʌŋbukt͈o), is a province in the centre of South Korea. It was formed in 1896 from the northeastern half of the former Chungcheong province. The provincial capital is Cheongju.

[[Port of Amsterdam]]

CATEGORIES: Amsterdam, 13th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in the Netherlands

The Port of Amsterdam is a port located in the city of Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. Looking at the amount of cargo shipped, the port is the 4th most important in Europe. The port was created in the 13th century. It was one of the main ports of the Dutch East India Company, in the 17th century. Today, it is the second largest port in the Netherlands, after the port of Rotterdam. The North Sea Canal connects the port to the North Sea. The port of Amsterdam is mostly used for bulk cargo. In 2013, about 95 million tons of goods passed through one of the ports in Amsterdam. 79 millon tons of these were bulk cargo. About 60.000 people work in the port.

[[Khalji dynasty]]

CATEGORIES: Delhi Sultanate, 1290 establishments, 1320 disestablishments, Khalji dynasty, 13th-century establishments in Asia, 14th century disestablishments in Asia

The Khalji dynasty was a Muslim dynasty of Turkic origin. It ruled large parts of South Asia between 1290 and 1320.

[[Larry Roberts (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 1992 deaths, Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, Deaths from AIDS, Infectious disease deaths in New York

Lawrence Saltzman (September 28, 1926 – July 17, 1992), also known as Larry Roberts, was an American actor and comedian. He was best known for his role of playing the voice of Tramp in the 1955 Disney movie Lady and the Tramp. He was also well known for his roles in the 1950s TV series Lights, Camera, Action!.

[[Bulk cargo]]

CATEGORIES: Transport

Bulk cargo is a type of cargo that is carried in big amounts. Bulk cargo can be gases, liquids, coal, and wheat.

[[Sepoy]]

CATEGORIES: Military ranks, British India

A sepoy was an Indian footsoldier (of whatever religion) in the East India Company army or the British Indian Army. The term comes from the Persian language "Sipahi".

In the modern Indian Army, Pakistan Army, Bangladesh Army and Nepalese Army, it is still used for the rank of private soldier.

[[Vicente Martín y Soler]]

CATEGORIES: 1754 births, 1806 deaths, Spanish composers

Vicente Martín y Soler (2 May 1754 – 30 January 1806) was a composer from Spain. He wrote many operas and ballets.

He was born in Valencia, a city in Spain. He studied music in Bologna in Italy. His teacher in Bologna was Giovanni Battista Martini. His first opera was Il tutore burlato. It was performed in Madrid in 1775. Then he went to Italy. He worked as a composer for the Teatro di San Carlo in Naples from 1777 to 1785. Then he moved to Vienna in Austria. His operas in Vienna had much success. In 1788 Catherine the Great, the Empress of Russia, invited him to work for her. In Russia he wrote more operas and ballets. They were performed in the Empress's theater in Saint Petersburg. Martín y Soler died in Saint Petersburg.

[[Les Rodanes]]

CATEGORIES: Forests of Europe, Geography of Spain

Les Rodanes is a natural reserve in Valencian Community, Spain located into the municipal boundary of Vilamarxant, Valencia province. The territory occupies an area of 591.77.

[[Arrondissements of the Indre department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 4 arrondissements in the Indre department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Indre are:

[[Field hospital]]

CATEGORIES: Medical emergencies, Health care, Military terminology

A field hospital is a small mobile medical facility that takes care of casualties close to the battlefield, or in case of disasters, the scene of the natural or man-made catastrophe. The World Health Organization gives the definition of a field hospital as: "a mobile, self-contained, self-sufficient health care facility capable of rapid deployment and expansion or contraction to meet immediate emergency requirements for a specified period of time". The treatment of wounds received in war is an ancient art. The term "field hospital" is most often used as a military term.

[[Anarkali Salwar Suit]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing, Asian culture

An Anarkali Shalwar suit is a form of women's dress. The anarkali suit is made up of a long, frock-style top and features a slim fitted bottom. It is mostly worn by women in Pakistan and other countries in South Asia such as India and Bangladesh. The anarkali suit varies in many different lengths and embroideries including floor length anarkali styles. 

Anarkali suits owe their name to the fictional Anarkali, a courtesan in the court of Mughal emperor Akbar  who was legendarily murdered for her illicit relationship with the Crown Prince Salim.

[[China Northwest Airlines Flight 2303]]

CATEGORIES: 1994, 1990s disasters in Asia, 1990s in China, Aviation disasters in Asia, Aviation disasters in the 1990s, Disasters in China, June events

China Northwest Airlines Flight 2303 was a flight from Xianyang Airport, in Xianyang to Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport (former). The aircraft used was a Tupolev Tu-154M. On June 6, 1994  the aircraft crashed into a field due to mechanical flaw in Xi'an. All 160 people were killed in China's worst air disaster.

[[Arrondissement of Le Blanc]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Le Blanc is an arrondissement of France, in the Indre department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Le Blanc.

[[Arrondissement of Châteauroux]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Châteauroux is an arrondissement of France, in the Indre department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Châteauroux.

[[Law of Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Azerbaijan, Law

The law of Azerbaijan is made up of many levels of codified forms of law. The laws of Azerbaijan are based on civil law. As the country was a republic of the Soviet Union until 1991, its laws have also been influenced heavily by socialist law. Today Azerbaijani law is heavily based on the laws Germany, France and Italy which also use civil law.

[[Arrondissement of La Châtre]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of La Châtre is an arrondissement of France, in the Indre department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of La Châtre.

[[British Motor Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United Kingdom

In September 1965, BMC took control of its major suppliers (of bodies), Pressed Steel, acquiring Jaguar's body supplier in the process.

In September 1966, BMC merged with Jaguar Cars Limited.

On 14 December 1966, BMC changed its name to British Motor Holdings Limited or BMH.

BMH merged in May 1968 with Leyland Motor Corporation Limited, which made trucks and buses and were owners of Standard-Triumph International Limited, BMH becoming the major part of British Leyland Motor Corporation.

[[Arrondissement of Issoudun]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Issoudun is an arrondissement of France, in the Indre department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Issoudun.

[[Jonas Savimbi]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2002 deaths, Angolan people

Jonas Malheiro Savimbi was an Angolan political and military leader. He founded and led the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA).

In 2002 UNITA lost the Angolan Civil War to the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA).

[[Babrak Karmal]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1996 deaths, Presidents of Afghanistan, Prime Ministers of Afghanistan

Babrak Karmal was an Afghan politician. Karmal was made President of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union at the beginning of the Soviet–Afghan War.

Under Mikhail Gorbachev, the Soviet Union deposed Karmal and replaced him with Mohammad Najibullah. Following his loss of power, Karmal was exiled to Moscow.

[[Truyère]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Occitanie, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The Truyère (Truèire) is a river in southwestern France. It is the main tributary of the Lot river.

[[Military terminology]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

Military terminology is the words and acronyms used by military organization and members of various militaries. Military terms may have the same spelling as common words but mean something very different. Common terms may also differ between militaries of English-speaking countries. They also differ in their use of abbreviations. For example, British and American abbreviations for the same thing may be very different. Military terms can also be specific to one branch of a nation's military or to a specific war or period of time.

[[Célé]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Occitanie, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The Célé is a river in southern France. It is a right tributary of the Lot river; it is the second largest tributary of the Lot, after the Truyère.

Several communes have the name of the river in their names:Bagnac-sur-Célé, Marcilhac-sur-Célé, Sauliac-sur-Célé.

[[Patty Judge]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Lieutenant Governors of Iowa, US Democratic Party politicians

Patty Judge (born November 2, 1943) is an American nurse and politician. She was the 46th Lieutenant Governor of Iowa. She was also previously the Secretary of Agriculture for Iowa. In 2010, she ran for re-election, though was not successful. She had been elected to the office with the Governor Chet Culver.

In March 2016, she announced her run for the Democratic nomination for the United States Senate. She won the primary on June 7. She lost the general election to the incumbent Chuck Grassley.

Judge was born in Fort Madison, Iowa.

[[Suntec City]]

CATEGORIES: Places in Singapore

Suntec City is a major multi-use development located in Marina Centre, a subzone of the Downtown Core in Singapore. Construction began on 18 January 1992 (with earthworks) followed by full completion and opening on 22 July 1997. It had Suntec Convention Centre, the five towers and a shopping mall. Suntec City was renovated between 2012 and 2015.

[[Esplanade MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Esplanade MRT Station (CC3) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit station on the Circle Line in Downtown Core, Singapore, at the junction of Bras Basah Road, Raffles Boulevard and Nicoll Highway. The station was opened on 17 April 2010 along with the rest of Stages 1 & 2 of the Circle Line. It is located next to the War Memorial Park, the Suntec City Mall and the Suntec Singapore International Convention and Exhibition Centre. The station also has a link to Raffles City, CityLink Mall, Suntec City Mall and Marina Square.

There is a link from Esplanade station to City Hall station via the underground shopping centre CityLink Mall or basement 2 of Raffles City shopping mall. iExperience Gallery is also located here.

Prior to the opening of the station, names like Suntec, Suntec West, War Memorial and Memorial Park were used.

[[City Hall MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations, 1987 establishments in Singapore

City Hall MRT station (NS25/EW13) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) interchange station in Singapore, that has received very high passenger number all the while. It is named after the national monument - City Hall before National Gallery took over in 2015. It provides cross platform interchange between the two lines.

It is located in the Civic District in the Downtown Core, which is within the Central Area, the city centre of Singapore. It is situated underground, beneath the junction of Stamford Road and North Bridge Road, and is thus east of the Singapore River. The commercial district of Raffles Place and its respective station is located across the Singapore River.

[[Raffles Place MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations, 1987 establishments in Singapore

Raffles Place MRT station (EW14/NS26) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) interchange station on the North South Line and the East West Line in Downtown Core, Singapore. It is directly underneath the centre of the financial area of Raffles Place, located in the Downtown Core area, south of the Singapore River. It is one of the more prominent and busier stations within Singapore's transport system during peak hours, especially being an interchange station located within the Central Area. The station has many entrances/exits, the two main ones facing the Raffles Gardens, with the building being a miniature facade of the historic John Little building, just before the Telok Ayer and Downtown MRT Station came on board.

This station used to be the largest and deepest MRT station in Singapore, but the record was broken by Dhoby Ghaut in 2003 and then by Bras Basah in 2010, then by Promenade in 2013 which is 43 metres below ground. It is also one of the four MRT stations to appear in "Uniquely Singapore Edition" of the board game Monopoly.

The station is the only MRT station to ever participate in three terrorist exercises, which are Exercise Northstar IV on January 11, 2004, Exercise Northstar V, when it was one of four stations which participated in the exercise on January 8, 2006, as well as Exercise Northstar VII on July 7, 2009 together with Sentosa and VivoCity. At Raffles Place, most southbound trains will then terminate at Marina Bay while few others at Marina South Pier.

[[Marina Bay MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations, 1987 establishments in Singapore

Marina Bay MRT station (NS27/CE2/TE20) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) interchange station on the North South Line and Circle Line, located on the boundary of Downtown Core and Straits View planning areas in Singapore. The station is designed by Aedas. 

It was the southern terminus of the North South Line until late November 2014. However, most trains terminate at Marina Bay instead of Marina South Pier possibly due to the low passenger demand at Marina South Pier. Passengers who are going to Marina South Pier should observe the television screens on the station platforms and listen to announcements which will notify commuters when a train that is terminating at Marina South Pier arrives. Circle Line trains that begin from here terminate at Stadium MRT station, with a few trains terminating at HarbourFront MRT station during peak hours. When the Thomson-East Coast MRT Line opens, it will become 3-line interchange.

Marina Bay is mainly used as an interchange station as there is very little buildings nearby.

[[Bishan MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations, 1987 establishments in Asia, 2017 establishments in Asia, 2010s establishments in Singapore, 20th century establishments in Singapore

Bishan MRT station (NS17/CC15) is a Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) interchange station along the North South Line and Circle Line in Bishan, Singapore. It was one of the original five stations on the North South Line. It also serves the Circle Line which opened on 8 October 2017.

The north south line platforms are one of the few on the MRT that has split side platforms. This station is also only one of four to have faregates on the same level as the platforms, with the others being Expo, Changi Airport and Stevens

[[Nicoll Highway MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Nicoll Highway MRT Station is a MRT station in Singapore, and it was only been there when the Nicoll Highway collapse on 17 April 2004.

[[Stadium MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Stadium MRT Station is a MRT station in Singapore, that connects to the Singapore Sports Hub and Kallang Wave.

[[Singapore Armed Forces]]

CATEGORIES: Singapore

The Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) is the military arm of the Total Defence of the Republic of Singapore; as well as the military component of the Ministry of Defence.

The SAF has three services: the Singapore Army, the Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) and the Republic of Singapore Navy (RSN). The SAF protects the interests, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Singapore from external threats.

The SAF relies heavily on a large pool of conscripts in the active and reserve forces. It has an active strength of around 71,600 personnel and is capable of mobilising over 900,000 reservists. National Servicemen (NSmen) make up more than 80% of its military defence system and form the backbone of the SAF.

SAF uses the SAR-21 rifle.

[[Wiler bei Utzenstorf]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wiler bei Utzenstorf is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Ebikon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne, Cities in Switzerland

Ebikon (Swiss German: Äbike) is a municipality of the district Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Qapik]]

CATEGORIES: Currency of Asia, Currency of Europe, Economy of Azerbaijan

Qapik (or gapik, from qəpik) is a monetary unit of Azerbaijan, equal to 1/100 of the Azerbaijani manat. The 2006 currency denomination of the Azerbaijani manat introduced 1, 3, 5, 10, 20 and 50 qapik into circulation.

The 1, 3 and 5 qapik are made of copper-covered steel. The 10 and 20 qapik are made of brass-covered steel, the 50 qapik are in two colors.

The word qapik comes from the Russian word "kopek" which means spear, and which was a currency since the time of Ivan the Terrible in the 16th century and is now the monetary unit of the Russian ruble, Ukrainian hryvnia and Belarusian ruble.

[[History of baseball in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball

The history of baseball in the United States can be traced to the 19th century. This is when amateurs played a baseball-like game by their own informal rules using equipment they made themselves. The popularity of the sport inspired the semi-pro national baseball clubs in the 1860s.

[[Blackmail (disambiguation)]]

Blackmail is the act of threatening to reveal information about a person or group unless a specific demand is met.

Emotional blackmail is a form of psychological manipulation.

Blackmail may also refer to:

[[List of Pashto-language movies]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of movies

This is a list of Pashto-language movies.

[[Qom]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran

Qom is the second religious city of Iran and one of the bases of Shi'ism. The city dates back to before the rise of Islam. The city was conquered by Muslims in 23/644-645 but the people of Qom converted to Islam with the immigration of Ash'ariyyun in 85/704-705, the beginning of the development of Qom as a Shi'a city was from that time.

Immigration of Lady Fatima al-Ma'suma (a) to Qom and his shrine in the city, and after that, immigration of other Imam's descendants and Sayyids, made the city the base of Shi'ism in Iran. Foundation of Qom seminary added to the Shi'a fame of the city.

Today, the city is the greatest base of Shi'ism from which the Shi'a knowledge is promoted to the world.

[[Wileroltigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wileroltigen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Sensory deprivation]]

Sensory deprivation makes it impossible for a person to use one or more of their senses.  Sensory deprivation devices can be simple, like blindfolds or hoods, which make it impossible to see.  More complicated sensory deprivation devices can cut off a person's sense of smell, touch, taste, thermoception (ability to sense heat), and their sense of gravity.

Sensory deprivation can be used in good or bad ways.  If a person chooses to go through sensory deprivation for a short time, they may feel relaxed, and it may be easier for them to meditate.  However, if a person is forced to go through sensory deprivation, or the deprivation lasts for a long time, it can cause hallucinations, very bad anxiety, strange thoughts, and depression.

Some countries in NATO have used sensory deprivation techniques on prisoners because these techniques do not qualify as torture under international laws.

[[Willadingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Willadingen is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Wimmis]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wimmis is a municipality in the administrative district of Frutigen-Niedersimmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Lanyard]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing

A lanyard is a cord or strap. It is made to help the wearer keep and use some basic items of equipment, especially small items. It is usually worn around the neck with an ID card or keys. 

Lanyards were first introduced in the 15th century. In the military, lanyards are worn on the shoulders of uniforms to denote the wearer's qualification or regimental affiliation.

[[Controlled flight into terrain]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft

A controlled flight into terrain (CFIT, usually pronounced cee-fit) is an accident in which an airworthy aircraft, under pilot control, is unintentionally flown into the ground, a mountain, a body of water or an obstacle. In a typical CFIT scenario, the crew is not aware of the situation until it is too late to stop it. The term was coined by engineers at Boeing in the late 1970s.

Accidents where the aircraft is out of control at the time of impact, because of mechanical failure or pilot error, are not considered CFIT (they are known as uncontrolled flight into terrain). Accidents resulting from the deliberate action of the person flying the aircraft, such as acts of terrorism or suicide by pilot.

According to Boeing, CFIT is a leading cause of airplane accidents involving the loss of life. It has caused over 9,000 deaths since the beginning of the commercial jet age. CFIT was identified as a cause of 25% of USAF Class A mishaps between 1993 and 2002.

[[Savio (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Emilia-Romagna, Rivers of Italy

The Savio (Sapis) is a river that starts in the Apennines mountain and flows to east into the Adriatic Sea. It is the longest river of the Romagna region.

[[Alexander Dubček]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 1992 deaths, Communist politicians, Presidents of Czechoslovakia, Humanists, Military personnel of World War II, Road accident deaths, Slovakian politicians

Alexander Dubček was a Slovak politician. He was briefly leader of Czechoslovakia (1968–1969).

Dubček tried to change the communist government during the Prague Spring. He was made to quit after the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia. He became a politician again after the Velvet Revolution.

[[Walter Hallstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1982 deaths, European Commissioners, Former members of the German Bundestag, German academics, German diplomats, German military personnel of World War II, German writers, Jurists, People from Mainz, Politicians from Rhineland-Palatinate, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany, Prisoners of war

Walter Hallstein (1901 -1982) was a German academic, diplomat, and politician. He was the first president of the Commission of the European Economic Community. He was one of the founding fathers of the European Union.

Hallstein is also the person behind the Hallstein Doctrine, wich the former state of West Germany proclaimed in 1955. It meant that West Germany wouldn't have diplomatic relations with countries that recognized East Germany.

[[Todor Zhivkov]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1998 deaths, Communist politicians, Prime Ministers of Bulgaria

Todor Hristov Zhivkov was the communist head of state of the People's Republic of Bulgaria (PRB) from March 4, 1954 until November 10, 1989.

Zhivkov was the longest-serving leader of any Eastern Bloc nation. He is one of the longest ruling non-royal leaders in history. 

[[Decisive victory]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

The term decisive victory refers to a military victory that decides a matter or a conflict. A decisive victory has to result in a positive outcome for the victor and create a condition of peace between the two warring states. By comparison, an inconclusive victory is one in which one side won, but the issues between them are not resolved. A desirable goal for all armies fighting conventional wars is a quick and decisive victory with few casualties. For example, in the Six-Day War that started on 5 June 1967, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) achieved a decisive victory over the combined armies of Egypt, Syria and Jordan. This established Israel as a regional power in the Middle East with about six years of peace. During the Cold War (1947-1991) the idea of a decisive victory (or any victory) seemed obsolete. Instead, the theory of limited war seemed more practical in the age of nuclear weapons as it would not escalate into a full-scale war that would result in mutual assured destruction.

[[Blek le Rat]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1952 births, Artists from Paris

Blek le Rat is Xavier Prou. He was one of the first graffiti artists in Paris, and has been described as the "Father of stencil graffiti".

Xavier Prou was born on 15 November 1951 in Boulogne-Billancourt in the western suburbs of Paris.

[[Murray Gell-Mann]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2019 deaths, American physicists, Nobel Prize in Physics winners, People from Manhattan, Scientists from New York City, Theoretical physicists

PhysicsMurray Gell-Mann (September 15, 1929 – May 24, 2019) was an American physicist who received the 1969 Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on the theory of elementary particles. He was the Robert Andrews Millikan Professor of Theoretical Physics Emeritus at the California Institute of Technology, a Distinguished Fellow and co-founder of the Santa Fe Institute, Professor in the Physics and Astronomy Department of the University of New Mexico, and the Presidential Professor of Physics and Medicine at the University of Southern California.

Gell-Mann has also worked at CERN, as a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellow in 1972.

[[Limited war]]

CATEGORIES: War

A limited war is a war carried out by a state that uses less than its total resources and has a goal of less than total defeat of the enemy. Very often it is the high cost of war that makes limited war more practical than total war. In a limited war a state's total survival does not depend on the outcome of the war. For example, when Augustus sent his Roman legions to conquer Germania, the fate of the Roman Republic was not at stake. Since 1945 and the advent of nuclear weapons, limited war has become the normal type of warfare. Following World War II, because of its world position, the United States has found itself involved in a number of limited wars. The Korean, Vietnam, Persian Gulf and Iraq wars were all examples of limited wars. The goal of at least one of the parties in a limited war is to maintain its freedom and preserve itself. Often the strategy used, especially against a much stronger enemy, is to draw out the fighting until the other side gets tired and finally decides to quit. This worked for George Washington in the American Revolutionary War. Although the British Army was the strongest army in the world at the time, the war dragged out until the British got tired of the war draining its resources. Today the Taliban and other Islamist groups keep their wars going trying to wear out their Western world enemies.

[[Beatriz Montañez]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Spanish journalists, Spanish people

Beatriz Montañez López (born 3 June 1977 in Almadén, Castile-La Mancha) is a Spanish journalist and radio speaker.

[[Gōjū-ryū]]

CATEGORIES: Martial art techniques, Karate

Gōjū-ryū is Japanese for "hard-soft style." It is one of the main traditional Okinawan styles of karate.  Gōjū-ryū uses a combination of hard and soft techniques. Both principles, hard and soft, come from the famous martial arts book used by Okinawan masters during the 19th and 20th centuries, the Bubishi (武備志).  Gō, which means hard, refers to closed hand techniques or straight linear attacks. Jū, which means soft, refers to open hand techniques and circular movements. Gōjū-ryū uses both circular and linear movements. It combines hard striking attacks such as kicks. It also uses close hand punches with softer open hand circular techniques. These are used for attacking, blocking, and controlling the opponent. This includes locks, grappling, takedowns and throws.

[[Tirthankara]]

CATEGORIES: Jainism

In Jainism, a tirthankara (Sanskrit tīrthaṅkara) is an all knowing Teaching God who teaches the path to liberation from the cycle of births and deaths, called saṃsāra. According to Jains, over time, Jain teachings are gradually forgotten. Then, a rare individual is born who at some point in his life renounces the world to conquer the saṃsāra, the cycle of death and rebirth, on his own. After Tirthankara attains Kevala Jnana (omniscience) he refounds Jainism. Tirthankara provides a bridge for others to follow him from saṃsāra (worldy existence) to moksha (liberation).

According to Jains, exactly twenty-four tirthankaras grace this part of the universe in each half of the Jain time cycle. The first tirthankara was Rishabhanatha, who is said to have taught men various arts and professions including agriculture. The 24th and last tirthankara of present half-cycle was Mahavira (599-527 BC). His predecessor, Parshvanatha, the twenty-third tirthankara was a historical figure.

The teachings tirthankara are compiled as scriptures called Agamas. All tirthankaras teach same philosophy and ethics and their teachings do not contradict. While tirthankaras are worshiped by Jains, there grace is said to be available for all living beings, regardless of religious orientation.

Tirthankaras are called Jina (victor), which means one who has conquered inner enemies such as anger, attachment, pride and greed. They are entirely free of all passions, and personal likes and dislikes. After attaining omniscience, they are free from eighteen imperfections like hunger, thirst, sleep etc.

[[Palmiro Togliatti]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1964 deaths, Communist politicians, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Italian communists, People from Genoa

Palmiro Togliatti was an Italian politician. He was leader of the Italian Communist Party from 1927 until his death. 

Togliatti began his political life in the Italian Socialist Party. After World War I he created the Communist Party of Italy with others. In 1926 Benito Mussolini outlawed the party. Togliatti became the leader in exile. In 1943, the name was changed to the Italian Communist Party. In 1944 Togliatti returned to Italy. He died of a cerebral hemorrhage in Ukraine.

[[Keith Holyoake]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1983 deaths, Governors General of New Zealand, Prime Ministers of New Zealand, Anti-Communists, Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George, Knights of the Garter, Deputy Prime Ministers of New Zealand

Sir Keith Jacka Holyoake was the 26th Prime Minister of New Zealand. He served for a brief period in 1957 and then from 1960 to 1972. He was also the 13th Governor-General of New Zealand, serving from 1977 to 1980.

Holyoake was a Member of Her Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council. He used the following Post-nominal letters:

[[Gaafar Nimeiry]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2009 deaths, Presidents of Sudan, Prime Ministers of Sudan

Gaafar Muhammad an-Nimeiry was the President of Sudan from 1969 to 1985. His name is also spelled Jaafar Nimeiry, Gaafar Nimeiry or Ga'far Muhammad Numayri.

Nimeiry came to power after a military coup in 1969. In 1972 he signed the Addis Ababa Agreement, ending the First Sudanese Civil War. In 1983 he imposed Sharia law. This led to the Second Sudanese Civil War. He was removed from power in 1985. Nimeiry went into exile in Egypt.

[[Alikovsky District]]

CATEGORIES: Alikovsky District

Alikovsky District (А́ликовский райо́н; Элĕк районĕ, Elĕk rajonĕ) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-one in the Chuvash Republic, Russia. It is located in the northwestern central part of the republic and borders with Morgaushsky and Yadrinsky Districts in the north, Krasnoarmeysky District in the east, Vurnarsky and Shumerlinsky Districts in the south, and with Krasnochetaysky District in the west. The area of the district is 554.1.November 2009 Its administrative center is the rural locality (a selo) of Alikovo. Population: 18,282 The population of Alikovo accounts for 14.5% of the district's total population.

[[Thirunallar]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in India, Settlements in Puducherry, Karaikal District

Thirunallar is a small town in the district of Karaikal, Puducherry Union territory, India. It is on the banks of Noolaaru River and Vanchiaaru River in the north and the banks of Arasalar River in the south.

Thirunallar is specially famous for the temple dedicated to Lord Shani, or Lord Saturn. The temple is named after him, Thirunallar Saniswaran temple. The main deity of the town is Lord Dharbharanyeshwarar, a form of Lord Shiva.

The temple of this town is the only temple dedicated to Lord Shani in the whole world. Whenever Lord Saturn passes from one zodiac sign to the other (Sani Peyarchi), millions of people comes to Thirunallar for worshiping the lord. The Nala theertham or Nalan kulam is the temple tank of this temple, which is said to be washing away all misfortunes caused by karma. That is why Lord Shani is renowned as "the dispenser of Karma".

A special fact of this town is a satellite sent by the scientists of NASA for orbiting the earth has suddenly slowed down when it crossed the Thirunallar Saniswaran temple.

Thirunallar is believed to be named for King Nala, the king of the country of Nishadha.

[[Tirumalairayanpattinam]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in India, Settlements in Puducherry, Karaikal District

Tirumalairayanpattinam is a census town in Karaikal district, Puducherry Union territory, India. This is also a religious town like the other main renowned towns in the Karaikal district. The town's name is often shortened to TR Pattinam. This town is on the banks of Thirumalairajanar River

TR Pattinam is named after a king like the town of Thirunallar. Tirumalairayanpattinam is named after King Thirumalai Raja, who ruled this town from 1453 to 1468. At his time both the river and the town was named after him. But later the name of the town changed to Tirumalairayan pattinam.

[[Germania]]

CATEGORIES: History of Germany

Germania was a Roman name originally given to tribe of people who lived along the Rhine River. They were a Teutonic people, who were first mentioned in the 4th century BC. The Gauls changed it from a name for a people to the name for the territory. This was a vast forested wilderness to the north that Rome knew very little about. It ran from the west on the River Rhenus (Rhine) to the east and the Carpathian Mountains and the River Vistula. On the north it was bounded by the North Sea and on the south by the River Hister (Danube).

[[Paraguarí Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

The Paraguarí department (Departamento de Paraguarí) is a department of Paraguay. The capital is the city of Paraguarí. Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-09.

[[Oswald the Lucky Rabbit]]

CATEGORIES: Animated characters, Disney characters, Fictional hares and rabbits

Oswald the Lucky Rabbit is the first animal-based character made by Disney productions.  In 1927, Universal Studios hired Disney studios to make him for Alice Comedies. Universal Studios owned the character by law.

According to Disney, Universal Studios named him "Oswald" by picking the name out of a hat.

Oswald was called the lucky rabbit because of the idea of rabbits' feet being lucky.  In his cartoons, Oswald would pull off his own foot, rub it for luck, and then put it back.

Oswald is drawn with big eyes, big ears and shorts like the ones Mickey Mouse wears.

When Disney separated from Universal Studios, the artists there made a new character called Mickey Mouse. Meanwhile, Universal used Oswald the Lucky Rabbit in comics in 1935 and in animated programs until 1943.

Disney bought Oswald back in 2006. Disney put him in the video game Epic Mickey in 2010 for the Nintendo Wii

[[Ataxia]]

CATEGORIES: Neurology

Ataxia is trouble with balance that is not caused by a person's muscles being weak.  Instead, ataxia is caused by a neurological problem.

Ataxia is not a diagnosis.  It is a neurological sign.  It is a sign of damage to the parts of the nervous system that control balance.

There are three different types of ataxia.  Each type has many possible causes.

[[Fátima Bernardes]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Brazilian people, Brazilian journalists

Fátima Bernardes (born September 17, 1962) is a Brazilian journalist and talk show host. She has worked at Rede Globo since 1987. In this television network she  started to work in TV newscasts and became very famous. In 2011, she trended worldwide on Twitter after announcing her new professional phase as show host. Forbes has said Bernardes could become as popular as Oprah''. 

[[San Felipe de Aconcagua Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

San Felipe de Aconcagua Province (Provincia de San Felipe de Aconcagua) is one of eight provinces of the central Chilean region of Valparaíso (V). The city of San Felipe is the capital of the province.

[[1926 Miami hurricane]]

CATEGORIES: 1926, Hurricanes in the United States, September events, 20th century in the Bahamas, 1920s in Florida, 20th century in Alabama, 20th century in Mississippi, 20th century in Louisiana

The 1926 Miami Hurricane (or the Great Miami Hurricane) was a very large and violent tropical cyclone. The hurricane caused a lot of damage in the Miami metropolitan area of southern Florida and in the Bahamas.

The storm caused $78.5 million in damage to the United States. Estimates from 2010 put the damage at $165 billion, meaning the storm surpasses Katrina as the costliest U.S. hurricane.

Between 372 and 540 deaths happened because of the hurricane.

[[Miami metropolitan area]]

CATEGORIES: Miami, Florida, Metropolitan areas of the United States

The Miami metropolitan area is the metropolitan area including Miami and its nearby communities. As of 2015, there were more than six million inhabitants. This makes the Miami metropolitan area the most populous in Florida and the second-most populous in the Southeastern United States.

The Miami metropolitan area includes Miami-Dade County, Broward and Palm Beach counties in southeastern Florida. This area is also called the Gold Coast.

Cities in the Miami metropolitan area include Miami itself, Homestead, Hialeah and Miami Beach.

[[Valparai]]

CATEGORIES: Coimbatore district

Valparai is a town in the district of Coimbatore of Tamil Nadu. Valparai is 100 km away from the district headquarters Coimbatore. Areas in Valparai are mostly owned by private tea companies and large forest areas. It is a hill station, located 3500 feet(1100m) height above sea level on the Anaimalai Hills range of the Western Ghats.

Earliest records say that in 1846 Ramasamy Mudaliar started a coffee plantation here. Later in 1864, the Karnatic coffee company started a coffee plantation in this area. In 1890, W.Wintil and Nordan bought this area from the Madras State Government (present Tamil Nadu) under the British Raj. Mr.Wintil deforested the forest areas in Valparai to cultivate tea and coffee.

According to the 2011 census, Valparai has a population of 70,859 with sex ratio of 1013 per 1000 males and literacy rate 78.47%. 59.68% of the population consist of Scheduled Castes and 1.75% population of the Scheduled Tribes.

[[Yanam district]]

CATEGORIES: Puducherry, Districts of India

Yanam district is one of the four districts of the Union Territory of Puducherry.

Yanam is a small territory of just 20 km2. It is in Andhra Pradesh. But Yanam district, Mahe district, Karaikal district and Puducherry district comes under Puducherry Union territory, as they were French colonies up to 1954.

Yanam is surrounded by the district of East Godavari of Andhra Pradesh. Yanam district consists of 7 revenue villages and a town. Yanam is a town as well as the district headquarters. The other villages are Agraharam, Darialatippa, Farampeta, Guerempeta, Kanakalapeta, Kurasampeta and Mettakur. The total population of the district is just 55,616, roughly equal to the population of Greenland.

[[Mahe district]]

CATEGORIES: Puducherry

Mahe district is one of the four districts of Puducherry Union Territory. Mahe is the smallest district in India by size and sixth district in India with least population.

Mahe is surrounded on three sides by Kannur district and a side by Kozhikode district, as it is located in Kerala state. Puducherry union territory consists of four unconnected districts.

Mahe district has a very small area of just 8.69 sq.kms. The total population of the district is 41,934, roughly equal to Liechtenstein. The literacy rate of the district is 98.35%. The population density of Mahe district is 4659 inhabitants/1 square km and 12070 inhabitants/1 square miles.

[[Vice-President of India]]

CATEGORIES: Vice Presidents of India

The Vice President of India is the second-highest constitutional official in India, after the President.

Article 63 of the Indian Constitution states that "there shall be a Vice-President". The person who holds the post of Vice-President acts as the President of India during the absence of the President due to resignation, death, impeachment and other reasons. The Vice President is also the Ex-officio Chairperson of the Rajya Sabha. The Vice-President is elected indirectly by members of an electoral college consisting of the members of both houses of the Parliament of India.

The salary for the Vice-President is 125,000 Rupees.

The present Vice President of India is Venkaiah Naidu. He began his term 11 August 2017.

[[Chalumeau]]

CATEGORIES: Woodwind instruments

The chalumeau is the oldest form of the clarinet. 

It is the first true single reed instrument. The plural for chalumeau is chalumeaux. 

[[54th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment]]

CATEGORIES: Union Army, African-American military personnel

The 54th Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry was an infantry regiment in the Union Army during the American Civil War.  They were nicknamed the "Swamp Angels".

The regiment was one of the first official African-American units in the United States during the Civil War. Many African-Americans also had fought in the American Revolution and the War of 1812 on both sides.

[[Typhoon Meranti]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in weather, Pacific typhoons, September 2016 events

Typhoon Meranti, also known in the Philippines as Typhoon Ferdie, was one of the strongest tropical cyclones on record. The storm struck the Philippines, Taiwan and mainland China. In terms of pressure, Meranti was the strongest typhoon since Typhoon Megi in 2010. It was also the strongest in terms of wind speeds since Typhoon Haiyan in 2013. Furthermore, it was the strongest tropical cyclone in 2016.

The storm caused more than $2.6 billion in damage. It led to more than 30 deaths.

[[San Felipe, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

San Felipe ( Spanish for "St. Philip") is a Chilean city; it is the capital and main city of the San Felipe de Aconcagua province, Valparaíso region.

[[Macmillan Cancer Support]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Macmillan Cancer Support is one of the largest British charities. It provides health care, information and financial support to people affected by cancer. As well as helping with the medical needs of people affected by cancer, Macmillan also looks at the social, emotional and practical impact cancer can have. Macmillan campaigns for better cancer care. Macmillan Cancer Support's goal is to reach and improve the lives of everyone living with cancer in the UK. They are one of Britain's top 1,000 charities.

[[Conventional weapon]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons

Conventional weapons are those weapons that are not weapons of mass destruction. They can include weapons such as armoured fighting vehicles, armed helicopters, combat aircraft, artillery and warships. They can also include (but are not limited to) small arms, ammunition, cluster munitions and land mines. There is no single definition of conventional weapons. But they are the main weapons used in modern conventional warfare.

[[Edward Gierek]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2001 deaths, Polish communist politicians

Edward Gierek was a Polish communist politician. 

Gierek is known for opening communist Poland to Western influence. He made economic changes. For a time these changes helped Poland's economy stabilize. He modernized industry and increased access to products. Later the 1973 oil crisis made prices increase. Poland had many foreign debts. There were several revolts because of the economy. The Polish people were unhappy with Gierek and he was removed from power.

[[Chiang Ching-kuo]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1988 deaths, Anti-Communists, Methodists, Prime ministers, Presidents of the Republic of China

Chiang Ching-kuo (1910 - 1988) was a Taiwanese politician. He held numerous posts in the government of the Republic of China (ROC).

Chiang Ching-kuo was the son of Chiang Kai-shek. He succeeded his father to serve as Premier of the Republic of China. He was the President of the Republic of China from 1978 until his death in 1988.

[[Aconcagua River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Chile

The Aconcagua River is a river that flows from east to west through the Valparaíso region in north central Chile and flows into the Pacific Ocean 20 north of Valparaíso.

Although it has the same name, the Aconcagua river does not starts in the slopes of Aconcagua, which is in Argentina about 20 from the beginning of the river, in Chilean territory.

[[Andrei Gromyko]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1989 deaths, Ambassadors of the Soviet Union, Heads of state, Russian communists, Soviet politicians, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Andrei Andreyevich Gromyko was a Soviet statesman during the Cold War. He was responsible for many top decisions on Soviet foreign policy.

[[Luis Carrero Blanco]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1973 deaths, Admirals, Anti-Communists, Assassinated people, Prime Ministers of Spain, Spanish military people, Spanish Roman Catholics

Luis Carrero Blanco, 1st Duke of Carrero Blanco, Grandee of Spain was a Spanish admiral. He was a trusted associate of dictator Francisco Franco. He was assassinated by a member of ETA, a Basque group.

[[Lon Nol]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1985 deaths, Anti-Communists, Asian military people, Buddhists, Cambodian people, Government ministers, People of the Vietnam War, Presidents (government), Prime ministers

Marshal Lon Nol (1913 - 1985) was a Cambodian politician and military leader. He led a coup against Prince Norodom Sihanouk in 1970. Nol made himself President of the newly created Khmer Republic. 

The Khmer Rouge took leadership of Cambodia. Lon Nol fled from Cambodia to Indonesia and then to the United States.

[[Hu Yaobang]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1989 deaths, General Secretaries of the Communist Party of China, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Hu Yaobang (20 November 1915 – 15 April 1989) was a Chinese politician and a high-ranking official of the People's Republic of China.

Hu Yaobang was a political ally of Deng Xiaoping. They fought together in the Chinese Civil War. Both were part of the communist force that took power of Sichuan in 1949. Hu became the leader of the Communist Youth League from 1952–1966.

During the Cultural Revolution, Hu Yaobang was said to not be true to the Communist Party of China and Mao Zedong. He was rehabilitated twice. He was an important supporter of Deng Xiaoping's rise to power.

Hu Yaobang's death in 1989 was a cause for the Tiananmen Square protests.

[[Gennady Yanayev]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2010 deaths, Russian communists

Gennady Ivanovich Yanayev was a Soviet politician.

Yanayev held several political positions. He served during the rules of Khrushchev, Brezhnev, Andropov and Chernenko. With the help of Mikhail Gorbachev, Yanayev was elected the first and only Vice President of the Soviet Union. He later led the "Gang of Eight" to depose Gorbachev. The coup ended after 3 days. Yanayev was arrested. In 1994 he was pardoned by the State Duma.

[[Tinnitus]]

CATEGORIES: Hearing, Health problems, Symptoms

Tinnitus is a symptom of hearing loss and other hearing problems. It is described as hearing sound in the head or ears that does not come from an outside source. Many people will hear ringing, buzzing, hissing or whistling sounds, but tinnitus can be other sounds such as roaring and humming as well.  

Different people will hear different sounds from tinnitus but how they hear it can also be different. Tinnitus can be loud or quiet and it can be continuous or occasional and some people will not notice their tinnitus but some people become very annoyed from it, especially when then feel tired or stressed.

There are many things that can cause people to get tinnitus. These are the main reasons:

[[Ernest Bevin]]

CATEGORIES: 1881 births, 1951 deaths, Anti-Communists, Baptists, British people of World War II, English Protestants, Former Labour MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from Somerset, Privy Councillors (UK), Secretaries of State of the United Kingdom, Trade unionists, UK MPs 1935–1945, UK MPs 1945–1950, UK MPs 1950–1951

Ernest Bevin was a British statesman, trade union leader, and Labour politician. Bevin strongly opposed Communism. He helped in the creation of NATO.

[[Hellenistic period]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece

The Hellenistic period in Ancient Greece (323–146 BC) was the time period between the death of Alexander the Great when the generals of Alexander created their own empires and the Roman conquest of mainland Greece. 

During this era: Greek culture, art and power expanded all over the Eastern Mediterranean (including Anatolia, Egypt, the Levant and the Balkans). Of all the Hellenistic empires that were established, the Seleucid Empire was the largest. The Ptolemaic dynasty in Egypt is the most famous and the longest lasting due to its famous Library of Alexandria and members like Cleopatra VII.

[[Frankfurt Universe]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 establishments in Germany, American football, Frankfurt, Sport in Hesse, Sports organizations

The Frankfurt Universe are a German American football team from Frankfurt, Hesse.

The club was formed in 2007. Previously Frankfurt had the NFL Europa team Frankfurt Galaxy. In late 2014 the club announced that it had purchased the rights for the Galaxy name. Once again they played under the name Frankfurt Galaxy. In the official 2015 table of the German Football League however the team is still listed as Frankfurt Universe. It was renamed again as Frankfurt Universe in 2016.

Starting in 2015 the team plays at Frankfurter Volksbank Stadion, home ground of association football team FSV Frankfurt.

The team won the GFL 2 south in 2015 with a perfect season. They earned a promotion to the GFL after the eighth placed GFL team, the Franken Knights, withdrew from the promotion/relegation round.

[[Arrondissements of the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 4 arrondissements in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence are:

[[Arrondissement of Barcelonnette]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Barcelonnette is an arrondissement of France, in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Barcelonnette.

[[Arrondissement of Castellane]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Castellane is an arrondissement of France, in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Castellane.

[[Arrondissement of Digne-les-Bains]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Digne-les-Bains is an arrondissement of France, in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Digne-les-Bains.

[[Conductive hearing loss]]

CATEGORIES: Hearing, Disability, Health problems

Conductive hearing loss is one of the main types of hearing loss.  It happens when sound is blocked from going through the outer and middle ear into the inner ear and will only make noises sound less loud. 

Most of the time, conductive hearing loss can be treated but how it is treated depends on the causes and is different for everyone.

[[Arrondissement of Forcalquier]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Forcalquier is an arrondissement of France in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Forcalquier.

[[Sensorineural]]

CATEGORIES: Hearing

Sensorineural hearing loss is the most common and one of the main types of hearing loss. It is also known as "nerve deafness". Unlike the other main type of hearing loss - conductive hearing loss - sensorineural hearing loss is permanent.

Not only does sensorineural hearing loss cause noise to sound quieter but also makes sound less clear. This makes listening when there is a lot of noise harder and also makes hearing other people talk harder.

[[Helen Prejean]]

CATEGORIES: Capital punishment in the United States

Helen Prejean (born April 21, 1939 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana) is a Roman Catholic nun.  She is a member of the Congregation of St. Joseph.  She is a well-known activist against the death penalty in the United States.

[[Diosdado Macapagal]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1997 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Anti-Communists, Filipino lawyers, Presidents of the Philippines, Roman Catholics, Vice Presidents of the Philippines

Diosdado Pangan Macapagal was the ninth President of the Philippines. He is known for changing the country's Independence Day from July 4 to June 12. June 12 is the day President Emilio Aguinaldo declared independence of the First Philippine Republic from the Spanish Empire in 1898.

He is the father of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, who was the fourteenth President of the Philippines from 2001 to 2010.

[[Alain Poher]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1996 deaths, Former MEPs, French Roman Catholics, MEPs for France, Presidents of France, Presidents of the European Parliament, Presidents of the Senate (France)

Alain Émile Louis Marie Poher was a French politician. He was president of the French Senate from 3 October 1968 to 1 October 1992. Because of this he was interim President of France twice.

[[Bishop, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Inyo County, California

Bishop is a city in Inyo County, California in the United States. Bishop is the only city in Inyo County. Bishop is in the Owens Valley. It was named after Bishop Creek, which comes from the Sierra Nevada mountains nearby. Bishop Creek was named after Samuel Addison Bishop, who moved to the Owens Valley. Bishop had 3,879 people in 2010. It is at an elevation of 4,150 feet (1,260 meters) above sea level.

[[Noise-induced hearing loss]]

CATEGORIES: Hearing, Health problems

Noise induced hearing loss (NHL) is hearing loss caused by sounds that are too loud (high decibel level) and damage hearing cells in the ear. This can make noises sound quieter as well as make noise less clear, it can also cause other hearing related symptoms such as tinnitus. NHL is permanent and cannot usually be restored.

Most of the time, NHL happens after being around a lot of noise for long periods of time. Listening to loud music, city traffic or even things like a hair dryer for can damage hearing after a while. But NHL can also happen suddenly when close to an extremely loud sound. This can come from things like being close to an airplane or a gunshot.

[[North Jeolla Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of South Korea

North Jeolla Province or Jeollabuk-do (전라북도; 全羅北道; Jeollabuk-do) is a province in the southwest of South Korea. The province was formed in 1896 from the north of Jeolla Province. Its provincial capital is Jeonju.

[[United Nations Secretariat]]

CATEGORIES: United Nations

The United Nations Secretariat is the executive body of the United Nations. It has the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. The head of the Secretariat is the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who is appointed by the United Nations General Assembly.

[[Mohammad Hamid Ansari]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Vice Presidents of India

Mohammad Hamid Ansari (born 1 April 1937) is an Indian politician. He was the 12th Vice-President of India from 2007 through 2017. He is the first Vice President of India to be re-elected after Dr.Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. Hamid Ansari serves as the president of the Indian Institute of Public Administration. He is also the Chancellor of Panjab University, Chandigarh.

Hamid Ansari was born in Calcutta(present Kolkata), West Bengal on 1 April 1937. He is the grand-nephew of former Congress president Mukthar Ahmad Ansari. Hamid started his career as Officer in Indian Foreign Service in 1961. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 1984.

[[Cashtown, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Pennsylvania

Cashtown is a census-designated place (CDP) in Franklin Township, Adams County, Pennsylvania, United States. The community was part of the Cashtown-McKnightstown CDP, until it was split into two separate CDPs for the 2010 census. As of 2010, the population of Cashtown was 459.

[[Camp Curtin]]

CATEGORIES: Union Army, United States Army, 1860s in Pennsylvania, 1861 in the United States, 1862 in the United States, 1863 in the United States, 1864 in the United States, 1865 in the United States

Camp Curtin was a military training camp in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, during the American Civil War. It was the largest Union Army training camp during the war. There was also a supply depot, hospital and prisoner-of-war camp.

[[Aiguille de Chambeyron]]

CATEGORIES: Alps, Mountains of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

Aiguille de Chambeyron is a French mountain near the border with Italy, just west of the main chain of the Alps that separates the basin of the Rhône river, to the west, and the basin of the Po river, to the east.

It is the highest peak in the Alps south of Monte Viso.

[[American Civil War Corps Badges]]

CATEGORIES: Union Army

Corps badges in the American Civil War were originally worn by soldiers of the Union Army on the top of their army forage cap, left side of the hat, or over their left chest pocket. The idea was suggested by Major Geneneral Philip Kearny. During a battle he reprimanded officers that turned out to not be under his command. To prevent that from happening again, he ordered the men in his division to sew a 2 square of red cloth on their hats. This idea was adopted by Major General Joseph Hooker after he assumed command of the Army of the Potomac. This was so any soldier could be identified at a distance.

[[Jeh Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, African-American people, American lawyers, People from New York City, United States Secretaries of Homeland Security

Jeh Charles Johnson (born September 11, 1957) is an American civil and criminal trial lawyer. He was born in New York City. He was the United States Secretary of Homeland Security. He was the General Counsel of the Department of Defense from 2009 to 2012 during the first Obama Administration. He completed a Bachelor of Arts degree at Morehouse College (B.A.) and  law at Columbia Law School (J.D.). he is the grandson of sociologist and Fisk University president Dr. Charles S. Johnson.

Johnson's first name is taken from a Liberian chief, who reportedly saved his grandfather’s life while he was on a League of Nations mission to Liberia in 1930.

[[Immigration Act of 1917]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 in the United States, Immigration, United States law

The Immigration Act of 1917 (also called the Literacy Act and the Asiatic Barred Zone Act) was a United States law to stop certain types of people from moving to the US to live. It was the first law to try and restrict immigration, rather than try to control it. People wanting to immigrate had to pass literacy tests. The law also created new categories of people who would not be allowed to immigrate. People from much of Asia were prevented from immigrating. 

The Immigration Act of 1924 made more restrictions. The laws stayed in place until changed by the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (the McCarran–Walter Act).

[[Durance]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The Durance (Durença) is a river in southeastern France, a left tributary of the Rhône river. It is the longest river in Metropolitan France without a department named after it.

[[Bhatgaon, Raipur]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in India, Settlements in Chhattisgarh

Bhatgaon is a town in the Sarangarh Bhatgaon district of Chhattisgarh, India.

[[Agender]]

CATEGORIES: Gender

Agender describes a person with no gender identity. It means that someone does not feel like they fall under any gender. "A-" is a prefix that means 'no' or 'none.' An agender person feels like as if they are neither a male nor a female. 

Agender is also referred to as "genderless", "genderqueer", or "ungendered". Some people who identify themselves as agender may also identify themselves as transgender. However, some don't, as some feel this implies that they identify as a gender other than their assigned gender at birth, and prefers to stick with "agender." Agender may be seen as a non-binary gender, or as a statement of not having a gender identity at all.

Some Agender people more also (but not necessarily) experience gender dysphoria if they are unable to express their identity as something they're comfortable with.

A majority of agender people prefer "they/them" as their pronouns, however, some agender people prefer unique pronouns such as "Xe/Xer" or "Ze/Zem", known as neopronouns, others can use conventional pronouns, such as he/him or she/her, or uncommon pronouns, such as one/one's or it/its. Some agender people wish to change their bodies to feel more comfortable, while other don't and prefer to stick with the body they already have. 

Despite identifying as not having a gender, Agender individuals can still identify under any sexuality, and should not be confused with asexuality.

[[Omar Torrijos]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1981 deaths, Anti-Communists, Aviation deaths, Heads of state, Panamanian people

Omar Efrain Torrijos Herrera (Feb 13, 1929 – July 31, 1981) was leader of Panama from 1968 to 1981, when he died in a plane crash. He is more commonly known as Omar Torrijos.

Torrijos was the Commander of the Military of Panama. Even though Panama had a President, Torrijos was the leader. He is best known for making a treaty to give Panama full control of the Panama Canal.

His son Martín Torrijos was elected president and served from 2004 to 2009.

[[Anatoly Dobrynin]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2010 deaths, Russian communists, Recipients of the Order of Lenin, Ambassadors of the Soviet Union

Anatoly Fyodorovich Dobrynin was a Russian statesman and a Soviet diplomat. He was the Soviet Ambassador to the United States. He served during the Cuban Missile Crisis.

Dobrynin worked with 6 American presidents. He was well liked in the United States.

[[Enrico Berlinguer]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1984 deaths, Italian atheists, Italian communists, Italian politicians, People from Sardinia

Enrico Berlinguer (1922 - 1984) was an Italian politician. He was national secretary of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) from 1972 until his death.

Berlinguer was considered the most popular leader of the PCI. He is known for lessening the influence of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in Italy.

Berlinguer was an atheist.

[[Oosterscheldekering]]

CATEGORIES: Flood control, Buildings and structures in the Netherlands, Geography of the Netherlands, Zeeland, Schouwen-Duiveland

Oosterscheldekering is a dam and storm surge barrier between the islands Schouwen-Duiveland and Noord-Beveland. It is the largest of the 13 ambitious Delta Works made to protect the Netherlands from flooding from the North Sea.

[[Shem And Eber Cave]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Israel

Shem And Eber Cave (in Hebrew: Shem and Ever) is one of the sacred Jewish sites of Safed. the cave was sacred to the three monotheistic religions throughout history and located in the Old City of Safed. according to Jewish tradition in this cave - "Shem" the son of Noah and Eber was established a Beth midrash that Jacob was learning the Torah. 

[[Pasquotank County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: 1730s establishments in North Carolina, 1739 establishments, North Carolina counties

Pasquotank County US English pronunciation of the name of the Pasquotank River, North Carolina.ogg  is a county located in the U.S. state of North Carolina. As of the 2010 census, the population was 40,661. Its county seat is Elizabeth City. The county was originally created as Pasquotank Precinct and gained county status in 1739.

Pasquotank County is part of the Elizabeth City, NC Micropolitan Statistical Area, which is also included in the Virginia Beach-Norfolk, VA-NC Combined Statistical Area.

Pasquotank is the birth county of Nikita Pavlunenko.

[[Ichirō Hatoyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 births, 1959 deaths, Prime Ministers of Japan, Baptists, University of Tokyo alumni

Ichirō Hatoyama was a Japanese politician. He was Prime Minister of Japan three times.

[[Nobusuke Kishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1987 deaths, Anti-Communists, Prime Ministers of Japan, Japanese politicians, World War II people, University of Tokyo alumni

Nobusuke Kishi was a Japanese politician. He was prime minister two times.

[[Camden, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in North Carolina, Census-designated places in North Carolina, County seats in North Carolina

Camden is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Camden County, North Carolina, United States. It is the county seat of Camden County, a consolidated city-county. As of the 2010 census, the Camden CDP had a population of 599

Camden is located on the eastern banks of the Pasquotank River, across from which lies Elizabeth City. It currently has two traffic lights, and is centered at the intersection of U.S. Highway 158 and North Carolina Highway 343. It boasts five schools: Grandy Primary School, Camden Intermediate School, Camden Middle School, Camden County High, and CamTech High School.

Camden is part of the Elizabeth City, North Carolina Micropolitan Statistical Area.

The Camden County Courthouse, Camden County Jail, Lamb-Ferebee House, and Milford are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.

Camden is the original home city of Nikita Pavlunenko.

[[Hearing test]]

CATEGORIES: Hearing

A hearing test is a check for a person's sense of hearing to measure what kind of sounds they can hear and if they have any hearing loss. There are many types of hearing tests used to understand different things about a person's hearing. Hearing tests are also different for adults and children as well. It is mainly audiologists that do hearing tests and they will know what kind of hearing test a patient needs.

== Types of hearing tests == 

Since hearing loss does not always only make sound quieter and may make sound less clear too, there are many different hearing tests to use to understand what kind of hearing loss a person has. 

[[Audiologist]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations, Hearing

An audiologist is a health professional in hearing and other auditory problems such as tinnitus and balance. 

[[Safed Old Jewish Cemetery]]

CATEGORIES: Cemeteries in Israel

The Safed Old Jewish Cemetery is one of the oldest cemeteries in Israel. The cemetery has been used for hundreds of years as a burial place, including important people and important Jewish religious leaders. The cemetery is located along the western slope of Safed on the slope of Mount Canaan near the Amud River.

[[Tiberias Ancient Jewish Cemetery]]

CATEGORIES: Cemeteries in Israel, Tiberias

The Tiberias Ancient Jewish Cemetery is one of the oldest cemeteries in Israel. It has been used for thousands of years as a burial place for many people, including prominent figures of importance to Jewish heritage. It was closed in the 1990's. 

The cemetery is located along the eastern slope of Mount Berenice and near the Sea of Galilee. 

The Tomb of Rachel, Rabbi Akiva's wife, is an ancient tomb building located in the western part of the cemetery.

[[State school]]

CATEGORIES: Educational institutions

State schools  usually mean primary or secondary schools which educate children without charge. They are funded in whole or part by taxation. The term may also refer to public institutions of post-secondary education. State schools have to follow the national curriculum for their country.

State schools may be called public schools outside of England and Wales.

[[Ñeembucú]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

The Ñeembucú department (Departamento de Ñeembucú) is a department of Paraguay. The capital is the city of Pilar. Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-12.

The department is almost entirely rural, and there are some of the oldest and best-preserved Jesuit ruins, which are located near the town of Humaitá.

[[Wohlen bei Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wohlen bei Bern is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. It is made of 12 villages: Hinterkappelen, Illiswil, Innerberg, Möriswil, Murzelen, Oberdettigen, Säriswil, Steinisweg, Uettligen, Unterdettigen, Weissenstein and Wickacker.

[[Wolfisberg]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Wolfisberg was a municipality in Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2020 Wolfisberg became part of Niederbipp.

[[Worb]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Worb is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Worben]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Worben is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Wynau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wynau is a municipality of the administrative district Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Pontiac (Ottawa leader)]]

CATEGORIES: 1769 deaths, Native American people

Pontiac (c. 1720 – April 20, 1769) was a war chief. He became known for his role in Pontiac's War (1763–1766), an American Indian war against British military near the Great Lakes region and named for him.  Historians today generally view him as an important local leader who influenced a wider movement that he did not command.

The war began in May 1763 when Pontiac and 300 followers attempted to take Fort Detroit by surprise but their plan was foiled.

He gained confidence as he continued to go against the British. British officials made Pontiac the focus of their diplomatic efforts seeking to end the war.

[[Wynigen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wynigen is a municipality of the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Los Andes, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Los Andes is a Chilean commune and city; it is the capital and main city of the Los Andes province, in the Valparaíso region.

[[Hayato Ikeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1965 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Japan, People from Hiroshima, Prime Ministers of Japan

Hayato Ikeda was a Japanese politician. He was Prime Minister of Japan 3 times.

In 1960 Ikeda made a plan called the "Income Doubling Plan". The plan would use construction to double the economy of Japan.

[[Marcelo Caetano]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1980 deaths, Portuguese lawyers, People from Lisbon, Prime Ministers of Portugal, Roman Catholics

Marcello José das Neves Alves Caetano was a Portuguese politician. He had many important positions in the government. In 1968 he became prime minister. In 1974 the military took leadership of Portugal in the Carnation Revolution. Caetano was removed from his position.

[[Álvaro Cunhal]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2005 deaths, Communist politicians, Recipients of the Order of Lenin, Atheists, Portuguese writers

Álvaro Barreirinhas Cunhal was a Portuguese politician. He was secretary-general of the Portuguese Communist Party (PCP) from 1961 to 1992. He strongly supported the Soviet Union.

[[San Antonio Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

San Antonio Province (Provincia de San Antonio) is one of eight provinces of the central Chilean region of Valparaíso (V). The port city of San Antonio is the capital of the province.

[[San Antonio, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

San Antonio is a Chilean commune and city; it is the capital and main city of the San Antonio province, in the Valparaíso region. It is one of the most important seaport of Chile.

The city is named after Saint Anthony (San Antonio de Padua).

[[Salgueiro Maia]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 1992 deaths, Portuguese military people

Fernando José Salgueiro Maia was a captain of the Portuguese army. His actions helped the Carnation Revolution remain peaceful.

[[Black Lives Matter]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments in the United States, Black Lives Matter, American civil rights

Black Lives Matter (BLM) is an international activist group. They originated in the African-American community. They are against violence and systemic racism by white police officers towards black people. 

[[Rabi crops]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Rabi crops are grown in the winter and harvested in the spring in the South Asia.  The word means spring in the Arabic language. 

[[Death of Freddie Gray]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in Baltimore, Maryland, April 2015 events, Black Lives Matter

On April 12, 2015, Freddie Carlos Gray, Jr (August 16, 1989 – April 19, 2015), a 25 year old African-American man from Baltimore, Maryland, was arrested by the Baltimore Police Department for having what police thought was an illegal switchblade. While being transported in a police van, Gray fell into a coma and had to be taken to a local trauma center as a result of the officers not securing him in the van.

Gray later died resulting from injuries to his spinal cord.

Six Baltimore police officers were suspended with pay.

Gray's hospitalization and death resulted in protests and riots in downtown Baltimore starting on April 25. There were multiple arrests and 15 police officers were injured. On April 27, following Gray's funeral, civil disorder intensified with the looting and burning of local businesses, and a CVS Pharmacy.

[[Rizal Park]]

CATEGORIES: Parks, Philippines

Rizal Park (Liwasang Park in Tagalog) is a historical urban park in the Philippines. It is one of the largest urban parks in Asia.

The park is also known as Luneta National Park or simply Luneta.

[[Presidency of Abraham Lincoln]]

CATEGORIES: Abraham Lincoln

The presidency of Abraham Lincoln began when he took office as the 16th President of the United States on March 4, 1861. It ended with his death on April 15, 1865. During his presidency he claimed more prerogatives than any other president had done before him. As a result, the small and relatively limited powers of the president grew enormously during his time in office. When Lincoln won the 1860 presidential election, he did it without the support of any of the Southern states. Since the 1830s, Southern states had talked about secession, but it became a serious issue in 1860. Between the election and Lincoln's Inauguration in March of 1861, seven states had seceded from the Union. They formed the Confederate States of America (CSA). When Confederates attacked Fort Sumter on April 12, 1861 and captured it the next day, this started the American Civil War. While having little previous military experience, Lincoln still managed to stand out as a great war president. In 1863, his Emancipation Proclamation freed the slaves in Southern states. It led directly to the abolition of slavery in the United States. Given later that year, his Gettysburg Address is and remains one of the most important speeches in American history. In 1865, as the Civil war was ending he was shot and killed by John Wilkes Booth, a Confederate sympathizer. His death made Lincoln a martyr to the Union cause. He is widely recognized as one of the greatest presidents in U.S. history.

[[Wyssachen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Wyssachen is a municipality in the administrative district of Oberaargau in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Zauggenried]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Bern

Zauggenried is a former municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Zauggenried, Büren zum Hof, Etzelkofen, Grafenried, Limpach and Schalunen merged into the municipality of Fraubrunnen.

[[Zäziwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Zäziwil is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[PK machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: Machine guns

The PK is a machine gun designed in the Soviet Union and is still being used currently by the Russian Army. The PK went in production in 1961 and entered in 1969 to replace the Degtyaryov and the SG-43. The PK was designed by the AK-47 inventor named Mikhail Kalashnikov. The Russian factory produced over 1,000,000 PK machine guns since the 1960s and today. It’s an upside down AKM.

[[Zielebach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Zielebach is a municipality in the administrative district of Emmental in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Zimmerwald]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bern, Former municipalities of Bern

Zimmerwald was a municipality in Seftigen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2004 the municipalities Zimmerwald and Englisberg joined together to become the new municipality, Wald.

[[Chiloé Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Chile

Chiloé Island (Spanish: Isla de Chiloé), also known as Greater Island of Chiloé (Isla Grande de Chiloé), is the largest island of the Chiloé Archipelago off the chilean coast with the Pacific Ocean. The island is located in southern side of Chile, in the Los Lagos Region.

Additionally, it has a very special architecture and local culture. As example, the Churches of Chiloé are part of the World Heritage Sites.

[[Chiloé Archipelago]]

CATEGORIES: Archipelagos, Islands of Chile

Chiloé Archipelago is an archipelago located in Los Lagos Region, in southern Chile. The main island is Chiloé Island (Isla Grande de Chiloé).

Additionally, in the archipelago are located 10 administrative communes related with the Los Lagos Region: Ancud, Castro, Chonchi, Curaco de Vélez, Dalcahue, Puqueldón, Queilén, Quellón, Quemchi and Quinchao.

[[Maipo (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Chile

The Maipo is a river that flows from east to west through the Santiago Metropolitan and the Valparaíso regions in central Chile. It flows just south ot the national capital, Santiago, and ends in the Pacific Ocean.

The Maipo river is one of the main river of Chile an is an important source of irrigation and potable water for the region.

[[Maipo (volcano)]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Chile, Mountains of Argentina

Maipo is a stratovolcano in the Andes, lying on the border between Argentina and Chile. It is located 90 south of Tupungato, one of the highest mountains in the Americas, and about 100 southeast of Santiago.

[[Black marlin]]

CATEGORIES: Perciformes

The black marlin (Istiompax indica) is a species of marlin. It is found in tropical and subtropical areas of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The fish has a maximum length of 4.65 and weight of 750. It is one of the largest marlins and also one of the largest bony fish. 

This marlin is one of the fastest fish, with speeds of up to 80. This is estimated from the speed that hooked marlins unwind fishing line.  Black marlin are fished commercially and are also a highly prized game fish.

[[Lindi Region]]

CATEGORIES: Tanzania

Lindi Region is one of Tanzania's 30 administrative regions. The regional capital is Lindi.

Much of the western part of the Lindi Region is in the Selous Game Reserve.

[[Seven Kings School]]

CATEGORIES: Ilford, Schools in London

Seven Kings School (used to be known as Seven Kings High School) is a mixed comprehensive (primary and secondary) school in Ilford in East London, England. For students aged 4–18 years old, Seven Kings School has a separate Primary school and Secondary school buildings, which are close to each other. Seven Kings has also took part in and won awards (which are well known around the UK), such as, The Jack Petchey Award and are known as a National Teaching School. Seven Kings were the first to work to include pupils with special needs and disabilities.

[[Shyampur Thana]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bangladesh

Shyampur (শ্যামপুর) is a Manufacture Zone of Bangladesh and the second Industrial zone of Dhaka city has an Estimated Material factories a total lists of factories main Ironical Mechanics factory fifty six garments Eighty nine iron factory one thousands sixty five Dying factory five thousands anothers factories which is related to Entrepreneurs and Economical Development meteorological

[[Pulau Ubin]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Singapore, Islands of Asia, Places in Singapore

Pulau Ubin (also called Ubin Island) is an island at the northeast of Singapore. The island is now a tourist attraction. Less than 100 people stay on the island. But many people visit in the daytime to enjoy nature.

[[Aljunied MRT station]]

CATEGORIES: Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) stations

Aljunied MRT station (EW9) is an above-ground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the East West line in Geylang, Singapore. Named after Aljunied Road, this station primarily serves Aljunied, one of the subzones that make up Geylang planning area. The station was opened on 4 November 1989. It was formerly called E4, well before 2001.

[[Regional Science Association International]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations, 1954 establishments, Urban and regional sciences

Regional Science Association International (RSAI) is an international association of Regional science. The organization was established in 1954 as an international community of scholars interested in the regional impacts of national or global processes of economic and social change. located in the University of Azores, Azores, Portugal. the organization is beneath center of 22 regional organizations worldwide.

[[Meteomont]]

CATEGORIES: Skiing, Meteorology, Organizations based in Europe, Italy

Meteomont is the mountain meteorological service of the  Italian Army. The service helps with search and rescue. It also assesses the risk of avalanches, gives early  warning of avalanches, and assesses mountain snow conditions in general. The service works together with the Carabinieri (the Italian Army law  enforcement service),  the meteorological and intelligence service of the Italian Air Force, and the Alpini. The Alpini are the elite mountain troops of the Italian Army.

[[Whitelist]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

A whitelist is a list of acceptable, recognised or privileged people, websites or images. On the computer, a whitelist shows a list of websites that you can go to; any website not on the whitelist is not accepted. The opposite is a blacklist, which shows a list of websites that you cannot go to.

[[Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Generals, Portuguese politicians, Portuguese military people

Otelo Nuno Romão Saraiva de Carvalho (August 31, 1936 – July 25, 2021) was a Portuguese military officer. He was the chief strategist of the 1974 Carnation Revolution in Lisbon. He unsuccessfully ran for President of Portugal in 1976 and in 1980.

On July 10, 2021, Otelo was hospitalized at Hospital das Forças Armadas in Lisbon. He died fifteen days later on July 25 from heart failure, aged 84.

[[António de Spínola]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1996 deaths, Generals, Portuguese military people, Presidents of Portugal, Roman Catholics

António Sebastião Ribeiro de Spínola was a Portuguese military officer.

During the Carnation Revolution, Marcelo Caetano would only surrender to Spínola. This gave Spínola an important place after the revolution. He was made president of the National Salvation Junta. Then he became President of Portugal. He was only President 4 months before Francisco da Costa Gomes took the position.

[[Vasco Gonçalves]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2005 deaths, Generals, People from Lisbon, Portuguese military people, Prime Ministers of Portugal

General Vasco dos Santos Gonçalves was a Portuguese army officer. After the Carnation Revolution, he served as the Prime Minister of Portugal.

[[Francisco de Sá Carneiro]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 1980 deaths, Prime Ministers of Portugal, Roman Catholics, Portuguese lawyers, People from Porto

Francisco Manuel Lumbrales de Sá Carneiro founded the Portuguese Social Democratic Party in 1974. He was elected Prime Minister of Portugal in January 1980. Sá Carneiro died in a plane crash in December 1980.

[[Nederlandse Spoorwegen]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in the Netherlands, 1938 establishments in Europe, 1930s establishments in the Netherlands

Nederlandse Spoorwegen (Dutch Railways) or NS is the main passenger railway operator in the Netherlands. NS provides rail services on the Dutch main rail network. The rail infrastructure is maintained by network manager ProRail, which was split off from NS in 2003. Freight services, formerly operated by NS Cargo, merged with the DB Schenker group in 2000.

NS runs 4,800 scheduled domestic trains a day, serving 1.1 million passengers. In addition, NS provides international rail services from Abellio which runs Abellio Greater Anglia, Merseyrail and ScotRail in the United Kingdom.

[[Zollikofen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern, Cities in Switzerland

Zollikofen is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

It is a suburb of the capital of Berne.

[[Whitechapel]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, London Borough of Tower Hamlets

Whitechapel is a district in the East End of London, in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets.

It is 3.4 miles (5.5 km) east of Charing Cross and roughly bounded by Petticoat Lane and Mansell Street to the west, Fashion Street to the north, Cambridge Heath Road and Sidney Street to the east and The Highway to the south.

Because the area is close to the London Docklands and east of the city, it has been a popular place for immigrants and the working class. The area was the centre of the London Jewish community in the 19th and early 20th century. It is where the infamous Whitechapel Murders by Jack the Ripper took place in 1888. In the latter half of the 20th century, Tower Hamlets (including Whitechapel) became the largest settlement for the British Bangladeshi community, particularly on and around Whitechapel Road and Brick Lane.

[[Holywood]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in County Down

Holywood (ˈ HOL) is a town in the metropolitan area of Belfast in County Down, Northern Ireland. It is a civil parish and townland of 755 acres lying on the shore of Belfast Lough, between Belfast and Bangor. Holywood Exchange and Belfast City Airport are nearby. The town hosts an annual jazz and blues festival.

[[Zuzwil, Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Zuzwil is a municipality in the administrative district of Bern-Mittelland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Zablon Simintov]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Afghan people, Asian Jews

Zablon Simintov (born 1959) is thought to be the last Jew in Afghanistan. He was born in Herat. Simintov had lived with the second last remaining Jewish man in Afghanistan, Ishaq Levin, who died on January 26, 2005, aged around 80. 

Simintov says it is not easy to practice his religion alone. However, he has obtained special permission from the nearest rabbi, in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, to slaughter his own meat in line with kosher dietary laws. That can normally only be done by a specially trained and qualified Jewish ritual slaughterer. He says that he receives special kosher packages for Passover from Afghan Jews living in New York. 

His wife and two daughters live in Israel. When asked during an interview whether he would emigrate to Israel, Simintov retorted, "Go to Israel? What business do I have there? Why should I leave?"

[[History of hearing aids]]

CATEGORIES: Hearing

The first modern hearing aids were made in the 17th century. Even though that was when they first became popular, since the 13th century people had already been making similar devices by hollowing out the horns of animals. Hearing aids did not improve very much until electricity and the telephone were created in 1898. This is when the first electric hearing aid was also created, but it was not given out to the public to use until later in the 20th century. Over the past century however, the fast development of technology has changed and improved the hearing aid greatly, making new designs and adding new functions to be able to help even more hearing problems.

[[Presbycusis]]

CATEGORIES: Hearing, Health problems

October 2016Presbycusis is a type of sensorineural hearing loss which is caused by natural aging. Presbycusis occurs over time, becoming worse as people age and can not be reversed. It is the most common form of hearing loss and the second most common illness among older people, effecting up to 1 in 3 people by the age of 65. 

[[Hyperacusis]]

CATEGORIES: Hearing, Health problems

October 2016Hyperacusis is a hearing health problem where people become more sensitive to some sounds for certain frequencies and volumes. This can make everyday sounds such as a car, dishwasher or refrigerator sound very loud. It is usually very difficult to tolerate and can be uncomfortable or even painful for people experiencing it.  

[[Bolesław Bierut]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1956 deaths, Polish communist politicians, Presidents of Poland, Prime Ministers of Poland, Atheists

Bolesław Bierut was a Polish Communist leader. He became President of Poland after the Soviet Union took leadership of the country. Bierut was a strong supporter of Stalinism.

[[Władysław Gomułka]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1982 deaths, Atheists, Polish communist politicians, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Władysław Gomułka was a Polish communist politician. After World War II he was the leader of Poland until 1948. Following the Polish October he became leader again from 1956 to 1970.

Gomułka was one of the key leaders of the Warsaw Pact. He supported Poland's participation in Prague Spring in August 1968. One of his notable achievements was negotiating the Treaty of Warsaw (1970) with West Germany. The treaty meant Germany agreed to the post-World War II borders.

[[Tinnitus masker]]

CATEGORIES: Medical equipment, Audio technology, Hearing

A tinnitus masker is an electronic device that produces noise at low levels and is used by those experiencing tinnitus to cover up the ringing or other sounds they are hearing. Many people who experience tinnitus also have hearing loss and are able to use a hearing aid that also acts as a tinnitus masker. These devices will usually need to be customised by an audiologist to ensure that the masking noise used brings relief to the user as tinnitus is experienced differently by everyone.

[[Fengning]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of China

Fengning Manchu Autonomous County, Chengde City, Hebei Province jurisdiction, established in 1987. According to "Manchu name test": Fengning County name comes from Emperor Qianlong Yuci, take the word "Fung Fukang Corning."

Geographic location: longitude 116.65 ° north latitude 41.2 °

Qing Emperor Qianlong forty-three years (1778) was built Fengning county.

When the Republic of Fengning under the Rehe system.

In 1940 the county seat by the town moved to town.

May 1948 liberation.

December 2, 1986, the State Council approved the establishment of Fengning Manchu Autonomous County.

April 1987 Fengning Manchu Autonomous County officially listed.

Fengning paper cutting has a long history, Fengning folk paper-cut began in the reign of Emperor Kangxi, the beginning of paper-cut is used to reinforce the windows, blocking the window joints, and later gradually developed, gradually rich colors, the development of the characteristics of decorations, cultural values are also rising . 1993 Fengning was the Ministry of Culture named "Chinese folk paper-cut art town" now has Wei Wene, Shi Junfeng and other cultural heritage successor

In 2014, the Ministry of Culture website published "on the publicity of the fourth batch of national intangible cultural heritage representative list of projects recommended list" announcement, Fengning Teng cloth paste successfully included in the fourth batch of national intangible cultural heritage Directory. Teng 's cloth painting is a new painting by Teng Teng, a folk artist of Fengning, Hebei. His technique is a combination of painting, sculpture, heap embroidery, thangka and paper - cutting, and the materials are exquisite, colorful and delicate. Realistic, drawn widely. 

Fengning is a famous revolutionary poet Guo Xiaochuan's hometown. Guo Xiaochuan, the famous poet, writer. Born in 1919, died in 1976. Guo Xiaoguan, formerly known as Guo Enda, was born in the Fengning Manchu Autonomous County town of Fengshan (at the time was the predecessor of Chengde - Rehe Province) an intellectual family. The main works are: "plain old man", "into the fiery struggle", "to young citizens", "Pengcheng Wanli", "general trilogy", "sugar cane forest - blue gauze", "Kunlun line".

[[Zweisimmen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Zweisimmen is a municipality in the administrative district of Obersimmental-Saanen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Zwieselberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Zwieselberg is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Emanuel Swedenborg]]

CATEGORIES: 1688 births, 1772 deaths, 18th century philosophers, Christian mystics, Christian theologians, Lutherans, Writers from Stockholm, Scientists from Stockholm

Emanuel Swedenborg (ˈ; sv-Emanuel_Swedenborg.ogg; born Emanuel Swedberg on 29 January 1688; died 29 March 1772) was a Swedish scientist, philosopher, theologian, revelator, and mystic.  He is best known for his book on the afterlife, Heaven and Hell (1758).

His writings inspired Swedenborgianism.

[[Little Robots]]

CATEGORIES: BBC Television programmes, 2003 British television series debuts, 2005 British television series endings, British children's television series, English-language television programs

Little Robots is a British stop-motion animated children's television programme of BBC.

The show was produced by Cosgrove Hall Films for Create TV and Film Limited and broadcasted by BBC. It aired from 2003 to 2005. The show was based on a book by Mike Brownlow published in 1999. The main character is Tiny Robot, who is a turquoise robot.

[[Panaro]]

CATEGORIES: Emilia-Romagna, Rivers of Italy

The Panaro (Scultenna) is a river of northeastern Italy, the last important right tributary of the Po river. It starts in the Northern Apennines mountain range and flows through the Emilia-Romagna region.

[[Numa Pompilius]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and queens, Roman people

Numa Pompilius was the second King of Rome. He succeeded Romulus in the year 715 BC. Numa was of Sabine origin. He is credited with creating the most important religious and cultural institutions in Rome most prominently the Pontifex Maximus, Most modern historians consider Numa to be pure legend and regard his reign as myth.

[[Exposure action value]]

CATEGORIES: Hearing, Health problems

Exposure action value is a limit on the level of noise that workers can be exposed to. The level of noise is measured in decibels and after this level, the workplace needs to make sure that workers are protected from the noise. Safety plans need to be made to stop or lower the risk of hearing health problems for workers.

[[Nazi salute]]

CATEGORIES: Nazism, Fascism

The Nazi salute or Hitler salute is a gesture that was used as a greeting in Nazi Germany. The salute is performed by extending the right arm in the air with a straightened hand. Usually, the person offering the salute would say "Heil Hitler!" (Hail Hitler!), "Heil, mein Führer!" (Hail, my leader!), or "Sieg Heil!" (Hail victory!). 

It was adopted in the 1930s by the Nazi Party to show obedience to the party's leader, Adolf Hitler. It also gave honour to the German nation (and later the German war effort). 

The salute was required for all civilians. It was mostly optional for military personnel who retained the traditional salute until shortly after the failed assassination attempt on Hitler on July 20, 1944.

[[Wengen]]

CATEGORIES: Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland, Villages in Bern

Wengen is a village in the municipality of Lauterbrunnen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Stechelberg]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bern

Stechelberg is a small village in the municipality of Lauterbrunnen in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Coimbatore district]]

CATEGORIES: Coimbatore district

Coimbatore district is one of the 32 district of Tamil Nadu. Its headquarter Coimbatore city is the second biggest city in the state of Tamil Nadu. Coimbatore district is one of the most industrialized district of Tamil Nadu in textiles, education, healthcare, information technology, manufacturing etc. As of 2011, Coimbatore district had a population of 34,58,045 and the literacy rate is 84%.

[[Slime Rancher]]

CATEGORIES: MacOS games, Windows games, 2016 video games, Xbox One games, PlayStation 4 games

Slime Rancher is an Indie open world first person life simulation game video game made by Monomi Park. The game was put on Steam Early Access on January 14, 2016, with it to be completed for Windows, OS X and Linux. It is also planned for the Xbox one.

[[Soledad Giménez]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, French singers, Musicians from Paris, Singer-songwriters, Spanish singers

Soledad Giménez Muñoz, also known as Sole Giménez (February 27, 1963 in Paris, Île-de-France) is a Spanish-French singer-songwriter. From 1983 until 2006, she was the leader of the jazz group Presuntos Implicados. Some of her best known songs are Alma de blues, Mi pequeño tesoro, and Cómo hemos cambiado.

Throughout her career, she has performed with such artists as Joaquín Sabina, María Dolores Pradera, Joan Manuel Serrat, Herbie Hancock, Milton Nascimento, Randy Crawford, Armando Manzanero, Pancho Céspedes, Ana Torroja, Miguel Ríos, Ana Belén, Revólver, Los Piratas, Los Sabandeños, Dúo Dinámico, and Enrique Heredia.

[[Gisikon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Gisikon is a municipality of the district Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Greppen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Greppen is a municipality in the district Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

It is at the base of huge Mount Rigi. The exclave is separated by Lake Lucerne from the rest of the district.

[[Honau, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Honau is a municipality of the district of Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Arrondissements of the Hautes-Alpes department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 2 arrondissements in the Hautes-Alpes department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of the Hautes-Alpes are:

[[Connecticut Compromise]]

CATEGORIES: United States Constitution, 1787 in the United States

The Connecticut Compromise (also known as the Great Compromise of 1787 or Sherman's Compromise) was an agreement that large and small states reached during the Constitutional Convention of 1787 that  established a two-house legislature under the United States Constitution. It retained the bicameral legislature as proposed by Roger Sherman, along with proportional representation in the lower house. It required the upper house, United States Senate, to have two members from each state. The lower house, or House of Representatives, would have representation based on the population of a state.

[[Fort Sumter]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War

Fort Sumter is a island fortification in Charleston, South Carolina. The fort was where the American Civil War began. On April 12, 1861, Confederate artillery opened fire on the fort. The Union garrison, under the command of Major Robert Anderson, surrendered the fort 34 hours later. Union forces attempted to take the fort back several times during the Civil War. The fort was abandoned by Confederate forces when the Union Army, under the command of Maj. Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman captured Charleston in February 1865.

[[Arrondissement of Briançon]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Briançon is a French arrondissement in the Hautes-Alpes department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Briançon.

[[Prerogative]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, Rights

A prerogative is an exclusive power or privilege possessed by an official of a government or state as a part of his or her office. Under English law it is right of a sovereign, which in theory, has no restrictions. For example, the British monarch holds Royal prerogatives which have never been fully listed. In practice, they are usually used by ministers on behalf of the monarch. In the United States, the  Constitution is written in such a way to allow executive prerogatives. Presidents use these powers to manage crises or to resolve disputes. Although nothing in the Constitution specifically gave him the power to do it, George Washington used executive prerogative to declare neutrality in the 1790s dispute between Great Britain and France. Thomas Jefferson used it to make the Louisiana Purchase. Abraham Lincoln used it many times during the American Civil War.

[[Arrondissement of Gap]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Gap is an arrondissement of France, in the Hautes-Alpes department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital, and prefecture, is the city of Gap, the largest city in the department.

[[Cosgrove Hall Films]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United Kingdom, 1976 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2009 disestablishments in the United Kingdom

Cosgrove Hall Films (also known as Cosgrove Hall Productions) is a Manchester, UK production company begun by Brian Cosgrove. Cosgrove Hall Films produced various series and productions to 1970s, 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. The company was formed in 1976. They stopped creating shows in 2012.

==Series and productions==                                                                                                                                                             

[[T2 phage]]

CATEGORIES: Viruses

T2 phage is more properly called Enterobacteria phage T2. It is a virulent bacteriophage which infects Escherichia coli bacteria. 

It contains linear double-stranded DNA, and is covered by a protective protein coat. T2 is a 'tailed phage', one of a group known as the 'T4-like viruses'.

The DNA of the phage is injected into E. coli cells. It quickly turns the E. coli cell into a T2-producing factory. New phages are released when the cell ruptures. 

The Hershey–Chase experiments, done by Alfred Hershey and Martha Chase, showed how the DNA of viruses is injected into the bacterial cells, while most of the viral proteins stay outside. The injected DNA molecules cause the bacterial cells to produce more viral DNA and proteins. These discoveries showed that DNA, rather than proteins, is the hereditary material.

[[Rhyme royal]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry forms

Rhyme royal is a seven-line stanza with rhyme scheme a-b-a-b-b-c-c. It is also spelled Rime royal.

It is unknown who invented this scheme. Geoffrey Chaucer introduced the stanza into English poetry in 14th century. It may have been borrowed from Italian or French poetry, but the form became typically English. Chaucer used the form in Troilus and Criseyde. Rhyme royal was popular in the 15th and 16th centuries.

Many English and Scottish poets used rhyme royal. It is suitable for long poems. In English literature rhyme royal is almost always composed of ten-syllable lines with five beats. Outside England rhyme royal is not as popular. In the United States Emma Lazarus wrote some poems using ababbcc rhyme-scheme. This stanza comes form her poem Sympathy (included in Epochs).

Poets who wrote rhyme royal frequently were William Morris and John Masefield. In 20th century the stanza went out of use.

[[Ottava rima]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry forms

Ottava rima is a stanza of eight lines with the rhyme-scheme a-b-a-b-a-b-c-c.

Ottava rima is of Italian origin. It was used by many poets in Italy, Spain and Portugal in 15th and 16th centuries. Some of the poets to use this form were Ludovico Ariosto, Torquato Tasso, Alonso de Ercilla y Zúñiga and Luís Vaz de Camões. In England it was not so popular at that time. Later Lord Byron wrote Don Juan in ottava rima. An example can be found in Emma Lazarus's poetry:

[[Buëch]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The Buëch (Buech) is a river in southeastern France, a right tributary of the Durance. It is also called the Grand Buëch in its upper course just to the confluence with the Petit Buëch river.

[[Agnes Nixon]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Chicago, American television producers, Actors from Chicago, 1922 births, 2016 deaths

Agnes Nixon (December 10, 1922 - September 28, 2016) was an American actress, writer and producer. She was best known as the creator of soap operas, such as All My Children, One Life to Live and Loving. Nixon was also writer for As the World Turns. She was the head-writer for Guiding Light and Another World. Nixon was a pioneer in including subjects that were socially relevant into daytime television. She introduced subjects such as abortion, drug addiction and the Vietnam War into her stories.

Nixon was born in Chicago. She died at age 93 in Haverford, Pennsylvania. However, some sources claim Nixon was born in 1927.

[[Cultured meat]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture, Meat

Cultured meat, also called synthetic meat, is meat grown in cell culture instead of inside animals. It is a form of cellular agriculture.  Cultured meat is produced using many of the same tissue engineering techniques used in regenerative medicine. Up to now the cost to produce cultured meat has been extremely high. The first cultured beef burger patty, created by Dr. Mark Post at Maastricht University, was eaten at a demonstration for the press in London in August 2013.

[[Uranium trioxide]]

Uranium trioxide (UO3), also called uranyl oxide, uranium(VI) oxide, and uranic oxide, is an oxide of uranium. UO3 is a hexavalent oxide, which means that the uranium in the compound has an oxidation state of +6. It can be formed by heating uranyl nitrate to 400 °C.

UO3 is a poisonous and slightly radioactive substance. It can be harmful if it is breathed in, ingested, or makes contact with skin.

[[Umutsuz Ev Kadınları]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish television series

Umutsuz Ev Kadınları, is a Turkish comedy drama TV series, based on the American comedy drama TV series Desperate Housewives.

[[Richard Aldington]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1962 deaths, British military personnel of World War I, British poets, British novelists

Richard Aldington (8 July 1892 – 27 July 1962), born Edward Godfree Aldington, was an English writer and poet.

Aldington was known best for his World War I poetry and the 1929 novel, Death of a Hero. He was met with controversy from his 1955 Lawrence of Arabia: A Biographical Inquiry. His 1946 biography, Wellington, was awarded the James Tait Black Memorial Prize.

He met the poet Hilda Doolittle in 1911 and they married two years later. They divorced in 1938.

Aldington joined the British Army in 1916. He served in the Royal Sussex Regiment. He was wounded on the Western Front.

[[Edwin Atherstone]]

CATEGORIES: 1788 births, 1872 deaths, English poets, English writers, English playwrights

Edwin Atherstone (1788-1872) was an English writer, poet and playwright.

[[Yuzu]]

CATEGORIES: Citrus

The yuzu is a citrus fruit and plant. It originated in East Asia. The fruit looks like a rough small and yellow grapefruit, and changes colour from green to yellow when it becomes more ripe.

The yuzu is often used in Japanese and Korean cuisine. It appears much like a lemon but tastes more like a floral lime.

[[Horw]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Lucerne

Horw (Swiss German: Horb) is a municipality in Lucerne-Land in the Swiss canton of Lucerne.

[[The Swiss Family Robinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s books

The Swiss Family Robinson (German: Der Schweizerische Robinson) is a novel by Johann David Wyss. It was first published in 1812. The story is about a Swiss family shipwrecked in the East Indies while on their way to Port Jackson, Australia.

[[Kriens]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Lucerne

Kriens is a municipality in Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Barre des Écrins]]

CATEGORIES: Alps, Mountains of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The Barre des Écrins is a mountain in the French Alps. It is the highest peak of the Massif des Écrins and of the Dauphiné Alps mountain range. It is in the Écrins National Park (Parc national des Écrins), one of the ten French national parks.

It is the only mountain 4000 or higher in France that is outside the Mont Blanc Massif. Before the annexation of Savoy, that was part of the Kingdom of Sardinia, in 1860, it was the highest mountain in France.

[[Rubble]]

CATEGORIES: Building materials

Rubble is broken stone, of irregular size, shape and texture. Unfinished stone from a quarry is called rubble. Rubble naturally found in the soil is known also as brash. Where present, it becomes more noticeable when the land is ploughed or worked.

[[Francisco de Sá de Miranda]]

CATEGORIES: 1481 births, 1558 deaths, Portuguese writers, Renaissance

Francisco de Sá de Miranda (28 August 1481 – 17 May 1558) was a Portuguese poet.

Sá de Miranda was the first author of Renaissance in Portugal. He was born in Coimbra. His parents were Gonçalo Mendes de Sá and Inês de Melo. He learned Greek, Latin and philosophy at Santa Cruz Monastery. Then he went to Lisbon to study law at the university. He travelled to Italy, where he met many poets including Vittoria Colonna. When he returned to Portugal, he worked for the king.

His main merit for Portuguese literature is that he introduced Italian verse forms. Sá de Miranda was the first author to write sonnets in Portugal. His best known poem is the sonnet O sol é grande, caem co'a calma as aves. It was translated into English by John Adamson in Lusitania illustrata.

[[Alicia Machado]]

CATEGORIES: Venezuelan models, American models, Miss Universe winners, 1976 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Alicia Machado (born December 6, 1976) is a Venezuelan-born American beauty pageant winner, singer and actress. She was Miss Universe 1996. She was the fourth woman from Venezuela to win the Miss Universe.

Before she was Miss Universe 1996, she was Miss Venezuela 1995.

In 2016, Machado became a United States citizen. Also in 2016, Machado spoke out against Donald Trump. She said that he had called her "Miss Piggy" because of her weight during her year as Miss Universe. She said that Trump also called her "Miss Housekeeping" because she was Latina.

[[Religious order]]

CATEGORIES: Religion

A religious order is a group of people who live in some way set apart from others, in accordance with their specific religious devotion. Their principles are usually created from their founder's religious practice.  The order may comprise initiates (laity) and, in some traditions, ordained clergy. Religious orders exist in many of the world's religions. Many orders operate monasteries.

[[Gregorio Honasan]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Colonels, Filipino military people

Gregorio Ballesteros Honasan II, better known as Gringo Honasan, is a retired Philippine Army officer. He led an unsuccessful coups d'état against President Corazon Aquino. He played a key role in the 1986 People Power Revolution that ended the rule of President Ferdinand Marcos.

President Fidel Ramos granted Honasan amnesty in 1992 for his actions against President Aquino. He entered politics and became a senator. In 2016 he ran unsuccessfully for vice president of the Philippines as Jejomar Binay's running-mate.

[[Nur Misuari]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Filipino military people, Filipino politicians

Nur Misuari, born Nurallaji Pinang Misuari, is a Moro revolutionary and politician. He is the founder and leader of the Moro National Liberation Front.

[[Ryder Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Golf tournaments, 1927 establishments in the United States, 1927 establishments in Europe

The Ryder Cup is a golf tournament. It is held between the United States and Europe every 2 years. 

The tournament was first held in 1927. The current venue is Hazeltine National Golf Club in Minnesota, USA.

[[Hazeltine National Golf Club]]

CATEGORIES: Golf, Buildings and structures in Minnesota

The Hazeltine National Golf Club is a golf club in Minnesota, USA. Guests are not allowed in unless accompanied by a member and it is a Championship Golf Club. It is named after Lake Hazeltine.  It is a championship golf club.

[[Gali]]

Gali can refer to:

[[Indie game]]

CATEGORIES: Indie video games

An independent video game or indie game is a game made without money from a publisher. They often rely on digital distribution, some indie games have become very successful like Minecraft. 

[[Oscar Stanton De Priest]]

CATEGORIES: 1871 births, 1951 deaths, Burials at Graceland Cemetery, United States representatives from Illinois, Politicians from Alabama, African American politicians, US Republican Party politicians, People from Florence, Alabama

Oscar Stanton De Priest was an American Republican politician and civil rights advocate. He served as a U.S. Representative from the state of Illinois. During his three terms, he was the only African American serving in Congress.

De Priest proposed a law barring discrimination in the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC). The CCC was program of the New Deal to employ people across the country in building infrastructure. His proposal was made a law by President Franklin D. Roosevelt.

In 1929, De Priest made national news. First Lady Lou Hoover invited his wife, Jessie, to a traditional tea for congressional wives at the White House. In reaction several newspapers published a racist poem called Niggers in the White House. The poem was first published when Booker T. Washington dined with President Theodore Roosevelt.

[[Pinus pinaster]]

CATEGORIES: Conifers

Pinus pinaster, also known as the maritime pine, cluster pine, or pinaster pine, is a pine native to the Mediterranean region.

[[Littau]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne, Lucerne

Littau was a municipality in Lucerne in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2010 the former municipality of Littau merged into the city of Lucerne.

[[Malters]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Malters is a municipality in the district of Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Nevinnomyssk]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Russia

Nevinnomyssk (Невинномы́сск) is a city in Stavropol Krai, Russia. It it occupies both bank (geography)s of the Kuban River at its confluence with the Bolshoy Zelenchuk River, 54 south of Stavropol. Population: 132,141 (2002 Census); 92,000 (1973); 40,000 (1959).

[[Giuseppe Natoli]]

CATEGORIES: 1815 births, 1867 deaths, Italian politicians, Italian lawyers

Giuseppe Natoli Gongora di Scaliti (9 June 1815 – 25 September 1867) was an Italian lawyer and politician from the Mediterranean island of Sicily. He was Minister of Agriculture under Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour, in the first government of the Kingdom of Italy after unification in 1861.

[[Startup company]]

CATEGORIES: Companies by type

A startup company (startup or start-up) is a new and fast-growing company. They try to meet a marketplace need, offering an innovative product, process or service.

A start-up is usually a small business, a partnership or an organization. Rapid growth is what they aim for. Often, startup companies use the internet, e-commerce, computers, and telecommunications.

The term became fashionable in the dot-com bubble of the late 1990s, when a great number of internet-based companies were formed.

[[Meggen, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Meggen is a municipality of the district Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Meierskappel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Meierskappel is a municipality of the district of Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Root, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Root is a municipality of the district of Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Schwarzenberg, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Schwarzenberg is a municipality in the district Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Udligenswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Udligenswil is a municipality of the district Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Jose Maria Sison]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Filipino writers, Activists, Communists, Atheists

José María Canlás Sison is a writer and activist. He founded the Communist Party of the Philippines.

Sison was arrested during the Ferdinand Marcos presidency. He was imprisoned for almost 9 years. Corazón Aquino released him from prison. Sison went into exile in the Netherlands.

His experience in prison was described in Prison & Beyond, a book of poetry released in 1986. It won the Southeast Asia WRITE award for the Philippines.

[[Mengistu Haile Mariam]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Presidents of Ethiopia, Communists

Mengistu Haile Mariam (born 21 May 1937) is an Ethiopian politician. He was an important officer in the Communist military junta that governed Ethiopia from 1974 to 1987. He was President of the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia from 1987 to 1991.

Mariam was a dictator. It is estimated that he was responsible for 500,000 to over 2,000,000 deaths. In May 1991 Mariam left the country for Zimbabwe. The Ethiopian Civil War ended when he left.

In 2010, Mengistu announced the publication of its memoirs. In early 2012, a manuscript of the memoir, titled Tiglachin ("Our Struggle" in Amharic), was leaked on the Internet. A few months later, the first volume leaked was published in the United States and in 2016, the second volume followed. This time it was published in Ethiopia. Mengistu accused the ERP remains of having published the first volume to sabotage its publication.

[[B. J. Vorster]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1983 deaths, Afrikaner people, People associated with Apartheid, Calvinists, Presidents of South Africa, Prime Ministers of South Africa

Balthazar Johannes Vorster was a South African politician. He served as the Prime Minister of South Africa and State President of South Africa. He is commonly known as John Vorster.

Vorster believed in apartheid. He was part of a group who sentenced Nelson Mandela to life imprisonment.

[[Vitznau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Vitznau is a municipality in the district of Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

It occupies a narrow strip between the lake and the Rigi looming behind; one of the mountain railways to the summit starts in Vitznau.

[[Weggis]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Weggis is a municipality of the district Lucerne-Land in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

It is on the northern shore of Lake Lucerne.

[[Sursee (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Lucerne

Sursee is a district of the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland. The capital is the town of Sursee.

It contains the following municipalities:

[[Beromünster]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne, Cities in Switzerland

Beromünster is a municipality in Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Büron]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Büron is a municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Buttisholz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Buttisholz is a municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

==Villages== 

[[Eich, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Eich LU, Municipalities of Lucerne

Eich is a municipality of the district of Sursee in the Swiss canton of Lucerne.

[[Geuensee]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Geuensee is a municipality of the district Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Grosswangen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Grosswangen is a municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Gunzwil]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne

Gunzwil is a former municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

Since 2009, it is part of the municipality of Beromünster.

[[Hildisrieden]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Hildisrieden is a municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Knutwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Knutwil is a municipality in Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Mauensee, Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Mauensee is a municipality in Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

Lake Mauensee is in the municipality

[[Cachapoal Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Cachapoal Province (Provincia de Cachapoal) is one of three provinces of the central Chilean region of Libertador General Bernardo O'Higgins (VI). Its capital is the city of Rancagua.

The province is named after the Cachapoal river that flows through the province from east to west.

[[Hair tie]]

CATEGORIES: Headgear

A hair tie, also known as a ponytail holder, or hair band, is an accessory used to hold back long hair, particularly away from areas such as the face. This is usually done as part of a hairstyle, such as pigtails, ponytails, or afro puffs.

Hair tie's elasticity and durability varies according to the material or materials from which they are made.  Most hair ties are made of elastic, wool, rubber, or stretchy cotton. A specific type of hair tie is known as a scrunchie. Scrunchies are hair ties that are covered with fabric. 

[[Wrath of the Titans]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 movies, Movies based on Greek and Roman mythology, Warner Bros. movies

Wrath of the Titans is a 2012 American-British-Spanish fantasy-adventure film directed by Jonathan Liebesman. It is a sequel to Clash of the Titans, and stars Sam Worthington, Liam Neeson, Rosamund Pike, Ralph Fiennes, Édgar Ramírez, Toby Kebell and Bill Nighy. The film takes place ten years after the events of the first film and involves Perseus battling to save Zeus-who is being held captive in the Underworld-as well as defeat the Titans (who have broken free from Tartarus thanks to the gods losing control of them while their immortality is draining) and save mankind. Like its predecessor it gained poor critical reviews, but was commercially successful. A sequel called Revenge of the Titans was in production but later scrapped.

[[Gurnard]]

Gurnard may refer to:

[[Macy's]]

CATEGORIES: Department stores, Cincinnati, Ohio, 1858 establishments in the United States

Macy's (originally R. H. Macy's) is a North American department store chain, originally headquartered in New York until 1994. The company expanded through buyouts of various department stores and companies. Macy's status as an independent company ended in 1992 after filing for bankruptcy. The company was later bought by Cincinnati-based Federated Department Stores in 1994. The company moved its headquarters to Cincinnati that year. From 1995-2005 Federated began to fold its less popular chains such as Stern's, Lazarus and many others into Macy's. In 2005 Macy's acquired rival The May Department Stores Company creating the nation's largest department store holding company, with over 800 locations. On September 9, 2006 Macy's became a national brand after Federated retired the former May regional chains. In 2007 Federated announced it would re-brand to Macy's, Inc. as an effort to focus on the Macy's name. As of 2016 Macy's has stores in 45 states.

[[Scotland, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Connecticut, 1857 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Connecticut

Scotland is a town in Windham County, Connecticut, in the United States. In 2010, 1,726 people lived there.  Scotland is a rural town. It has many farms.May 2009 The town has the fewest people in the county.

[[Colchagua Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Colchagua Province (Provincia de Colchagua) is one of three provinces of the central Chilean region of Libertador General Bernardo O'Higgins (VI).

Its capital is the city of San Fernando.

[[Azov]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Russia

Azov is a town at the mouth of the  Don River (Russia). It is on the east end of the Sea of Azov and about 80 thousand people live there.

[[Neudorf, Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne

Neudorf is a former municipality of the district Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipality of Neudorf merged into the municipality of Beromünster.

[[Neuenkirch]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Neuenkirch is a municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Filippo Juvarra]]

CATEGORIES: 1678 births, 1736 deaths, Italian architects

Filippo Juvarra was an architect from Italy who lived from 1678 to 1736. He was born in Messina. He designed many famous buildings, especially churches and palaces. 

[[Nottwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Nottwil is a municipality of the district Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

It is on the southern shore of Lake Sempach (Sempachersee).

[[Hurricane Matthew]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in weather, Hurricanes, September 2016 events, 2016 in North America, 2010s in Jamaica, 2010s in Cuba, 21st century in the Dominican Republic, 2010s in the Bahamas

Hurricane Matthew was an Atlantic hurricane. This storm developed on September 28, 2016. It threatened Jamaica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic and the Bahamas. Matthew hit Haiti on October 4, 2016. It struck Cuba later that evening.

The storm was the first Category 5 hurricane in the Atlantic since 2007's Hurricane Felix. Its peak winds were 160 miles per hour.

Matthew was forecast to affect the Southeastern United States from Florida to eastern North Carolina. It was also forecast to threaten New England at first. The forecast changed and later excluded New England.

The storm caused more than 1,600 deaths in Hispaniola and the Caribbean. In the United States, there were 49 deaths. The Dominican Republic had four deaths from Matthew.

Damage in Haiti was estimated at just over $1 billion (2016 USD).

[[Oberkirch, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Oberkirch is a municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

It is located southwest of Lake Sempach (Sempachersee).

[[Pfeffikon, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne, Villages in Lucerne

Pfeffikon is a municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipality of Pfeffikon merged into the municipality of Rickenbach.

[[Life simulation game]]

CATEGORIES: Role-playing games, Video game genres

A life simulation game is a kind of role-playing game or RPG where the player takes on a god-like perspective of the game. Unlike most RPGs, which progress at the player's speed, a life simulation game continues automatically. SimAnimals is an example of a life simulation game.

[[Zenón Díaz]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 births, 1948 deaths

Zenón Díaz was an Argentinian football player. He was the first native footballer in Argentina national football team. He played all his career in Rosario Central.

[[Ronssoy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ronssoy is a commune in the Somme department in Picardie in northern France.

[[Acheux-en-Amiénois]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Acheux-en-Amiénois is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2010, the population was 569.

[[Agenville]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Agenville is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 106.

[[Ailly-le-Haut-Clocher]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ailly-le-Haut-Clocher is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 881.

[[Ailly-sur-Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ailly-sur-Somme is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Airaines]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Airaines is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Aizecourt-le-Bas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Aizecourt-le-Bas is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Aizecourt-le-Haut]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Aizecourt-le-Haut is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Albert, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Albert is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

It is about halfway between Amiens and Bapaume.

[[Allaines]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Allaines is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Allenay]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Allenay is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Allonville]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Allonville is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Andainville]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Andainville is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Andechy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Andechy is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Argœuves]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Argœuves is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Arguel, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Arguel is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Battlefield 1]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic Arts video games, Shooter video games, PlayStation 4 games, Windows games, Xbox One games, Video games developed in Sweden

Battlefield 1 is a first-person shooter video game made by EA DICE and published by EA. This is the fourteenth battlefield game. The game was released on Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, on October 21, 2016.

This game is a first-person shooter which is built around teamwork. This game is set in World War I and is based on historic events. The player uses weapons from World War I. DICE changed how melee combat worked and added new weapons. The player can also use many vehicles used in World War I.

The campaign, according to Daniel Berlin the game's designer, is larger with more open environments, with more option in the levels. The player controls multiply people during the game, when the character they play as dies, they will become another.

The game's multiplayer is planned to allow 64 players. The new squad system will allow a group of players to join and leave games together. Multiplayer maps are based on World War I location. The game will launch with nine maps and six game modes.

[[Neutrality (international relations)]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

[[English law]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, Law

English law, also called common law, is the legal system of England and Wales. It is generally divided into criminal law and civil law. It spread to many parts of the former British Empire including Australia, Canada, the United States and New Zealand, and many other countries. 

English law is unique in that it is based on applying legal precedent  to present and future decisions made by judges. A judge must follow past legal decisions made by higher courts but not necessarily those made by lower courts. English law is not based on a constitution and there is no codification of laws. However, there are unofficial publications that provide organized lists of current laws. Parliament has the power to create laws which are automatically considered valid and may not be reviewed by the courts. Only Parliament has the power to change a law.

[[Travis County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Travis County is a county in south central Texas. The population was 1,024,266 at the 2010 census. The estimated population in 2014 was 1,151,145 people. It is the fifth-most populous county in Texas. Its county seat is Austin. Austin is also known as the capital of Texas.

The county was established in 1840. It is named for William Barret Travis. Travis was the commander of the Republic of Texas at the Battle of the Alamo.

Travis County is part of the Austin-Round Rock Metropolitan Statistical Area. It is located along the Balcones Fault.  The physical boundaries of Austin are the Edwards Plateau to the west and the Blackland Prairie to the east.

[[Rickenbach, Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Rickenbach is a municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipality of Pfeffikon merged into the municipality of Rickenbach.

[[Ruswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Ruswil is a municipality of the district Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Arrondissements of the Alpes-Maritimes department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Alpes-Maritimes

There are 2 arrondissements in the Alpes-Maritimes department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of the Alpes-Maritimes are:

[[Arrondissement of Grasse]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Alpes-Maritimes

The arrondissement of Grasse is an arrondissement of France, in the Alpes-Maritimes department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Grasse.

[[Arrondissement of Nice]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Alpes-Maritimes

The arrondissement of Nice is an arrondissement of France, in the Alpes-Maritimes department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Nice.

[[Schenkon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Schenkon is a municipality of the district of Sursee in the Swiss canton of Lucerne.

[[Schlierbach, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Schlierbach is a municipality of the district Sursee of the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Sempach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne, Cities in Switzerland

Sempach is a municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

It is the site of the Sempach Bird Observatory.

It is located on the Lake Sempach.

Steinibühlweiher is located above the town.

[[Sursee]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Lucerne

Sursee is a city of the Swiss canton of Lucerne. It is the capital of the district of Sursee.

It is at the northern end of Lake Sempach.

[[Superalloy]]

CATEGORIES: Metals

A superalloy, or high-performance alloy, is a metal alloy that has several key characteristics. These include excellent resistance to high temperatures and corrosion or oxidation. The term was first used after World War II. They were developed for use in jet engines and gas turbines. About 75% of superalloys are used in aerospace engineering.

[[The Age of Extremes]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 books

The Age of Extremes: The Short Twentieth Century, 1914–1991 is a book by Eric Hobsbawm, published in 1994. In it, Hobsbawm comments on what he sees as the disastrous failures of state communism, capitalism, and nationalism. He is also skeptical of the progress of the arts and changes in society in the latter half of the twentieth century.

Hobsbawm calls the period from the start of World War I to the fall of the Soviet Union "the short twentieth century". This is to follow on "the long 19th century", the period from the start of the French Revolution in 1789 to the start of World War I in 1914. The Age of Extremes is the last in his series of books that include (The Age of Revolution: Europe, 1789-1848, The Age of Capital: 1848–1875, The Age of Empire: 1875–1914). In the United States, the book was published with the subtitle A History of the World, 1914–1991.

[[Triengen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Triengen is a municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[ShelterBox]]

CATEGORIES: Charities

ShelterBox is an international disaster relief charity that provides temporary shelter and life saving supplies to displaced families. ShelterBox sends a package that typically contains a tent designed to withstand extreme weather conditions. It also has a water purification kit, blankets, tools, and other things needed to help a family survive after a disaster. The contents of a ShelterBox are designed for the nature and location of the disaster.

[[Château de Blois]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces in France, Former royal residences, Museums in France

The Royal Château de Blois (French: "Château Royal de Blois") is a palace in France. It is in the center of the city of Blois in the Loir-et-Cher Department. It has been the home for several French kings. 

The château is made of several buildings constructed from the 13th to the 17th century around the main courtyard. It has 564 rooms and 75 staircases although only 23 were used frequently. There is a fireplace in each room.  There are 100 bedrooms.

The château is now owned by the town of Blois and is a tourist attraction.

[[Winikon]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne

Winikon is a former municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

Since 2009, it is part of the municipality of Triengen.

[[Willisau (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Lucerne

Willisau is a district of the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland. The capital is the municipality of Willisau.

It contains following municipalities:

[[Altishofen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Altishofen is a municipality in Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2020 the municipality of Ebersecken became part of Altishofen.

[[Growth medium]]

CATEGORIES: Microbiology, Laboratory equipment

A growth medium or culture medium is a solid or liquid containing nutrients. It is designed to support the growth of microorganisms or cells, or small plants like moss.

There are different types of media for growing different types of cells.

There are a wide range of growth media used in biology. Some of the basic types are:

[[Cime du Gélas]]

CATEGORIES: Alps, Mountains of France, Mountains of Italy, Alpes-Maritimes, Piedmont

Cime du Gélas (Monte Gelàs) is a 3143 high mountain on the boundary between France (Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region) and Italy (Province of Cuneo).

It is the highest peak of the Mercantour National Park (Parc national du Mercantour) and of the Alpes-Maritimes department, while on the Italian side it is part of the Maritime Alps Natural Park (Parco naturale delle Alpi Marittime).

[[John Martin (painter)]]

CATEGORIES: 1789 births, 1854 deaths, People from Northumberland, English painters

John Martin (1789-1854) was an English romantic painter. 

[[Siagne]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The Siagne is a short river that flows through the Var and Alpes-Maritimes departments, in southeastern France.

[[Lorenzo Ghiberti]]

CATEGORIES: 1378 births, 1455 deaths, Italian sculptors, Italian painters, Italian architects, People from Florence

Lorenzo Ghiberti (Florence, 1378 - 15 December 1455, Florence) was a sculptor, painter, and architect.

[[Al Nahyan]]

CATEGORIES: Names

The Al Nahyan (pronounced 'an-nayāān) is the ruling family of Abu Dhabi and the senior rulers of the United Arab Emirates (UAE).

[[György Ligeti]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2006 deaths, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, Hungarian composers

György Sándor Ligeti (28 May 1923 – 12 June 2006) was a composer from Hungary. He was an important composer of avant-garde music. His music influenced many other composers. Some of his most famous works are an opera called Le Grand Macabre, a piece for orchestra called Atmosphères, a piece for choirs called Lux Aeterna, and a Requiem. Stanley Kubrick used parts of  Atmosphères, Lux Aeterna, and the Requiem for the soundtrack of his movie 2001: A Space Odyssey. Many other movies use pieces of Ligeti's music on their soundtracks.

[[Geo (microformat)]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Geography

Geo is a microformat for marking up WSG84 geographical coordinates in (X)HTML.

Geo allows parsing tools to extract a location. The location can then be used in another website or mapping tool. It can also input into a GPS.

[[Njál's saga]]

CATEGORIES: Poems

Njáls saga or "The Story of Burnt Njáll") is a thirteenth-century Icelandic saga which describes events between 960 and 1020. It's theme is Christianity - with the Althing one man one night ponder decision for Iceland's Constitutional Conversion to the New Christian Creed in 1000 AD - and also with the natural "Christian", Old Njal, a good and decent owner who has bad pagan Chlidren, innocent and accepting dying a protomartyr's death for goodness in his perpretrated burning wood-house.

The principal characters are the friends Njáll Þorgeirsson, a lawyer and a sage, and Gunnar Hámundarson, a formidable warrior. Gunnar's wife starts a feud. This leads to the death of many characters over several decades. The central event is the killing of Njál by fire.

The saga deals with blood feuds in the Icelandic peoples. It shows how honor could lead to minor events spiralling into destructive and prolonged bloodshed. There are insults where a character's manhood is called into question. Another characteristic of the narrative is the presence of omens and prophetic dreams. This might reflect a fatalistic outlook on the part of the author.

A key feature of the writing is the valedictory, which is a farewell statement. Just before death, the character speaks his last.

The work is anonymous, and there is speculation about the author's identity. The major events of the saga are probably historical. The material was shaped by the author, drawing on oral tradition, according to his artistic needs. Njáls saga is the longest and most highly developed of the sagas of the Icelanders. It is often considered the peak of the saga tradition.

[[World Geodetic System]]

CATEGORIES: Geography, Geodesy

The World Geodetic System (WGS) is a standard for use in cartography, geodesy, and navigation including GPS.

It comprises a standard coordinate system for the Earth, a standard for raw altitude data, and a geoid that defines the nominal sea level. The latest revision is WGS 84.

[[GfK Entertainment charts]]

CATEGORIES: Record charts

The GfK Entertainment charts are the official music charts in Germany.

The charts are gathered and published by GfK Entertainment GmbH (formerly Media Control GfK International GmbH). GfK is an abbreviation  for "Gesellschaft für Konsumforschung". GfK provides weekly top 100 lists.

[[Prometheus Global Media]]

CATEGORIES: Publishing companies of the United States, 2009 establishments in New York (state), Companies based in New York City

Prometheus Global Media is a New York City-based media company.

The company owns and operates a number of major entertainment publications and their associated digital properties. These include Adweek, Backstage, Billboard, Film Journal International, and The Hollywood Reporter.

[[Disk read/write head]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

When writing data to the disk, the data needs to be written to a certain position on the disk. This is done by a component called disk read/write head.

[[Dagmersellen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Dagmersellen is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2006 the former municipalities of Buchs and Uffikon merged into the municipality of Dagmersellen.

[[Buchs, Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne, Villages in Lucerne

Buchs is a former municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2006 the former municipalities of Buchs and Uffikon merged into the municipality of Dagmersellen.

[[Uffikon]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Lucerne, Former municipalities of Lucerne

Uffikon was a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2006 the former municipalities of Buchs and Uffikon merged into the municipality of Dagmersellen.

[[Ebersecken]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne

Ebersecken was a municipality in Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland. On 1 January 2020 Ebersecken became part of Altishofen.

[[Thomas Kyd]]

CATEGORIES: 1558 births, 1616 deaths, English playwrights, Literature since 1500

Thomas Kyd (1558-1594) was an English playwright.

Kyd is the author of The Spanish Tragedy. It was the most popular play of the time and many playwrights imitated it. A character in The Spanish Tragedy likely influenced Shakespeare when writing Hamlet. Kyd was one of the first users of blank verse in English literature.

"extraordinary dramatic (if not poetic) genius".

[[LIGO]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

The Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) is a large-scale physics observatory which detects cosmic gravitational waves co-founded by Scottish physicist Ronald Drever. They were first funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) and were conceived, built and are operated by Caltech and MIT. 

The NSF has funded improvements for LIGO to increase sensitivity, which allowed them to make the first detection of gravitational waves. LIGO is the largest and most ambitious project ever funded by the NSF.

LIGO is an interferometer. It fires a laser beam and splits it into two laser beams. Mirrors bounce them back towards a light detector and merge them. Normally, the two laser beams should cancel each other, so the light does not reach the detector, but any changes in space-time caused by gravity waves can change the laser beams, so that they don't cancel out fully. When this happens, the light detector will see some of the laser light, which it can then use to work out the size of the space-time distortion.

[[Emma Lazarus]]

CATEGORIES: 1849 births, 1887 deaths, Deaths from Hodgkin's lymphoma, American poets, American playwrights, American Jews

Emma Lazarus (22 July 1849 - 19 November 1887) was an American poet and playwright of Jewish origin.

Lazarus was one of seven children of Moses and Esther Nathan Lazarus. Her father's family came from Portugal. She became interested in Jewish tradition after reading Daniel Deronda by George Eliot. She never married, although she was considered a pretty woman. Emma Lazarus died of Hodgkin's lymphoma. 

Lazarus wrote many lyric poems. She used classic forms like rhyme royal and ottava rima (in the cycle named Epochs). She was especially good at writing sonnets. Her best known work is the sonnet The New Colossus. It was placed at The Statue of Liberty in New York. She also translated into English poems by romantic German poet Henrich Heine. As a journalist she always protested against any kind of discrimination. 

[[Algonquin Provincial Park]]

CATEGORIES: Parks, Ontario, 1893 establishments in North America, 1890s establishments in Canada

Algonquin Provincial Park is a provincial park in Canada. It is the oldest provincial park in the province of Ontario, opened in 1893. It is very large at 7,653 square kilometres (2,955 square miles), and is the third largest provincial park in Ontario after Polar Bear and Wabakimi. The park contains many streams, lakes, rivers, and other water sources. Its forests are a mix of deciduous and coniferous. The variety of environments in the park makes it home to many species of plants and animals, and it is an important park for wildlife research. It is a very popular park with campers because of its size and how close it is to large cities such as Toronto and Ottawa.

In 1992 Algonquin Park became a National Historic Site of Canada.

[[University of Trieste]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Italy, 1924 establishments in Europe, Trieste, 1920s establishments in Italy

University of Trieste (Università degli Studi di Trieste) is a university in Trieste, Friuli-Venezia Giulia region, Italy. It was founded in 1924. The university is composed of 10 faculties. It currentlywhen has about 24,000 students.

[[Ladies' Code]]

CATEGORIES: K-pop music groups, 2013 establishments in Asia, 2010s establishments in South Korea, South Korean girl groups

Ladies Code (Korean: 레이디스 코드) was a South Korean girl group formed by Polaris Entertainment and 1TheK (formerly LOEN Music) in 2013. 

The group originally consisted of five members; Ashley (애슐리), Sojung (소정), Eunb (은비), Rise (리세), and Zuny (주니). Their debut album was Code#01.                                         

They won 2 awards one in Gaon Kpop Chart Awards as New Artist of The Year and MelON music awards as MBC music star award 

In September 3 2014, at 1:20 kst time the group was invovled in a car crash which killed members Eunb and Rise, leaving the group as a trio.

In late 2015, Ladies' Code and the other Polaris artists held a memorial concert for the dead members.

In 2016,  Ladies Code returned for the first time since the accident with the single album, "Myst3ry."

[[Jan Kochanowski]]

CATEGORIES: Polish writers

Jan Kochanowski (1530-1584) was a Polish Renaissance poet, translator and playwright. He is generally regarded as one of the greatest poets in Polish literature.

[[Assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 in Europe, Assassinations in Europe, Murders by firearm, Sarajevo, World War I, Assassinated people, June events

The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the throne of Austria-Hungary, and his wife Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, happened on 28 June 1914 in Sarajevo. They were shot dead by Gavrilo Princip. 

Princip was one of a group of seven assassins (five from Serbia and one from Bosnia). The leader was Gavrilo Princip, a member of the Black Hand secret society. The political reason for the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary's South Slav provinces so they could be combined into a new country, Yugoslavia. 

This led to the outbreak of war in Europe at the end of July 1914. Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia. Both country's allies became involved in the war. 

[[South Mills, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in North Carolina, Census-designated places in North Carolina

South Mills is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Camden County, North Carolina, United States. Its population was 454 as of the 2010 census. South Mills has a post office with ZIP code 27976, which opened on March 2, 1840. The community is located near U.S. Route 17. U.S. Route 17 Business and North Carolina Highway 343 pass through the community.

The William Riley Abbott House, Dismal Swamp Canal, and Morgan House are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.

[[Quantum tunnelling]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

Quantum tunnelling is a part of the theoretical branch of physics known as quantum mechanics. It states that  electrons can behave like both particles and waves, and can cancel the effects of an energy barrier if the energy barrier is thin enough, due to quantum mechanics being  dependent on probability. In other words, particles can travel through walls, doors, etc. if the door or wall is thin enough. The particle—usually a subatomic or quark particle such as an electron or photon—can become a wave to focus a great deal of energy on the barrier, ultimately negating it. There is also a non-zero chance that it could be found inside the barrier. However, this only noticeably works for subatomic particles, as the chance for macroscopic objects to do this is very, very low, small enough to not be thought about much.

[[Caazapá Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

The Caazapá department (Departamento de Caazapá) is a department of Paraguay. The capital is the city of Caazapá. Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-06.

Its name comes from Guarani ka´aguy jehasapá, that means "beyond the forest".

People from the department are calle Caazapeño (women: Caazapeña).

[[Olmec figurine]]

CATEGORIES: Pre-Columbian cultures

Olmec figurine is the name for figurines which were produced in Central America, from about 1000 BCE to about 500 BCE. Many come from the Olmec heartland, which is the gulf region of modern-day Mexico. Olmec figurines show the influence of the Olmec culture. In 2016, it is not known how far this influence extended. It is therefore possible that some of these figurines were produced by other people, who were influenced by the Olmec. 

Many of the figurines were found in household waste and in landfill used for construction. Outside the Olmec heartland they were also found in graves. Looters often took these figurines. It is impossible to tell where the looted figurines are from. 

Most of the figurines are made from terracotta. Since terracotta is fragile, most only survive in parts. Wooden busts have been discovered in the submerged site El Marati, but no figurines made of wood have been found. 

The figurines best known to the public are made of stone or minerals,such as jade, serpentine, greenstone or basalt. Figurines of stone or minerals are often carved, while those made of terracotta are simpler in design.

[[Sigismund II Augustus]]

CATEGORIES: 1520 births, 1572 deaths, Kings of Poland

Sigismund II Augustus (1520-1572) was a Polish king, the last member of the Jagiellon dynasty. He was also the Grand Duke of Lithuania from 1548 to 1572.

[[Yoshinori Ohsumi]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Cell biology, Japanese academics, Japanese biologists, Japanese Nobel Prize winners

Yoshinori Ohsumi (born 9 February 1945) is a Japanese cell biologist. He won the 2016 Physiology or Medicine for his discoveries of how cell autophagy works. 

Autophagy is the process that cells use to break down and recycle cellular components. This allows the orderly recycling of cellular components.

Ohsumi is a professor in Tokyo Institute of Technology's Frontier Research Center. He got the Kyoto Prize for Basic Science in 2012. 

[[Autophagy]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

Autophagy (which means "eating itself"), is one of the basic cell mechanisms. It allows the controlled breaking down of cell parts which do not work, or are not needed. The cell parts can then be recycled as required. 

There are several ways this happens. Targeted cell parts may be isolated from the rest of the cell in an autophagosome (a double-membraned vesicle). The autophagosome fuses with lysosomes and the contents are broken down and recycled. In the extreme case of starvation, the breakdown of cellular components promotes cellular survival by maintaining cellular energy levels.

The name "autophagy" was coined by Belgian biochemist Christian de Duve in 1963. The identification of autophagy-related genes in yeast in the 1990s let researchers figure out the mechanisms of autophagy. This led to the award of the 2016 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine to Japanese researcher Yoshinori Ohsumi.

[[Mikołaj Sęp Szarzyński]]

CATEGORIES: 1581 deaths, Polish writers, 1550s births

Mikołaj Sęp Szarzyński (c.1550-1581) was a Polish nobleman and poet. He is generally regarded as one of the most important Polish writers and the first representative of Baroque in Poland.

[[Great Green Wall]]

CATEGORIES: Forestry, Africa

The Great Green Wall of Africa is a strip of trees being planted across Africa to stop the Sahara desert from moving south. The Sahara desert moving south is affecting countries such as: Niger, Chad, Sudan, Mali and many more. The expansion of desert areas may affect the lives of up to 19 million people, including more than 1 million children. 

The strip of trees is planned to be about 15 kilometers wide. 

Unfortunately some people, when they see these trees, gather wood as timber for them to make fire or other uses. 

[[California's Gold]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American television series

California's Gold is a public television travel program that explores the natural, cultural, and historical features of the state of California. The series ran for 18 seasons from 1994 to 2012 and was produced and hosted by Huell Howser for its entire run. The minimal production allowed locations and people to remain the focal point of the program. The series ceased production after Howser's death in 2013, although reruns have continued to air after his death.

The series' theme song varies between several renditions of "California, Here I Come," but was most often played on the series by local musicians Eddie Enderle and Richard Chon.

[[Taurine]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology

Taurine is an organic compound. It is up to 0.1% of total human body weight, and is a main constituent of bile. Taurine is essential for the heart, the skeletal muscles, the retina, and the nerves. The body makes it from the amino acid cysteine.

Taurine comes from the Latin /taurus/ which means bull or ox. It was first extracted it from ox bile in 1827.

[[Wladyslaw I of Poland]]

CATEGORIES: 1333 deaths, Kings of Poland, Piast dynasty, 1261 births, Polish Roman Catholics

Wladyslaw I of Poland (1261-1333) was the ruler who united Polish lands into one state at the beginning of 14th century.

[[Simone Biles]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Living people, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic bronze medalists, BBC 100 Women

Simone Arianne Biles (born March 14, 1997) is an American artistic gymnast. Biles is the 2016 Olympic individual all-around, vault and floor gold medalist. She was part of the gold medal-winning team dubbed the "Final Five" at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. She also won the bronze medal for the balance beam during the Olympics. Biles is a three-time world all-around champion (2013–15), three-time world floor champion (2013–15), two-time world balance beam champion (2014, 2015), four-time United States national all-around champion (2013–16), and a member of the gold medal-winning American teams at the 2014 and 2015 World Artistic Gymnastics Championships.

Having won a combined total of nineteen Olympic and World Championship medals, Biles is the most decorated American gymnast. She took this over from Shannon Miller, who had held this record since 1996. With her win in Rio, Biles became the sixth woman to have won an individual all-around title at both the World Championships and the Olympic Games.  With four Olympic gold medals, Biles set a new American record for most gold medals in women’s gymnastics at a single game.

[[Corps of Topographical Engineers]]

CATEGORIES: United States Army, 1838 establishments in the United States, 1860s disestablishments in the United States, 1863 disestablishments

The U.S. Army Corps of Topographical Engineers was established by the United States Congress in 1838. It was made up of only officers who were hand-picked graduates of the United States Military Academy at West Point. Their main purpose was to map and make military surveys for routes to the Pacific. They were at the center of the westward expansion of the United States between the War of 1812 and the American Civil War. They mapped the frontier regions of the West encouraging Americans to move into those areas. They laid out trails, roads, railroad routes and waterways. During the Civil War, the functions of the Corps of Topographical Engineers were transferred to the Army Corps of Engineers.

[[Lluta River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Chile

The Lluta is a river in the Atacama Desert. It is the most northern of the great transversal Chilean rivers that start in the Andes and flow into the Pacific Ocean. It flows through the Arica y Parinacota region.

It has a broad estuary near the port city of Arica that forms a wetland, a habitat used by many water birds (birds that live on or near water).

[[Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey]]

CATEGORIES: 1517 births, 1547 deaths, English poets, Executed English people, People executed by decapitation, Writers from Hertfordshire

Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey (1517-1547) was an English nobleman and poet.

[[Harry Hamlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, American movie actors

Harry Robinson Hamlin is an American actor. He is well known for his breakout role as Perseus in the 1981 fantasy movie Clash of the Titans. He also played Michael Kuzack in L.A. Law.

[[Cancioneiro Geral]]

CATEGORIES: Portuguese culture, Poetry, 1516 books

Cancioneiro Geral (that means "The General Book of Songs") is an anthology (collection) of Portuguese poetry organized by the poet Garcia de Resende (1470-1536). The book was published in 1516. It contains poems by Portuguese authors of the 15th and 16th centuries. It was the largest collection of Portuguese poetry, written mostly in Portuguese but also in Castilian. It contains about 1000 poems by 286 authors and covers a variety of subjects. It is the main source for history of early modern Portuguese poetry, as it was the first collection of poetry printed in Portugal, and the main repository for poetry at the time. The book was republished in 1846 Stuttgart, Germany. It was edited by Eduard Heinrich von Kausler. Francisco de Sá de Miranda's poems were included into Cancioneiro Geral. Cancioneiro Geral can be compared to Carmina Burana or Tottel’s Miscellany.

The Songbook follows the models of Castilian poems compilations performed earlier, as the Songbook of Baena 1445 and the General Songbook of Hernando del Castillo, published in 1511.  (2)  Garcia de Resende (c.1470-1536), who was a poet , chronicler and courtier in the court of D. Manuel I , gathered a set of almost a thousand poems of 286 authors, of which about 150 are written in Castilian and the rest in Portuguese.  (2)  The production period of poems ranges from the mid-fifteenth century to the early sixteenth century.  (3) Unlike the Castilian songbook of 1511, the poems of the Portuguese work are not arranged by themes.  (4) 

The work of Resende was published for the first time in 1516, in the workshop of Hermão de Campos , and is dedicated to Prince John, future John III of Portugal .  (3)  The themes reveal a palatial character of poetry, on the day to day in court, and other religious themes, loving, elegiac , and some attempts to epic poetry .  (3) Unlike the time troubadour , when poetry was meant to be sung and bailada, the poems of Cancioneiro are autonomous, and the pace is achieved by the sound of words and the Organizationverses and stanzas .  (2) 

Among the many authors include João Roiz de Castel-Branco , Sá de Miranda , Bernardim Ribeiro and Garcia de Resende himself.  (2) 

[[Research and development]]

CATEGORIES: Economics, Research, Innovation

Research and development (R&D) refers to a wide range of activities by businesses, governments and academic institutions designed to gather knowledge and test new ideas. This often leads to the development of new products or new ways of doing things. R&D generally has three main activities. These are: basic research, applied research and development. Basic research is aimed at getting new knowledge with no immediate use or purpose in mind. Applied research is just the opposite. It is research for a definite purpose or product. Development has more to do with adding features to a product. Often, development is a process of eliminating all but the best idea to arrive at the best solution. Basic and applied research costs are often written off as expenses while the costs of development are added to the cost of the product. R&D often results in owning intellectual property such as patents. In Europe, R&D is called research and technical/technological development (RTD). 

In 2015, Volkswagen was the world's leading spender in R&D

[[Institut d'optique Graduate School]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities, Colleges and universities in France, 1917 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in France

Institut d'optique Graduate School (SupOptique) is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the University of Paris-Saclay.

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at SupOptique.

[[Mary Sidney]]

CATEGORIES: English poets, 1561 births, 1621 deaths

Mary Sidney (1561-1621) was an English poet. She was the sister of more famous poet Philip Sidney.

[[Vladimír Holan]]

CATEGORIES: Czech poets, 1905 births, 1980 deaths, People from Prague

Vladimír Holan (1905-1980) was a Czech poet.

[[Iambic pentameter]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry forms

Iambic pentameter is a kind of verse. It is the most common kind of verse in English literature.

The two words seem difficult, because the words are Greek. Pentameter means "consisting of five measures" and iambic "consisting of iambs".

The rhythm which words make in the line is measured in small groups of syllables called "feet". The word "iambic" refers to the type of foot that is used, known as the iamb. This is an unstressed syllable followed by a stressed syllable. The word "pentameter" indicates that a line has five of these "feet".

In theory every line is composed of ten syllables and have five stresses. Stresses fall on the second, the fourth, the sixth, the eighth and the tenth syllable. This is marked with two signs. The sign "x" stands for a syllable with no stress, and the sign "/" stands for a syllable with stress. So a line of iambic pentameter is:

[[John Fitchett]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems, English poets, 1776 births, 1838 deaths

John Fitchett (1776-1838) was an English poet.

[[Currituck County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1730s establishments in North Carolina, 1739 establishments

Currituck  '  County is the northeastern-most county in the U.S. state of North Carolina. As of the 2010 census, the population was 23,547. Its county seat is Currituck. The county was formed in 1668 as a precinct of Albemarle County and later gained county status in 1739. The name is "traditionally said to be an Native American word for wild geese; Coratank."

Currituck County is included in the Virginia Beach-Norfolk-Newport News, VA-NC Metropolitan Area. It is in the northeastern section of the state and is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean, Currituck Sound, Camden County, Dare County and the state of Virginia. Currituck Court House, mentioned as early as 1755, was the name of the county seat. Today the words "Court House" have been dropped and only Currituck is used as the town name.

[[Tyrrell County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: 1730s establishments in North Carolina, 1739 establishments, North Carolina counties

Tyrrell County is a county located in the U.S. state of North Carolina. As of the 2010 census, the population was 4,407 making it the least populous county in the state. Its county seat is Columbia. The county was created in 1729 as Tyrrell Precinct and gained county status in 1739.

Tyrrell County is included in the Kill Devil Hills, NC Micropolitan Statistical Area, which is also included in the Virginia Beach-Norfolk, VA-NC Combined Statistical Area.

[[Gates County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 1779 establishments in North Carolina

Gates County is a small, rural county located in the northeast portion of the U.S. state of North Carolina, on the border with Virginia. As of the 2010 census, the population was 12,197. Its county seat is Gatesville.

Gates County is included in the Virginia Beach-Norfolk-Newport News, VA-NC Metropolitan Statistical Area. It is part of the Albemarle Sound area of the Inner Banks.

[[United States Revenue Cutter Service]]

CATEGORIES: Military of the United States, History of the United States, 1790 establishments in the United States, 1915 disestablishments, 1910s disestablishments in the United States

The United States Revenue Cutter Service (USRCS) was set up in 1790 when President George Washington signed an act allowing the building of 10 boats. They were designed to collect customs duties and taxes and to protect against smuggling. They were also tasked with making sure shipments of goods from the United States were getting through to markets in other countries. In 1915, President Woodrow Wilson signed the "Act to Create the Coast Guard". This designated the United States Coast Guard as a branch of the US military. It was formed by merging the Revenue Cutter Service with the United States Life-Saving Service.

[[Vittoria Colonna]]

CATEGORIES: 1490 births, 1547 deaths, Italian poets

Vittoria Colonna (1490-1547), marchioness of Pescara, was an Italian noblewoman and poet.

[[Kordshuli]]

CATEGORIES: Iran, Ethnic groups in the Middle East

The Kurdshuli are a nomadic and pastoral tribe of the Fars Province in Iran.They speak Luri language.

[[Anil Kumble]]

CATEGORIES: Indian cricketers

Anil Kumble (full name:Anil Radhakrishna Kumble)is a retired Indian cricketer who captained Indian national cricket team for a few matches.Anil Kumble is a right arm leg spin bowler.One of the best bowler in world cricket.

[[Canindeyú Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

The Canindeyú department (Departamento de Canindeyú) is a department of Paraguay. The capital is the city of Salto del Guairá. Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-14.

Its name comes from Tupi Kaninde - macaw; ju - yellow, blue-and-yellow macaw (Ara ararauna).

[[Guido Guinizelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1276 deaths, Italian poets, 1230s births

Guido Guinizelli (c. 1230–1276) was an Italian poet. He is best remembered as the founder of Dolce Stil Novo.

[[Church of St. Anthony in Jerzmanice-Zdrój]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic churches, Buildings and structures in Poland, 14th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in Poland

The Church of St. Anthony located in Jerzmanice-Zdrój, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, Poland is a Roman Catholic church. The date of build is assessed on the 14th century.

The scheme of the church is very untypical as a Lower Silesian customs building. Since 1527 until 1945 the church was used by Protestants. In 1945, after the World War II, the church was taken by the Roman Catholic Church.

The Catholic temple was significantly affected by the fight, that took place for example during the Thirty Years' War and Napoleonic campaigns.

[[Eurovision Song Contest 2017]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in Europe, 2010s in Ukraine, Eurovision Song Contest, 21st century in Kiev

The Eurovision Song Contest 2017 (shortly ESC) was the 62nd edition of the Eurovision Song Contest. It took place in the International Exhibition Centre in Kiev, Ukraine, after Jamala won for Ukraine in 2016 in Stockholm, Sweden with her song "1944".

Ukraine hosted the contest for the second time after 2005. The competition was held from 9th to the 13th; the first semifinal was on Tuesday, May 9, the second semifinal on Thursday, May 11 and the grand final was on Saturday, May 13.

[[Philip Sidney]]

CATEGORIES: English poets, British diplomats, 1554 births, 1586 deaths

Philip Sidney (1554–1586) was an English poet, diplomat and soldier .

== Biography == 

Philip Sidney was born on 30 November 1554. He was the son of Henry Sidney and his wife, Mary, née Dudley. On 17 October 1564 he was enrolled in Shrewsbury School. One of the boys that began their learning on that day was Fulke Greville, First Lord Brooke, who became Philip Sidney's friend. Much later he became his biographer, too. After he finished school, at the age of 13, Philip Sidney went to Oxford to study at Christ College. He did not however get any scholarly degree. He went to France when he witnessed the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre. He also travelled to Germany, Austria and Hungary.  He was in Italy, too. He went as a messenger from Queen Elizabeth to Prague, where the emperor Maximilian II ruled. Then he went to a war in Netherlands. There he was wounded in the thigh 23 September 1586 at Zuphen. Because of that he got an infection and died at 17 October 1586 at Arnhem. He was buried on February 16, 1587 at St. Paul’s Cathedral in London. 

[[Technologist]]

CATEGORIES: Technology

A technologist/technician is a person who specializes in using technology. A technologist/technician is someone who completely understands the technology and other technologies that can be applied. In the field of health care, for example,  may be called a "lab tech".  The lab technologist is the project manager who supervises the lab. 

[[South Jamaica, Queens]]

CATEGORIES: Queens (New York City), Neighborhoods of New York City

South Jamaica is a neighborhood in the New York City borough of Queens. It is located south of Jamaica Avenue in Jamaica, Queens, New York. Its border to the west is the Van Wyck Expressway. Its border to the east is Guy R. Brewer Boulevard. Its border to the south is the North Conduit Expressway.

[[Egolzwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Egolzwil is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Ettiswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Ettiswil is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On January 1, 2006 the municipality of Kottwil.

It is south of the Wauwilermoos.

[[Fischbach, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Fischbach is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Gettnau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Gettnau is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland

[[Gandria]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Ticino

Gandria is a quarter and former municipality of the district Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

On 4 April 2004 the former municipalities of Breganzona, Cureggia, Davesco-Soragno, Gandria, Pambio-Noranco, Pazzallo, Pregassona and Viganello merged into the city of Lugano.

[[Viganello]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Ticino

Viganello is a quarter of the city of Lugano, Switzerland. Until 2004, it was a municipality on its own. Then it was created to Lugano.

[[Linares Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Linares (Provincia de Linares) is one of four provinces of the central Chilean region of Maule (VII). The provincial capital and largest city is Linares.

[[Names for ordinal numbers]]

CATEGORIES: Numbers

Here are some words for small ordinal numbers. Words in bold are irregular.

When writing other numbers between 21 and 99, only use the cardinal form of the last number. Also, you must use a hyphen (-).

The ordinal number 100 is written as "one hundredth", but sometimes people say "the hundredth".

To write a number from 100 to 999:

Examples:

You can also write ordinal numbers by writing the number, then the ending (-st, -nd, -rd, or -th) from above.

[[Ministro Pistarini International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Argentina

Ministro Pistarini International Airport or also called as Ezeiza International Airport is an airport located in nearby Ezeiza, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Its IATA code is EZE and ICAO code is SAEZ.

Here are some of North American carriers that currently serve Ministro Pistarini:

Both North American carriers continue their flights to Montevideo, Uruguay.

[[Clapper]]

Clapper or Clappers may refer to:

[[Arturo Merino Benítez International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in South America, Buildings and structures in Chile, Santiago de Chile

Arturo Merino Benitez International Airport or also called as Santiago-Pudahuel Airport is an airport located in Santiago, Chile, is Chile's largest aviation facility.

Its IATA code is SCL and ICAO code is SCEL.

The building is the hub for various Chilean airline companies, such as Chile's largest national and international airlines, which has been the subject of a drug trafficking investigation by chilean police.

Here are some airlines serving Comodoro Arturo Merino Benitez International Airport including:

[[São Paulo–Guarulhos International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in South America, Buildings and structures in Brazil

São Paulo–Guarulhos International Airport is an airport that serves São Paulo, Brazil, located 25 km north of the city centre. It is sometimes called Cumbica Airport, after the suburb in which it is located.

Its IATA code is GRU and ICAO code is SBGR.

The following airlines fly into Guarulhos: 

Many of these airlines have lounges at Guarulhos, most of which have internet access and mobile phone support, along with two meeting rooms for corporate executives.

There are also several restaurants, bookstores and cafés in the airport.

[[Linares, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Linares is a Chilean city and commune in the Maule Region, in the Chilean Central Valley. Linares is the capital city of the province of Linares.

[[Camilo Pessanha]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 births, 1926 deaths, Portuguese writers, Poets

Camilo Pessanha (1867-1926) was a Portuguese poet. He is regarded as the most important representative of symbolism in Portuguese literature.

[[Enid Lyons]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1981 deaths, Members of the Australian House of Representatives, Politicians from Tasmania, Australian Roman Catholics

Dame Enid Muriel Lyons AD, GBE (née Burnell; 9 July 1897 – 2 September 1981) was an Australian politician. She was the first woman to be elected to the Australian House of Representatives and the first woman in the federal Cabinet. She was the wife of the Premier of Tasmania and later Prime Minister of Australia, Joseph Lyons.

Lyons was born Enid Muriel Burnell in Smithton, Tasmania, one of three daughters of William and Eliza (née Taggett) Burnell. She trained to be a teacher in Hobart. Her mother was active in the Labor party and community groups in Tasmania. She was one of the first women appointed as a Justice of the Peace in Tasmania.

Lyons was made a Dame Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire (GBE) in the Coronation Honours of 1937.45 Joseph Lyons died in 1939, aged 59, the first Australian Prime Minister to die in office, and Dame Enid returned to Tasmania. She bitterly resented Joseph Lyons's successor as leader of the UAP, Robert Menzies, who had, she believed, betrayed her husband by resigning from the Cabinet, shortly before Joseph's death.1

At the 1943 election Dame Enid Lyons narrowly won the Division of Darwin in north-western Tasmania for the UAP, becoming the first woman in the House of Representatives. Her Labor opponent, who received more primary votes than she did, was the future Tasmanian Premier Eric Reece. At the same election, Dorothy Tangney was elected as a Labor Senator for Western Australia, the nation's first woman Senator.

In retirement, Dame Enid's health recovered. She was a newspaper columnist (1951–54), a commissioner of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (1951–62), and remained active in public life promoting family and women's issues. She published three volumes of memoirs, which embarrassed the Liberal Party by reviving her complaints about Menzies' 1939 behaviour towards her husband.1

She was nevertheless made a Dame of the Order of Australia (AD) on Australia Day 1980,8 the second woman to receive this honour. She was the first Australian woman to receive damehoods in different orders. She died the following year and was accorded a state funeral inDevonport, Tasmania, before being buried next to her husband at Mersey Vale Lawn Cemetery.1

[[Kappa Mikey]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series, Nicktoons, English-language television programs, 2006 television series debuts, 2008 television series endings

November 2018

Kappa Mikey is an American animated television series, starring the voices of Michael Sinterniklaas, Kether Donohue, Carrie Keranen, Sean Schemmel, and Gary Mack.

[[List of programs broadcast by Nick Jr. (block)]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of television series by network

This is a list of programs broadcast by Nick Jr., the Nickelodeon programming block broadcast from January 4, 1988 to January 30, 2009. The separate channel named after the block started on September 28 of the same year.

[[Sapphic stanza]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry forms

Sapphic stanza is a strophe that is widely used in European poetry. It is of Greek origin and is named after the ancient Greek female poet Sappho.

The stanza consists of four lines. Three of them are composed of eleven syllables and the last one is made up of five syllables. In Greek verse the quantity of syllables is important—whether the syllables are long or short. In other languages, this is no longer significant.

Sapphic stanza was adopted by Roman poets like Horace. His popularity helped in expanding the use of the stanza and became common in many works of literature. The Sapphic stanza was extremely popular in Polish poetry from the 16th century. In English however, is not used often. Among poets who experimented with it was Algernon Charles Swinburne.

[[International Youth Arts Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames, Entertainment in London, Festivals in the United Kingdom, 2009 establishments in England

International Youth Arts Festival (IYAF) is an annual youth arts festival held in the Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames every July. The festival was founded in 2009 by Robin Hutchinson MBE and has involved more than 25,000 young people as participants and volunteers since 2009.

It is an open-access performing arts festival: it does not book performers and anyone may participate. The festival programme includes a range of art forms including theatre, dance, music, comedy, visual arts and children's shows.

[[Olea capensis]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiales

Olea capensis (synonyms are Olea undulata and O. laurifolia) is also called black ironwood. 

It is an African tree species belonging to the olive family (Oleaceae). It is widespread in Africa south of the Sahara. It grows from the east in Somalia, Ethiopia and Sudan, south to the tip of South Africa, and west to Cameroon, Sierra Leone and the Islands of the Gulf of Guinea, as well as Madagascar and the Comoros. It occurs in the bush, littoral scrub and evergreen forest.

The Guinness Book of World Records lists this tree as the world's most dense wood, with a specific gravity of 1.49. It is known for sinking in water, unlike other woods. It is also the one of the world's hardest woods. The timber resists abrasion and is very strong. It is an excellent turnery wood, widely used for wooden items.

[[USRC Vigilant (1791)]]

CATEGORIES: Military of the United States, History of the United States

Vigilant was one of the original ten cutters built and used by the United States Revenue Cutter Service. Her name meant: On the alert; watchful. Vigilant was launched in 1791 in New York and was used to patrol New York waters.

[[USRC Massachusetts (1791)]]

CATEGORIES: Military of the United States, History of the United States

USRC ''Massachusetts'' was one of the original ten cutters built and used by the United States Revenue Cutter Service. While not the first USRS cutter to be launched, it was the first to enter active service.

[[Lucrezia Marinella]]

CATEGORIES: 1571 births, 1653 deaths, Italian poets, People from Venice

Lucrezia Marinella (or Marinelli, 1571-1653) was an Italian poet.

She was born in Venice. Her father, named Giovanni Marinelli was a physician, so was her brother, Curzio Marinelli. Nothing is known however about her mother. The social position of the family enabled her to learn. She married Girolamo Vacca, who was also a physician.

Marinella wrote many works. She is widely known as the author of La nobiltà et l'eccellenza delle donne co' diffetti et mancamenti de gli uomini (The Nobility and Excellence of Women and the Defects and Vices of Men, 1600). Her greatest work is an epic poem L'Enrico ovvero Bisanzio acquistato. At that time the genre of epic poem was regarded as suitable for only men. Lucrezia Marinella proved that a woman can write a heroic poem. The poem is written in ottava rima which is considered to be a difficult form. It was translated into English by Maria Galli Stampino.

Lucrezia Marinella lived long for her time period. She died of malaria in Venice on 9 October 1653. She was buried in the church of S. Pantalone.

[[USRC Active (1791)]]

CATEGORIES: Military of the United States, History of the United States

USRC ''Active'' (1791) was one of the original ten cutters built and used by the United States Revenue Cutter Service. It was commissioned in 1792 and remained in service until 1800.

[[National Serbian Clarinet Association]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups, Serbia, 2015 establishments in Europe

The National Serbian Clarinet Association (NSCA, Serb. Национална српска кларинетистичка асоцијација/Nacionalna srpska klarinetistička asocijacija) is an association established in 2015, by Serbian clarinetists. Most of the founders were members of the International Clarinet Association (ICA) and European Clarinet Association (ECA) who are active professional performers of classical music. There are also students and clarinetists who perform other genres of music. 

[[International Clarinet Association]]

CATEGORIES: Music, Organizations based in the United States

The International Clarinet Association is the main international organization bringing together players of the clarinet. It is based in the United States. The ICA publishes a quarterly journal The Clarinet, produces an annual festival ClarinetFest, supports a research library and score collection, and in other ways advances the international study of the clarinet.

[[European Clarinet Association]]

CATEGORIES: Woodwind instruments, Clarinetists

The European Clarinet Association is association that assembles clarinetists from various European countries.

[[Educational technologist]]

CATEGORIES: Education

An educational technologist is someone trained in the field of educational technology. Educational technologists try to analyze, design, develop, implement and evaluate processes and tools to make learning easier. The term does not necessarily, or even mainly, refer to hardware. The most significant ideas came from applied psychology and programmed learning.

There are various other terms which are alternatives, most obviously 'instructional technologist'. There have been various names for institutions specialising in the activity. The description used originally at the UK Open University was 'Applied Educational Sciences', changed later to 'Institute of Educational Technology'. To produce the landmark program Sesame Street, the Childrens' Television Workshop employed applied psychologists to pre-test all programs. This was a typical activity for educational technologists even if they were not called by that name.

[[Māori religion]]

CATEGORIES: Maori

Traditional Māori religion, a pre-European belief system of the Māori, was little modified from the religion of the tropical Eastern Polynesian homeland (Hawaiki Nui). Both religions conceive of everything, including natural elements, all living things, and that all are connected by common descent through whakapapa or genealogy. Accordingly, all things were thought of as possessing a life force or mauri. Illustrating this concept of connectedness through genealogy are the major personifications of pre-contact times: Tangaroa was the personification of the ocean and the ancestor or origin of all fish; Tāne was the personification of the forest and the origin of all birds; and Rongo was the personification of peaceful activities and agriculture and the ancestor of cultivated plants. (According to some, the supreme personification of the Māori was Io; however this idea is controversial).

[[Vincent du Vigneaud]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1978 deaths, American biochemists, American biologists, American Nobel Prize winners

Vincent du Vigneaud (May 18, 1901 – December 11, 1978) was an American biochemist. He won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1955 for his work on oxytocin.

Du Vigneaud was born in Chicago, Illinois. He studied chemistry at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and then worked for the chemical company DuPont for one year. He then went back to university to study for his Ph.D degree. He received his Ph.D in 1927. He taught for one year at the medical school of Johns Hopkins University and then went to Europe. He did research in Dresden in Germany and at the medical school of the University of Edinburgh in Scotland. When he went back to America, he became a professor at the University of Illinois. In 1932 he moved to the George Washington University Medical School. In 1938 he moved to Cornell University Medical College in New York City. He was a professor at Cornell until he retired in 1967. 

[[Stove fan]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking appliances

Stove fans are small fans that are usually set on top of a wood-burning stove, although they can be put on top of anything warm, like an oven. A stove will slowly radiate heat into the surrounding room, but it can take a long time for this to warm up a room. A fan will make air move past the stove and into the room, which will make the room warm up much faster. (This type of heat is called "convection.")

Although any kind of fan can help warm move air around a room, this type of stove fan is placed directly on the top of the stove. You don't plug it in, and it doesn't have any batteries. Instead, the heat from the stove itself causes the fan to move.

There are two main ways a stove fan can work:

[[Englischer Garten]]

CATEGORIES: Parks

The Englischer Garten, German for "English Garden", is a large public park in the centre of Munich, Bavaria, Germany stretching from the city centre to the northeastern city limits. It was created in 1789 by Sir Benjamin Thompson (1753–1814), later Count Rumford (Reichsgraf von Rumford), for Prince Charles Theodore, Elector of Bavaria. Thompsons' successors, Reinhard von Werneck (1757–1842) and Friedrich Ludwig von Sckell (1750–1823), advisers on the project from its beginning, both extended and improved the park.

[[Benjamin Zephaniah]]

CATEGORIES: British writers, British poets, Rastafari, Living people, 1958 births

Benjamin Obadiah Iqbal Zephaniah (born 15 April 1958, Birmingham, England) is a British Jamaican writer, dub poet and Rastafarian. He was included in The Times list of Britain's top 50 post-war writers in 2008.

[[Gabriel Pereira de Castro]]

CATEGORIES: 1571 births, 1632 deaths, Portuguese writers, Poets

Gabriel Pereira de Castro (1571-1632) was a Portuguese priest, lawyer and poet.

[[Grossdietwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Grossdietwil is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Hergiswil bei Willisau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Hergiswil bei Willisau is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Télécom ParisTech]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in Paris, 1878 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in France

Télécom Paris is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the University of Paris-Saclay (Northern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at Télécom Paris.

Most of the 1600 graduate engineer students at Télécom Paris live in dedicated residential buildings nearby research labs and metro public transports.

[[Luthern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Luthern is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Menznau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Menznau is a municipality of the district Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[USRC General Green (1791)]]

CATEGORIES: Military of the United States, History of the United States

USRC ''General Green'' was one of the original ten cutters built and used by the United States Revenue Cutter Service. Although misspelled, she was named for the Revolutionary War hero Major General Nathanael Greene.

[[Armancourt, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Armancourt is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Arrest, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Arrest is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 868.

[[Arvillers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Arvillers is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 737.

[[Assainvillers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Assainvillers is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 165.

[[Assevillers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Assevillers is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 267.

[[Athies, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Athies is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 2006.

[[Aubercourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Aubercourt is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 57.

[[Development regions of the Dominican Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Dominican Republic

The development regions of the Dominican Republic are groups of provinces made only for planning purposes and without any administrative function. They were created on 30 June 2004.

There are 10 development regions in three groups:

Cibao

Suroeste 

Sureste

The population data in the following tables are from the last national census (YEAR).

[[Aubigny, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Aubigny is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 528.

[[Aubvillers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Aubvillers is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 114.

[[Auchonvillers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Auchonvillers is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 137.

[[Aumâtre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Aumâtre is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 204.

[[Aumont, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Aumont is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 138.

[[Authie, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Authie is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

The river Authie begins in Coigneux.

[[Avelesges]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Avelesges is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

The commune is 44 km away from Amiens.

[[Avesnes-Chaussoy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Avesnes-Chaussoy is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 54.

[[Ayencourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ayencourt is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 194.

[[Bacouel-sur-Selle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Bacouel-sur-Selle is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2010 the population was 474.

[[Bailleul, Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Bailleul is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2012 the population was 278.

[[Baizieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Baizieux is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2010 the population was 213.

[[Balâtre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Balâtre is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2006 the population was 83.

[[Barleux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Barleux is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2010 the population was 264.

[[Bavelincourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Bavelincourt is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2017 the population was 106.

[[Bayencourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Bayencourt is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2010 the population was 83.

[[Bazentin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Bazentin is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2010 the population was 76.

[[Beaucamps-le-Jeune]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Beaucamps-le-Jeune is a commune in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

In 2010 the population was 191.

[[Bangarra Dance Theatre]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet companies, Indigenous Australian culture, Musical groups established in 1989

Bangarra Dance Theatre is an Australian dance company. It specialises in presenting works by  Indigenous Australian dancers, choreographers and musicians. It began in 1989. It is based in Sydney. Bangarra Dance Theatre performed in the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2000 Summer Olympics.

[[Smokey Mountain]]

CATEGORIES:  Smokey Mountain (Tondo, Manila), Manila

Smokey Mountain is a big landfill site in Manila in the Philippines. It was called "Smokey Mountain" because of the thick smoke coming from burning waste. There were 2 million tons of waste dumped there. It made a big mountain. Many poor people lived in a shanty town at Smokey Mountain. They earned money by selling things they found in the dumped waste. These were things like plastic bottles, glass, cardboard, and copper wire.

The Philippine government closed Smokey Mountain in 1995. No more waste was dumped there. The government cleaned up the landfill site. They covered up the mountain of waste with dirt. They planted grass and trees. They knocked down the shanty town. New houses were built next to Smokey Mountain. 

This did not stop all the problems. Many poor people moved to a new landfill very close to Smokey Mountain. Waste is still dumped in that new landfill. The poor people built a new shanty town there. In the new landfill they still work all day looking in the waste for things they can sell.

[[Vulnicura]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 albums, Björk albums

Vulnicura is the ninth studio album by Icelandic singer-songwriter Björk released in March 2015. The album deals the break-up with her long-time partner Matthew Barney chronologically. The name Vulnicura is a latin word that means "Cure for wounds".

The album was produced by Björk, Venezuelan producer Arca and British producer The Haxan Cloak. To promote the album, Björk embarked in the Vulnicura Tour. No song was released as promotional single.

It received universal acclaim from music critics and drew comparison to Björk previous albums Homogenic (1997) and Vespertine due to its instrumentation (strings and electronic beats) as well as its lyrical content.

Two different versions of the album were released during 2015 and 2016: Vulnicura Strings, which feature all the songs with new string arrangements, and Vulnicura Live, featuring Live versions of the album tracks as well as songs from her previous albums with new arrangements.

[[1932 Cuba hurricane]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes, 20th century in Cuba, 1932 in North America, 20th century in Jamaica, History of the Cayman Islands, 20th century in the Bahamas, History of Bermuda

The 1932 Cuba hurricane was (at the time) the deadliest hurricane in the history of Cuba. The storm was the only Category 5 Atlantic hurricane in the month of November until 2020. 

Cuba was hit with heavy storm surge during the hurricane. Few buildings withstood the storm.

There were around 3,033 deaths in Cuba from the storm. It did over US$40 million in damage on the island.

The storm also affected the Cayman Islands, Bermuda and the Bahamas.

[[Nebikon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Nebikon is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Ohmstal]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne

Ohmstal was a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipality of Ohmstal merged into the municipality of Schötz.

[[Pfaffnau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Pfaffnau is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Schwarzenbach, Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne, Villages in Lucerne

Schwarzenbach is a village and former municipality of the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

Since 2005, it is part of the municipality of Beromünster.

[[United States Life-Saving Service]]

CATEGORIES: Military of the United States, United States government agencies, 1848 establishments in the United States, 1915 disestablishments, 1910s disestablishments in the United States

The United States Life-Saving Service (USLSS) was a United States government agency that grew out of concerns for saving the lives of shipwrecked sailors and ship's passengers. The federal life-saving service was established on June 28, 1848 as an agency of the United States Department of the Treasury. In 1915, the USLSS merged with the United States Revenue Cutter Service to form the United States Coast Guard.

[[Jan Matejko]]

CATEGORIES: 1838 births, 1983 deaths, Polish painters

Jan Alojzy Matejko (1838-1893) was a Polish painter. He is generally regarded as the greatest one in the 19th century.

[[Union of Azerbaijani Writers]]

CATEGORIES: Literature, Azerbaijani culture, 1934 establishments

The Union of Azerbaijani Writers (Azərbaycan Yazıçılar Birliyi) is the largest public organization of Azerbaijani writers, poets and publicists. It has over 1500 members at present. It was founded on June 13, 1934. At this time Azerbaijan was a part of the Soviet Union as the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic.

It is currently chaired by the writer Anar since 1987. He is the son of writer Rasul Rza. Rza was the chairman between 1938–1939.

[[USRC Scammel (1791)]]

CATEGORIES: Military of the United States, History of the United States

Scammel was one of the original ten cutters built and used by the United States Revenue Cutter Service. The Schammel was named by Secretary of the Treasury, Alexander Hamilton, after the American Revolutionary War Adjutant general of the army, Alexander Scammell. General Scammell was captured by the British at the Battle of Yorktown and shot. As with the USRC General Green (1791), the name is misspelled. The Scammel was built at Portsmouth, New Hampshire and launched in 1791. She was used to patrol New England waters.

[[Moon landing]]

CATEGORIES: Moon, Astronomy

A Moon landing is the arrival of a spacecraft on the surface of the Moon. It is a follow up to Project Mercury. This includes both crewed and uncrewed (robotic) missions. The first man-made object to reach the surface of the Moon was the Soviet Union's Luna 2 mission, on 13 September 1959.

The United States' Apollo 11 was the first crewed mission to land on the Moon, on 20 July 1969. There have been six missions with people onboard that landed on the Moon between 1969 and 1972. There were also numerous landings without people onboard, with no soft landings happening from 22 August 1976 until 14 December 2013.

To date, the United States is the only country to have successfully landed humans on the Moon. The last mission was in December, 1972, and the last human to walk on the Moon was Gene Cernan.

[[Lady Mary Wortley Montagu]]

CATEGORIES: Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, 1689 births, 1762 deaths, Writers from London, English poets, English playwrights

Lady Mary Wortley Montagu (baptized 26 May 1689 – 21 August 1762) was an English letter writer and poet. She is famous for her letters about her travels to the Ottoman Empire. Her husband was the British ambassador to Turkey. She also introduced and encouraged smallpox inoculation to Britain. 

[[Xu Zhimo]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese poets

Xu Zhimo (徐志摩; Pronunciation: Hsü Chih-mo, 1897-1931) was a Chinese poet. Influenced by western poetries, his romantic work style was a great contribution to modern Chinese literature. His poetry is usually about love, beauty and freedom.

[[Reiden]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Reiden is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2006 the former municipalities of Langnau bei Reiden and Richenthal merged into the municipality of Reiden.

[[Canary Wharf]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London

Canary Wharf is a major business district in Tower Hamlets, East London. It is one of the United Kingdom's two main financial centres, second only to the traditional City of London. It contains many of Europe's tallest buildings, including the second-tallest in the UK, One Canada Square. Canary Wharf is located on the West India Docks on the Isle of Dogs.

[[Antonina Domańska]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 births, 1917 deaths, Polish writers

Antonina Domańska (1853-1917) was a Polish writer. She is famous for books for children.

[[USRC Argus (1791)]]

CATEGORIES: Military of the United States, History of the United States

USRC ''Argus (1791) was one of the original ten cutters built and used by the United States Revenue Cutter Service. Of the first ten cutters, the Argus'' was in service the longest. 

[[Garuda Indonesia Flight 152]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 in Asia, 1990s disasters in Asia, Aviation disasters in Asia, Aviation disasters in the 1990s, Disasters in Indonesia, History of Indonesia, September events

Garuda Indonesia Flight 152 was a scheduled domestic Indonesian passenger flight from Soekarno-Hatta International Airport in Jakarta to Polonia International Airport in Medan, North Sumatra. It was flown using an Airbus A300B4 registered PK-GAI and operated Garuda Indonesia.

On September 26, 1997, Flight 152, piloted by Hance Rahmowiyogo, crashed into mountainous woodlands 30 from Medan during low visibility caused by the 1997 Southeast Asian haze. All 234 passengers and crew were killed in the disaster. Rahmowiyogo, age 42, had over 20 years of flying experience at Garuda Indonesia and over 12,000 flying hours. The crash site was in a ravine near the village of Buah Nabar in the Sibolangit district south of Medan.

Flight 152 remains the deadliest single-plane crash in Indonesia, and the deadliest aviation accident in 1997.

[[Guairá Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

The Guairá department (Departamento de Guairá) is a department of Paraguay. The capital is the city of Villarrica. Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-04.

[[Julie Trustrup Jensen]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, Danish footballers

Julie Trustrup Jensen (born 6 April 1994) is a Danish football midfielder who plays for Brøndby IF of Denmark's Elitedivisionen. Since 2013, she has been a member of the senior Danish national team.

[[Acanthuridae]]

CATEGORIES: Perciformes

Acanthuridae is the family of surgeonfish, tangs, and unicornfish. 

The family includes about 86 living species. It is made up of marine fish living in tropical seas, usually around coral reefs. Many of the species are brightly colored and popular for aquaria.

One of the characteristics of this family is that they have spines on the tail (also known as "thorn tail"). 

[[State of Palestine]]

CATEGORIES: Palestine

The State of Palestine, also known simply as Palestine, is a de jure sovereign state in the Middle East with East Jerusalem as its capital. It is recognized by 141 United Nations members. Since 2012 it has non-member observer status in the United Nations. This amounts to a de facto, or implicit, recognition of statehood.

The State of Palestine claims the West Bank and the Gaza Strip as its territory. Its independence was declared on 15 November 1988.

[[Cauquenes Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Cauquenes Province (Provincia de Cauquenes) is one of four provinces of the central Chilean region of Maule (VII). The provincial capital and largest city is Cauquenes.

[[Acanthuroidei]]

CATEGORIES: Perciformes

Acanthuroidei is a suborder of Perciformes, the largest order of fishes.

Members of this suborder have a vertically-shaped body covered with small scales. The name for the suborder comes from that of the surgeonfish (Acanthuridae) family. It is got from the Greek words akantha and oura, which loosely translate as "thorn" and "tail".

[[21 Mincing Lane]]

CATEGORIES: City of London

The Minster Court complex, at 21 Mincing Lane, is an important building in the City of London.

The London Underwriting Centre (LUC) is there. It runs in parallel with the Underwriting Room at Lloyd's of London. It may be visited by up to 4,000 brokers each day.

[[Julian Brazier]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1953 births, English Roman Catholics, UK MPs 1997–2001

Julian Brazier was the Member of Parliament for the UK constituency of Canterbury and Whitstable from 1987 until 2007.

[[St Botolph Building]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in London, 2010 establishments in England

138 Houndsditch is an address in Houndsditch, London where the St Botolph Building is located. The commercial office opened in January 2011.

It is one of a number of landmark buildings recently developed to the east of the Gherkin in the City of London. It is in the centre of the UK insurance industry.

[[GR 8 (galaxy)]]

CATEGORIES: Dwarf galaxies

GR 8, or UGC 8091, is a gas-rich dwarf galaxy. The NED database gives the distance between this galaxy and the Earth as about 7.9 million light years. Although near the Milky Way, it is not decided whether it is a member of the Local Group.

[[Wacław Potocki]]

CATEGORIES: 1621 births, 1696 deaths, Polish poets

Wacław Potocki (1621 - 1696) was a Polish Baroque poet.

[[New7Wonders of the World]]

CATEGORIES: Seven Wonders of the World, 2000 establishments, 2007 disestablishments, Culture, Buildings and structures

New7Wonders of the World (2000–2007) was an idea to choose new Wonders of the World from a selection of 200 existing monuments. The popularity poll was led by Canadian-Swiss Bernard Weber and organized by the New7Wonders Foundation in Zürich, Switzerland.  Winners were announced on 7 July 2007 in Lisbon.

The foundation took only private donations and the sale of broadcast advertising. It had no public funding or taxpayers' money. After the final announcement, New7Wonders said it did not make money and barely recovered its investment.

The seven wonders of the world can be seen on various Celebrity Cruises itineraries.

[[Esociformes]]

CATEGORIES: Ray-finned fish

Esociformes are a small order of ray-finned fish (the Actinopterygii). There are two families, the Umbridae (mudminnows) and the Esocidae (pikes).

The Esocidae are named after the pike genus Esox.  One highly successful species is Esox lucius or northern pike. The order also has an extinct family, called Palaeoscidae. 

The Esociform fishes live in freshwater, in North America and northern Eurasia.

The order is very similar to the Salmonidae.

[[Matilda (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Matilda (or Mathilda) is a female first name. The name comes from Gothic language. It also comes from the Old High German words maht (meaning "might" and "strength") and hild (meaning "battle). 

The name has been popular in Scandinavian countries. Mathilde appeared in the Top 10 most popular names for girls in Denmark in 2008. Mathilde was also very popular in Norway, Sweden and Finland. The name has also risen in popularity in other European countries.

As Matilda, the name was most popular in the United States between 1880 and 1910. During those years, it was in the Top 200 names for girls. It went out of the Top 1,000 names in the United States by 1964. However, it reappeared 44 years later in the Top 1,000 names.

[[Bethany (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Bethany is a female first name. It comes from the Biblical place Bethany, the town where Lazarus lived in the New Testament. 

In English speaking countries, Bethany has been very popular. It was the 59th most popular name for England and Wales in 2010. In 1999, it had gone as high as number 11. In the United States, the name was the 87th most popular in the late 1980s.

Beth is a short version of this name. Beth can also be a short version of the female name Elizabeth.

[[Santiago, Cape Verde]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Cape Verde

Santiago (Portuguese for “Saint James”), or Santiagu in Cape Verdean Creole, is the largest island of the Cape Verde archipelago. It is the most important agricultural centre and home to half the nation’s population. Praia, the capital of the country is in this island.

The Santiago island is part of the Macaronesia, a group of islands in the Atlantic Ocean with similar ecosystems.

[[Jackson, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nebraska, 1860 establishments in Nebraska Territory

Jackson is a village in Dakota County, Nebraska, United States. The population was 223 at the 2010 census.

[[Hayride]]

CATEGORIES: Amusement rides

A hayride, which can also be called a hayrack ride, is an American activity where people go on a ride in an open truck, or wagon pulled by a tractor. Inside of the ride there is hay or straw for the people to sit on. Hayrides in the past were a way to celebrate the Autumn harvest. Hayrides today are usually started to give farms or companies a way to make more money during the fall. Sometimes hayrides are run by companies that help farms set up hayrides for people.

[[Robert Graves]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1985 deaths, English novelists, English poets

Robert von Ranke Graves  (also known as Robert Ranke Graves and most commonly Robert Graves; 24 July 1895 – 7 December 1985) was an English poet, novelist, critic and classicist. He wrote more than 140 works. He wrote poems about Greek myths and historical novels. Many of his novels were set in ancient Rome or were about stories from Greek myths. He also wrote about Greek myths and translated them into English.

[[Sushil Chhetri]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Nepalese movie actors, People from Kathmandu

Sushil Chhetri (सुशील क्षेत्री) is a Nepalese actor who has worked in the Nepalese film industry for more than a decade. He debuted in Kollywood with the film ‘’Aaago’’  which received much hype and sensation. Unfortunately as the story based on the Maoist crisis it was banned before release. He is known for his movies  Aago (2000), Gaajal (2001) and Anjuli (2002).  Chhetri acted in 100s of Nepali movies and 11 Bhojpuri movies. Recently after a sort of disappearance from Nepali Film Industry, he came back with his new movie ‘’Bich Bato(2015)’’, before entering Kollywood as an actor he started his career as background dancer.

[[Anastasia of Sirmium]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints

Anastasia of Sirmium or Saint Anastasia was a Christian saint and martyr from the 4th century. She died at Sirmium in the Roman province of Pannonia Secunda. Today that place is in the modern country of Serbia. Little is known about her life. Most stories about her began many years after her death. Some stories say she was a Roman. Others say she was born in Sirmium.  Roman Catholic tradition states that her mother was St. Fausta of Sirmium. She is venerated as a healer and an exorcist. Her relics lie in the Cathedral of St. Anastasia in Zadar, Croatia. She is one of seven women, along with the Blessed Virgin Mary, who were mentioned by name in the Mass.

Her feast day is December 22  in the Eastern Orthodox Church church. It is January 15 in the Roman Catholic Church.

[[Protacanthopterygii]]

CATEGORIES: Ray-finned fish

Procanthopterygii is a superorder of teleost fishes. These fish mostly live in temperate waters, and in the northern hemisphere. They may live in both fresh and salt water.

Best-known examples of this group are the salmon, trout,  and pikes. 

The main groups are:

[[Hapsa Hatarnai]]

CATEGORIES: Ceremonies, Assam

Hapsa Hatarnai is a Bodo ceremony performed by an individual household in the company of his neighbours while entering a new house or a homestead. The principal domestic deities, such as, Bathou, Mainao together with other lesser divinities are worshipped with prayers and oblations. The ceremony is consummated with liberal drinking of country liquor called 'zou' or 'zu' followed by feast.

[[Roggliswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Roggliswil is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Schötz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Schötz is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipality of Ohmstal merged into the municipality of Schötz.

[[Babiker Awadalla]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2019 deaths, Prime Ministers of Sudan, Centenarians

Babiker Awadalla (2 March 1917 – 17 January 2019) was a Sudanese Arab nationalist politician. He was born in Gitena, White Nile State.

He held the position of Speaker of the Parliament from 1954 to 1957, and became Chief Judge in 1964. In 1966, he resigned from the court in protest of the government's refusal to reinstate the Sudanese Communist Party, which the court had held to be unconstitutionally banned from parliament. After 1972, he moved to Egypt, and later Dublin, Ireland, where he lived until his death.  He turned 100 in March 2017.

Awadalla was the oldest living former head of state or government, a title he has held from the death of Đỗ Mười on 1 October 2018. Awadalla died on 17 January 2019 in Dublin, aged 101.

[[Tom Hayden]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, American civil rights activists, American human rights activists, American LGBT rights activists, American political activists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from stroke, Politicians from Los Angeles, California, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians, Writers from Los Angeles, California, Writers from Detroit, Michigan, State legislators of the United States

Thomas Emmet "Tom" Hayden (December 11, 1939 – October 23, 2016) was an American social and political activist, author and politician. He was director of the Peace and Justice Resource Center in Los Angeles County, California. He was a member of the Chicago Seven.

Hayden was best known for his major role as an anti-war, civil rights and radical intellectual counterculture activist.  Hayden was the former husband of actress Jane Fonda and the father of actor Troy Garity.

Hayden died in Santa Monica, California from heart disease and from complications of a stroke on October 23, 2016, aged 76.

[[Chung Won-shik]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from kidney disease, Prime Ministers of South Korea, South Korean writers, Korean educators, People from Seoul

Chung Won-shik (5 August 1928 – 12 April 2020) was a South Korean politician, educator, soldier, and author. He was the 23rd Prime Minister of South Korea from 1991 through 1992. From 1951 to 1955, he served as an officer in the South Korean Army. Following that, he worked as a professor of Seoul National University. He served as South Korea's Education Minister from 1988 through 1990.

President Roh Tae-woo named him Acting Prime Minister on 24 May 1991. On 8 July 1991, he was appointed Prime Minister of South Korea. He ran for mayor of Seoul in 1995, but lost.

Chung died on 12 April 2020 in Seoul of kidney disease at the age of 91.

[[Elmer Ferguson Memorial Award]]

CATEGORIES: Hockey Hall of Fame, Ice hockey trophies and awards

The Elmer Ferguson Memorial Award is an award given "in recognition of distinguished members of the newspaper profession whose words have brought honour to journalism and to hockey". Recipients are selected by the Professional Hockey Writers' Association.

[[Foster Hewitt Memorial Award]]

CATEGORIES: Foster Hewitt Memorial Award winners, Ice hockey trophies and awards, National Hockey League broadcasters, Hockey Hall of Fame

The Foster Hewitt Memorial Award is an award named after Foster Hewitt and presented by the Hockey Hall of Fame to members of the radio and television industry who make outstanding contributions to their profession and the game of ice hockey during their broadcasting career. The award winners are selected by the NHL Broadcasters' Association.

This award should not be confused with the ACTRA Foster Hewitt Award, which was presented by ACTRA, the Canadian association of actors and broadcasters, for excellence in general sports broadcasting. That award was discontinued in 1986.

[[Bob McKenzie]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Canadian journalists, Elmer Ferguson Award winners, Living people, National Hockey League broadcasters, Olympic Games broadcasters, People from Toronto

Robert Malcomson "Bob" McKenzie (born August 16, 1956) is a Canadian hockey commentator who has covered ice hockey since joining TSN in 1986.

Growing up, McKenzie was a fan of the hometown Toronto Maple Leafs, and his favourite doughnut shop was Tim Hortons.

McKenzie provides analysis for NHL on TSN telecasts, as well as for international hockey events, notably the annual IIHF World U-20 Hockey Championship. He also covered the NHL Entry Draft. Prior to joining TSN, McKenzie was editor-in-chief of The Hockey News for nine years and a hockey columnist for The Toronto Star for six years.

McKenzie is heard weekly on the TSN 1040   in Vancouver on the "Canucks Lunch with Rick Ball", as well on TSN Radio 690 (CKGM) in Montreal, on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday on the Morning Show at 8:05 a.m. He is also a frequent contributor to the Ottawa Senators pre-game show on TSN 1200 radio in Ottawa.

On May 7, 2015, McKenzie surpassed 1,000,000 followers on Twitter. He goes by the Twitter handle @TSNBobMcKenzie and his account has been verified by Twitter.

In October 2014, McKenzie began appearing as a full-time contributor on NBCSN.

He currently resides in Whitby, Ontario.

[[Elmer Ferguson]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1972 deaths, Elmer Ferguson Award winners, National Hockey League broadcasters, People from Prince Edward Island

Elmer Ferguson (February 25, 1885 – April 26, 1972) was a Canadian sports journalist. Born in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, Ferguson moved to Montreal in 1910 and became the sports editor of the Montreal Herald in 1913. Ferguson was one of the most respected and promiant columnists of his time. He became a Hockey Hall of Fame media honouree in 1982 and was the namesake of the Elmer Ferguson Memorial Award.

[[Bad (Bodo culture)]]

CATEGORIES: Indian culture

In the culture of the Bodo people, a bad (बाद) is a social crime or offense. There are five different types of bad:

[[List of Garja gods]]

CATEGORIES: Religion in India

In Bodo language 'garja' means 'god' or 'deity'. The garja are propitiated at a place which is away from home.

[[Gil Vicente]]

CATEGORIES: 1470 births, 1540 deaths, Poets, Playwrights, Portuguese writers

Gil Vicente (1470-1540) was a Portuguese poet and playwright.

[[Ardèche (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Ardèche, Occitanie

The Ardèche (Ardecha) is a 125 long river in south-central France, a right-bank tributary of the River Rhône. The river gives its name to the French department of Ardèche.

[[Stéphane Dion]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Ambassadors of Canada, Politicians from Quebec, Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Quebec, Government ministers, People from Quebec City, Privy Councillors (Canada), Leaders of the Opposition (Canada)

Stéphane Maurice Dion (born 28 September 1955) is a Canadian diplomat and former politician. He served as Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Cabinet headed by Justin Trudeau from 2015 to 2017.

He was a Member of Parliament of Canada for the riding of Saint-Laurent—Cartierville in Montreal since 1996. He was the leader of the Liberal Party of Canada and the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons of Canada from 2006 to 2008.

Since 2017 he has been ambassador to the European Union and Germany.

[[Federica Mogherini]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Civil servants, European Union politicians, Politicians from Rome

Federica Mogherini (fedeˈriːka moɡeˈriːni; born 16 June 1973) is an Italian politician. She is the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and Vice-President of the European Commission in the Juncker Commission since 1 November 2014.

[[Fumio Kishida]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Japanese politicians, People from Hiroshima

Fumio Kishida is a Japanese politician. Kishida is Prime Minister-designate of Japan since 2021. In September 2021, he was elected President of the Liberal Democratic Party. He was Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan from 2012 to 2017 during the Shinzo Abe government. Kishida was elected to the House of Representatives in 1993.

[[Paolo Gentiloni]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Italy, Politicians from Rome

Paolo Gentiloni Silveri (ˈpaːolo dʒentiˈloːni; born 22 November 1954 in Rome) is an Italian politician. He became the Prime Minister of Italy in December 2016 after the resignation of Matteo Renzi. He served until 1 June 2018.

He is a member of the Democratic Party. He served as Minister of Foreign Affairs from 31 October 2014 through 12 December 2016. He was also Minister of Communications during the government of Romano Prodi.

[[Lenín Moreno]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Activists, Crime victims, People with disabilities, Presidents of Ecuador, Vice Presidents of Ecuador

Lenín Boltaire Moreno Garcés (born 19 March 1953) is an Ecuadorian politician. Moreno was the 46th President of Ecuador from 2017 until 2021. He was the Vice President of Ecuador from 2007 to 2013, serving under President Rafael Correa. His election as Vice President was well known because as a paraplegic, Moreno was one of the world’s few disabled national leaders. 

On 2 April 2017, Moreno was elected President of Ecuador defeating banker Guillermo Lasso in the 2017 Ecuadorian presidential round-off with 51% of the vote to Lasso's 49%.

On 24 May 2017, Moreno became the world’s only current head of state in a wheelchair.

[[Rafto Prize]]

CATEGORIES: Awards

The Thorolf Rafto Memorial Prize is a prize founded in the memory of the Norwegian human rights activist, Thorolf Rafto (1922-1986). The prize is now $20,000. It began in 1987 and is awarded each year. The prize ceremony takes place on the first Sunday of November in Bergen, Norway at the National Theatre of Bergen.

[[Hagramayao Jinahari]]

CATEGORIES: Indian movies, 1995 crime movies

Hagramayao Jinahari,  also known as Rape in The Virgin Forest, is a 1995 Indian crime movie directed by Jwngdao Bodosa. It received many awards. The movie is in the Bodo language. The Bodo language is spoken by the Bodo people of India. It is one of the official languages of the Indian state of Assam. The movie starred Tikendrajit Narzary as Budang and Onjali Basumatary as Budang's daughter Mithinga.

[[Battle of Kororāreka]]

CATEGORIES: Battles involving New Zealand, Battles involving the United Kingdom, Maori, 19th century in Oceania, 1845, 1840s in the United Kingdom

The Battle of Kororāreka was a battle in New Zealand between Maori warriors and the British Army. It took place on 11 March 1845 in the small town of Kororāreka. Today that town is called Russell. The town is on the North Island of New Zealand. The Maori were unhappy with the problems in the town. They cut down the flag pole flying the British flag. Each time the Maori cut down the flag pole, the British Army made a new one. This happened three times. When the British Army put the flag pole back a fourth time, the Maori attacked the town. Hōne Heke and Te Ruki Kawiti were the leaders of the Maori. William Hulme was the leader of the British soldiers. The Maori had many more fighters than the British. There were 600 Maori warriors and only 140 British soldiers. The Maori won the battle. The town was destroyed in the fighting. The British Army left the town. The British citizens living there also left. British and American ships waiting in the harbour took them to Auckland.

[[Alayaron (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 movies

Alayaron (English: The Dawn) is one of the first Bodo feature movies. It was released in 13 March 1986 at Ganga Talkies, Kokrajhar. It was directed by Jwngdao Bodosa, based upon the short story Mwdwi arw Gwlwmdwi (Tears and Sweat) by Nilkamal Brahma. The movie stars Amar Narzary and Rohila Brahma. It was also the winner of the National Film Award in 1986.

[[List of Bodo religions]]

CATEGORIES: Religion in India, India-related lists, Religion-related lists

This is a list of religions of the Bodo people of Assam in Northeastern India. 

[[Circinus galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies

The Circinus galaxy (ESO 97-G13) is a Seyfert galaxy, very bright and emitting huge amounts of electromagnetic radiation.

Circinus is in a constellation of the same name, Circinus (constellation). It is one of the closest and nearest galaxies to the Milky Way. It is probably slightly further away than Centaurus A.

The galaxy just 4 degrees below the galactic plane and 13 million light years from our galaxy. Its outer ring is 700 light years from the galaxy's centre, and the inner ring just 130 light years from the centre. You can see the galaxy with a small telescope.

The galaxy was not noticed until 1977 because it lies close to the plane of the Milky Way and is obscured by galactic dust.

[[Children's Day]]

CATEGORIES: Childhood, 1856 establishments in the United States, 1954 establishments in Europe, 1950s establishments in the United Kingdom

[[Seyfert galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies

Seyfert galaxies are named after Carl Seyfert who first described them in 1943.

These galaxies are one of the two main types of active galaxies. The other large group are quasars. Seyfert galaxies have quasar-like nuclei: they are very distant luminous  sources of electromagnetic radiation. Their very high surface brightness has spectra with strong, high-ionisation emission lines. However, unlike quasars, their host galaxies are clearly visible.

Seyfert galaxies are about 10% of all galaxies, and are some of the most intensely studied objects in astronomy. They are thought to be powered by the same phenomena as quasars, although they are closer and less luminous than quasars. These galaxies have supermassive black holes at their centers which are surrounded by accretion discs of in-falling material. The accretion discs are believed to be the source of the observed ultraviolet radiation. Ultraviolet emission lines and absorption lines are the best way to analyse the surrounding material.

Seen in visible light, most Seyfert galaxies look like normal spiral galaxies. However, when studied under other wavelengths, it becomes clear that the luminosity of their cores is as big as the luminosity of whole galaxies the size of the Milky Way.

[[Relativistic jet]]

CATEGORIES: Relativity, Black holes, Electromagnetic radiation

Relativistic jets are very powerful jets of plasma with speeds close to the speed of light. They are emitted by the central black holes of some active galaxies (notably radio galaxies and  quasars), and by the black holes of massive stars and neutron stars. Their lengths can reach several thousand or even hundreds of thousands of light years. 

If the jet speed is close to the speed of light, the effects of the special theory of relativity are significant. The mechanics behind how jets are created, and what they are made of, are still a matter of debate. Jet composition might vary.

Massive galactic central black holes have the most powerful jets. Similar jets on a much smaller scale develop from neutron stars and black holes in other stars. Even weaker and less relativistic jets may be associated with many binary star systems. 

The general hypothesis among astrophysicists is that the formation of relativistic jets is the key to explaining the production of gamma-ray bursts. These jets have Lorentz factors of ~100 or greater (that is, speeds over roughly 0.99995c), making them some of the fastest celestial objects known at present.

[[I Zw 36]]

CATEGORIES: Dwarf galaxies

I Zwicky 36 (often shortened to I Zw 36) is a blue compact dwarf galaxy, meaning that it is small for a galaxy, that its stars are close together and that it gives off blue light. The stars in I Zwicky 36 are young for stars, no older than three million years.

[[Cadmium nitrate]]

CATEGORIES: Cadmium compounds

Cadmium nitrate is an inorganic compound. The general formula of the compound is Cd(NO3)2.

[[Palladium(II) nitrate]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

Palladium(II) nitrate is the inorganic compound with the formula Pd(NO3)2. It is a red-brown solid with a tendency to absorb water.

[[Yuriko Koike]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, People from Hyōgo Prefecture, Governors of Japanese prefectures, Japanese politicians, Translators

Yuriko Koike (born 15 July 1952) is a Japanese politician and the current governor of Tokyo.

She was born and raised in Ashiya, Hyōgo Prefecture. She dropped out of University in Japan, who moved to the Middle East and studied Arabic. She graduated from Cairo University in Egypt, and she began to work an interpreter and translator of Arabic. She worked as a journalist in the 1980s and entered politics in the 1990s.

[[Americium dioxide]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

Americium dioxide is a black compound of Americium. As a solid, AmO2 has the same structure as fluorite (CaF2).

[[Phoenix Dwarf]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies

The Phoenix Dwarf is a galaxy discovered as a mistaken globular cluster. It's correctly 1.14 Mly away the Earth

[[Iggy Arbuckle]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 television series debuts

Iggy Arbuckle is an American/Canadian animated show created by Guy Vasilovich and produced by Blueprint Entertainment, National Geographic Kids' Entertainment, C.O.R.E. Toons and Cartoon Network and serviced by Cartoon Network. The show was debuted in July 21, 2007.                                                                                                                                                               Category:2007 television series debuts

[[CJ the DJ]]

CATEGORIES: Australian television series, 2009 television series debuts, 2009 establishments in Australia, 2010 television series endings, 2010s disestablishments in Australia, English-language television programs

CJ the DJ is an Australian animated series that ran on ABC Me from December 4, 2009 to 2010. Its program creator  was Mark Gravas.

[[Parabolic trough]]

CATEGORIES: Energy

A parabolic trough is similar to a solar panel tower, because it has parabolic mirrors that collect large amounts of heat which is reflected on  water-filled pipes .

The water is heated until it turns into steam, rotating a turbine using a large steam piston.

The rotating turbine produces electricity, which is then transferred by transformer, before being converted DC to AC and transferred by current lines.

[[I Zwicky 18]]

CATEGORIES: Dwarf galaxies

The I Zwicky 18 is an irregular dwarf galaxy. It is 45 million years light from Earth in the constellation of the Ursa Major. It was identified by first time in the 1930s by the astronomer Fritz Zwicky.

[[Ufhusen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Ufhusen is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Wauwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Wauwil is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Wikon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Wikon is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Willisau]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Lucerne, Cities in Switzerland

Willisau is a town of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Zell, Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Lucerne

Zell is a municipality of the district of Willisau in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

[[Kulmerau]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Lucerne, Villages in Lucerne

[[Wilihof]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Lucerne, Former municipalities of Lucerne

Wilihof is a village and former municipality of the district of Sursee in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2005 the former municipalities of Wilihof and Kulmerau merged into the municipality of Triengen.

[[Willisau Land]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Lucerne, Former municipalities of Lucerne

[[Willisau Stadt]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Lucerne, Former municipalities of Lucerne

[[Schinznach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Aargau, 2014 establishments in Switzerland

Schinznach is a municipality of the district Brugg in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Oberflachs and Schinznach-Dorf merged into the new municipality of Schinznach.

[[Border states (American Civil War)]]

CATEGORIES: Origins of the American Civil War

The Border states were those states that during the American Civil War did not leave the Union. The border states were Delaware, Maryland, Kentucky, and Missouri. After West Virginia separated from Virginia, it was also considered a border state. Most border states had strong ties to the South culturally, but they had economic ties to the North. While remaining loyal to the Union, the Border States were themselves slave-holding states.

In the Border States the war caused divided loyalties. They were the scene of often brutal guerilla warfare where neighbor fought against neighbor. The bitter feelings in the Border States lasted long after the Civil war.

[[The ZhuZhus]]

CATEGORIES: American animated television series, American children's television series, American fantasy television series, Canadian animated television series, Canadian children's television series, Disney Channel shows, English-language television programs, 2016 television series debuts, 2019 television series endings

The ZhuZhus (originally titled Polly and the Zhu Zhu Pets) is a Canadian/American animated television series produced by Cepia LLC and Nelvana, and the YTV. The series aired in the United States on Disney Channel on September 12, 2016.

