[[Programme music]]

CATEGORIES: Music

Programme music (or "program music" in US English) is music for instruments which describes something or tells a story.  It is the opposite of "absolute music" which is not trying to describe anything, just the sound of the piece.  Programme music was very popular in the 19th century although some programme music was written earlier.

[[Anaerobic organism]]

CATEGORIES: Microbiology, Metabolism

An anaerobic organism is any living thing that does not need oxygen for growth. 

Microaerophiles are organisms that may use oxygen, but only at low concentrations (low micromolar range); their growth is inhibited by normal oxygen concentrations (approximately 200 micromolar). Nanaerobes are organisms that cannot grow in the presence of micromolar concentrations of oxygen, but can grow with and benefit from nanomolar concentrations of oxygen.

Obligate anaerobes may use fermentation or anaerobic respiration. In the presence of oxygen, facultative anaerobes use aerobic respiration; without oxygen some of them ferment, some use anaerobic respiration. Aerotolerant organisms are strictly fermentative. Microaerophiles carry out aerobic respiration, and some of them can also do anaerobic respiration.

Some anaerobic bacteria produce toxins (e.g., tetanus or botulinum toxins) that are highly dangerous to higher organisms, including humans.

[[Tetanus]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by bacteria

Tetanus is a disease that leads to muscle contractions that stay that way for some time.

Infection generally occurs through wound contamination, and often involves a cut or deep puncture wound. The primary symptoms are caused by tetanospasmin, a neurotoxin produced by the anaerobic bacterium Clostridium tetani. As the infection goes on, muscle spasms develop in the jaw. This led to the common name of the condition, lockjaw. This is usually followed by  difficulties with swallowing. The condition  leads to general muscle stiffness and spasms in other parts of the body. Infection can be prevented by proper immunization and by post-exposure prophylaxis.

[[Immunization]]

CATEGORIES: Immunization

Immunization is a way of preventing a person from getting a disease.  This is done by making the person's body come into contact with a bit of the disease so that the body learns how to fight it.  The body's ability to fight off a disease is called its immune system. 

The material is known as an immunogen.  Immunization is the same as inoculation and vaccination because inoculation and vaccination use an infecting agent (something that infects) in the same way that immunization does.

When the human immune system is exposed to an infection once, it can learn how to cope quickly if it is exposed to it again.  By exposing an individual to an immunogen in a controlled way, the body will be able to protect itself from that infection later on in life.

[[Whipped cream]]

CATEGORIES: Dairy products, Desserts

Whipped cream is a dairy food used in many desserts. It is made with heavy cream, a type of cream that contains a large amount of fat.

[[Tetanospasmin]]

CATEGORIES: Poisons, Biochemistry

Tetanospasmin is the neurotoxin produced by the vegetative spore of Clostridium tetani in anaerobic conditions, causing tetanus. It is sometimes called spasmogenic toxin, tetanus toxin or abbreviated to TeTx or TeNT. 

[[Neurotoxin]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology

A neurotoxin is a toxin that acts specifically on nerve cells – neurons – usually by interacting with membrane proteins and ion channels. 

Many of the venoms and other toxins that organisms use in defense against vertebrates are neurotoxins. A common effect is paralysis, which sets in extremely rapidly. The venom of bees, scorpions, pufferfish, spiders and snakes can contain many different toxins. Many neurotoxins act by affecting voltage-dependent ion channels.

A man named Clairvius Narcisse was dead and came back to life again because the locals used neurotoxin on him to bring him back to lifeAugust 2019. He was buried in Haiti in 1964.

[[Paralysis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases and disorders

Paralysis is the complete loss of muscle function for one or more muscle groups, when the thing that is paralysed cannot move. 

Paralysis is most often caused by damage to the nervous system or brain, especially the spinal cord. Major causes are stroke, trauma, poliomyelitis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), botulism, spina bifida, multiple sclerosis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome. Partial paralysis can also occur in the REM stage of sleep (see:Sleep paralysis). Paralysis often includes loss of feeling in the affected area.

[[Membrane protein]]

CATEGORIES: Molecular biology

A membrane protein is a protein molecule that is attached to, or associated with the membrane of a cell or an organelle.

20–30% of all genes in genomes code for membrane proteins. They are targets of over 50% of all modern medicinal drugs.

[[Tampa Bay Buccaneers]]

CATEGORIES: Sports in Tampa, Florida, National Football League teams

The Tampa Bay Buccaneers are an American Football team in the National Football League (NFL). They are a part of the Southern Division of the National Football Conference. The Buccaneers are from Tampa, Florida. The team was founded in 1976, and are the champions from Super Bowl XXXVII in 2002. The current head coach is Bruce Arians. Their quarterback is Tom Brady.

The name "Buccaneer" comes from certain pirates who would raid the western coast of Florida in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.

The Buccaneers play in Raymond James Stadium located in Tampa, Florida.

The Buccaneer's division rivals include the New Orleans Saints, the Carolina Panthers and the Atlanta Falcons. Their in state rivals include the Miami Dolphins and the Jacksonville Jaguars.

The Buccaneers have 3 players in the NFL Hall of fame: Lee Roy Selmon, Warren Sapp, and Derrick Brooks.

They are the first team to play the Super Bowl on their homefield, as Super Bowl LV is hosted in Tampa, after defeating the Green Bay Packers in the NFC Championship game. Tampa played the Kansas City Chiefs in the Super Bowl. They won the game 31-9 against the Kansas City Chiefs. 

[[Obelus]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematical notation, Symbols

The word "obelus" comes from the Greek word for a sharpened stick, spit, or pointed pillar. This is the same root as that of the word "obelisk". The obelus was first used as a symbol for division in 1659, in the algebra book Teutsche Algebra by Johann Rahn. Today, the obelus is used occasionally, mostly as a standalone symbol for the division operation itself (as on a calculator), or as an operator in elementary arithmetic. In most cases, division is now represented using other ways, often by a forward slash (/), also known as "solidus". 

[[Vinculum (symbol)]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematical notation

A vinculum is a horizontal line put over a mathematical expression. It shows that it belongs together as a group. (Vinculum is Latin for "chain".)

Examples are:

1. groups of digits repeating forever, for example,

2. fractions

== Other websites == 

[[Colon (punctuation)]]

CATEGORIES: Punctuation, Typography

other uses of the word

The colon (":") is a punctuation mark, visually consisting of two equally sized dots centered on the same vertical (up/down) line.

[[Colon (disambiguation)]]

Colon could mean:

[[Tomorrow Never Knows]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 songs, The Beatles songs, Songs about drugs

Tomorrow Never Knows is a song from The Beatles's Revolver album, from 1966.

John Lennon wrote the song based on his readings of The Psychedelic Experience, which adapted the Tibetan Book of the Dead for use as an LSD "user's manual", intending to give users a kind of religious experience. The song's title came from his bandmate Ringo Starr, who was known for his quirky but insightful comments about life.

Lennon wanted the sound of monks chant, to complement the Beatles' recording of the song. It was not possible to do this, but Lennon's voice was played through a special speaker (called a Leslie speaker), to give it a warbling sound, like a voice calling from a hilltop. Other sounds on the record came from tape loops, playing over and over, and from a sitar.

The song has also been recorded by other artists. A dance cover version appeared in the 1990s.

[[Gone with the Wind (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 movies, 1930s drama movies, 1930s romance movies, Academy Award winning movies, American epic movies, American romantic drama movies, American war movies, English-language movies, Histrionic personality disorder in fiction, MGM movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in Georgia (U.S. state), Movies set in the 19th century, Screenplays by Ben Hecht, Movies directed by Victor Fleming, Movies directed by George Cukor

Gone with the Wind is the 1939 American movie based on Margaret Mitchell's book of the same name. It premiered in Atlanta, Georgia.  It stars Clark Gable, Vivien Leigh, Leslie Howard and Olivia de Havilland. The movie tells the story of the American Civil War from the perspective (view point) of a young southern woman named Scarlett O'Hara.

[[Titanic (disambiguation)]]

Titanic can refer to

[[Santino Marella]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Canadian professional wrestlers, Living people, People from Ontario, WWE wrestlers

Anthony Carelli (born March 14, 1974) is a Canadian retired professional wrestler. He currently works for the  TNA . He appears under the ring name Santino Marella. During his wrestling career, he was a two-time WWE Intercontinental Champion, one-time WWE United States Champion, and one-time WWE Tag Team Champion with Vladimir Kozlov.

[[Fresco]]

CATEGORIES: painting

Fresco is a way of painting pictures. A fresco is a kind of mural, a painting that is done on a wall. A wall painting is sometimes called a fresco by mistake. A true fresco is painted onto plaster that is fresh. The plaster has been laid on the wall that day and is still damp. The word fresco comes from the Italian for "fresh". 

[[The Count of Monte Cristo]]

CATEGORIES: 1844 books, French novels

The Count of Monte Cristo is a novel by Alexandre Dumas, père.  The story is about revenge and forgiveness. The main character of the book, Edmond Dantès, is wrongly sent to prison. There, he meets an old priest named Faria, who tells Dantès of a treasure. He escapes and finds the large treasure. He uses it to carry out a plan of revenge on the three people who sent him to prison. The novel was well received by critics and readers. It has been adapted to many stage plays and movies.

The novel was first published in the Journal des Débats in 18 parts from August 28, 1844 to January 15, 1846. It was first published in Paris by Pétion in 18 volumes (1844-5). It was published in English in 1846 by Chapman and Hall. It has been translated many times since 1846, and into many languages. Dumas wrote a set of three plays that told the story of The Count of Monte Cristo: Monte Cristo (1848), Le Counte de Morcerf (1851), and Villefort (1851). The book inspired the plot for other novels, including Lew Wallace's  Ben-Hur (1880).

[[Hallandale Beach, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Florida

Hallandale Beach is a city in Broward County, Florida, United States. The city is named after Luther Halland, a worker for Henry Flagler's Florida East Coast Railroad. The population was 37,282 at the 2000 census. Sometimes the city is called the "southernmost Canadian city". This is because Hallandale Beach has been a popular vacation spot for years, and most of the tourists come from Quebec and the northeast United States. Many of these tourists eventually moved to the area to live there.

[[Nazi Party]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 establishments in Europe, 1945 disestablishments in Germany, 1920s establishments in Germany, Nazi Party

The National Socialist German Workers' Party (Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei, abbreviated NSDAP), also known as the Nazi Party, was a German political party. It was started in 1920 from the Deutsche Arbeiterpartei (German Workers' party) (DAP), which would later be renamed the NSDAP. On the day it was created, the party published its 25-point manifesto (book of ideas). The items in this list of ideas included getting rid of the Treaty of Versailles; gaining more land for the German people; taking away any income people had not earned by working; taking away Jewish people's citizenship; changing the education system; and setting up a strong central government. It is most known for being Hitler's political party. 

Until 1923, the NSDAP was most popular in Bavaria.

[[Carl Nielsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1865 births, 1931 deaths, 20th century composers, Danish composers

Carl Nielsen (born in Sortelung, near Nørre Lyndelse on Funen, June 9, 1865; died in Copenhagen, October 3, 1931) was a Danish composer.  He is the most famous composer from Denmark and one of the most important composers of symphonies from the late 19th and early 20th centuries.

[[Madonna and Child]]

CATEGORIES: Christian art, Depictions of Mary (mother of Jesus)

The Madonna and Child or The Virgin and Child is often the name of a work of art which shows the Virgin Mary and the Child Jesus. The word Madonna means "My Lady" in Italian. Artworks of the Christ Child and his mother Mary are part of the Roman Catholic tradition in many parts of the world including Italy, Spain, Portugal, France, South America and the Philippines. Paintings known as icons are also an important tradition of the Orthodox Church and often show the Mary and the Christ Child. They are found particularly in Eastern Europe, Russia, Egypt, the Middle East and India. 

[[Göppingen]]

Göppingen (Swabian: Gebbenga, Gebbeng, or Geppenge) is a town in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. In 2005, there were 57,771 people living in Göppingen. It is at the bottom of the 684 high "Kaiserberg", or "Emperors' Mountain".

[[National Gallery, London]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in London, Art museums in the United Kingdom, National museums

The National Gallery, London is an art gallery in London, England, which has one of the finest collections of European paintings in the world. 

What makes this gallery so important is that, although there are bigger galleries, The National Gallery has many paintings of very high quality and also because it has paintings by famous artists whose works are very rare. These rare paintings include works by Duccio, Masaccio, Uccello, Piero della Francesca, Leonardo, Giorgione, Michelangelo, Caravaggio, Vermeer, Chardin, Klimt, Rousseau and Redon.

The National Gallery is on Trafalgar Square, which is one of the busiest tourist places in London. It is a grand building of pale grey limestone, with a central dome and a large Classical style porch (portico) like an Ancient Greek temple. To the left side, the gallery has a large new building called The Sainsbury Wing. 

[[Unperson]]

CATEGORIES: Words

In the George Orwell book Nineteen Eighty-Four, an Unperson is someone who has been vaporized. Vaporization is when a person is secretly murdered and erased from society, the present, the universe, and existence. Such a person would be taken out of books, photographs, and articles so that no trace of them is found in the present anywhere – no record of them would be found. This was so that a person who defied the Party would be gone from all citizens' memories, even friends and family. There is no Newspeak word for what happened to unpeople, therefore it is thoughtcrime to say an unperson's name or think of unpeople. 

This is similar to the Stalinist Soviet Party erasing people from photographs after death; this is an example of "real" unpeople.

The Stalin-era Soviet Union also provided real-world examples of unpersons in its treatment of Leon Trotsky and other members of the Communist Party who became politically inconvenient. In his 1960 magazine article "Pravda means 'Truth'", reprinted in Expanded Universe, Robert A. Heinlein argued that John Paul Jones and a mysterious May 15, 1960 cosmonaut had also received this treatment.

[[Düren]]

CATEGORIES: Düren Rural District

Düren (Ripuarian: Düre, Low Franconian: Dürre or Dure) is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It is between Cologne and Aachen. About 90,000 people live there. Düren is at the river Rur.

[[Gütersloh]]

CATEGORIES: Gütersloh Rural District

Gütersloh (Westphalian: Gütsel, Low Franconian: Gütersloh)  is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 96,000 people live there.

[[Iserlohn]]

CATEGORIES: Märkischer Rural District

Iserlohn (Westphalian Low German: Iserlaun, Iserliaun, or Iserlauhn; Middle Low German: Eisenwald)  is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 93,000 people live there; it is one of the largest cities in that region.

[[Velbert]]

CATEGORIES: Mettmann Rural District

Velbert is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 87,000 people live there.

[[Lünen]]

CATEGORIES: Unna Rural District

Lünen is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. 88,000 people live there. Lünen has got two important football clubs: Lüner SV and BV Brambauer. Lüner SV is playing in the "Bezirksliga (8. league), but in 1963 the club achieved his greatest aim. They got Champion of Westphalia.

[[Marl]]

CATEGORIES: Recklinghausen Rural District

Marl is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 91,000 people live there.

[[Bocholt]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Rhine-Westphalia, Borken Rural District

Bocholt (Low German: Bokelt) is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 73,000 people live there.

[[Roman Abramovich]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, British businesspeople, Russian businesspeople

Roman Abramovich (born October 24, 1966 in Saratov, Russia) is a Russian-British businessman. He is one of the richest men in the world. According to 2006 Forbes Magazine, he has a net worth of $18.2 billion. He owns Chelsea F.C., an English Premiership football club. He has given Chelsea a lot money to pay their players, and buy new ones. He is a former governor of the Chukotka Autonomous Okrug, the farthest eastern region of Russia.

[[Morena Baccarin]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors, Whedonverse, People from Rio de Janeiro

Morena Baccarin (born June 2, 1979) is a Brazilian actress. She is best known for her role as Inara Serra in the sci-fi television series Firefly and the movie Serenity. Morena was born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Her father is of Italian descent. Her mother is Brazilian stage and television actress Vera Setta.

When she was 10, Baccarin moved with her family to Greenwich Village, New York, in the United States. She later attended the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts (the High School in the movie Fame) before she studied theater at Juilliard.

[[José Mourinho]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, Portuguese football managers

José Mário dos Santos Mourinho Félix, OIH, or simply José Mourinho (born January 26, 1963 in Setúbal) is a Portuguese football manager and former player who is the head coach of Serie A club Roma. He is commonly known as "The Special One". Mourinho is regarded by some players, coaches, and critics as one of the best football coaches of all time.

Mourinho won four league titles in a row (two at Porto and two at Chelsea). He has also won the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Cup with Porto. For two years in a row (2004 and 2005), Mourinho was named the world's best football coach by the International Federation of Football History and Statistics (IFFHS). After leaving Chelsea F.C., he was replaced by Avram Grant. He went to coach Internazionale Milano and won the Serie A, Italian Super Cup and Champions League in a single season (2009/10).

[[Sawmill]]

CATEGORIES: Manufacturing buildings

A sawmill is a place where lumber is cut into boards.

[[Hazrat Babajan]]

CATEGORIES: 1806 births, 1931 deaths, Asian Sufis, Muslims

Hazrat Babajan (1806–1931), birthname Gool Rukh ("like a rose"), was born as a Pathan lady in a noble Muslim family of Balochistan in northern British India Empire (now Pakistan). At the age of 18 she fled her arranged marriage and sought God instead. She journeyed to the northeast, first to Peshawar and then to Rawalpindi, disguised by her Muslim veil. She lived for a year and a half in the mountainous regions of what is now Pakistan under the guidance of a Hindu sadguru, then traveled to Punjab. In Multan, at the age of 37, she received God-realization from an Islamic qutub (Muslim master), Maula Shah.

Babajan is most famously remembered as the spiritual master of Meher Baba. 

[[Concept album]]

CATEGORIES: Concept albums

A concept album is a kind of album in which all the songs are about the same thing. Most of the time, they tell a story.

[[Convenience food]]

CATEGORIES: Foods

Convenience food is a type of food. This kind of food has been made so it can save the consumers time to prepare it. Usually such foods just need to be heated. They are made for a long shelf life, so that they can stay in the store for a long time. One thing to remember is that you may have to pay for the convenience, as this food is often expensive.

Many people criticise these products, because:

[[Zippo]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 establishments, Tools, Smoking

A  Zippo lighter is a refillable metal lighter made by Zippo Manufacturing Company since 1933. Many different styles have been made since 1933, such as the pipe Zippo, for lighting pipes. Many people collect Zippos. Some Zippos are worth a lot of money.

Zippo lighters are wind-proof, which means that the wind can not blow them out. The most common fuel for Zippos is naphtha.

[[1367]]

CATEGORIES: 1367

[[Water heating]]

CATEGORIES: Energy, Water

Water heating is a thermodynamic process using an energy source to heat water above its initial temperature. Typical domestic uses of hot water are for cooking, cleaning and bathing, and space heating. In industry both hot water and water heated to steam have many uses.

The most common energy sources for heating water are fossil fuels: natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, oil or sometimes solid fuels (coal or firewood. These fuels may be consumed directly or by the use of electricity (which may derive from any of the above fuels or from nuclear or renewable sources). Alternative energy such as solar energy, heat pumps, hot water heat recycling, and sometimes geothermal power, may also be used as available, usually in combination with gas, oil or electricity.cn

[[Couëron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Loire-Atlantique

Couëron is a city in France on the Atlantic Ocean near Nantes. About 18.000 people live in the city.

[[Room temperature]]

CATEGORIES: Temperature

Room temperature does not have an exact scientific definition. It means a temperature that is normal in rooms used by human beings.

[[Kraftwerk]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s establishments in Germany, 1970s German music groups, 1980s German music groups, 1990s German music groups, 2000s German music groups, 2010s German music groups, Düsseldorf, Electronic music bands, German pop music groups, Musical groups established in 1970

Kraftwerk is a electronic band from Germany that became famous in the late 1970s and 1980s for making electronic music. They used synthesizers and sequencers to make the rhythms and melodies in the song.

Kraftwerk made electronic music many years before other bands knew it would be popular. They paved the way for the MIDI and digital styles of music to become popular in the 1990s. Many of the sounds from songs such as "Computer Love", "The Robots", and "Trans Europe Express" can be heard sampled by a variety of bands on their current releases. Recently, some of Kraftwerk's original recording equipment was sold on eBay for astonishing amounts. Kraftwerk continues to have a faithful following. The band's name is German for power station.

[[Cricket ball]]

CATEGORIES: Sports equipment, Cricket

A cricket ball is a hard, solid ball used to play cricket. In men's cricket the ball must weigh between 5.5 and 5.75 ounces (137.5 and 143.8 g) and measure between 8 and 9 inches (220 and 225 millimetres) in circumference.

A cricket ball is usually red, white or pink depending upon the game and has a seam over it. 

[[Baptist]]

CATEGORIES: Baptist

Baptist is a word describing a tradition within Christianity and may also refer to individuals belonging to a Baptist church or a Baptist denomination. The tradition takes its name from the belief that followers of Jesus Christ should be placed in water to show their faith. Baptists do not practice infant baptism.

In 1639, Roger Williams began a Baptist church in Providence, Rhode Island and John Clarke began a Baptist church in Newport, Rhode Island. It is not clear which church opened first. Records for both churches are missing information.

[[Techno]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic dance music, Techno music, Detroit, Michigan

Techno is a form of electronic dance music that became popular in Frankfurt, Germany during the early 1980s. It was influenced by synthpop, house music, funk, post-disco and futuristic fiction ideas that were important during the end of the Cold War in the United States at that time. Juan Atkins is generally thought to be the founder of Detroit Techno music. Detroit Techno first became successful locally and then became popular around the world in the 1990s. 

[[Dog sled]]

CATEGORIES: Animal-powered vehicles

A dog sled is a sled that is pulled by sled dogs and can go over ice and snow. Dog sleds were first made by First Nations people in Canada before the English and French got there, because they had no horses so they used dogs to travel. They were also made by people in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia because it was also easier to travel with dogs in parts of those countries.

Racing dog sleds is a popular sport which a lot of people enjoy watching or actually going in the sleds to race. It is more popular in places where there is not much horse racing.

[[Multiset]]

CATEGORIES: Set theory

A multiset is illustrated by means of a histogram.

A multiset can also be considered an unordered tuple:

[[Tom Brokaw]]

CATEGORIES: American television news anchors, American journalists, Writers from South Dakota, People with cancer, 1940 births, Living people

Thomas John Brokaw (born February 6, 1940 in Webster, South Dakota) is a popular American television journalist and is the former anchorman (host) of NBC Nightly News with Tom Brokaw. His last appearance as anchorman was on December 1, 2004. In the later part of hosting NBC Nightly News, the program became the most-watched news program in the United States. Brokaw has received many awards and honors.

Brokaw was diagnosed with multiple myeloma in August 2013.

On April 26, 2018, Brokaw was accused of sexual harassment by two women.

[[Tuple]]

CATEGORIES: Set theory

Tuples are different from sets:

In other words, tuples are like ordered multisets.

[[Manure]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Manure is organic matter used as fertilizer in agriculture. Manures improve the fertility of the soil by adding organic matter and lots of nutrients, such as nitrogen that is trapped by bacteria in the soil. Higher organisms then feed on the fungi and bacteria in a chain of life.

The term "manure" was used for inorganic fertilizers in the past, but this usage is now very rare.  Manure from birds and bats is called guano.

[[Nutrient]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology, Nutrients

A nutrient is either a chemical element or compound used in an organism's metabolism or physiology.  A nutrient is essential to an organism if it cannot be produced by the organism and must be obtained from a food source.

This article deals with nutrition in animals, especially humans. Nutrition in plants, fungi, bacteria and archaea is not discussed here.

[[Histogram]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

A histogram is a concept from statistics. It is a graphical display that tells us about the distribution of the samples involved. They are commonly a picture made from a table with many categories. The table tells how many samples there are in each category.

The word histogram is derived from histos and gramma in Greek. Histos means web or mast. Gramma means drawing, record or writing. A histogram of something is therefore, etymologically speaking, a drawing of the web of this something. 

[[Green manure]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Typically, a green manure crop is grown for a specific period, and then plowed under and incorporated into the soil. Green manures usually perform several functions, that include soil improvement and soil protection:

Historically, the practice of green manuring can be traced back to the fallow cycle of crop rotation, which was used to allow soils to recover.

[[Normal distribution]]

CATEGORIES: Probability distributions

The normal distribution is a probability distribution. It is also called Gaussian distribution because it was first discovered by Carl Friedrich Gauss. The normal distribution is a continuous probability distribution that is very important in many fields of science. 

The standard normal distribution (also known as the Z distribution) is the normal distribution with a mean of zero and a standard deviation of one (the green curves in the plots to the right). It is often called the bell curve, because the graph of its probability density looks like a bell.

Many values follow a normal distribution. This is because of the central limit theorem, which says that if an event is the sum of identical but random events, it will be normally distributed. Some examples include:

[[Biomass]]

CATEGORIES: Energy, Ecology

Biomass is a basic term in ecology, and in the energy production industry.

Organic waste such as dead plant and animal material, animal dung and kitchen waste can be converted into gaseous fuel called biogas. The organic waste is decomposed by bacteria in biogas digesters to emit biogas which is essentially a mixture of methane and carbon dioxide.

In ecology, biomass means the accumulation of living matter. It is the total living material in a given area or a biological community or group. Biomass is measured by weight, or by dry weight, per given area (per square metre or square kilometer).

In the energy industry, it refers to biological material which can be used as fuel or for industrial production. Biomass includes plant matter grown for use as biofuel, and also includes plant or animal matter used for production of fibres, chemicals or heat. Biomass may also include biodegradable wastes which can be burnt as fuel. It excludes organic material which has been transformed by geological processes into substances such as coal or petroleum. It is usually measured by dry weight.

[[Variance]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

In probability theory and statistics, the variance is a way to measure how far a set of numbers is spread out.

In practice, variance is a measure of how much something changes. For example, temperature has more variance in Moscow than in Hawaii.

The variance is not simply the average difference from the expected value. The standard deviation, which is the square root of the variance and comes closer to the average difference, is also not simply the average difference. Variance and standard deviation are used because it makes the mathematics easier—when adding two random variables together.

In accountancy, a variance refers to the difference between the budget for a cost, and the actual cost.

[[Tarzan's Treehouse]]

CATEGORIES: Disney, Tarzan (Disney)

Tarzan's Treehouse is a walk-through attraction in Disneyland in Anaheim, California. It was originally called the Swiss Family Treehouse. The treehouse explores the past of the Disney character Tarzan. The tree is fake, but is considered by Disney imagineers a real species or Disneyodendron eximus which translates to "out of the ordinary Disney tree". The tree has 1,400 branches and 300,000 polyethlyne leaves. The tree is covered in live Spanish moss.

[[Adam Małysz]]

CATEGORIES: Skiers, Polish sportspeople, 1977 births, Living people

Adam Henryk Małysz (born 3 December 1977 in Wisła, Poland) is a Polish former ski jumper. He has four Olympic medals (3 silver, 1 bronze). His longest jump was 230,5 meters. Since 2011 he is a rally driver.

[[Salome]]

CATEGORIES: 14 births, 60s deaths, Ancient Israeli people, New Testament people

Salome or Salomé (Hebrew: שלומית Shlomit)  (c AD 14  between 62 and 71), is the name of a character in the New Testament. Her name is not actually given there, but she was an entirely historical person. She was the daughter of Herod Antipas and Herodias. Her name is pronounced with a short 'o', and the 'e' at the end is sounded.

This Salome is not the same Salome who is said to be a witness to the Crucifixion of Jesus in Mark 15:40. 

[[Winchester College]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, Winchester, 1382 establishments

Winchester College is a well-known boys' school. It is an example of a British public school. The school is located in the city of Winchester in Hampshire, England. Its official name is Collegium Sanctae Mariae prope Wintoniam (or Collegium Beatae Mariae Wintoniensis prope Winton), or St Mary's College near Winchester. The school is commonly just called "Winchester". Winchester has existed for over six hundred years. It has the longest unbroken history of any school in England. It is the oldest of the original nine English public schools as defined by the Public Schools Act 1868. 37% of students go to Cambridge or Oxford.  

[[Buffy the Vampire Slayer (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 comedy movies, 1992 action movies, 1990s fantasy movies, American action movies, American fantasy movies, American teen comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Screenplays by Joss Whedon, Whedonverse, 20th Century Fox movies

Buffy the Vampire Slayer is a 1992 American action/comedy fantasy movie about a cheerleader (Kristy Swanson) chosen by fate to fight and kill vampires. The movie is a light parody. It goes against the clichés of horror movies. The movie led to a darker and much more popular TV series of the same name. The television series starred Sarah Michelle Gellar and was created and produced by screenwriter Joss Whedon. Whedon often said how the television series was more like his vision than the movie. When the movie was first released, it was moderately successful and received mixed reviews from critics.

[[Fran Rubel Kuzui]]

CATEGORIES: American movie directors, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people

Fran Rubel Kuzui is an American movie director and producer. She is best known as the director of the 1992 Buffy the Vampire Slayer movie, which was made into the television series of the same name.

[[Roseanne Barr]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 United States presidential candidates, 2012 United States presidential candidates, Actors from Salt Lake City, Utah, American comedians, American television actors, American television producers, American television talk show hosts, Writers from Utah, 1952 births, Living people, Emmy Award winning actors, American bloggers

Roseanne Cherrie Barr (born November 3, 1952) is an Emmy Award-winning American actress, writer, and comedian. She has also been known as Roseanne Arnold and Roseanne Thomas. For several years in the late 1990s and early 2000s, she was known simply as Roseanne but, by 2005, had resumed referring to herself by her maiden name, Roseanne Barr. She is best known for playing Roseanne Conner on the television series Roseanne.

The self-titled series was rebooted in 2018 on ABC with record ratings. A second season of the reboot (what would have been season 11) was eventually ordered.  However, ABC cancelled the series after Barr posted a tweet mentioning Valerie Jarrett (an aide to President Barack Obama) that was viewed as racist.

[[BI-LO (Australia)]]

CATEGORIES: Supermarkets of Australia, 1970s establishments in Australia

Bi-Lo was a supermarket with 214 shops all over Australia. It used to have shops in Western Australia called Newmart. It changed the names of all its stores to Coles Supermarkets in 2006 and 2007.

John Weekes started Bi-Lo towards the end of the 1970s in the city of Adelaide in South Australia with three shops. It was called Bi-Lo because it sells food and everyday articles at relatively cheap prices.

[[Sucrose]]

CATEGORIES: Carbohydrates, Chemical compounds, Sweeteners

Sucrose (common name: table sugar, also called saccharose) is a disaccharide (glucose + fructose) with the molecular formula C12H22O11. Its systematic name is α-D-glucopyranosyl-(1→2)-β-D-fructofuranose.  It is best known for its role in human nutrition and is formed by plants but not by higher organisms.

[[Disaccharide]]

CATEGORIES: Carbohydrates

A disaccharide is a sugar (a carbohydrate) composed of two monosaccharides, such as glucose and fructose that make up the disaccharide sucrose. It is formed when two sugars are joined together and a molecule of water is removed. Due to this, disaccharides cannot hydrolyse, meaning their molecules are unable to be broken down through a reaction with water. For example, milk sugar (lactose) is made from glucose and galactose whereas cane sugar (sucrose) is made from glucose and fructose. 

[[Biological hazard]]

CATEGORIES: Biology, Pollution, Safety, Security

A biological hazard, or biohazard, is anything coming from living organisms (i.e. pollen, fungi, animals, insects, bacteria and viruses)  that could be a threat to someone's health. It is represented by ☣, the biohazard symbol, which is used everywhere in the world. When people see this sign they know to take precautions, and to follow proper conduct for science labs.

[[Petri dish]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment

A petri dish is a small dish shaped like a cylinder. Scientists use it to grow cells from animals, fungus, and diseases so they can study them. They are usually made of glass or plastic. The glass ones can be used again if they are heated at 160°F. Sometimes people fill them with agar, which helps cells grow. These are called 'agar plates'. Many people use them in science classes at school. They have lids so germs in the air can not get into them, or contaminate them, and ruin the experiment.

[[IGA Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Supermarkets of Australia, 1988 establishments in Australia

Independent Grocers of Australia or (IGA) for short, is the largest independent supermarket group in Australia. It is part of the Independent Grocers Association which has shops all over the world. Each IGA shop is run by the local shopkeeper unlike big companies such as Woolworths and Coles which runs all of their shops across the country. A company supplies all IGA shops around the country and controls the use of the IGA name but does not own every one of each shop. The independent shopkeepers and their shops claim to be Local Heroes. There are over 1000 shops and three sub-brands.

IGA in Australia also has the Black & Gold brand name product range which first came about in 1980, the first such brand name product range to enter the independent food shops that are now called IGA. Now, it also has a premium brand name range also called IGA and a healthy range of products called IGA Way of Life.

Metcash Trading Limited is the company behind IGA and supplies the shops. Davids Holdings, Metcash's old name, brought the IGA name to Australia in 1988 with just 10 shops. Now, it has grown from 10 shops to over 1000 shops in less than 20 years.

The stores also have the Community Chest program, where they donate profits to local charities.

[[City of Chelmsford]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 establishments in England, Essex boroughs

Chelmsford is a borough in the county of Essex in the East of England. It has the same name as it main settlement of Chelmsford, the county town of Essex. About 170,000 people live in the borough. It was formed on 1 April 1974.

[[Communication studies]]

CATEGORIES: Communication, Social sciences, Media, Schools

Communication Studies is a college or university area of study involving the study of communication.  Students learn about speech and different types of media.

[[Belote]]

CATEGORIES: Card games

Belote is a French 32 card trick-taking game. This game requires four players divided into two teams. There are many kinds of belote : "belote," "belote coinchée," and "belote avec annonce". All of them come from a Dutch game, played since 1600.

[[Monosaccharide]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry, Carbohydrates

Monosaccharides are  the simplest form of carbohydrates. They consist of one sugar and are usually colorless, water-soluble, crystalline solids. Some monosaccharides  have a sweet taste. 

Examples of monosaccharides include glucose (dextrose), fructose, galactose, and ribose. Monosaccharides are the building blocks of disaccharides like sucrose (common sugar) and polysaccharides (such as cellulose and starch). Further, each carbon atom that supports a hydroxyl group (except for the first and last) is chiral, giving rise to a number of isomeric forms all with the same chemical formula. For instance, galactose and glucose are both aldohexoses, but they have different chemical and physical properties.

[[Lactose]]

CATEGORIES: Carbohydrates, Chemical compounds

Lactose is a disaccharide that is made up of galactose and glucose molecules. Lactose makes up around 2-8% of the solids in milk. The name comes from the Latin word for milk, plus the -ose ending used to name sugars. Lactose is found in some milk products.

[[Glycogen]]

CATEGORIES: Carbohydrates, Organic compounds

Glycogen is a polysaccharide that is the principal storage form of glucose in animal cells. 

Glycogen is found in the form of granules in the cytosol in many cell types, and plays an important role in the glucose cycle. Glycogen forms an energy reserve that can be quickly mobilized to meet a sudden need for glucose, but one that is less compact than the energy reserves of triglycerides. Only the glycogen stored in the liver can be made accessible to other organs. 

[[Pollutant]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology, Toxicology

Pollutants are compounds which are dangerous to the environment.

They can also be harmful to humans in the long-term range. They come from mineral and fossil sources or are produced by humans themselves.

Many pollutants have a poisonous effect on the body. Carbon monoxide is an example of a substance which is damaging to humans. This compound is taken up in the body instead of oxygen. That makes the body suffocate and in severe cases may lead to death.

Some pollutants became dangerous by reaction with other naturally occurring compounds. The oxides of nitrogen and sulphur are released from impurities in fossil fuels when they are burnt. They react with water vapour in the atmosphere to become acid rain. Acid rain damages buildings and makes lakes unable to support marine life, which causes fish and water plants to die.

[[Carbon monoxide]]

CATEGORIES: Toxicology, Organic compounds, Oxides

Carbon monoxide, with the chemical formula CO, is a colorless, odorless, and tasteless gas. It consists of one carbon atom covalently bonded to one oxygen atom. It is made when carbon compounds burn and there is not enough oxygen. It is a good fuel and burns in air with a blue flame, making carbon dioxide. It is very toxic, but it is useful for modern technology as well.

The most important use for carbon monoxide in industry is making iron from iron ore. The carbon monoxide takes the oxygen from the iron ore when heated in a large oven called a blast furnace. Liquid metal iron is left behind. The carbon monoxide turns into carbon dioxide.

Carbon monoxide can accidentally form when there is too little air to burn all the fuel into carbon dioxide. Such a situation may happen if the oven shutters are closed too early or if a mobile cooker is used in a small tent with no ventilation (Ventilation is fresh air coming in and smoke going out). Many people have died from carbon monoxide poisoning. Carbon monoxide poisoning can cause feelings of paranoia and hallucinations, and has been determined to be a major cause of "haunted" houses. Small amounts of it are found in coal gas, a fuel produced by heating coal without any air.

[[Schweinfurt]]

Schweinfurt is a city in Franconia. The population is about 50,000. Larger, nearby cities are Würzburg and Bamberg.

[[Falco]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 1998 deaths, Singers from Vienna, Musicians from Vienna, Pop musicians, Rap musicians, Road accident deaths, Rock musicians

Falco (born February 19, 1957 in Vienna, Austria as Johann (Hans) Hölzel, and died on February 6, 1998 in Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic) was an Austrian pop singer. His breakthrough was "Der Kommissar", which beat top positions in international charts. This song and his first two albums were produced by Robert Ponger.

His song Rock me Amadeus has been the one and only German-speaking song reaching no.1 on the US charts. From 1985 to 1988 he produced 3 albums with the Dutch Production Team Bolland & Bolland. "Falco 3" became his most successful record reaching number 3 of the US Longplay Charts. 

In 1985, Falco also had his 3rd No.1 hit "Jeanny" and in 1986 his 4th - "Coming Home (Jeanny Part 2)".

Unsuccessful albums like "Data de Groove" (produced by Ponger again) followed. In 1988 he married Isabella Vitkovic, one year later, in 1989, they separated. Ponger and the Bollands produced all of the albums that were released in his lifetime. To stay tuned Falco recorded many techno songs and worked with different producers for his last album.

His successful album "Out of the dark (into the light)" was released after Falco's death in a road accident.

[[Gabriel Pascal]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1954 deaths, Hungarian movie directors, Transylvania, Hungarian movie producers

Gabriel Pascal (4 June 1894 – 6 July 1954) was a Hungarian movie producer and director.

Gabriel Pascal was born in Transylvania (which is now part of Romania) in 1894. Pascal is best known for having turned some of the best plays by the famous Irish playwright George Bernard Shaw into successful movies. His most famous movie made from one of Shaw's plays was Pygmalion in 1938. Pygmalion tells the story of a bet that two rich men made over whether one of them, Professor Higgins, could turn a poor uneducated girl into a sophisticated lady. The movie was so successful that after Gabriel Pascal died it was made into a huge Broadway musical called My Fair Lady, and amazingly this musical was then made into another movie. So Pygmalion was first a play, then a movie based on the play, then a play based on the movie, and then a new play based on the movie made from the old play. It is therefore quite a remarkable history and it was Gabriel Pascal's idea to make the play a musical, though he did not live long enough to do it himself.

[[McLaren]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One constructors, Formula One current

McLaren Racing Limited is a Formula 1 racing team. McLaren was started by Bruce McLaren in 1963. McLaren's current drivers are Carlos Sainz Jr. and Lando Norris.

McLaren also makes road cars at its Woking factory.

[[Haylie Duff]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Actors from Houston, Texas, American movie actors, American pop singers, American television actors, Singers from Houston, Texas

Haylie Katherine Duff (born February 19, 1985) is an American actress and singer. She is best known for her supporting role on the television series 7th Heaven. She is the sister of Hilary Duff.

Duff was born in Houston, Texas. Her mother, Susan Duff, is a producer. Robert Erhard Duff, Haylie's father, lives at the family home in Houston. Haylie is two and a half years older than her sister.

[[20th Century Studios]]

CATEGORIES: Movie studios, Companies based in Los Angeles, 1935 establishments, Disney

20th Century Studios (formerly 20th Century Fox) is a large American company that makes, A huge company, it includes making movies ("motion picture studio") and TV shows. It is in the Century City area of Los Angeles, California, USA, just west of Beverly Hills. 

William Fox, Joseph M. Schenck and Darryl F. Zanuck from 20th Century Fox company the creators of Marilyn Monroe in were created 1946 respectively. Among its Fox's assets including Blue Sky Studios, 20th Century Fox Television, Fox Broadcasting Company, Fox News, Fox Sports and many more.

Before 2013, 20th Century Fox was a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company before it was split into two companies. After that, one of those companies, 21st Century Fox, became the studio's owner. On December 14, 2017, The Walt Disney Company said that it has acquired many of 21st Century Fox's subsidiaries, including 20th Century Fox. Thus, the studio is now owned by Disney and became 20th Century Studios.

20th Century Studios was formed in 1935 when Fox Film and Twentieth Century Pictures joined together to form the company. 20th Century Fox Television is a part of the company that makes television series.

[[Marquette, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan, County seats in Michigan

Marquette is a city in the U.S. state of Michigan. Close to 20,000 people live there. Marquette is in the Upper Peninsula, on Lake Superior and is an important port on that lake. Much of the iron ore that was taken from mines in the Upper Peninsula was loaded onto ships in Marquette. Marquette is in the United States of America.

[[John Taverner]]

CATEGORIES: 1490s births, 1545 deaths, English composers, Renaissance composers

John Taverner (born about 1490 – died 18 October, 1545) was the most important English composer of his time. He was also an organist.

We cannot be sure exactly when Taverner was born.  Some people think that he was a boy chorister at the church of Tattershall in Lincolnshire but his name does not appear on the list of choristers there.  People now think that he worked there later as a lay clerk.

He got a job at Cardinal College (now called Christ Church) in Oxford but he could not stay very long because  King Henry VIII made lots of changes to the way people had to worship in church.  Taverner even hid some books which the king had forbidden under the floor, and he got into trouble for doing this.  In the end the Cardinal did not punish him because, he said, he was “only a musician”.

In 1530 he seems to have gone back to Lincolnshire and stayed there for the rest of his life. He probably wrote no more music, but he was quite rich.

Taverner composed eight masses.  The most famous one is called the Western Wynde. It was a “parody mass”, which meant that it used a popular tune with that title.  Another mass was called Gloria tibi trinitas.  This work set a fashion for pieces which were called In Nomines, because the tune was from the Benedictus in the mass which sets the words “in nomine domine” (“in the name of the Father”).  “In nomine”s were compositions for instruments which used this tune.

Taverner also wrote magnificats and motets.

[[John Tavener]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2013 deaths, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, English composers, Knights Bachelor, Musicians from Middlesex

Sir John Tavener (28 January 1944 – 12 November 2013) was an English composer.

John Tavener was born in Wembley, Middlesex. He went to Highgate School in North London. Another pupil there at the time was John Rutter. At school he studied piano, organ and composition and wrote music for the school orchestra. He also wrote music for the Presbyterian church where his family went and where his father was organist. In 1962 he went to the Royal College of Music where he studied the piano at first but then changed to composition. One of his early successes was a cantata called Cain and Abel which was performed by the London Bach Society. It was the performance of The Whale by the London Sinfonietta in 1968 that made him really famous. This work used collage, pre-recorded tape, amplified percussion and a chorus who used loudhailers. This kind of thing was very fashionable in the 1960s.

Another work written in 1968 was In Alium. It was performed at the Proms. It was an unusual concert: three works by living composers were played in the first half. The audience were asked to vote for which one they wanted to hear again after the interval. They chose In Alium.

The Beatles became interested in Tavener’s music. John Lennon heard The Whale and he decided to issue Tavener’s music on the newly formed Apple label.

Tavener became professor of composition at Trinity College. He continued to compose, although he often had difficulty finishing pieces. He was often worried that he might not be able to think of any new music. In 1977 he became a member of the Russian Orthodox Church. This changed his life. His music was very religious. He married his second wife and had two children. He was also very ill with heart trouble and even died on the operating table in hospital, but he brought back to life by the doctors.

He made a very important friend, Mother Thekla. She was an 80-year-old nun in the Orthodox Church, and she gave John a lot of advice and encouragement in his life.

A short piece for choir, The Lamb was written as a birthday present for his 3 year old nephew. It is very often sung by choirs at Christmas as a carol.

In 1989, his work The Protecting Veil was performed at the Proms. It was a work for cello and orchestra. The cellist was Steven Isserlis. This piece is one of the best known modern works for cello. He continued to write a lot of music. His Song for Athene was performed at the funeral of Diana, Princess of Wales in 1998. It was heard on television all over the world.

Tavener was knighted in 2000.

Tavener died on 12 November 2013 at his home in Child Okeford, Dorset from unknown causes, aged 69. Tavener suffered many health issues. He suffered two heart attack and had surgery to remove an intestinal tumor.

[[Escape velocity]]

CATEGORIES: Astrophysics

Escape velocity is the initial speed that something would need to completely escape the gravity of a large body, like a star or a planet (such as the Earth), by mere inertia.

If a ball is thrown upwards while standing on the ground, the ball will reach a certain height (the faster thrown - the higher) and fall back down. But imagine if the ball is thrown fast enough that it never falls back down, and instead travels into space farther and farther away from the Earth. The minimum speed at which this could happen is called the escape velocity.

The escape velocity at the surface of the Earth is 11.2 kilometers per second (or 6.96 miles per second), assuming there is no drag.

This is, of course, a very high speed compared to how fast a ball can be thrown. Even a bullet shot into the sky will fall back down, because its initial speed of nearly 1 kilometer per second (or 0.621 miles per second) is far from escape velocity.

Spacecraft starting from the surface of Earth has a zero initial speed. But, if it has enough fuel, it may be permanently accelerated by its engine until it reaches escape velocity. Then it will travel into space even after the engine is shut off.

[[Razor]]

CATEGORIES: Hair, Cutting tools, Hygiene

A razor is a tool, with one or more blades, most commonly used by men for shaving the hair from their face, and by women for shaving hair from their legs and underarms. The earliest razors known are from the Bronze Age. They were made of bronze and had an oval shape. There are different kinds of razors today, including straight razors, which are rarely used, and safety razors and electric razors.

A slightly different type of electric razor is used to trim and cut hair from the head, because hair can be cut much more quickly with electric haircutting razors than with scissors.

[[Mood stabilizer]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs used in psychiatry

A mood stabilizer is a psychiatric medication used to treat mood disorders characterized by fast and unstable mood changes. Among the disorders commonly treated are  bipolar disorder and Borderline personality disorder. With these conditions, the mood can change rapidly, between mania and depression. Many mood stabilizers can also prevent convulsions.

[[International Baccalaureate]]

CATEGORIES: Education, Examinations

The International Baccalaureate, or IB, is a well-known advanced school program. It is taught in English, French and Spanish in more than 140 countries.

Students earn an IB Diploma after passing exams and completing the program requirements. They have to take classes in 6 subject areas. This is more than most countries.

The six subject areas are: Language 1 (first language), Language 2 (second language), Math, Science, World Studies, and Electives. History, Literature, Geography, and Economics are all World Studies subjects. Students also have the option of taking a second science class instead of an elective.

Students have to write a 4000-word paper called an Extended Essay, take a philosophy class called Theory of Knowledge, and complete 150 hours of CAS (Creativity, Action, Service).

Students have to do to 3 subjects at Higher Level (HL) and 3 subjects at Standard Level (SL). HL classes are longer and more complex, although SL classes are still somewhat more challenging than regular program classes.

IB is studied in most countries, but some schools study the IB differently.

[[Wolfgang Schüssel]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Austrian Roman Catholics, Chancellors of Austria, Government ministers of Austria

Wolfgang Schüssel (born June 7, 1945) was the Chancellor of Austria from February 4, 2000 until January 11, 2007. From January 2006 until June 2006 he was the president of the European Union.

[[Vaduz]]

CATEGORIES: National capitals in Europe, Cities in Liechtenstein, Municipalities of Liechtenstein

Vaduz (German: faˈdʊt͡s] or faˈduːt͡s]; Regional dialect: faˈdot͡s) is the capital city of the country of Liechtenstein. It has a population of about 7,500 people. 

[[Luxembourgish language]]

CATEGORIES: West Germanic languages, Languages of Europe

Luxembourgish is a West Germanic language. A lot of people in Luxembourg speak the language. It is quite similar to German and French. Outside Luxembourg, not many people speak it, and inside Luxembourg many people speak other languages, too. 

[[Jean-Pierre Cassel]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2007 deaths, French actors

Jean-Pierre Cassel (real name Jean-Pierre Crochon, October 27,1932 - April 19, 2007) was a French actor. He was the father of Vincent Cassel. He became known because of the roles he had in movies in the 1950s and 1960s. He died of cancer.

[[Sea cucumber]]

CATEGORIES: Echinoderms

Sea cucumbers are a class of echinoderms, the Holothuroidea. They have a longish body, and leathery skin. Sea cucumbers live on the floor of the ocean. Most sea cucumbers are scavengers. There are about 1500 species of sea cucumbers. Sea cucumbers have a unique respiratory system, and effective defences against predators. The Chinese people eat them.

Like all echinoderms, sea cucumbers have an endoskeleton just below the skin, calcareous structures that are usually reduced to isolated ossicles  joined by connective tissue. These can sometimes be enlarged to flattened plates, forming an armour. In pelagic species the skeleton is absent.

[[Yochanan Vollach]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni, Israeli footballers, Israeli military people, Jewish Israeli sportspeople, Jewish military people, Majors

Yochanan Vollach (יוחנן וולך), also transliterated Jochanan Wallach or Yohanan Wallach, born 14 May 1945) is a former Israeli football player who played at: Hapoel Haifa, Maccabi Haifa, HKFC.

He was a member of the Israeli national team that competed at the 1970 FIFA World Cup.

At 1979 he retired and volunteered as general manager of Maccabi Haifa. Vollach was the Major reason for Maccabi's success.

Vollach has a master's degree in business administration from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and is a retired Major in the IDF.

In recognition of his extensive volunteering to the sporting community as well as business success, he was awarded honorary citizenship by the city of Haifa, in 1993.

Today, Vollach is president of the Maccabi Haifa association and president and CEO of Newlog, a subsidiary of Israeli shipping magnate Zim.

[[Maccabi Haifa]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 establishments in Asia, Sports clubs, Sport in Israel, Football in Israel, Haifa, 1910s establishments in Israel

Maccabi Haifa is the biggest sports club in Israel, founded in 1913, and part of the Maccabi association. It runs several sports clubs and teams in Haifa such as football, basketball, weightlifting, swimming, tennis, table tennis, volleyball, team handball, water polo, ice hockey, artistic gymnastics, chess, boxing, fencing and others. Maccabi Haifa is well known for its green uniforms.

[[Hapoel Haifa]]

CATEGORIES: Israeli football clubs, Haifa, 1924 establishments, 1920s establishments in Israel

Hapoel Haifa F. C. is a professional football (soccer) club in Israel, founded in 1924.

[[Swalwell, Alberta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Alberta, Villages in North America

Swalwell is a small village in Kneehill County, Alberta, Canada. It is about 120 from Calgary, the largest city in the Province of Alberta.

Swalwell is at 51.568783. It has a population of 338 people. The postal code in Swalwell is T0M 1Y0.

[[Polysaccharide]]

CATEGORIES: Carbohydrates, Polymers

A polysaccharide is a complex carbohydrate. Polysaccharides are polymers made up of many monosaccharides. They are very large, often branched, molecules. They tend to be amorphous, insoluble in water, and have no sweet taste.

When all the constituent monosaccharides are of the same type they are termed homopolysaccharides; when more than one type of monosaccharide is present they are termed heteropolysaccharides.

Examples of polysaccharides include storage polysaccharides such as starch and glycogen and structural polysaccharides such as cellulose and chitin.

[[Alfred Gusenbauer]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Chancellors of Austria, People from Lower Austria

Alfred Gusenbauer (born February 8, 1960, in St. Pölten, Austria) was the chancellor of Austria from January 2007 to December 2008.  His party won the elections of 2008, and he was succeeded as Chancellor the new party leader, Werner Faymann, on 2 December 2008. He was the leader of the political party SPÖ.

[[Chinchilla]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents, Mammals of South America

Chinchillas are either of two types of species (Chinchilla chinchilla and Chinchilla lanigera) of crepuscular rodents. They are slightly larger and active than ground squirrels, and are found in the Andes mountains in South America. They live in colonies called "herds" at high elevations of up to 4270. Historically, chinchillas lived in an area that included parts of Bolivia, Peru, Argentina, and Chile, but today, colonies in the wild are known only in Chile. Along with their relatives, viscachas, they make up the family Chinchillidae. 

The chinchilla has the densest fur of all mammals that live on land. The chinchilla is named after the Chincha people of the Andes, who once wore its dense, velvet-like fur. By the end of the 19th century, chinchillas had become rare after being hunted for their soft fur. Most chinchillas currently used by the fur industry for clothing and other accessories are farm-raised. Domestic chinchillas come from C. lanigera are sometimes kept as pets.

[[Solubility]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

Solubility is the ability of a substance (the solute), to mix into a liquid (the solvent).

It measures the highest amount of substance mixed into a liquid solvent while they are both at equal amounts.  

When the two mix together it is called a saturated solution. Certain substances can mix into any amount of a liquid solvent. An example of this is ethanol in water. This process is better described as "miscible" (the ability to mix with one another). Solubility does not depend on the size, in fact even the large particles will eventually all dissolve.

A solute is a substance that is dissolving in a solvent and is the smaller part of the solution. A solvent is the bigger part of a solution and is the substance that the solute dissolves in.

[[SpVgg Greuther Fürth]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Sport in Bavaria

The Spielvereinigung Greuther Fürth is a German football club which plays in the country's top league, the Bundesliga. The club is playing in the Bundesliga for the first time after being promoted from the Second Bundesliga as winners of that league in 2011–12.

[[Taj Mahal (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: American blues musicians, American guitarists, American pianists, Singers from New York, Musicians from New York, 1942 births, Living people

Henry Saint Claire Fredericks, better known by the stage name Taj Mahal (born May 17, 1942), is an American blues musician. He has been performing and recording since 1964 and is still popular.

[[Floyd Patterson]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2006 deaths, African-American boxers, American Olympic gold medalists, Sportspeople from New York, Sportspeople from North Carolina

Floyd Patterson (January 4, 1935 – May 11, 2006) was an American heavyweight boxing champion and Olympic gold medalist. Patterson won the gold medal for boxing in the 1952 Olympic Games in Helsinki, Finland. He was the heavyweight champion of the world from 1956-1959 and from 1960-1962. Patterson is remembered as the first heavyweight champion to lose the title and get it back within a year. 

[[Clockwise]]

CATEGORIES: Basic physics ideas, Clocks

A clockwise movement is one that moves in a circle like the clock's hands: from the top to the right, then down, then to the left, and back to the top.

The opposite of clockwise is counterclockwise or anticlockwise. The movement is from the top to the left, then down, then to the right, and finally back up to the top.

[[Manuel Friedrich]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Rhineland-Palatinate

Manuel Friedrich (born September 13, 1979 in Bad Kreuznach) is a German footballer with the position of the Defender. He has played for the team 1.FSV Mainz 05 and at the moment he playes for Bayer Leverkusen. Friedrich has played nine matches for the German national football team since 2006. During that time he has scored one goal.

[[Bruno Kreisky]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1990 deaths, Austrian Jews, Chancellors of Austria, Government ministers of Austria, Jewish politicians, Politicians from Vienna

Bruno Kreisky (January 22, 1911 – July 29, 1990) served as Chancellor of Austria from 1970 to 1983. He is remembered in Austria as one of the people who helped shape the Austrian State Treaty. This treaty is the foundation of modern-day Austria. It was signed in 1955.

Kreisky was of Jewish descent. He was born and died in Vienna.

[[Viscacha]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

Viscachas or vizcachas are rodents. Together with the chinchilla they make up the family Chinchillidae.

There are two genera and four species of viscacha.

[[Incisor]]

CATEGORIES: Teeth, Mammals

Incisors are special kinds of teeth that can be found in some mammals, such as humans. They are the eight large flat  teeth with straight edges that are at the front of a person's mouth, in between the canine teeth, which are pointed. The straight edges of the incisors are useful for biting because they cut sharply. They come together like a pair of pincers. In a human, the two teeth at the middle of each jaw are called the "central incisors", and the side ones are the "lateral incisors". (lateral means "to the side"). Some humans never grow "lateral incisors" or have very small ones, particularly at the top.

In many mammalian herbivores (plant-eaters) these front teeth are used to cut off stems of grass and other growing things, that are then ground up by the molars at the back of the mouth. Some omnivores (animals that eat both plants and meat), like humans, have incisors like herbivores. In carnivores (meat-eating mammals) like cats, the incisors are often quite small. The canine teeth are  long and suitable for grasping and stabbing. Carnivores use their incisors for many jobs that need fine control, such as catching fleas, carrying a kitten or peeling the skin off a fish. If a dog or a member of the cat family needs to cut something with their teeth, they use their back teeth like scissors. 

==Gallery== 

[[Gerbil]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

The gerbils are a family of rodents. There are about 110 species of gerbils. All gerbils are adapted to arid habitats. At one time, gerbils were known as wild rats. Most gerbils are diurnal, some are crepuscular. The gerbil is native to Central Asia, India, the Middle East, and Africa. The average length of a gerbil is usually between six and twelve inches, this includes the tail which makes up one half of the total length. The gerbil is also a common household pet.

Species of gerbil include:

The Mongolian gerbil is one of around 110 species, but it is the most popular to have for a pet. The Mongolian gerbil was discovered in 1800 but was not studied until 1866. All domestic gerbils come from just a few gerbils from 1930.

A gerbil is smaller than a rat but bigger than a mouse. It depends on the species. From just mice and rats the gerbil has a tail with hair and it ends with a tassel. A gerbil is around 5-6 inches long but with the tail it is around 11-12 inches. There are bigger gerbils too like the Great gerbil who has a 7-8 inches long body and 7-8 inches long tail.

[[Muridae]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents, Old World rats and mice

Muridae is the largest family of mammals.  It contains over 700 species. These species can be found naturally throughout Eurasia, Africa, and Australia.  They have been introduced worldwide.  The group includes true mice and rats, gerbils, and relatives.

The family name Muridae is sometimes used in a broader sense to include all members of the superfamily Muroidea.

The Murids are classified in four subfamilies, and about 140 genera.

[[Muroidea]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

Muroidea is a large superfamily of rodents.  It includes hamsters, gerbils, true mice and rats, and many other relatives.  They live on almost every continent except Antarctica.  Some scientists have placed all members of this group into a single family, Muridae.  Sometimes there are difficulties in knowing how the subfamilies are related to one another. 

The muroids are classified in 6 families, 19 subfamilies, around 280 genera and at least 1300 species.

[[Pierre Boulez]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, French composers, French conductors, French LGBT people, Gay men, Grammy Award winners, LGBT musicians, People from Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Pierre Boulez (pronounced “Boo-LEZ") (26 March 1925 – 5 January 2016) was one of the most important French composers of modern classical music. He was also a conductor. He was born in Montbrison, Loire. He died in Baden-Baden.

[[Murinae]]

CATEGORIES: Old World rats and mice

The Old World rats and mice (called Murinae) is a subfamily in the family Muridae. It has about 560 species.  This subfamily is larger than all mammal families except the Cricetidae. It is also larger than all mammal orders except the bats and the remainder of the rodents.

Probably the best known genera are rats and mice. 

[[Castorimorpha]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

Castorimorpha is the suborder of rodents containing the beavers, the pocket gophers, and the kangaroo rats.

[[Arpeggio]]

CATEGORIES: Musical terminology

In music, an arpeggio is a group of notes in a chord which are played one after the other, instead of all at the same time. The arpeggio may either go up or go down, but it is more common going up. 

The word arpeggio comes from the Italian word arpeggiare, which means "to play on a harp". This is because harps are very good at playing arpeggiated chords. 

An arpeggio is a type of broken chord, but there are many different kinds.

Learning many musical instruments include playing scales and arpeggios. They are often played as part of music examinations, especially for piano and the string instruments. This is because these skills are useful for playing a lot of music. For example, Bach's Prelude in C (Bach C Major Prelude Werckmeister.ogg) is made of many different arpeggios. Guitarists sometimes play arpeggios instead of strumming, and banjo players do it a lot. 

An "arpeggiated chord" means a chord which is "spread". This means the notes do not start exactly at the same time. This is sometimes called arpeggiato, and in modern music is called a rolled chord. An arpeggiated chord is written with a wiggly line going from top to bottom in front of the chord. An arpeggiated chord is spread from the lowest to the highest note. Occasionally composers such as Béla Bartók ask for them to be played from top to bottom. This is shown by adding an arrow pointing down.

[[NKVD]]

CATEGORIES: Intelligence agencies, Soviet Union, Law enforcement agencies

The NKVD  (People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs) was a government department in the Soviet Union. It was the law enforcement agency which did the will of the All Union Communist Party. The NKVD underwent many organizational changes; between 1938 and 1939 alone, the NKVD's structure changed three times.

The public face of the NKVD was the regular police force, which acted in a similar way to other police forces. In addition to its state security and police functions, some of its departments handled other matters, such as transportation, fire guards, border guards (NKVD border troops), etc. These jobs were usually assigned to the Ministry of the Interior (MVD).

However, it is the classified (secret) activities for which it was really feared. This was the work of the Main Directorate for State Security, known as the GUGB. The NKVD also included the Soviet secret police. The GUGB protected the state security of the Soviet Union. This was done by massive political repression, including the use of sanctioned political murders and assassinations, especially in the era of Joseph Stalin, during the Great Purge. 

== Later publications ==  

After World War II, and especially after the end of the Soviet Union, there was a flood of books on the deeds of Stalin and the NKVD.

[[Spyglass Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: Movie studios

Spyglass Entertainment is a movie and television production company.  Jonathan Glickman is the current President of Production. Internationally, Buena Vista has released most movies made by Spyglass (with exceptions). The first movie released by the company was Instinct.

[[Hovercraft]]

CATEGORIES: Alternative propulsion, Vehicles

A hovercraft is a vehicle supported and moved by a cushion of air blowing downwards. They are used on water, land, ice and other areas where the surface is smooth. A difference in air pressure between the ship and the atmosphere creates lift, causing the hovercraft to float above the surface it is set on, allowing it to ride on different surfaces. They are often used as ferries and by militaries for amphibious, or on water and on land (like an amphibian can live in water and land) missions. A hovercraft can move cargo, people, and cars.

Like Hovercraft the same thing Hoverboard Which is also a true Self Balancing Board To Enjoy the Ride with a High Speed. Take a Look On 

The English engineer Sir Christopher Cockerell invented the modern hovercraft.

[[Duccio]]

CATEGORIES: 1255 births, 1319 deaths, 14th century Italian painters, 13th century Italian painters

Duccio di Buoninsegna, (c.1255 - c.1319) was one of the most important painters in Italy in the Late Middle Ages. He worked mainly in the city of Siena in Tuscany but one of his largest works was done for a church in Florence. He is most famous for his altarpieces of the Madonna and Child. Duccio painted in the Byzantine style, similar to Greek icons.

[[Castoridae]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

Castoridae is a family of rodents. Today, the only genus that has alive species in it is Castor. It contains modern-day beavers. In addition, about 20 extinct genera of beavers have been put into the family.

[[IUCN Red List]]

CATEGORIES: International Union for the Conservation of Nature

The IUCN Red List (also IUCN Red List of Threatened Species) is a list of species. The list tells for each species how likely it is to become extinct (or if it is already). This is called its conservation status. This list is put together each year by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN).

There are exact criteria to see if a certain species is threatened to become extinct. These criteria are the same for all parts of the world. The purpose of the list is to tell people how threatened a certain species is. Politicians can then decide on what needs to be done and the efforts needed to save certain species from becoming extinct.

[[Redruth]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cornwall, Civil parishes in Cornwall

Redruth (Cornish: Resrudh) is a small town in Cornwall. The name of the town means "red ford"; the parish church of Redruth is dedicated to St Uny. The district of Camborne and Redruth was once very important for the mining of tin and copper. Until 1974, Camborne and Redruth were included in the Camborne-Redruth urban district. In 2001 there were 12,352 people living in Redruth. The two towns with the village of Pool have more people than St Austell (Cornwall's largest settlement). In 2004, about 38,500 people were living in Camborne-Redruth.

[[Integrated Taxonomic Information System]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy, Science websites, Scientific organizations based in the United States, 1996 establishments in the United States, Biological databases

The Integrated Taxonomic Information System (ITIS) is an American organization. It works with several federal agencies to unify the information gathered about different taxonomy of biological species. It provides a common database for these agencies to use. ITIS was originally formed in 1996.

[[Yersinia pestis]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria, Plague

Yersinia pestis is a bacillus. It is a bacterium. It has been identified as the infectious agent of bubonic plague. This bacterium also causes other forms of plague- Septicemic plague and pneumonic plague. These three forms of the plague have been responsible for a high death toll in many epidemics throughout human history. These diseases are believed to be the cause of the Black Death. Because of the Black Death, about one third (one of three) people in Europe died. This was between 1347 and 1353.

The bacillus was discovered by the physician Alexandre Yersin during an epidemic of the plague in Hong Kong, in 1894. Yersin worked for the Pasteur Institute at the time. Originally, the microoganism was named Pasteurella pestis. It was renamed in 1967.

Currently, three varieties of Y. pestis are known.

Historians are currently divided about the role of Y. pestis in the Black Death. Some historians said that the Black Death spread far too fast. Therefore, Y. pestis could not have caused it. DNA from Y. pestis has been found in the teeth of some of the victims of the Black Death. For this reason, Y. pestis must have been at least a factor in some (but not necessarily all) European plague epidemics.

[[Leptospirosis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by bacteria, Animal diseases

Leptospirosis (also known as Weil's disease, canicola fever, canefield fever, nanukayami fever or seven day fever) is a bacterial disease. It is caused by spirochaetes of the genus Leptospira. This bacterium affects humans and many animals, including mammals, birds, amphibians, and reptiles. It was first described by Adolf Weil in 1886. At the time he reported an "acute infectious disease with enlargement of spleen, jaundice and nephritis". The pathogen, Leptospira-genus bacteria was isolated in 1907 from a post mortem kidney slice.

Leptospirosis is a relatively rare bacterial infection in humans. The infection is commonly transmitted to humans by allowing fresh water that has been contaminated by animal urine (often from rats) to come in contact with the skin, eyes or with the mucous membranes. 

It usually causes heart failure, kidney failure or liver failure, and most sufferers die if they are not treated urgently. The disease causes little concern, as it is quite rare

Except for tropical areas, Leptospirosis seems to occur most often in the months August to September, in the Northern Hemisphere.

[[François-Joseph Gossec]]

CATEGORIES: 1734 births, 1829 deaths, Belgian composers, Classical era composers, Legion of Honour, People from Hainaut (province)

François-Joseph Gossec (born Vergnies, 17 January 1734 — 16 February, 1829) was a South Netherlands composer.  He was born in what is now Belgium, but worked in France during his long life.  People hardly ever hear his music now except for one very popular piece of dance music called Tambourin.  He was famous in France in his time and had a lot of influence on French music.

[[Josiah Wedgwood]]

CATEGORIES: 1730 births, 1795 deaths, Potters, Smallpox survivors, Wedgwood family, Members of the Lunar Society

Josiah Wedgwood (12 July 1730  3 January 1795, born in Burslem, Stoke-on-Trent) was an English potter, who became famous for the industrialisation  of pottery. He was the grandfather of both Charles Darwin and Emma Darwin, Charles' wife.

Wedgwood was the first to use modern marketing: direct mail, money-back guarantees, travelling salesmen, self-service, free delivery, buy one get one free, and illustrated catalogues.

[[Tambourin]]

CATEGORIES: Musical forms, Percussion instruments

A tambourin (pronounced the French way) is a piece of music which was popular in France in the 18th century.  It is based on a folkdance from the Provence.  The music is made to sound like the kind of drum which is called "tambourin" in French.  Jean-Philippe Rameau wrote several Tambourins in his operas.  Other composers who wrote Tambourins include François-Joseph Gossec and Maurice Duruflé.

Tambourin also means a special kind of drum from the Provence.  It has a long, cylindrical shape and is played with one drumstick.  It is found in orchestral music such as Georges Bizet's L'Arlésienne Suite no. 2

[[Thomas Wedgwood III]]

CATEGORIES: 1685 births, 1739 deaths, Wedgwood family, Potters

Thomas Wedgwood (1685-1739) was an English potter. He was a member of the Wedgwood family, who were very successful potters.  He was the son of Thomas Wedgwood II and Mary Leigh.

Thomas Wedgwood was married to Mary Stringer.  Their children were:

[[Thomas Wedgwood IV]]

CATEGORIES: 1716 births, 1773 deaths, Wedgwood family, Potters

Thomas Wedgwood (1716-1773) was an English potter. He was a member of the Wedgwood family, who were very successful potters. He was the son of Thomas Wedgwood III and Mary Stringer and brother of Josiah Wedgwood.

Thomas Wedgwood was married firstly to Isabell Beech. Their children were:

[[Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach]]

CATEGORIES: 1714 births, 1788 deaths, Bach family, Classical era composers, German composers, People from Weimar

Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach (8 March 1714–14 December 1788) was a German musician and composer. He was the second of five sons of Johann Sebastian Bach and Maria Barbara Bach. He was said to be one of the greatest harpsichord players of his time.  He wrote a book called Essay on the True Art of Playing Keyboard Instruments (1755), which was used by Mozart, Haydn and Beethoven. 

[[Maria Barbara Bach]]

CATEGORIES: 1684 births, 1720 deaths, German people, People from Thuringia, Bach family

Maria Barbara Bach (20 October 1684–7 July 1720) was the wife of the German composer Johann Sebastian Bach.  She was also the mother of the composers Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach and Wilhelm Friedemann Bach.

[[Ligue 1]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Football in France, 1932 establishments in Europe, 1930s establishments in France

Ligue 1 is the top league of French football. A.S. Monaco F.C. from the Principality of Monaco, on the south coast of France, is in the league.

[[Serie A]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Football in Italy, 1898 establishments in Italy

Serie A is the highest football league in Italy. 

[[Oath]]

CATEGORIES: Society

An oath (from Anglo-Saxon āð) is a promise. An oath is spoken out loud in front of other people who can see and hear what is done and said. They are witnesses to the oath. A person who cannot speak can make a sign that they are "taking an oath".  Another way of saying that a person is "taking an oath" is to say that they are "swearing an oath".  

A person can say "I promise that I will do this..." or "I swear that I will do this..." 

When a person swears an oath they often show that the oath is very important to them by calling God to see and remember the promise, and to show that the promise is true, and cannot be taken back later. When a person takes an oath they sometimes raise their right hand, or put their hand on their heart, on the Bible or on another holy book.

Oaths are used in many situations when a person needs to be true to what they say: 

[[Jeffrey Archer]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, English novelists, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, United Kingdom Life Peers, Writers from Somerset

Jeffrey Howard Archer, Baron Archer of Weston-super-Mare (born 15 May 1940) is a British author and politician. He was a member of Parliament, Deputy Chairman of the Conservative Party and since 1992 is a life peer. His political career ended after an indictment for perjury. He is married to Mary Archer, a prominent scientist in solar power.

[[Return to Oz]]

CATEGORIES: Disney movies, 1980s fantasy movies, Cult movies, 1985 movies, English-language movies, Apocalyptic movies

Return to Oz is a 1985 Disney movie. It is considered to be a sequel of The Wizard of Oz.

[[Mordred]]

CATEGORIES: Arthurian legend

Mordred is a character from Arthurian legend. In some of the legends, he betrayed Arthur and killed him. He is said to be Arthur's son by his half-sister Morgan le Fay (also called Morgana or Morgaine). Mordred was born at Caerlon. Mordred was also said to have been killed by Arthur after he stole Excalibur from him. He was killed while Arthur was fatally wounded. His name comes from old Welsh. He was not a knight of the round table. In some legends he is a chimera made by Morgana with Arthur's blood and a range of magics, Mordred in multiple legends was known to be the thief of king Arthur's second sword Clarent, which was known as Arthur's Sword of Peace. This being the reason why it is not as well known as Excalibur, which was Arthur's Sword of War that was used to protect of Camelot. Clarent was a sword that would be present whenever Arthur would make a covenant of peace. The exception to the usually peaceful status of Clarent being the legend in which Morderd stole it and later used it to mortally wound Arthur just before being cut down in turn by Arthur.      

Category:Arthurian legend             bob

[[List of Miss America winners]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of American people, Miss America winners

Miss America is an American beauty contest. It is an annual competition open to women from the United States between the ages of 17 and 24. Contestants are judged on talent and interviews in addition to their physical attractiveness. It is run by the Miss America Organization, a non-profit organization based in Linwood, New Jersey. The corporation has developed the "Miss America Scholarship Program", which awards educational scholarships to successful competitors.

The contest began in Atlantic City, New Jersey in 1921. It was an idea of newspaper reporter, Harry Finley, to increase newspaper sales and to promote Atlantic City.12 The first competition had eight entrants.14 The entrants were selected by their local city newspapers and their prize was a holiday in Atlantic City, and to take part in the "Intercity Beauty Contest". This was held as part of the second annual Atlantic City Pageant. Margaret Gorman, "Miss Washington D.C.", a school girl from Washington D.C was selected by the Washington Herald. She won the "Inter-City Beauty, Amateur" and "The Most Beautiful Bathing Girl in America" contests. She was given the Golden Mermaid Trophy. Because these were awkward titles, in 1922 Gorman was renamed as "Miss America".

[[Firewall (networking)]]

CATEGORIES: Software, Internet security

In terms of computer security, a firewall is a piece of  software. This software monitors the network traffic between the inside and outside. The firewall is placed between the network that is to be protected (trusted) and the outside network (less trusted) aka WAN or Internet. A firewall has a set of rules which are applied to each packet. The rules decide if a packet can pass, or whether it is discarded.When a large network needs to be protected, the firewall software often runs on a computer that does nothing else. 

A firewall protects one part of the network against unauthorized access.

[[The Cask of Amontillado]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American short stories, Short stories by Edgar Allan Poe

"The Cask of Amontillado" (sometimes spelled "The Casque of Amontillado") is a short story by Edgar Allan Poe. It was first published in Godey's Lady's Book in November 1846.

[[Osei Bonsu]]

CATEGORIES: Ghanaian people, Year of birth unknown, 1824 deaths

Osei Bonsu (died January 21, 1824) was the Asantehene (King of the Ashanti). He ruled from 1804 to 1824. He died in Kumasi, and was succeeded by Osei Yaw Akoto.

[[Uther Pendragon]]

CATEGORIES: Arthurian legend

Uther Pendragon is the father of King Arthur in the Arthurian legend. His name, Pendragon, means the "Chief-Dragon", which means he is the "foremost leader" or "chief of warriors". He is mentioned briefly in Old Welsh poems, but his biography was first written down by Geoffrey of Monmouth in his Historia Regum Britanniae (History of the Kings of Britain). Geoffrey's description of him has been used in most later stories. 

According to the stories, Arthur is the son of Uther Prendragon and the Lady Igraine.

[[Chocolate milk]]

CATEGORIES: Milk

Chocolate milk is a kind of cold, sweetened milk drink made by mixing cold milk with chocolate syrup or cocoa powder and sugar.

In the United Kingdom, chocolate milk is known as a chocolate milkshake.

[[Chocolate syrup]]

CATEGORIES: Sweeteners, Syrup

Chocolate syrup is a thick, sweet, chocolate-flavored liquid. It is made from sugar and cocoa (or chocolate). Chocolate syrup is used to sweeten and flavor hot and cold drinks such as hot chocolate, chocolate milk, chocolate milk shakes, and poured on desserts.

[[Wetsuit]]

CATEGORIES: Swimwear

A wetsuit is a garment used by scuba divers, snorkelers, windsurfers, and surfers to keep themselves warm when they are in cold ocean water. Wetsuits act as insulation invented by Jack O'Neill, and help the body to retain its heat. Wetsuits are made of plastic or rubber materials such as neoprene. Wetsuits include torso coverings, leggings, head coverings, and hand and feet coverings.

[[Touch rugby]]

CATEGORIES: Rugby

Touch rugby, also named Touch or Touch Football, is a sport which is derived from rugby league. It minimizes body contact so that rugby players practice over the preseason and improve their handling skills without any risk of injuries. It also eliminates body contact to allow inclusion of both genders and people from all ages.

[[Coven]]

CATEGORIES: Occult

Coven is a word that first meant any type of meeting or gathering.  It is used today to mean a group of witches.  

[[First Geneva Convention]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine, War, Geneva Conventions, 19th century treaties, 1864, History of Geneva, 19th century in Europe

The First Geneva Convention is one of several Geneva Conventions. It is more formally known as the Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded in Armies in the Field, 1864. It covers the treatment of battlefield injuries and was made in 1864 as part of the making of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement.

[[Second Geneva Convention]]

CATEGORIES: Geneva Conventions, 1906 in Europe, 20th century in Geneva, July events

The Second Geneva Convention of 1906 is one of the Geneva Conventions. Its full title is  Convention for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded in Armies in the Field. It was made in Geneva, on 6 July 1906. It extended the principles from the First Geneva Convention of 1864 on the treatment of battlefield casualties. The Convention of 1906 should not be confused with "Convention (II) for the Amelioration of the Condition of Wounded, Sick and Shipwrecked Members of Armed Forces at Sea" (Geneva, 12 August 1949).

As of 27 June 2006, when Nauru adopted the convention, it has been ratified by 194 countries.

[[Disc jockey]]

CATEGORIES: DJs, Entertainment occupations

A disc jockey (also called a DJ or deejay) is a person who plays recorded pop or dance music for dancers or listeners and introduces the names of the songs using a microphone. 

[[Padniewko]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Padniewko is a village in Poland in Kuyavia-Pomerania voivodship. It has about 400 inhabitants and 4.95 km2.

[[Sierra Nevada (US)]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of California, Geography of Nevada, Western United States

The Sierra Nevada (Spanish for "Snowy Range") is a mountain range that is almost entirely in the eastern portion of the U.S. state of California. The range is also known as The Sierra and The Sierras. 

[[Flurbereinigung]]

CATEGORIES: Farms, Wine, German food, History of Germany

Flurbereinigung (pronounce: FLOOER-be-rye-nee-gung) is a word used in Germany to refer to the rearranging of fields in agriculture. During the second half of the 20th century, Flurbereinigung led to major changes in the landscape in the German countryside. 

[[Live 8]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in music, Concerts

Live 8 was a rock concert organized by activist Bob Geldof. The concert took place in nine places at once on July 2, 2005. Like Bob's Live Aid concert, Live 8 was made for helping out African citizens who were not getting enough food and medicine. However, this concert was not for charity. Instead, it was held to make people aware of the famine in Africa. Bob wanted to make the political group named the G8 give more to Africa. The concerts featured singers like Paul McCartney, Juan Diego Flórez and U2.

In November 2005, the concerts were released on DVD. The money used to buy the DVD sets was also used to help Africans.

[[Rigveda]]

CATEGORIES: Vedas

Rigveda is an ancient Indian religious book. It is counted as one of the four sacred Hindu writings, which are called Vedas. It is  the world's oldest religious writings. It is also one of the oldest writings in Sanskrit language. Rigveda is very important to Hindus, especially Hindus in India and Nepal. Its words are said during prayers and religious gatherings. It is dated up to 4000 years ago but on the basis of astronomical calculations it is dated back to 8000 years and some calculations date back it to 10,000 years.

Rig Veda mainly contains various hymns for praying to Vedic Gods such as Agni (Fire God), Indra (The lord of Heavens), Mitra, Varuna (Water God), Surya (Sun God) etc. These hymns are called Riks. Hence the Veda is called Rik-Veda or RigVeda. This writing consists of 10 writings. The Rigveda has 1,028 hymns and 10,600 verses.

[[Ecozone]]

CATEGORIES: Ecozones

An ecozone or biogeographic realm is the largest scale biogeographic division of the earth's surface.

These divisions are based on the historic and evolutionary distribution of plants and animals. Ecozones represent large areas of the Earth surface where plants and animals developed in relative isolation over long periods of time, and are separated from one another by geologic features, such as oceans, broad deserts, or high mountain ranges, that formed barriers to plant and animal migration. Ecozones correspond to the floristic kingdoms of botany or zoogeographic regions of mammal zoology.

Ecozones are characterized by the evolutionary history of the plants and animals they contain. As such, they are distinct from biomes, also known as major habitat types, which are divisions of the earth's surface based on life form, or the adaptation of plants and animals to climatic, soil, and other conditions. Biomes are characterized by similar climax vegetation, regardless of the evolutionary lineage of the specific plants and animals. Each ecozone may include a number of different biomes. A tropical forest in Central America, for example, may be similar to one in New Guinea in its vegetation type, but these forests are inhabited by plants and animals with very different evolutionary histories.

The patterns of plant and animal distribution in the world's ecozones was shaped by the process of plate tectonics, which has redistributed the world's land masses over geological history.

The term ecozone, as used here, is a fairly recent development, and other terms, including kingdom, realm, and region, are used by other authorities with the same meaning. J. Schultz uses the term "ecozone" to refer his classification system of biomes.

[[Amorphous solid]]

CATEGORIES: Matter

An amorphous solid does not have a definite geometric or crystalline shape. It is a solid in which there is no long-term order in the positions of the atoms.  Most classes of solid materials can be found or prepared in an amorphous form. For instance, common window glass is an amorphous ceramic, many polymers are amorphous, and even foods such as cotton candy and cotton are amorphous solids.

An amorphous solid is any noncrystalline solid in which the atoms and molecules are not organized in a definite lattice pattern. Such solids include glass, plastic, and gel.

Solids and liquids are both forms of condensed matter; both are composed of atoms in close proximity to each other. But their properties are, of course, enormously different. While a solid material has both a well-defined volume and a well-defined shape, a liquid has a well-defined volume but a shape that depends on the shape of the container. Stated differently, a solid exhibits resistance to shear stress while a liquid does not. Externally applied forces can twist or bend or distort a solid’s shape, but (provided the forces have not exceeded the solid’s elastic limit) it “springs back” to its original shape when the forces are removed. A liquid flows under the action of an external force; it does not hold its shape. These macroscopic characteristics constitute the essential distinctions: a liquid flows, lacks a definite shape (though its volume is definite), and cannot withstand a shear stress; a solid does not flow, has a definite shape, and exhibits elastic stiffness against shear stress.

[[Climate commitment studies]]

CATEGORIES: Environment, Climate

Climate commitment describes the fact that climate reacts slowly to factors ("climate forcings") such as greenhouse gases. Climate commitment studies attempt to measure the amount of future warming that is "committed" under the assumption of some constant level of forcings.

[[Plane]]

Plane or planes may refer to:

[[Slipknot]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, American rap music groups, Des Moines, Iowa, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups established in 1995, Nu metal bands, Roadrunner Records, Slipknot

Slipknot is an American heavy metal band from Des Moines, Iowa. Slipknot has nine members in the band. The current band members are Sid Wilson, Jim Root, Craig Jones, Shawn Crahan, Mick Thomson, Corey Taylor, Alessandro Venturella and Jay Weinberg. The first bassist from Slipknot, Paul Gray, died from an accidental drug overdose in 2010. Also, Joey Jordison was forced to leave the band. He is now working on his own projects. The surviving band members wear masks. Percussionist Chris Fehn also left the band due to suing band mates Shawn Crahan and Corey Taylor for allegedly duping him out of money in 2019.  The band has sold almost 15 million records worldwide.

[[Archie Moore]]

CATEGORIES: American boxers, Sportspeople from Mississippi, 1916 births, 1998 deaths

Archie Moore (December 13, 1913 or 1916http://www.boxrec.com/boxer_display.php?boxer_id=008995 https://web.archive.org/web/20030201030919/http://www.boxrec.com/boxer_display.php?boxer_id – December 9, 1998) was an American boxer. He held the light heavyweight championship between 1952 and 1962. Moore won the title from Joey Maxim by unanimous decision in 1952. He later lost the belt because he did not defend the title twice a year. Moore fought for the heavyweight championship twice, was the only person to fight  3 champions from 3 generations. He lost to Rocky Marciano on September 22 1955 and to Floyd Patterson on November 30 1956 (when Rocky's championship officially ended), in both of those attempts. One of his last fights was to Cassius Clay, later known as Muhammad Ali. Afterwards, Moore was Ali's trainer for a short time. They split because of differences on fighting styles.

[[Joe Frazier]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2011 deaths, African-American boxers, American Olympic gold medalists, Cancer deaths in Pennsylvania, Deaths from liver cancer, Sportspeople from South Carolina

Joseph William Frazier (January 12, 1944 – November 7, 2011) was an American boxer. He held the world heavyweight championship from 1968 to 1973. Frazier also won a gold medal in boxing at the 1964 Summer Olympics.

Frazier was born in Beaufort, South Carolina. He moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He learned to box in Philadelphia.

Frazier won the vacant world heavyweight title by beating Buster Mathis. He lost the title to George Foreman whom had knocked out Frazier in a 3 punch combo, breaking his eye socket, jaw, and collar bone. Frazier's most famous fights were rematches with Muhammad Ali. He beat Ali in their first fight in 1971 but lost the other two. The third fight was known as the "Thrilla in Manila".

Frazier died in Philadelphia on November 7, 2011 from liver cancer, aged 67.

[[Hodgkin's lymphoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Diseases caused by viruses

Hodgkin's lymphoma, also known as Hodgkin's disease, is a cancer of the lymphatic system, also known as a lymphoma. It was first discovered by Thomas Hodgkin in 1832. It is one of many kinds of cancers of the lymphatic system. Most of the time, the cancer develops in a single lymph node before it spreads to the rest of the body. The symptoms of Hodgkin's lymphoma change as the disease progresses. At the first stage of the disease, the person may feel a lump on the affected lymph node that does not hurt when touched. The person may have strange fevers, sweating during the night, and itchy skin. In the later stages of the disease, the person may feel very tired and their spleen may grow larger. In simple words Hodgkin lymphoma is a malignant neoplasm with features resembling an inflammatory disorder, such features include fever, and inflammatory cell infiltrates.

It mainly affects the young adults especially young men with exception of nodular sclerosis which frequently affects young women. The important histological finding is the presence of Reed-Sternberg cells.

[[Marvelous Marvin Hagler]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2021 deaths, American boxers, Sportspeople from Newark, New Jersey

Marvelous Marvin Hagler (born Marvin Nathaniel Hagler; May 23, 1954 – March 13, 2021) was an American professional boxer and film actor who competed in boxing from 1973 to 1987. He reigned as undisputed middleweight champion from 1980 to 1987. He was the world middleweight champion from 1980 to 1987. Hagler fought out of Brockton, Massachusetts. He won the championship from Alan Minter, in London, and successfully defended it eleven times before losing in a controversial fight with Sugar Ray Leonard. Hagler retired after that fight to live and work in Italy.

On March 13, 2021, Hagler's wife Kay announced that Hagler had died unexpectedly at his home in Bartlett, New Hampshire, at the age of 66. A wave of reports came out on Twitter, with thousands of people mourning the loss of Hagler.

[[Sierra Nevada (Spain)]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Europe, Geography of Spain, Andalusia, National parks in Spain

The Sierra Nevada, meaning "snowy range" in Spanish, is a mountain range in the region of Andalusia in Spain. It contains the highest point of continental Spain, Mulhacén at 3,479 m.

It is a popular tourist destination, as its high peaks make skiing possible in Europe's most southern ski resort after Ski Centre on the island of Crete in an area along the Mediterranean Sea predominantly known for its warm temperatures and abundant sunshine. At its foothills is found the city of Granada and, a little farther, Málaga and Almería.

[[Airline]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines

An airline is a company that transports people and items using airliners. An airline may have as few as one airplane or a fleet of hundreds of airplanes.

Most airlines offer regular flights between a group of airports.

An airline has many costs to establish and maintain air services: labor, fuel, airplanes, engines, spares and parts, IT services and networks, airport equipment, airport handling services, booking commissions, advertising, catering, training, aviation insurance and other costs.

[[Wax]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

Wax is an organic chemical substance.  It is a type of lipid. 

Waxes have the following properties:

Some waxes, like beeswax, vegetable wax, and paraffin (a petroleum wax) occur naturally. Another such wax is earwax, which occurs in the ear. Other waxes may be manufactured. People use waxes for various purposes:

[[Polyethylene terephtalate]]

CATEGORIES: Thermoplastics

Polyethylene terephthalate (aka PET, PETE or the obsolete PETP or PET-P) is a thermoplastic polymer resin of the polyester family. The chemical industry makes it. It is used in synthetic fibers; beverage, food and other liquid containers; thermoforming applications; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber. It is one of the most important raw materials used in man-made fibers. It is also used as the dielectric in multi-purpose capacitors (K73-16 series).

Depending on its processing and thermal history, it may exist both as an amorphous (transparent) and as a semi-crystalline (opaque and white) material. Its monomer can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid and ethylene glycol with water as a byproduct or the transesterification reaction between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct. Polymerization is through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers (done immediately after esterification/transesterification) with ethylene glycol as the byproduct (the ethylene glycol is recycled in production).

The majority of the world's PET production is for man-made fibers (in excess of 60%) with bottle-making accounting for around 30% of global demand. In discussing cloth uses, PET is generally referred to as simply "polyester" while "PET" is used most often to refer to packaging applications.

[[Nuclear energy]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear energy

Nuclear energy  is the energy that holds together the nucleus of atoms. Atoms are the most simple blocks that make up matter. Every atom has in its center a very small nucleus. Normally, nuclear energy is hidden inside the atoms. However, some atoms are radioactive and send off part of their nuclear energy as radiation. Radiation is given off from the nucleus of unstable isotopes of radioactive substances.  

Nuclear energy can also be freed in two other ways: nuclear fusion and nuclear fission. Nuclear fusion is the combining of two light atoms into a heavier one and nuclear fission is the splitting of a heavy atom. Both ways make big amounts of energy. They sometimes take place in nature. Fusion is the source of heat in the sun. Fission is also used in nuclear power plants to make electricity. Both fusion and fission can be used in nuclear weapons.

Nuclear binding energy  Nuclear power generates a number of radioactive by-products, including tritium, cesium, krypton, neptunium and forms of iodine some of which can be dangerous for millions of years. 

Nuclear energy production and use has been a controversial topic over the years. Nuclear energy can supply a very large amount of electrical power for use in cities, but the nuclear materials that make the electricity can be very dangerous for thousands or millions of years after they have been used. Countries have made decisions to use nuclear power based on their current energy demands as well as environmental conservation demands. Countries could venture into nuclear energy production to help meet the rising energy demand, to help conserve the environment by avoiding air pollution, and also as a long lasting replacement for the depleting fossil fuels sources of energy, but would have to ensure the ongoing safety of production and waste storage. There have been upgrades to reactor design to avoid nuclear energy accidents like those of Chernobyl and Fukushima, but accidents still continue to occur and ageing reactors are a safety concern. Countries using the nuclear energy production process to make dangerous weapons of mass destruction is a related concern.

[[Card Sharks]]

CATEGORIES: Television game shows, ABC network shows, NBC network shows, CBS network shows, First run syndicated television programs, English-language television programs

Card Sharks is a game show that has aired in different versions since 1978.

[[Family Feud]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 television series debuts, 1970s American television series, 1980s American television series, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, ABC network shows, American television game shows, CBS network shows, First run syndicated television programs, English-language television programs

Family Feud is an American television game show that has aired since 1976.

[[Bank of America Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League venues, Carolina Panthers, Sports buildings in the United States, Buildings and structures in North Carolina, 1996 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in North Carolina

The Bank of America Stadium is a sports stadium in Charlotte, North Carolina. It was built in 1996 for the Carolina Panthers. It used to be called Ericsson Stadium until it was renamed in 2004. The stadium seats 73,248 people.

[[Aston Martin]]

CATEGORIES: British automobile companies, 1913 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in the United Kingdom

Aston Martin Lagonda Limited is a luxury car company that was started in 1913 by Lionel Martin and Robert Bamford.

The company name is derived from the Aston Clinton hill climb and one of the company's founders, Lionel Martin.

The company went in and out of business a few times between World War I and World War II.  Lionel Martin left the company in 1926. The company was sold from one person to another many times until 1947, when David Brown bought it.  David Brown also bought Lagonda, and used Lagonda engines in his cars.  Aston Martin cars built when David Brown owned the company had the letters "DB" in the name. An Aston Martin won the 24-hour race at Le Mans in 1959.

David Brown sold the company again.  The company was having trouble staying open in the 1970s. Victor Gauntlett bought part of the company and kept it going with help from buyers of other parts of the company. In 1991 the Ford Motor Company bought Aston Martin and started making DB cars again. Ford owned Aston Martin until 2007 when they sold it to Investment Dar and Adeem Investments.

[[Sydney Opera House]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Sydney, Opera houses, World Heritage Sites in Australia, 1973 establishments in Australia

The Sydney Opera House is an opera house and iconic building on the shores of Sydney Harbour, in Sydney, Australia. It is shaped like the sails of a boat. Many concerts and events take place there, with 2000 performances a year presented by Opera Australia, Australia's national opera company. It is a famous tourist attraction.

[[Sydney Harbour Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Sydney, Transport in Sydney, Bridges in Australia, Steel bridges, 1932 establishments, 1930s establishments in Australia

The Sydney Harbour Bridge, in Sydney Harbour, is a bridge that joins north Sydney with south Sydney. People can cross the bridge by car, walking or by train. It now carries eight traffic lanes. Using six intended traffic lanes and an additional two that were formally tram tracks. 

There are two railway lanes that head in opposite directions. There is a tunnel that goes underneath. The bridge is an important tourist attraction. The scenery attracts many tourists and people living in or near the city. One of the many attractions of the Harbour Bridge is its famous 'BridgeClimb'. Luna Park Sydney is located next to the bridge.

The bridge is 1149 long and 49 wide. The highest point of the arch is 134 tall. Building began on 19 March 1923 and ended in 1932. John Bradfield led the bridge's building. 

The standards of industrial safety during construction were poor by today's standards. Sixteen workers died during construction,31 but surprisingly only two from falling off the bridge. Several more were injured from unsafe working practices undertaken whilst heating and inserting its rivets, and the deafness experienced by many of the workers in later years was blamed on the project. 

Henri Mallard between 1930 and 1932 produced hundreds of stills32 and film footage33 which reveal at close quarters the bravery of the workers in tough Depression-era conditions.needed''

The total financial cost of the bridge was AU£6.25 million, which was not paid off in full until 1988.34

[[Sydney Cricket Ground]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Sydney, Sports buildings in Australia, Sports in Sydney

The Sydney Cricket Ground is a sports field in Sydney. Many professional sporting events take place there. These sports include cricket, rugby, and the Australian Football League.

[[Darling Harbour]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Sydney, Transport in Sydney

Darling Harbour is a harbour in Sydney, Australia. It has many shops and places to eat, and people like visiting it. It also has the Sydney Aquarium.

[[Bondi Beach]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of New South Wales, Beaches, Sydney

Bondi Beach is a beach in Sydney, Australia, about one kilometre long and roughly seven kilometres from the centre of the city.

Bondi beach is one of the world's greatest beaches, and is one of Sydney's main tourist attractions.

Large numbers of tourists visit Bondi Beach throughout the year, and many Irish and British tourists spend Christmas Day there.

[[Stadium Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums, Football in Australia, Sports buildings in Australia, Buildings and structures in Sydney, 1999 establishments in Australia, Sports in Sydney

Stadium Australia, known for sponsorship reasons as ANZ Stadium, formerly Telstra Stadium, is a sports stadium in Sydney, Australia. The 2000 Summer Olympics took place there. Now it is used for many other sports, like rugby and AFL. The stadium opened in March 1999.

In 2002, the stadium was named after the sponsor Telstra. 1 January 2008 it was renamed the ANZ Stadium.

As "Stadium Australia", the name was sometimes confused with the Sydney Football Stadium, which was formerly known as Aussie Stadium.

[[Sydney Aquarium]]

CATEGORIES: Aquariums, Buildings and structures in Sydney

The Sydney Aquarium is a public aquarium in Darling Harbour, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. It has many fish, sharks and seals. There is also a seal show. The aquarium was opened in 1988.

[[Nigga]]

CATEGORIES: Pejoratives, Slang, English profanity

Nigga is a term derived from the racial slur "nigger". It is generally used by African-Americans (especially young adults), because other ethnic groups using it is considered offensive. The use for this word is for a good friend, it can also be defined as a substitute for "nigger" in a less serious tone.

[[Germans]]

CATEGORIES: German people

Germans (German: Deutsche) are the people of Germany. Descendants (children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren) of Germans in other countries are often called "ethnic Germans". There are many ethnic Germans in Belgium, Denmark, Russia, Poland and France, but also in countries such as the United States, Brazil, and Canada. In total, there are about 100 million Germans in the world. Germans speak the German language (Hochdeutsch = Standard German) and dialects such as Low German and Upper German. Most people in Switzerland and Austria are native speakers of the German language.

[[Employment Non-Discrimination Act]]

CATEGORIES: :American civil rights, American civil rights

The Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA) is a proposed U.S. law in the U.S. Congress.  If voted into law, it would stop an employer from firing an employee because he or she is gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender. The law would not apply to churches and other religious organizations.  It is also known as H.R. 2015. It was introduced on April 24, 2007.

The first proposed law to protect gay workers was introduced in the U.S. Congress in 1974, but none were voted into law.  In 1996, the proposed law failed in the Senate by one vote.  This is the first time a law has included "gender identity" in addition to "sexual orientation".

Currently, Californiahttp://finduslaw.com/taxonomy_menu/10/12January 2021, Connecticut, the District of Columbia, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington and Wisconsin have state laws that prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation and/or gender identity.

This is intended to address cases where gay, lesbian, bisexual and/or transgender ("GLBT") employees have been discriminated against by their employer because of their sexual orientation or gender identity.  These employees are not currently protected by the U.S. federal courts.

Opponents of the law often argue that sexual orientation and gender identity are a choice, unlike other protected factors such as gender, race and religion, and thus should not be equally protected. They also often argue that homosexuality is "unnatural" or "immoral". They also often present religious arguments against the law.

Previous bills have not included transgender people.  The new bill would protect transgender people, and its inclusion has been debated in the GLBT community. In August 2004, the Human Rights Campaign – an important LGBT organization in favor of the bill – said it will only support the bill if it includes transgender people.

In 1999, the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force was the first gay civil rights group to stop work on ENDA because it did not include transgender people. The group has worked to build approval in the community to support a bill that includes transgender people.  It participated in redrafting the current "trans-inclusive" bill.

[[Cthulhu]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in written fiction

Cthulhu is a fictional deity created by the horror writer H. P. Lovecraft. Cthulhu is a powerful monster from another planet. It (Cthulhu is neither male nor female) is very ancient compared to humans, being around since the dinosaurs. It has the alien appearance of a large green dragon with the head of an octopus and human-like hands. There are said to be many people who worship it as their deity because of his powers over the mind.

Cthulhu is one of the Great Old Ones, a group of powerful beings from another place that now inhabit Earth, waiting to rise up(when the stars are right) and destroy the human race so they can rule the planet. The Old Ones are neither good nor evil, meaning that they do not hate humans, they just do not care about them. They think of humans as if they could be ants. Also, their appearance is so unlike anything of this world, that it is said that any human who so much as gazes upon one of them will go insane.

In one of Lovecraft's stories, The Call of Cthulhu, he said that Cthulhu currently lies in a dreamlike state in the underwater sunken city of R'lyeh (rill-ee-yeh), waiting for the time when the Old Ones shall rise again. In the story, R'lyeh is located in the southern Pacific Ocean.

[[Diabetes insipidus]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Endocrinology

Diabetes insipidus is a medical condition caused when vasopressin does not appear in a person's blood. Vasopressin is released from the brain, and travels in the blood to the kidneys. There, it pulls water out of the urine, which reduces the amount of urine stored in the bladder.

If there is no vasopressin in the blood, the kidneys leave the water in the urine, and the bladder holds more liquid. This means a person needs to urinate more often. It also causes thirst. Increased thirst and urination are symptoms of regular diabetes (diabetes mellitus). That's why diabetes insipidus shares the name "diabetes."

[[Caecilian]]

CATEGORIES: Caecilians

The Caecilians are an order (Gymnophiona or Apoda) of amphibians. Most of them look like either earthworms or snakes. They burrow in the ground. For this reason, they are the least explored order of amphibians.

[[Bullet-proof vest]]

CATEGORIES: Protective clothing, Armour, Military

A bullet-proof vest (also called "bulletproof vest", "body armor" or "body armour") is a protective piece of clothing that covers the torso (chest, abdomen, and back) of a person. It protects the wearer from most pistol and revolver bullets and from fragments of explosive devices such as grenades. Bullet-proof vests are worn by police officers, soldiers, security guards, and people who are at risk of being shot (such as the leader of a country).

[[Dry suit]]

CATEGORIES: Protective clothing

A dry suit is a type of protective clothing worn by scuba divers who are swimming in very cold water, such as in the Arctic ocean or the North Atlantic ocean. A dry suit is similar to a wetsuit, in that it helps to insulate the diver's body from the cold of the ocean. However, a wetsuit lets water to touch the diver's body, but a dry suit is sealed so it does not allow water to touch the diver's body. This means that a dry suit offers more protection from the cold ocean water.

[[Gauntlet]]

CATEGORIES: Protective clothing, Sports equipment

A gauntlet is a protective covering that is used in some gloves and mittens. A gauntlet protects the wrists and the lower part of the forearm. Gloves or mittens for motorcycle drivers, snowmobile drivers, construction workers, forestry workers, and mountain climbers often have gauntlets. The gauntlet helps to protect the wrist and forearm from cold, and from being scraped or cut if there is an accident.

[[Nylon]]

CATEGORIES: Fibers

Nylon is an artificial fibre. It is one of the most commonly used polyamides, and was first used on February 28, 1935. 

Nylon makes a silky material which was first used in toothbrushes.  It is strong, hard and water resistant. It is used to make clothes. In fact, polyamides are mostly used for synthetic fibres in clothing. Nylon can also be used to make other materials, such as parachutes, ropes, string for tyres, carpets, fishing nets and cloth and socks.

Nylon was invented by Wallace Carothers at Du-Pont.

[[Forearm]]

CATEGORIES: Limbs and extremities

The forearm is the part of the human arm between the elbow and the wrist. It has many muscles including the ones that move the fingers.

[[Mountain climbing]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain climbing

Mountain climbing  is a hobby/job where people climb mountains. It may involve hiking, rock climbing, as well as crossing glaciers. Someone who does mountain climbing is called a mountain climber or mountaineer.

[[Figure of speech]]

CATEGORIES: Language, Writing, Figures of speech

A figure of speech is an indirect way of communicating an idea. Many figures of speech are not meant to be understood exactly as they are said: they are not literal, factual statements. They use indirect language, and mean something different from ordinary language.

Linguists call these figures of speech "tropes"—a play on words, using words in a way that is different from its accepted literal or normal form. DiYanni wrote: "Rhetoricians have catalogued more than 250 different figures of speech, expressions or ways of using words in a nonliteral sense".

Metaphors are very common examples. A common figure of speech is to say that someone "threw down the gauntlet". This does not mean that a person threw a protective wrist-covering down on the ground. Instead, it usually means that the person issued a public challenge to another person (or many persons).

There is no one easy way to distinguish plain speech from figures of speech.

[[Adobe Flash]]

CATEGORIES: Graphics software, Internet, Adobe software, 2002 software

Adobe Flash (formerly Macromedia Flash) was a rich internet application distributed by Adobe Systems. Adobe Flash and Adobe Flash Player were used to create and view animated content that could be placed on web pages. Adobe Flash was used commonly on the Internet by web browsers.

Flash was created by FutureWave (a multimedia company) in 1995. Then it was called "FutureSplash Animator" (this was in fact Flash 1.0). FutureWave along with Flash were soon bought by Macromedia around 1997, who in December 2005 was again bought by Adobe Systems. From Flash version 2 to 8 it was called "Macromedia Flash", now it is called "Adobe Flash".

In 2012, Adobe discontinued the Solaris version of Flash Player, and made the Linux version only for Google Chrome. The Android version was removed from Google Play.

In 2020, Adobe discontinued Adobe Flash, because of security issues.

[[Inheritance (object-oriented programming)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In Object-oriented programming languages, inheritance is a way to add functionality. Object-oriented programming has the notion of classes (and perhaps interfaces). A derived class inherits most fields and methods from its parent class. It can modify the behaviour of the parent, by adding new fields and methods, or by modifying existing ones. Depending on the programming language used, there may be certain restrictions when extending a class. 

Inheritance can be used to solve different types of problems:

An example can be a Car class. You could create a Ferrari class which would inherit from Car, and also make a Toyota class which would also inherit from Car. This way, all the fields and methods (drive method, brake method, color field...) would also be inside of Ferrari and Toyota, and you wouldn't need to copy the code twice. However, maybe inside of Car you could have a brand field. This brand field would be equal to nothing, but inside of Ferrari the field might be equal to "ferrari" and in Toyota to "toyota". Of course, you could not just create a Car, because otherwise that field would be missing. In order to prevent people from just creating a Car, you turn the Car into an abstract class.

[[Michael Jordan]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, African-American baseball players, African-American basketball players, American Olympic gold medalists, Chicago Bulls players, Sportspeople from Chicago, Sportspeople from New York City, Sportspeople from North Carolina, Washington Wizards players, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, American basketball players

Michael Jeffrey Jordan (born February 17, 1963) is a former American basketball player.  He is widely considered the greatest basketball player of all time. He won six championships and was the Finals MVP 6 times. He played for the  Chicago Bulls and the Washington Wizards. Jordan led the Bulls to a then-record 72 wins in the 1995-96 NBA Season. Jordan earned the nicknames "Air Jordan" and "His Airness" due to his leaping ability which was illustrated by performing slam dunks from the free throw line in slam dunk contests. Jordan won two Olympic gold medals with Team USA, famously playing on the 1992 Dream Team.  During the early part of his college career, he went by Mike Jordan, and he still uses Mike as a nickname to this day.

[[Lawrence Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American football linebackers, Sportspeople from Virginia, New York Giants players

Lawrence Taylor (February 4, 1959) is a retired American football player who played for the New York Giants in the National Football League (NFL). Taylor was famous for sacking the other team's quarterbacks. After he retired he got in trouble for doing drugs. He has since stopped doing drugs. He also appeared on Dancing With the Stars in the 2009 season.

[[New York Giants]]

CATEGORIES: New York Giants, 1925 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in New York (state), 1920s establishments in New Jersey

The New York Giants are an American football team. They are a part of the National Football League (NFL). Even though they are called the New York Giants they do not play in New York. They play in East Rutherford, New Jersey. New York is right across the Hudson river from East Rutherford, so they consider New York as home. The Giants play in MetLife Stadium, which they share with the New York Jets.

[[Hakeem Olajuwon]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, American Muslims, American Olympic gold medalists, Houston Rockets players, Nigerian sportspeople, People from Lagos, Toronto Raptors players, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, American basketball players

Hakeem Abdul Olajuwon (born January 21, 1963 in Lagos, Nigeria; pronounced ah-KEEM ah-LAH-zhoo-wahn), formerly Akeem Olajuwon, is a retired Nigerian-American basketball player. He is considered by some to be the greatest defensive player in basketball history.  Hakeem Olajuwon travelled all the way from his home country of Nigeria to play basketball in the United States. He won two National Basketball Association (NBA) championships with the Houston Rockets. During his career, he was nicknamed "The Dream", often extended to "Hakeem the Dream", due to his grace both on and off the court.  His best move was called the "Dream Shake".  He also called himself "Little Moses" after one of his biggest idols, Moses Malone, who played for the Houston Rockets while Olajuwon played for the University of Houston Cougars men's basketball team.

[[Ecomuseum]]

CATEGORIES: Museums

An ecomuseum is a museum which shows things about the identity of a place or landscape.  Many of the people who live in that place help to organize things in the museum.  The ecomuseum tries to help the welfare and development of the local community.

[[Scottie Pippen]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, American Olympic gold medalists, Chicago Bulls players, Houston Rockets players, Portland Trail Blazers players, Sportspeople from Chicago, Sportspeople from Arkansas, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, American basketball players

Scottie Maurice Pippen (born September 25, 1965) is a retired American basketball player. He played for the Chicago Bulls of the National Basketball Association (NBA) for most of his career and won six championships with the Bulls, although he also played with Charles Barkley in 1999 for the Houston Rockets and the Portland Trail Blazers near the end of his career.

In addition to his chemistry with Michael Jordan, Pippen was known for his defense.  His unusually long wingspan allowed him to clog passing lanes and make chase-down blocks.

Pippen went by Scott Pippen early in his NBA career.  Later on he earned the nicknames Pip, Robin (to Michael Jordan's Batman) and later Batman (Jordan was then called Superman).  Off the court, Pippen developed a reputation for not leaving tips at restaurants, and got the nickname No Tippin' Pippen.

Pippen's nephew Kavion Pippen currently plays basketball for the Southern Illinois Salukis.

[[Chicago Bulls]]

CATEGORIES: Chicago Bulls

The Chicago Bulls are an American professional basketball team. They play in Chicago, Illinois at the United Center. The Bulls are a part of the National Basketball Association (NBA). They were named the Bulls in reference to the Chicago Union Stockyards, which was once a major business in Chicago. The current head coach is Billy Donovan.

Michael Jordan played for the Chicago Bulls from 1984 until 1993 and from 1995 until 1998, leading the team to six NBA championships. In the 21st Century, Derrick Rose was the star of the Bulls until his injuries prevented him to play.

[[Barry Bonds]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, African-American baseball players, Baseball players from California, Living people, National League All-Stars, Pittsburgh Pirates players, San Francisco Giants players

Barry Bonds (born July 24, 1964, in Riverside, California) is an American Major League Baseball player. Barry Bonds was a left fielder for the Pirates (1986-1992) and Giants (1993-2007)He holds the Major League Baseball career home run record with 762 home runs. He is currently a free agent. He is not signed with any team and is currently not playing baseball. He played his debut in May 30, 1986, for the Pittsburgh Pirates.

[[Bill Russell]]

CATEGORIES: African-American basketball players, Boston Celtics players, Sportspeople from Louisiana, 1934 births, Living people, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, American basketball players

William Felton Russell (born February 12, 1934) is a retired American basketball player. Russell played for the Boston Celtics in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He won 11 championships; 11 is the most anyone has ever won in American basketball history.

[[Diving suit]]

CATEGORIES: Protective clothing

A diving suit is a type of protective clothing worn by scuba divers when they swim underwater in oceans, lakes, and rivers. Diving suits help insulate the diver from the cold temperature of the water. There are several types of diving suits, including wetsuits and dry suits.

[[Kilt]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing, Scotland

A kilt is a ceremonial article of clothing worn in Scotland. It is made of a thick, woven fabric with a tartan (checkered) pattern. It resembles a pleated skirt except that it is worn by men. It is still worn during ceremonies by some Scottish and Canadian military units and by people who play the bagpipes (a Scottish wind instrument). It is also quite commonly worn by men at weddings.

[[Straitjacket]]

CATEGORIES: Psychiatry

A straitjacket is a type of clothing used to restrain patients in mental health hospitals and psychiatric wards of hospitals. A straitjacket has straps that restrain a person's arms and hands. Hospitals put straitjackets on people who have mental illnesses such as schizophrenia or paranoia, to keep them from hurting themselves, other patients, or hospital staff.

[[Space suit]]

CATEGORIES: Protective clothing, Spaceflight

A spacesuit is the specialised covering of protective clothing worn by astronauts when they travel into outer space occasional cases such as extravehicular activity (EVA) or into the upper atmosphere. Spacesuits are completely sealed, so that an astronaut can survive in the harsh, cold, and airless environment of space. Spacesuits have their own heating and cooling systems and a radio communication system. Spacesuits also provide a supply of fresh air for the astronauts to breathe and create a normal atmospheric pressure. Spacesuits cover the entire body, and they have gloves for the hands and a helmet for the head, including a clear visor for the face. Astronauts wear spacesuits when they fly in the space shuttle, rockets, or space stations. For Extravehicular activity they wear a heavier, more complex kind of spacesuit. 

[[Weasel]]

CATEGORIES: Mustelids

Weasels are the genus Mustela, part of the Mustelidae family. The genus includes the weasels, polecats, stoats, ferrets and minks. 

Weasels are small, active predators, long and slender with short legs. Their body shape is adapted to going down burrows after prey such as rabbits. There are 17 species, and they live all over the world except for Antarctica and Australasia.

Weasels vary in length from 173 to 217 mm (6.8 to 8.5 in). They have red or brown upper coats, white underneath. Their tails may be from 34 to 52 mm (1.3 to 2.0 in) long. 

Biologically, despite looking a bit like cats, they are actually more related to  dogs.

[[Passport]]

CATEGORIES: Travel, Identification documents

A passport is a travel document that says that the person who owns it is a citizen of the country on the passport. A passport asks that the person carrying it be allowed to enter and pass through other countries. They also allow a person to re-enter their country. Passports are given by national governments.

Passports usually have a person's picture, signature, date of birth, nationality and country of birth. Many countries are now issuing passports with biometric properties. This helps confirm that the person carrying a passport is the real owner. These countries have passports that use biometrics: Malaysia, Australia, Greece, Israel, New Zealand, Japan, Portugal, Sweden, the United Kingdom, the United States, Germany, Ireland, Poland, Italy, Slovenia, Singapore, Thailand, India and the Republic of Korea .Many more countries are switching over to biometric passports because it can easily confirm the authenticity of the holder's identity. Passports are used so a stamp can be placed in it to prove that the identity of the holder has been confirmed with the immigration officials in the country of travel.

In 1920, the International Conference on Passports, Customs Formalities and Through Tickets made a law that said passports must be issued in French and at least one other language. Now, many countries issue passports in English and the language(s) of the issuing country.

[[University of Nottingham]]

CATEGORIES: Universities in England, Nottingham, 1798 establishments, 18th century establishments in England, 1790s establishments in Europe

The University of Nottingham is a university in the city of Nottingham, in the United Kingdom. It has four different sites in the United Kingdom. It also has a site in China and a site in Malaysia. It was named the 'University of the Year' in 2006 by the London newspaper, The Times.

The University of Nottingham is ranked in the UK's Top 10 and the World's Top 100 universities by the Academic Ranking of World Universities and the Times Higher Education - Quacquarelli Symonds World University Rankings.

[[Metastasis]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Metastasis is what happens when cancer spreads from its original place to another part of the body.  Cancer cells spread from the original site to other places in the body by traveling through the bloodstream. When the cancer cells stick to a new place in the body, they grow and form another tumor there. Metastasis makes cures more difficult, or in many cases impossible.

[[Dingo]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Australia, Canids

The dingo (plural: dingoes or dingos) is a mammal found in Australia and South-East Asia. Dingos are similar to domestic dogs. Dingoes were brought to Australia from South-East Asia about 4000 years ago. They are not found in Tasmania as the sea levels cut the island off from mainland Australia about 10,000 years ago. Most dingos in the wild are no longer purebreed dingos. Their scientific name, Canis lupus (wolf) dingo, changed recently from Canis familiaris (dog) dingo. This was to show it is related to the white footed wolf which lives in Asia.

[[Silk Road]]

CATEGORIES: History of China, Trade routes, History of Asia, History of the Middle East

The Silk Road was a group of trade routes that went across Asia to the Mediterranean Sea. This let China trade with the Middle East and the Mediterranean world.

It was called the Silk Road because silk was traded along it. At the time, silk was only made in China, and it was a valuable material. 

The Silk Road not only earned China a lot of money, but all along the route cities prospered and markets flourished. Cities like Samarkand and Bukhara were built largely on the trade from the silk route.

Trade on the Silk Road played a big part in the growth of the ancient cultures of China, Egypt, Mesopotamia, Persia, India, and Rome, and helped to make the beginning of today's world. The term Silk Road is English for the German word "Seidenstraße". The first person who called it that was a German geographer in 1877.

[[Isis]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Isis is a goddess in Egyptian mythology. She was known as the goddess of the moon. As goddess of life and magic, Isis protected women and children, and healed the sick. Closely linked to the throne, she was one of the greatest goddesses of Ancient Egypt.   

Her symbols were the ankh, her wings, and her throne headdress. She was the sister and wife of Osiris. Isis and Osiris had a son named Horus.

[[Osiris]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses, Afterlife

In Egyptian mythology, Osiris is the god of life, death, the flooding of the Nile, and the afterlife. He was the brother and husband of Isis. They had a son named Horus. Osiris was murdered by his brother Set because Osiris was the pharaoh, which Set wanted to be. Osiris was killed when Set tricked him into getting into a box, then poured lead onto the box to close it so Osiris could not get out of it. However, Isis brought Osiris back to life for one night. After Horus was old enough, he defeated Set and became the pharaoh. Osiris' mother was the goddess Nut, father Geb, sister Nephthys, and sister as well as wife Isis.

[[Privy Council of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United Kingdom

Her Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council is a group of advisors to the British Monarch. A lot of its most important work is done by two committees,

Some laws need to be made by the "Queen-in-Council", that is at a meeting of the Queen and the Privy Council. Some jobs are filled by the Queen in Council too. For example, when the Queen appoints a new Bishop or Lord Lieutenant she announces her choice at a meeting of the Privy Council.

[[Patrician]]

CATEGORIES: Roman people

A patrician was a member of the upper class in the two social classes in ancient Rome. They were rich and powerful. The other class was the plebeian class.

[[W.A.S.P.]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 establishments in California, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American hard rock bands, American heavy metal bands, Glam metal bands, Musical groups established in 1982, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California

W.A.S.P. is an American heavy metal band. The band was formed in 1982 in Los Angeles, California by Blackie Lawless, Rik Fox, Randy Piper and Tony Richards.

[[Virginia Tech massacre]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in the United States, 2000s crimes in the United States, 2000s in Virginia, April events, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 2000s, Attacks on schools in the United States, Crime in Virginia, Mass murder in the 2000s, Massacres in the United States, Murder in 2007, Murder in the 21st century in the United States, Murder-suicides in the United States, Murders by firearm in the United States, School shootings in the United States, Suicides by firearm in the United States

The Virginia Tech massacre was a school shooting on April 16, 2007, which took place at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, a college in Blacksburg, Virginia, United States. Seung-Hui Cho, a senior English major at Virginia Tech, who had been diagnosed with an anxiety disorder, major depressive disorder and selective mutism killed 32 people before killing himself. The killings occurred in two separate attacks on the campus. The first at around 7:15 a.m., when two students were shot and killed at  West Ambler Johnston Hall, a co-ed residence hall that houses 894 students. More than two and a half hours later, 31 others, including Cho, were shot and killed across Norris Hall, which houses the Engineering Science and Mechanics program among others, where three main doors had been chained. Victims were found in different locations around the building.

Among the victims the most notable was that of Professor and Holocaust survivor Liviu Librescu who died while shielding his students from the gunman. Librescu was killed after being shot five times.

Virginia Tech President Charles W. Steger and U.S. President George W. Bush attended vigils to honor the victims at the institution.

The number of people that died was more than any other mass shooting in modern U.S. history up until the 2017 Las Vegas shooting. Before then, the deadliest campus shooting in United States history was in 1966 at the University of Texas, where Charles Whitman climbed to the 28th-floor observation deck of a clock tower and opened fire, killing 16 people before he was gunned down by police. In the Columbine High attack in 1999, two teenagers killed 12 fellow students and a teacher before killing themselves.

[[Shakira]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Colombian singers, Dancers, Grammy Award winners, Latin Grammy Award winners, Latin singers, People from Barranquilla, South American philanthropists, Pop musicians, Shakira, Songwriters

Shakira Isabel Mebarak Ripoll (born 2 February 1977 in Barranquilla, Colombia), known as Shakira, is a two-time Grammy Award-winning and 10 Latin Grammy Award-winning Colombian-Lebanese singer, songwriter, instrumentalist, record producer, dancer, UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador and occasional actress.

Shakira is also a philanthropist. She has created the NGO's Pies Descalzos Foundation in Colombia, and the Barefoot Foundation in the US, to help children world-wide.

Shakira is also known for having made a song named "Timor" based on fighting in East Timor between gangs (groups of criminals with guns), security forces (small, personal armies), and the government.

The first single from Shakira's tenth album was released in January 2014. Shakira was released on 21 March 2014.

[[Joe Louis]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1981 deaths, African-American boxers, African-American military personnel, American military personnel of World War II, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Nevada, Sportspeople from Alabama

Joe Louis (born Joseph Louis Barrow, May 13, 1914 - April 12, 1981) was an American boxer. He was the world heavyweight champion from 1937 to 1949. Louis won the title from James Braddock. He made a record twenty-five title defenses before giving up the title in 1949. 

[[Larry Holmes]]

CATEGORIES: American boxers, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), 1949 births, Living people

Larry Holmes (born on November 3, 1949) was an American boxer. He held the world heavyweight championship from 1978 to 1985. Holmes fought out of Easton, Pennsylvania. He was nicknamed the "Easton Assassin."

Holmes won the vacant World Boxing Council championship from Ken Norton in 1979. He defended that title, and later the International Boxing Federation title, twenty times. Some notable fighters he beat in defense of his championship were Muhammad Ali, Leon Spinks, Gerry Cooney, and Tim Witherspoon. He lost his championship to Michael Spinks in 1985.

Holmes later fought Mike Tyson and then Evander Holyfield to try and win back the championship. Tyson knocked him out in the fourth round and Holyfield beat him by a twelve-round decision.

Holmes continued to fight until 2002.

[[Skiing]]

CATEGORIES: Skiing, Winter Olympic sports

Skiing is either sportive or recreational activity using skis for sliding over snow. Skis are used with special boots connected to them with a binding. There are two different types of skiing: downhill skiing and cross country skiing.

[[1966 FIFA World Cup]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA World Cup, 1960s in England, 1966 in sports, July events, Football in England

The 1966 FIFA World Cup was the eighth FIFA World Cup. It was held in England from 11-30 July. England was chosen as hosts by FIFA to celebrate 100 years of football in England. England won the final beating West Germany 4-2. This was England's first (and so far only) World Cup win. England also became the first host to win since Italy won it in 1934. Later Germany, Argentina and France won it at their homes.

[[Princess Taiping]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese royalty, Princes and princesses

Princess Taiping was a princess of Tang dynasty China. She was the daughter of Emperor Gaozong and Empress Wu Zetian. She became an important figure during her mother's rule as Empress in the second Zhou dynasty 690-705 AD.

Princess Taiping supported saving the Tang dynasty and the Li family. After the death of Empress Wu Zetian in 705, Princess Taiping joined with her nephew Li Longji (later Emperor Xuanzong) to get power for the Tang dynasty again. In 710, she and Li Longji stopped Empress Wei's plan to gain power.

[[Horus]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Horus was the Egyptian god of the Sky. He was the son of Isis and Osiris. After fighting his uncle, Set (Osiris and Isis' brother) he became the king of Egypt. During this fight, he lost his eye. The Eye of Horus became one of the most important symbols in ancient Egypt and Egyptian civilization. When Horus lost his eye, his eye set out on a journey of its own. When the other Gods tried to catch the eye, his eye began to cry. These tears became the first people of Egypt in Egyptian belief.

[[Seth]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

In Egyptian mythology, Set' (also spelled Sutekh, Setesh, Seteh, Seth) was a god of the desert (including desert storms), thunder, evil, pain and suffering. 

The word 'Seth' was first said as 'Set'. Because of changes in the Egyptian language over the 3,000 years that Seth was worshiped, the 't' in Set was pronounced so similarly from 'th' that the Greeks wrote it as Seth during the Ptolemaic period. Set was originally responsible for protecting Ra during his journey in the afterlife, personally slaying the great serpent Apep. Late period Set killed his brother Osiris, who had succeeded Ra as pharaoh, out of jealousy. Horus (Osiris and Isis' son) eventually defeated Set and claimed the throne. 

Set had three siblings: his brother Osiris and his sisters Isis and Nephthys (who was also his wife).  He also had a nephew Horus.  Nephthys married Set and Isis married Osiris.  Set and Nephthys had a son named Anubis. His father and mother were Geb and Nut respectively.

His color is red which represented evil in Egypt. He also possessed people when he wanted to. Set's consort was Nephthys. Set also had foreign wives Anat and Astarte. Set was unified with the key of trouble and death towards Ancient Egypt which made him deadly.

[[Shaka Sankofa]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2000 deaths, African-American people, American murderers, American rapists, American robbers, Criminals from Texas, Executed American people, People executed by lethal injection

Shaka Sankofa aka Gary Graham born Gary Lee Graham (September 5, 1963 - June 22, 2000). Sankofa was put to death for the murder of fifty-three year-old Bobby Lambert in Houston, Texas on May 13, 1981. The murder happened when Sankofa was seventeen.

Sankofa was found guilty of shooting Lambert in the parking lot of a Houston supermarket. He told police that he had done ten robberies that week, but did not kill Lambert. The government believed he has done as many as 22 robberies which had happened in that area during that time. One of these included Graham using a shotgun to rob a man who Graham gave a ride to when the man's car stopped working on the highway. During that robbery, the man tried to escape and was shot by Graham but he did live. While there was no physical evidence to link Graham to the murder, one woman was in the parking lot at the time and saw him do it. She said she heard the gunshot and turned on the lights of her car. She saw Graham as he started running and followed him out of the parking lot with her car. There were several other people inside the store but none of them saw the shooting. Sankofa's supporters brought his case international attention, aruging that his conviction was based on the testimony of a single eyewitness who said she saw him for a few seconds in the dark parking lot committing the murderhttp://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0006/09/bp.00.html https://web.archive.org/web/20070311083629/http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0006/09/bp.00.html 

and she was 30 feet away from the murder scene. The jury did not hear testimony from six other apparent eyewitnesses who believed that Sankofa was not the killer.

Sankofa put to death after many legal tries by his lawyers to stop it. These including an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court. By a vote of 5 to 4, the Supreme Court refused to stop the execution. Sankofa's lawyers also filed a civil suit saying the execution was against his civil rights. District Court Judge James Nowlin rejected that claim.

[[Juliusz Słowacki]]

CATEGORIES: 1809 births, 1849 deaths, Polish poets

Juliusz Slowacki (September 3, 1809 - April 3, 1849) was a Polish poet. He was born on August 23, 1809, according to the Old Calendar. September 4 is often given as his birthday but the calculation between days was wrong by one day. Slowacki is thought of as being as good a poet as most of the famous Polish writers. These include Mickiewicz, Norwid, Reymont (author of Chlopi), Wybicki, Krasinski and Sienkiewicz. He is buried in Wawel Cathedral in Krakow. This is the same crypt as Mickiewicz. He is considred third most important Polish poet.

[[Mistreat]]

CATEGORIES: Rock Against Communism, Punk bands, Finnish musical groups

[[Red dwarf]]

CATEGORIES: Red dwarfs, Types of stars

A red dwarf is a kind of star. Red dwarf stars are smaller than half the size of the Sun. They are also cooler than most stars. Red dwarfs burn their fuel slowly, so they shine with less light than hot stars.

Red dwarf stars are the most common in our galaxy, at least near our sun. However, since red dwarf stars are cool and small, none can be found with the naked eye. The closest star to the Earth is named Proxima Centauri. The Latin word proxima means "nearest to". Proxima Centauri is a red dwarf. 

[[Ali Khamenei]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Current national leaders, Heads of state, Iranian clerics, Iranian Muslims, Iranian politicians, Razavi Khorasan Province

Grand Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Hosseini Khamenei.ogg (Persian: آیت‌الله سید علی حسینی خامنه‌ای ayatollah Seyyed `Ali Ḥoseyni Khamene'i) (born 19 April 1939) also known as Seyyed Ali Khamene'i, is the current Supreme Leader of Iran. He was the president of Iran from 1981 to 1989.

[[Canon law]]

CATEGORIES: Types of law, Roman Catholicism

Canon law is the term used for the internal Ecclesiastical law of many churches, such as the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Churches and the Anglican Communion of churches.

[[Mstislav Rostropovich]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2007 deaths, Cellists, Russian conductors, Grammy Award winners, Azerbaijani musicians, People from Baku, Russian musicians

Mstislav Leopoldovich Rostropovich (born Baku 27 March 1927; died Moscow, 27 April 2007) was a Russian cellist and conductor. Many musicians say that he was the greatest cellist who ever lived. He played the cello with an amazing technique and musicianship, and asked lots of composers to write cello music for him. He got into trouble with the political leaders of the Soviet Union because he said that people should be free to say their own ideas and opinions. In 1974 he was exiled from his country and continued his career as cellist and conductor in the west. He worked hard to support peace and justice in the world. In November 1989, when the Berlin Wall came down, he took his cello there and sat outside by the ruins of the wall and played. He was allowed back to his own country after the collapse of communism. He received lots of medals and honours.

[[New Super Mario Bros.]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games, Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games, Mario platform games

New Super Mario Bros. is a 2006 platformer video game made and sold by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS game console.  It is the first Mario platform game in 2D on a handheld console since Super Mario Land 2: 6 Golden Coins in 1992. It was first sold in stores in North America on May 15, 2006, and was later sold in stores in Japan on May 25, 2006, in Australia on June 8, 2006, and in Europe on June 30, 2006. It is the first game in the New Super Mario Bros. series. A follow-up, New Super Mario Bros. Wii for Nintendo Wii, was released in November and December 2009 and a sequel to this game and follow-up to the Wii version, New Super Mario Bros. 2 was released on the Nintendo 3DS in August 2012.

[[Galina Vishnevskaya]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2012 deaths, Russian opera singers, Russian singers, Sopranos

Galina Vishnevskaya (born Leningrad, October 25, 1926 - December 11, 2012) was a Russian opera singer and recitalist.

[[Voting system]]

CATEGORIES: Voting systems

The voting system is a set of rules about the way people vote and how the votes are counted. Different countries have different voting systems. There are many different types of voting system. One of the first voting systems to be used is called "first-past-the-post". Under this system each voter writes an "x" next to their chosen candidate. At the end, the votes are counted. The candidate with the most votes wins. Some people think that first-past-the-post is unfair because they believe that many votes are wasted.

[[Single transferable vote]]

CATEGORIES: Voting systems

Single transferable vote (STV for short) is a type of voting system that gives proportional representation. It is used to elect more than one person (though it becomes Instant Runoff Voting in one-winner elections), and voters rank the candidates when voting.

[[Individual Savings Account]]

CATEGORIES: Money

An Individual Savings Account is called an ISA.  It is a special type of bank account in United Kingdom. It was started on 6 April 1999. Before that, Personal Equity Plans (PEPs) and Tax-Exempt Special Savings Accounts (TESSAs) were used. You can put £3600 or less in an ISA every year. It is special because you do not pay any tax on the  interest you get.

[[Bound for Glory]]

CATEGORIES: American heavy metal bands, Musical groups from Minnesota, Rock Against Communism, Thrash metal bands

Bound for Glory is a Neo-Nazi thrash metal/Rock Against Communism band from Minnesota, USA. The band was formed in 1989. They are one of the best known and oldest bands of their genre in the United States.

In October 2016, Bound for Glory planned to play a concert in Falkirk, Scotland. A public outcry by the Scottish people, including anti-racist groups like Hope Not Hate, caused the event to be cancelled.

[[Neo-Nazism]]

CATEGORIES: Neo-Nazism

Neo-Nazism means the ideology of some political groups who want to return to the beliefs and practices of Nazism after the end of World War II. Different groups have their own sets of beliefs and practices. Neo-Nazis believe in loyalty to Adolf Hitler, hating Jews (anti-Semitism), racism, belief in a Germanic master race, xenophobia (hating and fearing people from different countries), extremist nationalism, supremacy, militarism, and hatred of homosexuals (homophobia).  

Neo-Nazis often use the symbols of Nazi Germany such as the swastika. Neo-Nazism has been linked to far-right political parties in England such as the National Front and the British Nationalist Party as well as being linked to the skinhead sub-culture.

[[Bengali]]

Bengali might mean:

[[Israeli West Bank barrier]]

CATEGORIES: Arab–Israeli conflict, Buildings and structures in Israel, Buildings and structures in Palestine, Politics of Palestine, Walls, West Bank

Israel-West-Bank barrier is a wall built by the State of Israel to separate Palestinian territories from Israel. It is built mostly of fences and in some places it is built of high concrete walls. It is 708 kilometers (439 miles) long.

[[Joey Maxim]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2001 deaths, American boxers, Sportspeople from Cleveland, Ohio

Joey Maxim (born Giuseppe Antonio Berardinelli March 28, 1922 - June 2, 2001) was an American boxer. He was the light heavyweight boxing champion of the world from 1951 to 1952. Archie Moore beat him by decision over 15 rounds for the light heavyweight championship in 1952. During Maxim's time as champion, he beat Sugar Ray Robinson in a title defense. He also tried to win the heavyweight championship during this time, but Ezzard Charles beat him by a unanimous decision.

In 1954, Maxim gave future world heavyweight champion Floyd Patterson his first pro defeat by unanimous decision in eight rounds.

[[Armed Islamic Group]]

CATEGORIES: History of Algeria, Islamic terrorism

The Armed Islamic Group (GIA, from French Groupe Islamique Armé; Arabic الجماعة الإسلامية المسلّحة‎,  al-Jama'ah al-Islamiyah al-Musallaha) was an Islamist terrorist organization based in Algeria. It wanted to overthrow the Algerian government and replace it with an Islamic state. The GIA adopted violent tactics in 1992 after the military government did not recognise the victory of the Islamic Salvation Front in the first round of elections held in December 1991. The Islamic Salvation Front was the largest Islamic opposition party at the time.

Between 1992 and 1998 the GIA led a violent campaign. They killed many civilians. Sometimes they wiped out entire villages in its area of operation (see List of Algerian massacres of the 1990s; notably the Bentalha massacre and Rais massacre, among others). After announcing its campaign against foreigners living in Algeria in 1993, the GIA killed more than 100 expatriate men and women in the country. The group used assassinations and bombings, including car bombs. It is known to have favored kidnapping victims and slitting their throats. The GIA was considered a terrorist organization by the governments of Algeria, France and the United States. Outside of Algeria, the GIA established a presence in France, Belgium, the UK, Italy and the United States.

[[Takfir wal-Hijra]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s establishments, Islamic terrorism, Rebel militia groups in Africa, Religion in Egypt

Takfir wal-Hijra (تكفير والهجرة - Excommunication and Exodus) is a violent radical Islamist extremist group. The group that was founded in Egypt in the 1960s. Today Takfir wal-Hijra has members or supporters in several other countries, allied to Al-Qaeda.March 2007 In Spain the group is also known as Martyrs for Morocco. 

Members of the group are radical Islamists. It looks like the members of the group are not bound by the usual Islamic religious constraints. They adopt non-Islamic appearances. They might  shave their beard or wear a tie. They do this to be hard to detect in crowds. Sometimes, even other Muslims have problems detecting them. They can drink alcohol and even eat pork to deceive their enemies. They believe that any means justify the end and, that killing other Muslims can be justified in their cause and that Western society is heathen and it is their duty to destroy it.

Little is known about the current organization or hierarchy of the group. Several groups which adhere to the same ideology have possibly used the name independently of each other.

[[Ma'at]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

In Egyptian mythology, Ma'at, pronounced as 'Muh-aht', is goddess of law, morality, and justice. Ma'at was supposed the stars, seasons, and the actions of both people and gods. Her first role in Egyptian mythology was the weighing of words that took place in the underworld, Duat.

[[Sermon on the Mount]]

CATEGORIES: Speeches, Jesus Christ, Gospels

According to the Bible, the Sermon on the Mount was a speech that Jesus of Nazareth gave to his followers and a large group of people around AD 30. Jesus gave the speech on the side of a mountain. The most popular part of the speech is the Beatitudes, which are at the beginning. The Sermon also contains the Lord's Prayer. Other popular lines from the Sermon on the Mount are "turn the other cheek," "salt of the Earth," "light of the world," and "judge not, that ye be not judged." 

Many Christians believe the Sermon on the Mount is related to the Ten Commandments. They believe that both are very important in explaining how Christians should act towards others.  In choosing the mountain as the setting for this sermon, Jesus may have meant to show how His teachings were similar to those of Moses who brought the Ten Commandments down from Mount Sinai. Gospel Jesus

[[Irmo, South Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Carolina

Irmo is a town 12 miles outside of Columbia, South Carolina. There were 11,039 people living in Irmo as of the year 2000.

[[Mediterranean climate]]

CATEGORIES: Climate, Köppen climate classifications

A  Mediterranean climate is a climate that has dry summers that are hot or warm as well as winters that are cool or mild with moderate or high rainfall. It includes the climate of much of the land near the Mediterranean Sea. Outside the Mediterranean, one can find this climate only in rather small areas. It is found in many places that are roughly between latitudes 30° to 45° north and south of the equator.

In the Köppen climate classification, it is split between hot-summer Mediterranean (Csa), warm-summer Mediterranean (Csb) and cool-summer Mediterranean (Csc). Examples of Csa are Rome, Lisbon and Adelaide. Examples of Csb are Porto, Cape Town and San Francisco. Csc only occurs at very high altitude.

[[Hans Richter]]

CATEGORIES: 1843 births, 1916 deaths, Austrian conductors, Hungarian conductors

Hans Richter (born as Raab (now Györ) 4 April 1843; died Bayreuth 5 December 1916) was an Austro-Hungarian conductor.  His name was originally János Richter.

Richter came from a musical family and studied violin, horn and music theory at the Vienna Conservatory.  He became famous for his conducting of the music of Richard Wagner, Anton Bruckner and Johannes Brahms.

Richter helped Wagner to prepare the printed musical scores of Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg and the four operas in the cycle Der Ring des Nibelungen.  He conducted a lot in Vienna and at the Bayreuth Opera House which Wagner had built for the performance of his own operas.

Later he became very popular in England and lived in Manchester.  He was conductor of the Hallé Orchestra and director of the Birmingham Music Festival.  He conducted German operas at Covent Garden and in 1909 he conducted Wagner’s Ring cycle which was being performed in English for the first time.

When he retired he lived in Bayreuth until his death.

Richter helped the English audiences to get to know the music of Wagner, Dvořák and Elgar.  Elgar dedicated his First Symphony to Hans Richter, describing him as a “true artist and true friend”.

[[Thylacine]]

CATEGORIES: Dasyuromorphia, Marsupials of Australia

Thylacine was a carnivorous (mainly meat eating) marsupial animal. The Thylacine was also known as a Tasmanian tiger, a Tasmanian wolf and a Tasmanian hyena. The last known Thylacine died in a Hobart zoo on 7 September 1936. They once lived across Australia and New Guinea. There are paintings of the animals in the north of Western Australia, and in the Northern Territory. At Riversleigh in north Queensland, scientists have discovered the fossil bones of thylacines that are at least 30 million years old.

[[Rock Against Communism]]

CATEGORIES: Rock Against Communism

Rock Against Communism (RAC) is a type of rock music. It started as a series of Neo-Nazi concerts in the United Kingdom in the late 1970s and 1980s. The first RAC concert was in Leeds, England in 1978.

[[List of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer movies]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of movies, MGM movies

This is a selected list of feature movies made by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Zoo Tycoon 2]]

CATEGORIES: Zoo Tycoon, 2004 video games

Zoo Tycoon 2 is a 2004 simulation computer game. In the game, the player must create and run a zoo. This is done by managing its finances, employees and animal exhibits. The goal is to become a "zoo tycoon".

The game is a sequel the 2001 game Zoo Tycoon. Six expansion packs have been created for the game. The latest is Zoo Tycoon 2: Extinct Animals.

[[Zoo Tycoon]]

CATEGORIES: Zoo Tycoon, 2001 video games

Zoo Tycoon is a simulation computer game. It was developed by Blue Fang Games and released by Microsoft Game Studios. It is a game in which the player must run a business, in this case a zoo, and try to earn money. Zoo Tycoon was followed by Zoo Tycoon 2 in 2004.

[[Chapel]]

CATEGORIES: Churches

A chapel is a place for Christian worship. The word is used in several different ways. Generally, a chapel is a place of worship that is not a church which belongs to a parish in a village or town, but is more private or has a special purpose. 

[[Clandestine chemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry, Illegal drugs

Clandestine chemistry is chemistry that occurs in a lab that is used for making illegal drugs, usually using unsafe equipment. The use of this unsafe laboratory equipment will sometimes result in explosions, fires or heavy flows of noxious fumes. Meth labs are the main form of clandestine laboratories and are used for making methamphetamine (Crystal Meth), a kind of illegal drug. "Clandestine" means "secret". 

[[Flask]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment, Glass, Containers

A flask is a type of container made of glass. They are a common piece of apparatus used in laboratories. Their size are chosen by the volume they can hold, and is measured in metric units, like litres (L) or mililitres (mL). Their shape depends on what they are used for, but they usually consist of a wider body, which contains the materials, and a more narrow neck with an opening at the top. The opening is the way to insert materials into the body. Some flasks have more than one neck and opening at the top.

Flasks are used to contain substances. They are usually made of glass or borosilicate glass (Pyrex). This is to ensure that the substances inside the flask do not react with the flask itself, due to the volatile nature of many chemicals (such as hydrochloric acid), They can be used to heat a substance. There are many different types of laboratory flasks. They differ in their shape and what they are used for. The most common types of flask are:

Flasks can be used to make and hold solutions, to measure chemicals, and to contain chemical reactions like boiling, precipitation and analysis.

[[Ebermannstadt]]

Ebermannstadt is a German town in the district of Forchheim, Bavaria, Germany. The population of the town is about 7,000. The next largest cities are: Forchheim, Bayreuth, Bamberg, Kulmbach and Erlangen. The city parts of Ebermannstadt are:

[[Franks]]

CATEGORIES: Germanic tribes, Belgian people, Dutch people, French people, German people, Luxembourgian people

The Franks or the Frankish peoples were one of several west Germanic federations of tribes. It was formed out of Germanic tribes: Salians, Sicambri, Chamavi, Tencteri, Chattuarii, Bructeri, Usipetes, Ampsivarii, Chatti. Most of them lived at the northern borders of the Rhine.

They entered the late Roman Empire from the north and east river bank of the Rhine into modern northern Belgium and southern Netherlands. Later invasions conquered and established a lasting kingdom in an area which eventually covered most of modern-day France, Belgium, the Netherlands, and the western regions of Germany. When the pagan Frankish king Clovis became Christian in the late 5th century that was an important event in the history of Europe.

Modern scholars of the period of the migrations are in agreement that the Frankish confederacy emerged  at the beginning of the third century. A region in the northeast of the modern-day Netherlands – north of the erstwhile Roman border – still bears the name Salland, and may have received that name from the Salians, who formed the core of the Frankish sea raiders.

[[Franks (disambiguation)]]

The Franks are medieval Germanic tribes.

Franks may also refer to: 

Franks is a surname:

Franks may also be an alternative spelling or mistranslation of:

[[Zebra mussel]]

CATEGORIES: Bivalves

The zebra mussel is a small shellfish. It is a bivalve mollusc, a type called a mussel.

Color patterns vary, with only dark or colored shells or no stripes. They are typically found attached to objects, surfaces, or each other by threads underneath the shells. Although similar in appearance to the quagga mussel, the two species can be easily distinguished. When placed on a surface zebra mussels are stable on their flattened underside while quagga mussels, lacking a flat underside, will fall over. 

These musssels spread rapidly by sticking to boats. They spread by this passive method to many places where they have no natural predators. That explains their huge growth in numbers.

Zebra mussels are a problem in  Northern America's Great Lakes region because they reproduce fast. They colonize water supply pipes of hydroelectric and nuclear power plants, public water supply plants, and industrial facilities. As a result, they clog water sources.  They colonize pipes constricting flow, therefore reducing the intake in heat exchangers, condensers, fire fighting equipment, and air conditioning and cooling systems. It is estimated that zebra mussels will continue to populate the Great Lakes and even enter the Mississippi River region. 

[[San Marcos, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

San Marcos is a city in central Texas. Texas State University-San Marcos is there. It is in the Interstate 35 corridor, between Austin and San Antonio.

In 2013 and 2014, the United States Census Bureau named it the fastest-growing city in the United States. In December 2013, it was named #9 on Business Insider's list of the "10 Most Exciting Small Cities In America."

[[Bar (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical terminology

A bar or measure is used in writing music.  It is a way of organizing the written music in small sections. Each bar is a small amount of time.  Most music has a regular beat (or pulse) which can be felt.  Each bar usually has the same number of beats in it.  Music that feels like 1-2-3-4-1-2-3-4 will be divided into bars with four beats worth of music in each bar.

The bar line (or barline) is a vertical line written in the music which separates the bars. 

At the beginning of a piece of music there will be a time signature. The top number shows how many beats there are in each bar. The time signature tells you how long each measure is. 

A double bar does not mean "two bars".  It is two single bar lines drawn close together. These are simply ways of visually dividing the music into sections. A double bar line can be written with one being thicker than the other. This double bar line shows the end of a piece of music.

If there are two dots on the left of the double bar line, this is a repeat sign. The player should go back to the beginning and start again. If the composer only wants the performer to repeat a section of the music, and not go back to the beginning, they can put in a "start repeat" sign. This is a double bar line with two dots on the right.

The first beat of a bar feels stronger than the others.  When a conductor beats time, his hand (or baton) always goes DOWN for the first beat of the bar.  This feels strong.  The last beat of a bar is an "upbeat" because the conductor's hand always goes up.

Barlines have been used since around 1600.

[[Rostov]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Russia

Rostov (Russian: Росто́в; Old Norse: Rostofa) is one of the oldest towns in Russia. It was first mentioned in the year 862 as an already important town. By the 13th century Rostov became the capital of an important area.

Now it is an important tourist centre of the so-called Golden ring. It is located on the shores of Lake Nero in Yaroslavl Oblast. About 35,300 people lived there in 2002.

While the official name of the town is Rostov, it is better known to Russians as Rostov Veliky, i.e. Rostov the Great. This name is used to distinguish it from Rostov on Don, which is now a much larger city. Rostov Yaroslavsky is the official name of its railway station (due to its position in Yaroslavl Oblast), but not of the town itself.

[[Alaskan king crab fishing]]

CATEGORIES: Fishing

Alaskan king crab fishing is an event done in the winter in the Bering Sea near Alaska. People fish for many King Crabs. The crabbers fish from boats between 40 and 250 feet (13-75m) in length. They throw steel cages, called pots, over the side of the boat, and the crabs are lured to bait placed in them. When the pots have been on the bottom of the sea long enough they are pulled back onto the boat using a special kind of crane. The crabs in the pots are examined and crabs that are not good enough are put back into the ocean and the rest are put into a tank. When the ship gets back to the shore, the crabs are sold to stores around the world for eating. 

The people working on the boat are paid a lot of money. The amount of money can be from nothing to tens of thousands of dollars depending on how many crab the fishermen caught. Alaskan crab fishing is one of the USA's most dangerous jobs. Because of the big waves and dangerous boats the fishermen work on, some people die every year.

To show people how dangerous crab fishing is, the Discovery Channel made a series called Deadliest Catch about the fishermen. And they also catch a lot of Crabs.

Ocean acidification threatens crabs.

[[Link (The Legend of Zelda)]]

CATEGORIES: The Legend of Zelda characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1986, Soulcalibur series guest characters

[[Solar power station in Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Solar power plants, Buildings and structures in Victoria, Australia

A big new Solar power station in Victoria is planned. 

A company called Solar Systems has announced a large 154 MW photovoltaic (PV) solar power station for north-western Victoria. The A$420 million project will provide enough electricity for more than 45,000 homes. It will create jobs and will also reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

Full completion is expected in 2013, with the first stage to be finished by 2010. 

Four smaller solar power stations have already been built in central Australia.

[[Waldpolenz Solar Park]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Saxony, Power stations in Germany, Solar power plants

Waldpolenz Solar Park, is a photovoltaic (PV) power plant, to the east of Leipzig in Germany. The power plant is a 40-megawatt solar power system using new technology. It is in the Muldentalkreis district in the state of Saxony in eastern Germany. The investment cost for the Waldpolenz solar park amounts to some Euro 130 million.

[[Masaccio]]

CATEGORIES: 1401 births, 1428 deaths, 15th century Italian painters, Renaissance

Tommaso Guidi, better known as Masaccio, (1401 - 1428), was a famous painter of the Italian Renaissance. He worked in Florence. Masaccio was a nickname that meant Fat Untidy Tom. He lived a very short life and only a few of his paintings exist, but they were so different to the style of other artists around him that they helped other painters to see things in a new way.

[[Wind power in Germany]]

CATEGORIES: Wind farms, Germany

Germany is the world's biggest user of wind power with an installed capacity of 20,621MW in 2006, ahead of Spain which had 11,615MW. There are 18,000 wind turbines in Germany. The country plans to build more.

[[Wind power in Denmark]]

CATEGORIES: Denmark, Wind energy

After the world's oil crises in the 1970s, Denmark started to develop wind power. In 1988, two years after the Chernobyl disaster, the Danes passed a law forbidding the construction of nuclear power plants.

The Danes were pioneers in developing commercial wind power during the 1970s and today almost half of the wind turbines around the world are produced by Danish manufacturers such as Vestas.

Wind power in Denmark provided 30% of the electricity produced in Denmark in 2012, and cumulative installed capacity over recent years is shown in the Table below.

Wind turbines are popular with people in Denmark.

Sources: Global Wind 2005 Report, p.7 https://web.archive.org/web/20070605193324/http://www.gwec.net/fileadmin/documents/Publications/GWEC-Global_Wind_05_Report_low_res_01.pdf Global Wind 2006 Report, p.9

[[Don River (Russia)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Russia

The Don (Дон) is one of the major rivers of Russia. It starts in the town of Novomoskovsk 60 km southeast from Tula, southeast of Moscow, and flows for a distance of about 1,870 km (1,162 miles) to the Sea of Azov.

From its source, the river first flows southeast to Voronezh, then southwest to its mouth. The main city on the river is Rostov on Don, its main tributary, the Donets.

[[Grace Hopper]]

CATEGORIES: American computer scientists, American military people, Scientists from New York City, 1906 births, 1992 deaths, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery

Grace Murray Hopper (December 9 1906 – January 1 1992) was an American computer scientist and United States Navy officer.

[[Marin Alsop]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American conductors, Yale University alumni

Marin Alsop (born Manhattan, New York, October 16, 1956) is an American conductor.

Alsop went to Yale University and then got a master's degree from the Juilliard School in violin playing. She won the Koussevitzky Conducting Prize at the Tanglewood Music Center in 1989, where she studied with famous conductors such as Leonard Bernstein.

Alsop has conducted many of the world’s most famous orchestras. Since 2002 she has been the conductor of the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra, and in 2007 she will become the conductor of the Baltimore Symphony. This will make her the first woman conductor of an important American orchestra.

Alsop has won many prizes and made lots of recordings. She has conducted and recorded many pieces by American composers, including the complete orchestral works of Samuel Barber.

[[Nevada Solar One]]

CATEGORIES: Solar power plants, Buildings and structures in Nevada

Nevada Solar One is the third biggest solar power plant in the world, generating 64MW. It was built in Boulder City, Nevada. 

Nevada Solar One is a solar thermal power station and will use parabolic troughs, heating tubes of liquid (solar receivers).  These solar receivers are specially coated tubes made of glass and steel.  

Nevada Solar One also uses a technology that collects extra heat by putting it into phase-changing molten salts.  This energy can then be drawn on at night.

Nevada Solar One started producing electricity in the June 2007. 

[[Integrated pest management]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

In agriculture, Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is a pest control strategy. This strategy uses many different ways to deal with pests: natural predators and parasites, pest-resistant varieties of plants, cultural practices, biological controls, various physical techniques, and pesticides as a last resort. 

It is an ecological approach that can reduce or eliminate the use of pesticides.

[[Serpa solar power plant]]

CATEGORIES: Solar power plants, Buildings and structures in Portugal, 2007 establishments in Europe, Establishments in Portugal

Construction of the 11 megawatt Serpa solar power plant in Portugal began in June 2006 and was completed in January 2007. The plant consists of a photovoltaic system that uses silicon solar cell technology to convert sunlight directly into energy.

The Serpa solar power plant uses 52,000 photovoltaic modules manufactured by SunPower, Sanyo, and Sharp.  The plant uses a new tracking system that follows the Sun's daily path across the sky.

Generating electricity from the sun with no fuel costs or emissions, the Serpa plant is on a 60-hectare (150-acre) hillside and is a model of clean power generation integrated with agriculture. The project saves more than 30,000 tons a year in greenhouse gas emissions compared to equivalent fossil fuel generation.

[[Indian Solar Loan Programme]]

CATEGORIES: India, Solar energy

The United Nation Environment Programme's Indian Solar Loan Programme has won the World award for Sustainability for helping to establish a householder loan program for solar home power systems.

Over the span of three years more than 16,000 solar home systems have been financed through 2,000 bank branches, mainly in areas of South India where the electricity grid does not yet extend.

[[Clovis I]]

CATEGORIES: 466 births, 511 deaths, Converts to Christianity, Kings and Queens of France

Clovis I (variously spelled Chlodowech or Chlodwig, giving modern French Louis and modern German Ludwig) (c. 466 – November 27, 511) was the first king of the Franks who united that nation. He succeeded his father Childeric I in 481 as King of the Salian Franks, one of two main groups of Frankish tribes, They were occupying the area west of the lower Rhine at that time, with their centre around Tournai and Cambrai along the modern frontier between France and Belgium. Clovis conquered the neighbouring Frankish tribes and established himself as sole king before his death.

Clovis converted to Catholicism, as opposed to the Arian Christianity that was common among Germanic peoples, because his wife, the Burgundian Clotilde, was a Catholic. He was baptized in the Cathedral of Reims. This act was very important in the following history of France and Western Europe in general, because he expanded his reign over almost all of the old Roman province of Gaul (roughly modern France). He is considered to be the founder both of France (which his state closely resembled geographically at his death) and the Merovingian dynasty, which ruled the Franks for the next two centuries.

[[Merovingian dynasty]]

CATEGORIES: History of Europe, Royal dynasties, History of France

The Merovingians were a dynasty of Frankish kings who ruled in the region of ancient Gaul (more or less modern France), from the fifth to the 8th century when the Carolingian dynasty took control.

They were sometimes referred to as the "long-haired kings" (Latin reges criniti) by people of the time, for their symbolically uncut hair (traditionally the tribal leader of the Franks wore his hair long, while the warriors trimmed theirs short). The term is drawn directly from Germanic, akin to their dynasty's Old English name Merewīowing.

The Merovingian dynasty owes its name to the semi-legendary Merovech (or Merowig, sometimes Latinised as Meroveus or Merovius), leader of the Salian Franks from c.447 to 457. Clovis I went on to unite most of Gaul north of the Loire under his control around 486, when he defeated Syagrius, the Roman ruler in those parts. 

[[Dale Earnhardt]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2001 deaths, Deaths in sport, People from Kannapolis, North Carolina, Sportspeople from North Carolina, NASCAR drivers, American racecar drivers

Ralph Dale Earnhardt, Sr. (April 29, 1951 – February 18, 2001) was an American NASCAR driver. He is the father of race car driver Dale Earnhardt, Jr. He started Dale Earnhardt, Inc., also called DEI. Earnhardt died in a crash during the Daytona 500 in 2001. The accident happened a few seconds before his own son came second in that race, and a DEI car driven by Michael Waltrip won the race. He died because he was trying to hold everybody back so his son (Dale Earnhardt Jr.) could maybe win the race. While he was trying to do that, someone bumped his car, he lost control and crashed into the wall. After that they took him to the hospital and he died.

[[Homelessness]]

CATEGORIES: Homelessness, Social issues

Homelessness means people who do not have a place to stay. The word "homelessness" also includes people who sleep in warming centers, homeless shelters, or in abandoned buildings, parking garages, or other places not meant for humans to live in. Homelessness occurs for many reasons. It may happen when people or households are unable to buy and/or maintain housing they can afford. International human rights law includes the right to housing.

Homeless people live in many parts of the world including: San Francisco in  California, Dublin in  Ireland and Tallinn in  Estonia.

[[Hideshi Hino]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Japanese manga artists

Hideshi Hino (日野日出志 Hino Hideshi, born April 19, 1946) is a Japanese manga artist. He draws and writes horror stories. Some of the books he has written are: Hino Horror, Panorama of Hell, and Hell Baby. He has also made and been in horror movies.

[[Salland]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Netherlands, Overijssel

thumb|400px|right|The location of Salland (red) within Overijssel (dark grey) and the Netherlands (light grey), showing the area now generally considered to be part of Twente.Salland is a historical region in the west and north of the present Dutch province of Overijssel.

[[Darkthrone]]

CATEGORIES: Norwegian heavy metal bands, Black metal bands, Death metal bands

Darkthrone is a black metal band from Norway.

[[Minutemen (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, American punk bands, American rock bands, Musical groups from California

The Minutemen were a very well known American hardcore punk band from the 1980s.  The people in the band were D. Boon on guitar, Mike Watt on bass guitar and George Hurley on drums.

The Minutemen were formed in January of 1980 and began to record music that same year.  They gave to the public their first EP, called Paranoid Time, that year.  Over the next five years, the Minutemen went on many music playing trips and made many albums.  Some of their most well kown albums are What Makes a Man Start Fires? and Double Nickels on the Dime.

The band was forced to split in 1985 due to the death of D. Boon.  Boon was killed in a car crash when his girlfriend fell asleep at the wheel.  After Boon's death, Watt and Hurley formed the band fIREHOSE with Minutemen fan Ed Crawford.  fIREHOSE played until 1994 when they broke up.  Since the breakup of fIREHOSE, Mike Watt has played in several bands and also his own solo career.

[[Hammurabi]]

CATEGORIES: Mesopotamian people, 18th century BC, Kings and queens

Hammurabi (Akkadian from Amorite ˤAmmurāpi, meaning "the kinsman is a healer," from ˤAmmu, meaning "paternal kinsman", and Rāpi, meaning "healer"), was the sixth king of Babylon from 1792 BC to 1750 BC. He became king after his father abdicated, and was the first ruler of Babylonia. By winning wars against other kingdoms in Mesopotamia, Hammurabi created a large Babylonian empire. However, his son Samsu-iluna and later Babylonian rulers lost much of the land he had gained. 

Hammurabi is most famous for his laws, which are known as the Hammurabi's Code. Hammurabi's Code was one of the first written codes of law in history.

[[Double Nickels on the Dime]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 albums, Punk albums

Double Nickels on the Dime is a hardcore punk album made by the Minutemen.  The album was recorded in 1984 and was given to the public in the same year.  The album is very long and has 43 songs.  It is thought to be a very good album and one of the best of the genre.

[[Timbaland]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American rap musicians from Virginia, American R&B musicians, American record producers, People from Virginia Beach, Virginia, Singers from Virginia, 1972 births, Living people

Timothy Zachery Mosley, also known as Timbaland, (born March 10, 1972) is a Grammy Award-winning American record producer, rapper singer, and songwriter. He is from Norfolk, Virginia.

Timbaland owns his own record label, Mosley Music Group, which is under Universal Music Group. Timbaland has also taught and nurtured other record producers like Danja, Polow da Don, Ryan Tedder and Jim Beanz.

[[Melvins]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, American heavy metal bands, Grunge bands, Musical groups from Washington, Musical groups established in 1983, 1983 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Washington (state)

The Melvins are an American rock band. They are from the city of Aberdeen, Washington. The only members who have been in the band for a long time are Buzz "King Buzzo" Osborne who plays guitar and Dale Crover who plays drums. Coady Willis who plays drums (in addition to Dale) and Jared Warren who plays bass guitar are also currently in the band. A variety of terms have been used to describe their style of music, including 'sludge metal', 'grunge', and 'stoner rock'.

Buzz Osborne started Melvins in early 1983.

[[1337]]

CATEGORIES: 1337

[[Birth name]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames

A birth name is the family name someone has when he or she is born, or at least from the time he or she is a child. This term can be used by a man or a woman who changes a name later in life for any reason.

A maiden name is the family name—usually the birth name—a woman has before she marries.

A married name is the family name taken by a married person at the time of the marriage. The most common example is when a woman takes the family name of her spouse at the time of marriage. But sometimes a man changes his name at marriage. Also, sometimes both people change their names, such as to a hyphenated or other mixed name.

Sometimes the words "né" (for a man) or "née" (for a woman) are used to show a birth name or maiden name. These words mean "born", and are borrowedv.2 from French.

[[Stalker]]

Stalker has several different meanings:

[[Tom Whedon]]

CATEGORIES: American screenwriters, Year of birth missing (living people)

Tom Whedon is an American television writer. He has written for many series, for example, Benson, Alice and The Golden Girls. Whedon also wrote for the children's series The Electric Company. 

He is the father of Deadwood script writer Zack Whedon. Whedon is also the father of writer/producer/director Joss Whedon, the creator of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Angel, and Firefly.

[[Zack Whedon]]

CATEGORIES: American screenwriters, Living people, 1979 births

Zack Whedon (born August 14, 1979) is an American television writer. He graduated from Wesleyan University in 2002 with a movie degree. Whedon has written for the HBO series Deadwood. He is the son of writer Tom Whedon and the brother of writer-producer-director Joss Whedon.

Whedon has also done work on his brother's series Angel as well as collaborated with his brother on the internet only serial Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog.

He was a writer for the J.J. Abrams show Fringe.  

[[Langnau im Emmental]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Bern

Langnau im Emmental ('Langnau in the Emmental') is a small village in the Emmental, in the canton of Bern. It is by the river Ilfis between the cities of Bern and Luzern. It has a population of about 8800 people. Most of the people of the village work in the building trades.

Langnau has an Ice hockey Club, called the SCL Tigers. They have their home stadium in Langnau.

[[Muri bei Bern]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Bern

Muri bei Bern is a township in Switzerland near Bern. In December 2005, it had a population of 12458 people. The township Muri is two small towns: Muri and Gümligen

[[The Legend of Zelda (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 video games, The Legend of Zelda games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Virtual Console games for Wii U

The Legend of Zelda is the first video game in The Legend of Zelda series of games. The game was made by a Japanese man named Shigeru Miyamoto. It was sold to stores by Nintendo in 1986. The game was sold to be played on the Nintendo Entertainment System. In the game the player plays as a hero named Link. Link must save Princess Zelda from a powerful person named Ganon. It was the first game to let the player continue where they last played the game after they had turned the game off. The game also let the player go wherever they wanted to go at any time in the game's world. The game was very popular. Many more Zelda games were made because of it.

[[Deadliest Catch]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 television series debuts, American reality television series, English-language television programs

The Deadliest Catch is a reality television series on the Discovery Channel, about Alaskan king crab fishing. The series shows people fishing for crabs in the Bering Sea near Alaska. The series is named "Deadliest Catch" because the crew of these boats are at a high risk of death or injury due to the dangerous places and weather of the sea during the seasons they fish, earning the title of most dangerous job in the world.

[[Garage rock]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music

Garage rock is a raw and energetic style of rock and roll that was popular in the mid-1960s in the United States,  Canada, and other countries.  It has experienced several more recent revivals.  In the beginning, it was not yet defined as a musical genre. Attention to the sound from rock critics in the early 1970s helped it become appreciated as a genre.

It is called "garage rock" because many of the groups that played it were made up of young amateurs, often in high school and college, who sometimes rehearsed in their families' garages. Some of the bands were older and professional.  The groups in this genre are often referred to as "garage bands".

The style, which led up to psychedelic rock, often had simple lyrics and sometimes used guitars distorted through a device called a fuzzbox.  Surf rock was an early influence. Later the Beatles and the beat groups of the British Invasion became popular. This led to many aspiring musicians to form bands in the United States and elsewhere between 1963 and 1968.  Some bands produced regional hits, and a few even had national chart hits.  

With the rise of psychedelia, a number of garage bands started to add strange and exotic elements to their sound, but after 1968, as more complex forms of rock music took over, garage rock records declined in popularity.

In the early 1970s certain critics began to refer to the style as "punk rock", which made it the first form of music to use that name. It is sometimes called "garage punk", "protopunk", or "'60s punk" to set it apart from the more well-known punk rock movement that came later in 1970s. The garage rock style has been revived several times in recent decades and continues to influence many modern groups who prefer a "back to basics" and "do it yourself" musical approach.

[[Psychedelic rock]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music, Music in San Francisco

Psychedelic rock is a style of rock music. It was very popular in the 1960s when it started, and still has many fans today.  It was first made in San Francisco, but it also was made in other cities such as New York City, and in other countries including England.  

Psychedelic rock songs sometimes have lyrics describing the effects of drugs, if any words at all. Songs were sometimes very long (10-15 minutes), and much of this time might be taken up by a solo, like a drum solo or a guitar solo. Some major groups that made psychedelic rock included: The Beatles, The Doors, The Byrds, The Grateful Dead, The Who, Jimi Hendrix, Jefferson Airplane, Pink Floyd, Frank Zappa and The Animals.

Psychedelic rock was popular music for listening to when getting high with hashish or LSD, or both. During Grateful Dead concerts, some people actually sat inside the huge speakers that the Grateful Dead brought to their concerts.  

[[Doppelgänger]]

CATEGORIES: Folklore

A doppelgänger or a doppelganger is a German word used in English to talk about any double or someone who looks exactly like another person — most commonly an "evil twin". In some folklore, seeing another family or friend's doppelganger means they will have an illness, or that they are in danger. Seeing your own doppelganger means you will most likely die. Some myths offer explanations that focus on magic, where the doppelganger is created by some kind of curse or through magic. These doppelgängers are usually, but not always, bad in some way. Doppelgängers can sometimes be seen in books, movies, and other fiction as part of their stories.

stubCategory:Folklore

[[Absurd (band)]]

CATEGORIES: German heavy metal bands, Black metal bands, Rock Against Communism

[[Nokturnal Mortum]]

CATEGORIES: Black metal bands, Ukrainian entertainers

Nokturnal Mortum is a pagan black metal band from Ukraine. It is one of the major black metal bands from eastern Europe, along with Graveland and Lucifugum.

[[Repo Man (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: American comedy movies, American science fiction movies, Cult movies, 1984 movies, English-language movies, American independent movies

Repo Man is a 1984 comedy/science fiction movie starring Emilio Estevez and Harry Dean Stanton. It was written and directed by Alex Cox. The movie is about the life of a repo man, a person who steals cars legally from people who do not pay for them.

The movie is well regarded for several reasons.  First, it has talk and events that are both funny and strange.  The music played in the movie is also a very good collection of punk rock music that was popular at the time.  Also, the movie is not similar to most other movies that were made at the same time.

[[Reggie Miller]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball players from California, Indiana Pacers players, 1965 births, Living people, People from Riverside, California, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers

Reginald Wayne Miller (August 24, 1965) is a retired American basketball player. Miller was known for being a great jump shooter during his career. He played his entire career for the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He is from Riverside, California.

[[Altarpiece]]

CATEGORIES: Art, Church architecture

An altarpiece is a work of art that has been made to go above the altar in a Christian church. An altarpiece can be a painting, or it can be carved from wood or stone. Some altarpieces have both paintings and sculptures.

[[Wood mouse]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

The wood mouse (Apodemus sylvaticus) is a common rodent. It is also known as the long-tailed field mouse, field mouse, common field mouse, and European wood mouse.

[[Code of Hammurabi]]

CATEGORIES: Mesopotamia, Legislation

The Code of Hammurabi was a legal code of Babylonia written about 1700 BC.

It was written on a stele (a large stone monument), and put in a public place where everyone could see it. The stele was later captured by the Elamites and taken to their capital, Susa. It was found there again in 1901, and is now in the Louvre Museum in Paris.

The code of Hammurabi had 282 laws written by scribes on 12 tablets. Unlike earlier laws, it was written in Akkadian, the daily language of Babylonia.

The Code of Hammurabi is the longest-surviving text from the Old Babylonian period.

The code is an early example of a law regulating a government: a kind of primitive constitution.  The code is also one of the earliest examples of the "presumption of innocence" (innocent until proven otherwise). It suggests that both the accused and accuser have the opportunity to provide evidence.

[[Media player]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Media player is a word that describes computer software that can play more than one type of media (multimedia). Media players can usually play both audio (sound) and video files.

Microsoft Windows comes with a media player already on it, Windows Media Player. Some other media players are Quicktime, iTunes, Real Player and Winamp.

[[19P/Borrelly]]

CATEGORIES: Comets

Comet Borrelly is a periodic comet. Periodic comets can only be seen from earth once every few years or decades. It was visited by the spacecraft Deep Space 1. Comet Borrelly was last seen from earth in September 2001 and will likely be seen again in July 2008.

[[Microcontroller]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A microcontroller (abbreviated MCU or µC) is a computer system on a chip that does a job. It contains an integrated processor, memory (a small amount of RAM, program memory, or both), and programmable input/output peripherals, which are used to interact with things connected to the chip. A microcontroller is different than a microprocessor, which only contains a CPU (the kind used in a Personal Computer).

First released in 1971 by the Intel company, microcontrollers began to become popular in their first few years. The extremely useful Intel 8008 microprocessor was then released, but it was still impractical because of high cost for each chip. These first microcontrollers combined different types of computer memory on one unit. After people began to see how useful they were, micro controllers were constantly being upgraded, with people trying to find new ways to make them better. Cost was reduced over time and by the early 2000s, microcontrollers were widely used across the world.

Other terms for a microcontroller are embedded system and embedded controller, because the microcontroller and its support circuits are often built into, or embedded in, a single chip.

In addition to the usual arithmetic and logic elements of a general microprocessor, the microcontroller also has additional elements such as RAM for data storage, read-only memory for program storage, flash memory for permanent data storage, and other devices (peripherals).

Microcontrollers often operate at very low speed compared to microprocessors used in smartphones and personal computers. Clock speeds may be as little as 32 kHz, but this is useful for typical applications. They consume very little power (milliwatts or even micro watts).

Microcontrollers are used in automatic products and devices, such as car engine systems, remote controls, machines, appliances, power tools, and toys. These are called embedded systems. Microcontrollers can also be found at work in solar power and energy harvesting, anti-lock braking systems in cars, and have many uses in the medical field as well.

[[Melodrama]]

CATEGORIES: Theatrical forms

A melodrama is a dramatic or literary work where the plot is sensational. It appeals strongly to the emotions. It has crude characterization. Characters are simply-drawn, and stereotyped. 

Melodrama is a portmanteau word, formed by combining the words "melody" from the Greek "melōidía", meaning "song") and "drama". Originally it referred to the use of music in a play.

A melodrama is often a play with very simple characters: a villain, hero,  heroine, policeman, damsel in distress and an elderly person (which usually ends happily).  Melodramas were popular in the Victorian era on the stage and in novels. In the 20th century the term came to mean bad, crude art, lacking thought. It is rarely applied to the inclusion of music. 

[[Skullhead]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, English punk bands, Music groups from Newcastle upon Tyne, Musical groups established in 1984, Rock Against Communism

Skullhead was a Rock Against Communism band from Newcastle, England. Their type of music is a blend of rock, Oi!, and heavy metal music. The band and lead singer, Kev Turner (known to many by the tattoo's he sports, including "Doc martin" boots on the side of his face, which appear like sideburns) were also heavily influenced by the Odinist religion, to which many of their songs refer too.

[[Landser (band)]]

CATEGORIES: German rock bands, Rock Against Communism

[[Lily Allen]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, British feminists, British television talk show hosts, English pop singers, English television presenters, Singers from London, Television personalities from London

Lily Rose Beatrice Allen-Cooper (born 2 May 1985) is an English pop singer and actress. She is a daughter of actor and musician Keith Allen.  

[[Zerah Colburn]]

CATEGORIES: Child prodigies, Autobiographers, 1839 deaths, 1804 births, People from Vermont, American teachers, People educated at Westminster School, London

Zerah Colburn (born Cabot, Vermont, 1804; died 1839) was a child prodigy.  He became famous when he was a little boy because he could do unbelievably difficult sums very easily.  However, he wasted his talent and never became a useful mathematician.

Zerah’s father was a carpenter.  He and his wife had six children, and they had very little money.

When he was five he started to go to school.  After six weeks his father heard him doing multiplication sums.  His father asked him what 13 times 97 was.  The boy immediately said “1261”.

His father took him to Boston to show him to famous people.  They asked the boy questions: what is 1449 times 1449?  The boy said “2,099,601”.  Someone else asked him how many seconds there were in 2000 years.  He said “63,072,000,000”.

His father looked for rich people who would pay for the boy’s education.  In Boston $5000 was raised so that he did not have to be shown off in public all the time.  Nevertheless, his father took him to Europe.  In London people asked him more questions, e.g. is 4,294,967,297 a prime number?  The boy said “No, it can be divided by 641”.

People wanted the boy to explain how he did these calculations, but he could not say how he did it.  He became famous.  Napoleon was going to meet him, but he lost the Battle of Waterloo and was not able to make the visit.  He went to school in Paris and then in London, but by the time he was 15 people were not interested in helping him any more.  He joined a touring group of actors and got the part of Richard III in the play by Shakespeare.  He met William Rowan Hamilton who was also a prodigy and who did become a famous mathematician.  Zerah soon got fed up with mathematics and became a Methodist minister.  He taught languages at Norwich University in Vermont.  He wrote an autobiography in which he tried to explain how he did his calculations.

When he died most people had forgotten about him.

His nephew, also named Zerah Colburn, was a famous locomotive designer.

[[Quedlinburg]]

CATEGORIES: Harz Rural District

Quedlinburg (ˈkveːtlɪnbʊʁk); Low Saxon: Queddelnborg) is a city in the state of Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. Its area is 78. 22,795 people lived there in 2005. Quedlinburg is 8 kilometers north of the Harz mountains. A small river called Bode flows through the city. In 1994 UNESCO added the old town Quedlinburg on the list of World Heritage Sites.

[[DreamWorks]]

CATEGORIES: Movie studios, 1994 establishments in the United States

DreamWorks Pictures, officially called DW II Distribution Co., LLC, also known as DreamWorks, LLC, DreamWorks SKG, DreamWorks Studios or DW Studios, LLC, is an American movie studio. It has made or sold more than ten movies which made more than $100 million each at the box-office.

[[Universal Studios]]

CATEGORIES: Movie studios, Companies based in Los Angeles

Universal Studios (sometimes called Universal Pictures or Universal City) is one of the major American movie studios that has production studios and offices at 100 Universal City Plaza Drive in Universal City, California, an unincorporated area of Los Angeles County between Los Angeles and Burbank. Distribution and other corporate, administrative offices are based in New York City. Universal is the first longest-lived studio in Hollywood (Universal's ownership partner of NBCUniversal Entertainment Japan—which distributes anime by Universal worldwide—is the oldest).

[[Second Punic War]]

CATEGORIES: Punic Wars, 3rd century BC, Wars and battles of Ancient Rome

The Second Punic War was a conflict fought in 218 BC - 201 BC between Rome and Carthage. The majority of Carthaginian forces were led by Hannibal. Hannibal scared the Romans by invading them over the mountains from Hispania with war elephants. He won the Battle of the Trebia and kept winning battles by being a good general. In the Battle of Cannae he destroyed the biggest army the Romans had ever used. After that, the Romans avoided fighting Hannibal, and concentrated on defeating his allies. This became known as the Fabian strategy. Each side had many allies, but most of Rome's allies were loyal whilst Carthage's allies switched sides.

Hannibal, even though he was doing well, eventually had to leave and go back to defend Carthage. In North Africa, Scipio Africanus won the Battle of Zama, which cemented Rome's victory over Carthage.

The Second Punic War ruined the power of Carthage. Rome became the dominant power in the Mediterranean Basin for the next 600 years.

[[Battle of Zama]]

CATEGORIES: Battles of the Ancient World, 200s BC, October events

Zama was a battle in Carthage around 19 October 202 BC. There were elephants as well as ground infantry. Scipio Africanus won. Hannibal lost. It was the last battle in the Second Punic War.

[[Touchstone Pictures]]

CATEGORIES: Disney companies, Movie studios

Touchstone Pictures (also known as Touchstone Films in its early years) is one of several alternate movie labels of The Walt Disney Company, established in 1984. Its releases typically feature more mature themes than those that gets released under the Walt Disney Pictures banner. Touchstone Pictures is merely a brand and does not exist as a separate company: the two de facto companies behind it are Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures Group and Walt Disney Pictures (formerly "Walt Disney Pictures and Television").

[[United States Coast Guard]]

CATEGORIES: United States Coast Guard, 1790 establishments in the United States

The United States Coast Guard is one of the 5 branches of the military of the United States.  It is a part of the United States Department of Homeland Security. The Coast Guard's purpose is to protect the people, environment, industry and security of the United States on seas, lakes and rivers.  To do this, the Coast Guard uses boats, ships, helicopters and airplanes to stop smuggling and other crime and terrorism, and to rescue ships and boats in danger.

The Coast Guard traces its roots back to the United States Revenue Cutter Service, which was created by Congress on 4 August 1790. As such, the Coast Guard is the oldest continuous seagoing service of the United States. 

The modern United States Coast Guard was started on January 28, 1915. This is when the U. S. Congress ordered the United States Revenue Cutter Service and the United States Life-Saving Service to merge into a single service. The Coast Guard can become part of the Department of the Navy during war, but it is not now. It became part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security in 2003.

[[Sean Paul]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Award winners, Jamaican singers, Reggae musicians, 1973 births, Living people

Sean Paul Ryan Francis Henriques (born 9 January 1973), otherwise known as Sean Paul, is a Jamaican reggae and dancehall musician. Paul played himself in the 1998 movie Belly. In 2000 he released his first album, Stage One. In 2003 Paul had his first number one single. He rapped on Beyoncé Knowles' 2003 number one single "Baby Boy". In 2003 he also rapped on Blue Cantrell's UK number one single "Breathe". In 2006 Paul rapped in Rihanna's single "Break It Off". He rapped on Pitbull's 2011 single "Shake Señora" with T-Pain. Paul's sixth album Full Frequency will be released on February 18, 2014. The first single off the album, "Other Side of Love", was released to iTunes on September 10, 2013. It reached number one in the UK R&B Chart. Full Frequency includes songs with Nicki Minaj, 2 Chainz, Juicy J, and Iggy Azalea.

[[Bamberg (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Bamberg Rural District

The district of Bamberg is a district in Bavaria, Germany. About 145,000 people live there.

[[Theo Jörgensmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Clarinetists, German composers, Jazz composers, Musicians from North Rhine-Westphalia

Theo Jörgensmann (born Bottrop, 29 September 1948) is a German jazz clarinet player and composer.

[[Italian Plague of 1629-1631]]

CATEGORIES: 1620s in Europe, History of Italy, Plague pandemics, 1630s in Europe, 1629, 1630, 1631

The Italian Plague of 1629-1631 was a group times when many people in northern Italy caught bubonic plague from 1629 to 1631. This epidemic, often called the Great Plague of Milan, killed about 280,000 people. Very many people died in the cities in Lombardy. This was one of the last outbreaks of the pandemic of bubonic plague that began with the Black Death.

German and French soldiers carried the plague to the city of Mantua in 1629 because of the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648). Venetian troops, infected with the disease, retreated into northern and central Italy, spreading the disease to more people.  

In October 1629, the plague reached Milan, Lombardy's commercial center. In the city Milan, it killed about 64,000 people, which was 25% of Milan's people.  It killed between 12% and 60% of all the people in Italy. The papal city of Bologna lost an estimated 15,000 citizens to the plague, with neighboring smaller cities of Modena and Parma also being heavily affected. This outbreak of plague also spread north into Tyrol, an alpine region of western Austria and northern Italy. 

Later outbreaks of bubonic plague in Italy include the city of Florence in 1630-1633 and the areas surrounding Naples, Rome and Genoa in 1656-1657.

[[Zama]]

Zama can be:

[[Norwich]]

CATEGORIES: Norwich, County towns in England

Norwich is the county city of Norfolk, a county in the East of England. In 2005, 127,600 people lived in Norwich. It is one of the oldest cities in England.

Norwich International Airport provides many flights out of the city, to places such as Amsterdam, Spain and some places within the United Kingdom.

Norwich is the biggest settlement in East Anglia after that it is Ipswich in Suffolk.

[[Pir Sultan Abdal]]

CATEGORIES: 1480 births, 1550 deaths, Poets

Pir Sultan Abdal (ca. 1480 - 1550) was an Alevit poet. Alevits are the members of the Alevitism, a faith community in Islam. He lived in Turkey and wrote his poems in Turkish. In his poems, he used a direct and clear language. The richness of his thoughts and the beauty of his writing made him very popular to the Turks and Kurds and also the members of the Suni sect of Islam. Pir Sultan Abdal wrote about the social, cultural and religious life of the people. He was a humanist, and wrote about love, peace, death and God. He was also rebellious against Ottoman Empire.

[[William Byrd]]

CATEGORIES: 1540 births, 1623 deaths, Renaissance composers, English composers

William Byrd (born probably 1539 or 1540; died Stondon Massey, 4 July 1623) was the greatest English composer of his time.  He wrote music of all types that were popular then: keyboard music for virginals and for the organ, vocal music, especially choral music, both for the church (“sacred”) as well as non-sacred (“secular”).

Byrd lived in a time of great changes.  Henry VIII had broken away from the Roman Catholic church and had founded the Anglican Church.  The monarch (king or queen) was the Head of the Church of England.  During Byrd’s lifetime the monarchs who reigned had different ideas about what church music should be like.  Byrd was always a Catholic.  This sometimes made life difficult for him, but he was always faithful to the monarchy, and he had a lot of tact in dealing with people.

Byrd grew up in the Renaissance period.  He lived into the 17th century which is the period known in music as the Baroque period.  

[[Cuneiform]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems, Mesopotamia

Cuneiform script is one of the earliest known systems of writing. It used wedge-shaped marks on clay tablets, made by a reed stylus. The name cuneiform itself means "wedge shaped", from the Latin cuneus "wedge" and forma "shape". It came into English usage probably from the Old French cunéiforme.

It was first used in Sumer in the late 4th millennium BC (the 'Uruk IV' period). Cuneiform writing began as a system of pictographs. In the third millennium, the signs became simplified and more abstract. Fewer characters were used, from about 1,000 in the early Bronze Age to about 400 in late Bronze Age (Hittite cuneiform). The system  used a combination of phonetic, consonantal alphabetic (no vowels) and syllabic signs.

The original Sumerian script was adapted for the writing of the Akkadian, Eblaite, Elamite, Hittite, Luwian, Hattic, Hurrian, and Urartian languages, and it inspired the Ugaritic and Old Persian alphabets. Cuneiform writing was gradually replaced by the Phoenician alphabet during the Neo-Assyrian Empire. By the 2nd century BC, the script was extinct. All knowledge of how to read it was lost until it began to be deciphered in the 19th century.

[[Menes]]

CATEGORIES: Pharaohs

Menes was a pharaoh of the first dynasty of ancient Egypt. He lived ca. 3100-3000 BC. He brought together Upper and Lower Egypt to make an empire. He wore the Pschent or double crown: the white crown of Upper Egypt and the red crown of Lower Egypt. He built the city of Memphis and made it the capital.

There is extensive archeological evidence that there was a pharaoh named Narmer, but little evidence for Menes.  It is now believed that Menes was either Narmer, his predecessor, or Hor-Aha who ruled after him.

More than 2000 years later Manetho, an Egyptian historian, wrote that Menes ruled for 62 years and was killed by a hippopotamus.

An image of Menes holding an ankh is on the frieze on the south wall of the U.S. Supreme Court building.

[[Bast]]

CATEGORIES: Cats, Egyptian gods and goddesses

Bastet was the ancient Egyptian goddess of protection and cats. She was the warrior daughter and defender of Ra, who sent her to fight his archenemy Apep. As protectress, she was seen as defender of the pharaoh, after Sekhet, the lioness, and consequently of the chief god Ra.

Bast is also known as Bastet, Ubasti, and Pasch. She was worshiped at least since the Second Dynasty in Ancient Egypt. The centre of her cult was in Per-Bast (Bubastis in Greek), which was named after her. Originally she was seen as the protector goddess of Lower Egypt and her image was that of a fierce lion. The name Bast means '(female) devourer'.

In later times Bast became the goddess of protection and blessing and was the protectress of women, children and domestic cats. She was the goddess of sunrise, music, dance and pleasure as well as family, fertility and birth.  When Anubis became the god of embalming, Bast, as goddess of ointment, was connected to him (sometimes viewed as his wife and sometimes as his mother) until Anubis became Nephthys' son. 

This gentler characteristic, of Bast as goddess of perfumes, following Lower Egypt's loss in the wars between Upper and Lower Egypt, meant that in the Middle Kingdom of Egypt she became seen as a domestic cat and not as a lioness.  Owing to associations with the maternal nature of cats, Bast was also regarded as a good mother and she was commonly depicted with kittens. Sometimes Egyptian women who wanted children wore an amulet showing the goddess with kittens; the number of kittens on the amulet would correspond to how many children the woman wanted to have.

== Worship == 

Bastet (Bast) was the most honored feline deity in Ancient Egypt. The cult of Bastet started around the town of Bubastis, located in the Eastern Delta in Lower Egypt (around 3,200 B.C.), and was an important town from the Old Kingdom through the Late Period. During early Egyptian times the city was called Per-Bast which translates into “the domain of Bast”. Later the city was called Bubastis and is today known as Tell Basta.  Bastet was worshipped throughout other regions of the Egyptian region as well. Bast was worshipped in Memphis (during the Old Kingdom), where she was associated with Sekhmet; in Heliopolis (during the Old Kingdom) where she was called the “Daughter of Tem” (connected to Tefnut); in a city called “Hill of Bast” in the precinct of Mut in Thebes (during the New Kingdom) and in the city of Nit during the Late Period. Festivals celebrating Bastet were held in the cities of Bubastis, Memphis, Thebes (Luxor) and Esna. 

Names of the elaborate festivals of Bastet included: “Procession of Bastet”, “Bastet Protects the Two Lands”, “Bastet Goes Forth from Per-Bast”, “Bastet Appears Before Ra” and the “Festival of Hathor and Bastet”. Her main festivals were celebrated in April and May in Bubastis. Her festivals were characterized by music, dancing and wine and were some of the most popular festivals in Egypt at the time. For some festivals, over 700,000 people came from all over Egypt, often in boats, sailing along the Nile. 

In Bubastis, the festival began by making sacrifices to Bastet. The Temple of Bast stood in the town center so that it could be seen from everywhere and stood on raised ground. The outside wall of the temple was decorated with pictures of animals and inside the temple was a courtyard, planted with a grove of trees surrounding her shrine. Worshippers came from all over Egypt, often leaving offerings, bronze statues, amulets and mummified cats in her temple. Thousands of these cats were later found in underground crypts where her temple once stood. 

During the days of celebration, the Egyptians spent many days making music, dancing and being joyful. Worshippers went to her temple playing instruments, beating drums, shaking tambourines, carrying sistras (sacred rattles), singing and dancing through the streets. On the last night of the festival, a single light would be lit inside the Temple of Bast and from there the light would spread through the town, carried by devotees. Prayers throughout the night would be accompanied by music and incense. Bast was important in worship and the Egyptian people would make sacrifices to her of spices, water, wine, milk, bread and meat. Gifts of gold, diamonds, silver, perfumes and other riches would also be given. The people of Egypt would also dance and sing to her because was the goddess of both dance and song.

[[Ra]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

[[Jim Morrison]]

CATEGORIES: American rock singers, Burials at Père Lachaise Cemetery, American musicians, Singers from Florida, 1943 births, 1971 deaths

James Douglas (Jim) Morrison (December 8, 1943 - July 3, 1971) was an American musician. He was the lead singer of rock band The Doors. 

[[Anchovy]]

CATEGORIES: Clupeiformes, Teleosts

Anchovies are a family (Engraulidae) of small but common schooling saltwater plankton-feeding fish.  They are found in scattered areas throughout the world's oceans. Anchovies are concentrated in temperate waters, and are rare or absent in very cold or very warm seas.

[[Indigenous Australians]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous peoples of Australia

Indigenous Australians are the native people of Australia. They include the Aboriginal Australians as well as Torres Strait Islanders, and are often known together as Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.

In the past, Indigenous Australians used weapons like boomerangs sticks and spears to kill animals for food. It is unknown where they came from and how they appeared in Australia but it is estimated they have been living in their homeland around 60,000 years ago or more. Aboriginal people also have their own type of art.

Many Indigenous Australians suffered when Europeans from Britain and Ireland arrived in Australia. Disease and the loss of their hunting lands are two of the reasons.

[[Ian Thorpe]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Australian LGBT people, Australian Olympic bronze medalists, Australian Olympic gold medalists, Australian Olympic silver medalists, Australian swimmers, Gay men, LGBT Olympians, Sportspeople from Sydney

Ian Thorpe (born 13 October 1982 in Sydney, New South Wales) is an Australian swimmer. He won five gold medals at Olympic Games. He was the only swimmer who has won six gold medals in one World Championships (which he did in 2001) until Michael Phelps won seven in 2007.  He is known for having large feet. At the age of 14, he became the youngest male ever to represent Australia,

A large baby, Thorpe weighed 4.1 kg (9.02 lb) and measured 0.59 m (1 ft 11 in) in length at birth.

On 12 July 2014, Thorpe revealed he is gay. 

[[Cathy Freeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Australian Olympic gold medalists, Australian Olympic silver medalists, Bahá'ís, Commonwealth Games medallists, Indigenous Australian sportspeople, Order of Australia, Sportspeople from Queensland, World champions, Australian athletes

Cathy Freeman, OAM (born 16 February 1973) is a retired Australian sprinter. She ran mostly in the 400 metres event. She became the Olympic champion for the women's 400 metres at the 2000 Summer Olympics. She lit the Olympic Flame at the beginning of the 2000 games. She has won several medals at the Commonwealth Games, the Olympics, and the IAAF World Championships. She retired from athletics in 2003.

Freeman was born in Slade Point, Mackay, Queensland. She is Aboriginal. Her mother was born in the Manbarra community on Palm Island. Freeman was raised as a Bahá'í.

In 1998, she was awarded Australian of the Year. In 2001, she was given both the World Sportswoman of the Year and the Medal of the Order of Australia.

[[Paris Hilton]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American socialites, American television actors, American television producers, American R&B singers, American pop singers, American dance musicians, Participants in American reality television series, Singers from New York City

Paris Whitney Hilton (born February 17, 1981) is an American celebrity, socialite (someone who is very social and goes to a lot of parties and events), media personality, model, singer, author, fashion designer and actress. Her great-grandfather founded the Hilton Hotels. She is an heiress (meaning she will receive part of the Hilton Hotel fortune which her family runs). Right now she lives in the city of Los Angeles, which is in the state of California. She used to have a little dog named Tinkerbell, who was a small type of Chihuahuha.

Hilton has been in the media for various reasons. She has become well known for the bad behaviour she sometimes shows in public.July 2009 Another reason for her fame is that a home-made sex video (with her former boyfriend, Rick Salomon) leaked onto the Internet in 2003. Hilton and her friend Nicole Richie were the stars of the reality show The Simple Life for five seasons.

[[Amun]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

In Egyptian mythology, Amun was a very powerful god. He was often combined with Ra to form the god Amun-Ra. At one point in Egyptian history, he was called the "King of the Gods".

Amun (also spelled Amon, Amoun, Amen, and sometimes Imen, Egyptian Yamanu) was the name of a deity, in Egyptian mythology, who became one of the most important deities in Ancient Egypt. In later years, bined with Horus into one god.

He began as a Theban wind and fertility god and ended up the supreme deity, with most of Egypt's vast wealth dedicated to his temple. Around the second millennium B.C.E., Thebes and its cult of Amun grew so powerful that it threatened worship of the sun god, Ra. The two deities merged. Amun-Ra was hailed as a national god, the creator of the universe, the pharaoh's personal protector, and the god of war.

[[Aten]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Aten is the disk of the Sun in ancient Egyptian mythology, and an aspect of the Sun-god Ra. Aten was pictured as a sun with rays that ended in hands.

The deified Aten is the focus of the  monotheistic religion of Atenism established by Amenhotep IV, who later took the name Akhenaten in worship and recognition of the Aten. In his poem Great Hymn to the Aten, Akhenaten praises Aten as the creator, and giver of life. Akhenaten was the first person to attempt to make a monotheistic religion.

The worship of Aten was eradicated by Horemheb.

[[Clam]]

CATEGORIES: Bivalves, Seafood

A clam is a type of shellfish. Clams can be found in saltwater and freshwater. This is a common usage term, and so includes quite a variety of shellfish. Clams are a fairly common form of bivalve, therefore making it part of the phylum Mollusc. There are many clams in the ocean, but some can also be found in some lakes, streams, and rivers.

The word 'clam' is often applied to those that are edible and live almost of their lives halfway buried in the seafloor. Clams have two shells of equal size connected by two aductor muscles and have a powerful burrowing foot. 

Clams for cooking do not live attached to rocks (whereas oysters and mussels do). Clams are often got by digging and cooked and served as clam chowder. They may be found on menus in restaurants that serve seafood.

Clams eat plankton, and are eaten by small sharks and squid. 

Clams have a burrowing foot that they use to dig down into the sand or mud to hide.

The shell has three layers. The top one is called mother-of-pearl because it is a coating of pearl material.  

A living freshwater clam can work like a filter in fish tanks to keep the water clean.

[[Bes]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Bes was the ancient Egyptian god of protection of pregnant women, newborn babies and the family. He was a dwarf wearing a lion's skin. Bes does not look like he is Egyptian. He is like gods found in other parts of Africa.

To scare away demons during birth, Bes would dance around the room, shaking his rattle and yelling to scare away demons that might put a curse on the child. After the child was born, Bes would stay by him/her. When a baby laughed or smiled for no reason, Egyptians believed that Bes was somewhere in the room making funny faces.

His name appears to be connected to a Nubian word for cat, besa, which literally means protector.  Egyptians kept cats in order to attack snakes, and creatures that might ruin crop stores, such as mice, and so Bes was naturally singled out as worthy of worship in Egypt.

[[Hokkaido Wolf]]

CATEGORIES: Wolves

The Hokkaido wolf (Canis lupus hattai) is a subspecies of Gray Wolf. Scientists believe it became extinct in 1889. There are people who said to have seen some Hokkaido wolves after that year, but there is no proof that they actually did.

In the Meiji Restoration in Japan, Japanese farmers wanted to have American-style ranches for raising livestock. A US farmer named Edwin Dun started to import livestock to Japan. When the wolves began attacking the livestock, the farmers started to kill them, by using poison.

[[Hornet]]

CATEGORIES: Wasps

Hornets are the largest of the social wasps. They can reach up to 55mm (5.5 cm, 2.2in) in length. The true hornets make up the genus Vespa. True hornets can be distinguished from other vespines by the form of their head. Hornets live in Europe, Asia, Africa, and the Americas. They live in warm and wet forests, and in desert climates. They do not occur in climates where it is cold all year round.

[[Geb]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

In Egyptian mythology, Geb was the god of the earth. Geb was the husband and brother of the sky goddess Nut and the father of Osiris, Isis, Nephthys,  Horus the Elder, and Seth. When Seth and Horus (Osiris' son) fought to become the king of Egypt, Geb made Horus the ruler of the living. Geb's parents are Tefnut and Shu. 

The ancient Egyptians believed that earthquakes were Geb's laughter.

The animals of Geb are a snake and a goose (a goose is sometimes depicted on Geb's head). Geb is sometimes equivalent to Greek titan Kronos. Geb's name means "weak one" or "lame one". Geb is also god of vegetation, and his other names are Seb, Keb, Kebb, Qeb, and Sebb.

[[Sting (disambiguation)]]

A sting is an injury which a person receives from a stinger. Animals such as bees have them. They tend to hurt a lot and have several different cures.

Sting may also refer to:

[[Type O Negative]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American heavy metal bands, Doom metal bands, Gothic metal bands, Thrash metal bands

Type O Negative was a doom metal band from Brooklyn, New York. The band was started in 1989 and ended in 2010.

[[Doom metal]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy metal subgenres

Doom metal is a form of heavy metal. The music sounds heavy and it is slower than other metal genres. Lyrics play a very important part in this genre. They are normally about sad subjects like pain, death and pessimism.

[[Candlemass]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish heavy metal bands, Doom metal bands

Candlemass is a doom metal band from Sweden. The band was formed in 1984 in Stockholm.

[[Split album]]

CATEGORIES: Albums

A split album is a music album which includes tracks by two or three separate artists.

[[Brown dwarf]]

CATEGORIES: Types of stars

A brown dwarf is an object which is made of the same things as stars, but does not have enough mass for hydrogen fusion (the combining of hydrogen atoms into helium atoms). Nuclear fusion is what makes stars glow. Brown dwarfs are not massive enough to do this, so they are not regular stars. On the other hand, they are not regular giant planets, because they do glow. They are thought to be many but few have been found because their absolute magnitude is small.

Their mass is between the heaviest gas giants and the lightest stars, with an upper limit around 75 to 80 times the mass of Jupiter (MJ). Brown dwarfs more massive than 13 MJ are thought to fuse deuterium and those above ~65 MJ, fuse lithium as well.

Despite their name, most brown dwarfs would appear magenta to the human eye.

The nearest known brown dwarf is WISE 1049-5319 about 6.5 light years away, a binary system of brown dwarves discovered in 2013.

[[Dividend]]

CATEGORIES: Stock market, Income

Dividends are payments made by a company to its shareholders. When a company earns more money than it spends, the extra money can either be spent on making the company better or it can be given to the people who own stock in the company as a dividend.

[[Camille Dalmais]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, French singers

Camille Dalmais (born 1978, Paris, France) is a French singer. She is famous in France. Her first album was made in 2002.

[[Germanicus]]

CATEGORIES: Roman generals, 15 BC births, 19 deaths

Germanicus Caesar (24 May 15 BC – 10 October 19 AD) was a Roman general. He was the son of the general Nero Claudius Drusus, and nephew of Emperor Tiberius.

Germanicus commanded the Roman forces in their campaign of 14/16 AD against the Germanic tribes. Three whole Roman legions had been wiped out in the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest in 9 AD. It was the greatest disaster in Roman military history.

Plans for the revenge were started by the Emperor Augustus, and put into effect by his successor Tiberius. Germanicus had command of eight legions, one-third of the Roman Army. He destroyed the opposing German tribes, and recovered two of the three symbolic legionary eagles which had been lost. He was called back by Tiberius after he crossed the Rhine. The reasons for the recall are not agreed, but Augustus had set the Rhine as the limit of Rome's ambitions in Germany.

Germanicus was given an official triumph. A contemporary calendar gives 26 May as the day in which "Germanicus Caesar was borne into the city in triumph". Coins issued under his son Gaius (Caligula) depicted him on a triumphal chariot, with the reverse reading "Standards Recovered. Germans Defeated".

In AD 18 he was given charge of the eastern part of the empire. Germanicus died in Syria for unknown reasons.

[[PS10 solar power plant]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Spain, Solar power plants, 2007 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Spain

The PS10 Solar Power Plant (Planta Solar 10) is a solar power plant in Sanlucar la Mayor, Spain.

The plant is made up of a tower in the center of a large field covered in many mirrors. Each of the 624 moveable mirrors has an area of 120 m2 (1290 ft2). The mirrors reflect the light from the Sun to the top of the tower. The heat warms water within pipes in the central tower turning it into steam. The steam drives turbines which, at peak, put out 11 MW of electricity.

The planet is really good for providing electricity during the hottest parts of the day when air conditioning demand is the highest.

[[Feyenoord]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch football clubs, Rotterdam, 1908 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in the Netherlands

Feyenoord Rotterdam is a Dutch football team from Rotterdam. They play their home matches in the Feijenoord Stadium, also called De Kuip.  Feyenoord is created on July 19,1908. Their home uniform is a red and white shirt with black shorts and black socks. Their away colours for the 2007/2008 season are a black, red and white shirt with black shorts and black socks. They play in the Eredivisie, which is the highest football competition in The Netherlands. Everytime Feyenoord scores at home, the song I Will Survive by The Hermes House band is played.

[[Headquarters]]

CATEGORIES: Business, Military, Administrative buildings

Headquarters is a name given to the main building of an organization where most of its functions are done. All large companies have headquarters which control the business. A large non-governmental organization also has a headquarter from where its activities are controlled. The term is also used regarding military organizations.

[[Estates Theatre]]

CATEGORIES: Opera houses, Theatres, Prague, Buildings and structures in the Czech Republic, 18th century establishments in Europe

The Estates Theatre or Stavovské divadlo in Prague is one of the oldest and most beautiful opera houses in Europe.

The Estates Theatre became part of the National Theatre in 1948. People from three different groups perform opera, ballet, and drama there. The same people also perform at the National Theatre (Národní divadlo), and the Theatre Kolowrat (Divadlo Kolowrat).

[[National Theatre (Prague)]]

CATEGORIES: Opera houses, Theatres, Prague, Buildings and structures in the Czech Republic, 1881 establishments in Europe

The Národní Divadlo or the National Theatre in Prague is a very famous building which has been very important for more than 150 years for the culture of Czech history.

In the middle of the 19th century there were a lot of political changes in Europe.  Prague had been part of the Austrian Empire.  The official language was German.  Bohemia (which included Prague) and Moravia now form the area of the Czech Republic.  In the 19th century the Czechs in these areas wanted to be able to put on plays and operas in the Czech language.  The National Theatre was built at a time when this was starting to become possible.

The National Theatre was built because the Czech people wanted their own national identity. The first stone was laid on May 16, 1868.  It was opened  on June 11 1881 to honour the visit of Crown Prince Rudolf of Austria. Another 11 performances were given after that. Then the theatre was closed down to finish the building.  While people were working to finish it  a fire broke out on August 12 1881 which destroyed most of it.  However, a lot of money was found and it was built again and opened on November 18 1883 with a performance of Smetana’s opera Libuše which he had composed for this occasion.  The story of the opera is based on a mythological story about how Prague began.

It was an excellent theatre, and it was not until 1977 that any more re-building was necessary.  Then it was closed for six years, and opened again in time for the 100th anniversary of its opening: on November 18 1983. On that day again there was a performance of Smetana’s Libuše.

Today the National Theatre has three ensembles (groups of people): opera, ballet and drama.  These ensembles all perform in the National Theatre, the Estates Theatre and the Theatre Kolowrat. They put on a lot of Czech plays and operas, but also productions from other parts of the world.

[[Drone]]

Drone can mean:

In nature:

In vehicles:

In fiction:

In music:

[[Drone (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical terminology

In music, a drone is a  note which sounds all the time while a piece of music is played.  Some folk instruments always make a drone when they are played: bagpipes and hurdy gurdies in European culture, sitars in Indian music, and many other instruments in Asian and African music.  Sometimes more than one drone is heard (often two notes which are a fifth apart).

Music with drones has to have simple harmonies because it is not possible to modulate to different keys.  Other things can make up for this, for example, Scottish bagpipe music has lots of little ornamental notes to make it interesting.

Some Western Composers  liked to use a drone (especially one in fifths) to make it sound like bagpipes or other folk instruments.  Bach, François Couperin and other Baroque composers often called such pieces "Musette" (the French for "bagpipes").  Sometimes they did this in orchestral music: Haydn used a drone in the last part of his Symphony No. 104 to accompany a folk tune.

[[Pedal point]]

CATEGORIES: Musical terminology

A pedal point (or pedal note) is a note which keeps sounding for several bars, usually in the bass (the lowest notes).  They are often used towards the end of a piece of music to help to drive the music to a climax.  They are called "pedal" notes because they are often heard in organ music where the player puts one of his feet on a pedal note and holds it there.

Pedal points are usually on either the tonic (main key note) (tonic pedal) or the dominant (5th note of the scale) (dominant pedal) tones.

A good example of a dominant pedal can be seen in the Prelude in C major from Book I of the Well-Tempered Clavier by Bach.

An example of a tonic pedal can be seen in the third movement of Brahms's German Requiem, where the double basses play continuous D's in the last section.  Because this lasts for the whole section some people might prefer to call this a drone.

A double pedal is two pedal tones played at the same time.

An inverted pedal is a pedal that is not in the bass.  It is often in the highest part.

[[Euclidean geometry]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry

Euclidean geometry is a system in mathematics. People think Euclid was the first person who described it; therefore, it bears his name. He first described it in his textbook Elements. The book was the first systematic discussion of geometry as it was known at the time. In the book, Euclid first assumes a few axioms. These form the base for later work. They are intuitively clear. Starting from those axioms, other theorems can be proven. 

In the 19th century other forms of geometry were found. These are non-Euclidean geometry. Carl Friedrich Gauss, János Bolyai, and Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky were some people that developed such geometries. Very often, these do not use the parallel postulate, but the other four axioms.

[[János Bolyai]]

CATEGORIES: 1802 births, 1860 deaths, Hungarian people, Mathematicians, Deaths from disease

János Bolyai (December 15, 1802 – January 27, 1860) was a Hungarian mathematician, known for his work in non-Euclidean geometry.

[[Diana (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Roman gods and goddesses

In Roman mythology, Diana was the goddess of hunting, and in later times, the moon and chastity. Cypress trees were sacred to her. She was the daughter of Jupiter and the Titan Latona (or Leto). In Greek mythology, Diana was called Artemis. She is also associated with fertility and nature. Artemis is her Greek equivalent.

According to mythology Diana was born with her twin brother Apollo on the island of Delos. Apollo was her only real brother but she had many half brothers and sisters from her father. Her half-siblings were Vulcan, Minerva, Mercury, Bacchus, Mars, and Proserpine. Diana made a group of three with two other Roman deities: Egeria the water nymph, her servant and midwife helper; and Virbius, the god of the woods. Diana is a maiden goddess which means she can't marry.

[[Thoth]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

In Egyptian mythology, Thoth was the deity of scribes. He is thought to be one of the most important said to be born from the skull of Seth also said to be born from the heart of Ra. 

Thoth was considered the heart and tongue of Ra. He was also the one who translated Ra's will into speech.  

[[List of Germanic deities]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses, Lists of gods and goddesses

This is a list of Germanic deities that are in Norse mythology.

Divided between the Æsir and the Vanir, and sometimes including the jötnar (giants), the dividing line between these groups is less than clear. However, it is usually accepted that the Æsir (including Óðinn, Þór and Týr) were warrior gods, while the Vanir (mainly Njörður, Freyja and Freyr) were fertility gods. Various other groups of beings, including elves, dwarves and jötnar were probably minor gods, and might have had small cults and sacred places devoted to them.       

[[List of Egyptian gods and goddesses]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses, Lists of gods and goddesses

This is a list of Egyptian  Gods and goddesses from Egyptian mythology. The old Egyptians worshipped a few gods at different times and in different places. Some gods changed in importance over time or were nonexistent until later eras.

[[Nut (goddess)]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

In Egyptian mythology, Nut was the goddess of the sky. Her body made a protective layer over the Earth. Nut was the sister and wife of Geb, and the mother of (with Ra) Osiris, Nephthys,Isis and Seth and grandmother of Horus. Horus was also a grandchild of Ra.

The ancient Egyptians believed that Nut swallowed the sun-god, Ra, every night and gave birth to him every morning.

[[Dennis Kearney]]

CATEGORIES: 1847 births, 1907 deaths, Politicians from California, People from County Cork

Dennis Kearney (1847–1907) was an American politician who was himself an immigrant from Ireland. He is known for being racist towards Chinese people. His  fame comes from his strong support of the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882.

[[Cross of Gold speech]]

CATEGORIES: Events in the United States, Speeches, 1896, 1890s in Illinois, 19th century in Chicago

The Cross of Gold speech was a famous speech at the 1896 Democratic National Convention in Chicago, Illinois by William Jennings Bryan. He wanted silver and not gold to be America's bullion standard. It was his goal to create inflation to help those in debt. The end of the speech gives it its name when he says;

[[Paolo Uccello]]

CATEGORIES: 1396 births, 1475 deaths, 15th century Italian painters

Paolo Uccello, (c. 1396 – 1475), was a painter from Florence in Italy, during the time known as the Early Renaissance. He is famous as one of the first painters of the Italian Renaissance to use perspective in his pictures.

[[Fallen Leaves]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs, Songs about drugs

"Fallen Leaves" is a song by the Canadian music group Billy Talent. It is the sixth track on the album Billy Talent II and is their third single to be released.

[[Sumer Is Icumen In]]

CATEGORIES: Medieval music

"Sumer Is Icumen In" is a very old English song which can be sung as a round.  It is the oldest example of a round that we know of.  The composer is unknown.  It was written down around the middle of the 13th century by a monk but we do not know whether that monk composed it, or whether it had been composed earlier.   

The title means "Summer has come in".  The round can be sung in six parts.  There are also two parts which can be repeated again and again (an ostinato) throughout the piece.  The language is Middle English and is based on the dialect spoken in Wessex, England at the time.

[[Carmen]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Georges Bizet, Operas set in Spain

Carmen is a French opera written and first performed on 3 March 1875 by Georges Bizet. The story is set in Spain. It is based on the story of the same title by Prosper Mérimée. 

[[Kumquat]]

CATEGORIES: Citrus

The kumquats or cumquats are a group of small fruit-bearing trees. The edible fruit (which is also called kumquat) is similar to other Citrus but is smaller.

Kumquats are slow-growing, evergreen shrubs or small trees, from 2.5–4.5 m tall, with dense branches. Sometimes they have small thorns. The leaves are dark glossy green, and the flowers pure white, similar to citrus flowers.

Kumquats came from China (they are known in literature of the 12th century), and have long been cultivated there and in Japan. They were introduced to Europe in 1846 by Robert Fortune, who was collector for the London Horticultural Society, and a short time later into North America. 

They are much hardier than citrus plants as oranges. The 'Nagami' kumquat needs a hot summer, ranging from 25 °C(77°F) to 38°C(100.4°F), but can withstand frost down to about -10 °C(14°F). It grows in the tea regions of China where the climate is too cold for other citrus fruits, even the Mikan (also known as the Satsuma) orange. 

[[Teton Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of the United States, Geography of Wyoming, Geography of Idaho

The Teton Mountains are mountains on the border between Wyoming and Idaho in the United States of America. They are in a park called Grand Teton National Park. It is south of Yellowstone National Park, a park known for its hot springs.

[[Baunach]]

CATEGORIES: Bamberg Rural District

Baunach is a town in the German state (bundesland) of Bavaria. It is in the district of Bamberg in Upper Franconia. About 3,950 people live there (in year 2005).

[[Burgebrach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Bavaria, Bamberg Rural District

Burgebrach is a municipality in the district of Bamberg in Upper Franconia, Bavaria, Germany. About 6,500 people live in Burgebrach. There are 27 villages in the municipality.

[[Ostinato]]

CATEGORIES: Musical terminology

In music, an ostinato is a short pattern of notes which is repeated several times throughout a song or piece of music.  The word "ostinato" is related to the word obstinate.  It is like a musical idea which is being obstinate and will not go away.  The plural can be either "ostinati" or "ostinatos".

An ostinato can last for a section of a piece or it might last for the whole piece of music.

An ostinato can be a repeated group of notes or just a rhythm.  It is similar to a riff in jazz.  Many kinds of music use ostinati, e.g. classical music, jazz, boogie-woogie and African music.

A ground bass, or basso ostinato, is an ostinato pattern in the lowest notes, which keeps playing while the melodies in the higher notes change.  This was often used in baroque musical works. An example is the famous Canon in D by Pachelbel.

An example of a rhythmic ostinato is the first movement from the Planets Suite by Gustav Holst.  This is the movement in 5/4 time which describes Mars.  Boléro by Maurice Ravel also uses a repeated rhythm all the way through the piece.

An example from popular music is Pink Floyd's  Money.

[[Coffee system]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking appliances, Coffee

A coffee system or hot beverage system is a special machine for making coffee. Instead of using coffee beans or ground coffee, it uses special capsules. Each capsule has one serving of coffee, tea, milk, and other ingredients in it. This makes it easy to make coffee, espresso, etc. The process is very clean. The capsules with the coffee cost more money compared to normal coffee. There is also the problem that there is more waste because of the capsule.

[[1492 Pictures]]

CATEGORIES: Movie studios, 1995 establishments in the United States

1492 Pictures is an American movie production company founded by director Chris Columbus in 1995. The name is a play on Columbus's more famous  namesake, Christopher Columbus. 	

In addition to various Columbus movies, 1492 Pictures has produced movies by other directors including Brian Levant (Jingle All the Way), Henry Selick (Monkeybone), Alfonso Cuarón (Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban), Joe Roth (Christmas with the Kranks), Tim Story (the Fantastic Four films), and Shawn Levy (the Night at the Museum films). The logo music was composed by Academy award winner Hans Zimmer.

[[Life in Hell]]

CATEGORIES: Comic strips

Life In Hell is a comic strip made by Matt Groening. Its characters are human-like rabbits and a pair of gay lovers named Akbar and Jeff. The comic was released in April 1980. The last comic ended in 2012.

[[Iraq War]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 in the United States, 21st century in Iraq, George W. Bush, Wars involving the United States, Wars involving the United Kingdom, Wars involving Australia

Iraq New Iraqi government

Supported by:

Flag_of_the_Ba%27ath_Party.svg Ba'ath loyalists

supported by:

Sunni insurgency

Shia insurgency

Flag of Promised Day Brigades.svg Muqtada al-Sadr Abu Deraa Qais al-Khazaliflagicon image Akram al-Kaabi

United States: 192,000

United Kingdom: 45,000

Australia: 2,000

Poland: 194

Kurdistan Peshmerga: 70,000

Coalition forces (2004–09)176,000 at peak

United States Forces – Iraq (2010–11)112,000 at activation

Security contractors 6,000–7,000 (estimate)

Iraqi security forces805,269 (military and paramilitary: 578,269, police: 227,000)

Awakening militias≈103,000 (2008)Iraqi Kurdistan≈400,000 (Kurdish Border Guard: 30,000, Peshmerga 375,000)

Sunni Insurgents≈70,000 (2007)al-Qaeda≈1,300 (2006)

Islamic State of Iraq≈1,000 (2008)Army of the Men of the Naqshbandi Order≈500–1,000 (2007)

Killed: 17,690

Wounded: 40,000+

Coalition forcesKilled: 4,815 (4,496 U.S., 179 UK, 139 other)

Missing/captured (U.S.): 17 (8 rescued, 9 died in captivity)

Wounded: 32,776+ (32,252 U.S., 315 UK, 212+ other)

Injured/diseases/other medical*: 51,139 (47,541 U.S., 3,598 UK)

Contractors

Killed: 1,554

Wounded & injured: 43,880

Awakening Councils

Killed: 1,002+Wounded: 500+ (2007), 828 (2008)

Total dead: 25,285 (+12,000 policemen killed 2003–2005)""Total wounded: 117,961'''

Insurgents (post-Saddam)

Killed: 26,544 (2003–11)

Detainees: 12,000 (Iraqi-held)

Total dead: 34,144–37,344

''Lancet'' survey** (March 2003 – July 2006): 654,965 (95% CI: 392,979–942,636)

Iraq Family Health Survey*** (March 2003 – July 2006): 151,000 (95% CI: 104,000–223,000)

PLOS Medicine Study**: (March 2003 – June 2011): 405,000 (95% CI: 48,000–751,000), in addition to 55,000 deaths missed due to emigration.

Documented deaths from violence:

Iraq Body Count (2003 – 14 December 2011): 103,160–113,728 civilian deaths recorded, and 12,438 new deaths added from the Iraq War LogsAssociated Press (March 2003 – April 2009): 110,600

For more information see: Casualties of the Iraq War

The Iraq War was an  armed conflict that began in 2003 with the invasion of Iraq by a United States-led coalition that toppled the government of Saddam Hussein.

The conflict continued for much of the next ten years as an insurgency emerged to oppose the occupying forces and the post-invasion Iraqi government. An estimated 151,000 to 600,000 or more Iraqis were killed in the first 3–4 years of conflict. The United States officially withdrew from the country in 2011 but left private security contractors in its place to continue the war. In 2014 the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant conquered much of northern Iraq. An American-led new coalition sent troops to help the government of Iraq.

Australia, the United Kingdom, The Netherlands and Poland were also involved in the war with support from the Kurdish Peshmerga.

[[Feijoa]]

CATEGORIES: Myrtaceae, Trees, Fruits

The feijoa is the fruit of Acca sellowiana, an evergreen shrub or small tree, 1–7 m in height. It comes from the highlands of southern Brazil, parts of Colombia, Uruguay, Paraguay and northern Argentina. They are also grown throughout Azerbaijan , Iran (Ramsar), Georgia, Russia (Sochi), New Zealand and Tasmania Australia .

The fruit is also called the 'pineapple guava' or 'guavasteen'.

[[Wessex]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons

Wessex was an old Anglo-Saxon kingdom before England became one country. It was one of seven kingdoms in England. It was named after the West Saxons. It was in the south and southwest of England. Wessex was a kingdom from the 6th century until the English state was made in the 9th century. It was an earldom between 1016 and 1066. Then "Wessex" was not an official place name. The 19th century novelist Thomas Hardy wrote about Wessex in his books which tell stories set in that area.

His Royal Highness The Prince Edward was given the title "Earl of Wessex" when he married Sophie who became the Countess of Wessex. The title Earl of Wessex had not been used since the last earl, King Harold Godwinson, was killed at the Battle of Hastings in 1066.

[[Barrel racing]]

CATEGORIES: Horse riding

Barrel racing is an event often seen in rodeos. It involves a rider and horse going around 3 barrels in a cloverleaf pattern, started on either the right or the left side, but more often than not, the right side. Riders go from one barrel to the next making a square pattern around each and then running back past the timer in want of the fastest time.

[[Clover]]

CATEGORIES: Faboideae

Clover (Trifolium) is a genus of about 300 species of plants in the pea family. It grows worldwide, mainly in the temperate Northern Hemisphere, but many species also in South America and Africa, including at high altitudes on mountains in the tropics.

They are small herbaceous plants. It has three sections to each leave, which looks like three leaves. This is called trifoliate.

Clover is often associated with Ireland.

[[Clover (disambiguation)]]

Clover could mean:

[[Discus throw]]

CATEGORIES: Events in athletics

The discus throw is an event in athletics, where a heavy disc is thrown for distance. It was invented in 708 BC in Ancient Greece. The goal is to throw the discus farther than your opponents.

The discus throw is the subject of a number of well-known ancient Greek statues and Roman copies of them.US thrower Al Oerter is one of only two athletes to win the same individual event at four consecutive Olympic Games. 

[[Athletics]]

Athletics may mean:

[[Eragon]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 books, Inheritance Cycle

Eragon is a book written by Christopher Paolini. It was published in August 2003. Eragon is the first book in the Inheritance Cycle. The second book in the Inheritance Cycle, called Eldest, was published in mid-2005. The third of the four books, Brisingr, was released in 2008. Eragon was made into a movie and released in cinemas on December 2006. It was released on DVD in March 2007.

[[William Baillie]]

CATEGORIES: 1723 births, 1810 deaths, People from the Republic of Ireland, Artists

Captain William Baillie (June 5, 1723 – December 22, 1810) was an Irish military man and artist. 

Baillie went to London at age of 18 to study law, but liked art more. Shortly after getting to London, he joined the army. He served at the Battle of Culloden the Battle of Minden and retired with the rank of Captain. Baillie was later made the Commissioner of Stamps, which he was until 1795.

While he continued as an artist, what he is most famous for was his skill repairing and printing etching plates. He worked on plates by many artists, including Gerard Dou, Nicolas Poussin, and most notably Rembrandt. Apparently he got a number of Rembrandt's worn-out plates. The three best known:

A book of prints, after the above artists, was published in 1792, in two volumes, with subsequent editions.

[[Rusty Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: American guitarists, Singer-songwriters from California, American rock musicians, 1959 births, Living people

Rusty Anderson (born January 20, 1959) is an American guitarist, singer and songwriter from La Habra, California. He has played lead guitar for Paul McCartney since 2001. He has played for many famous musicians, for example, Elton John, The Bangles, Courtney Love and Belinda Carlisle. He also has a band called Rusty Anderson Afternoon whose first single "Effortless" hit Number One on American radio  and whose first full-length record RAA debuted in the Top Ten Alt Chart on iTunes.  

[[HLS]]

HLS has a number of meanings:

[[Handshake]]

CATEGORIES: Non-verbal communication, Messaging

A handshake is when two people hold hands for a few seconds and move them up and down before letting go.  It is often used like a greeting (like saying "Hello, Hi" or "goodbye" when people meet) or to say that two people have agreed on something. Handshakes are also used between romantic partners.

The action is ancient, and occurs (or occurred) in many cultures. There are, however, many slight differences. In some cultures, the handshake is firm, in others it is gentle. In some cultures the senior person leads the handshake. The length of time also varies between cultures. One thing is almost universal: hand shaking is done with bare hands.

Another aspect is: do men shake hands with women? In the past, in many societies, they did not. Today, in western society, handshakes are allowed if the female offers her hand. It is not done between family members, when hugs and kisses are more usual.

Some secret societies have secret handshakes to show they are part of the group.

[[Wave (gesture)]]

CATEGORIES: Non-verbal communication

A wave is a movement of the hand that people use to greet each other or say goodbye. People wave by raising their hand and moving it from side to side. They can also wave by moving their hand up and down. The way that people wave generally depends on their culture. 

[[Baseball bat]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball equipment

A baseball bat is a smooth wooden or metal rod used in the game of baseball to hit the ball after the ball is thrown by the pitcher.  It is not more than 2⅔ inches (70 mm) in diameter at the thickest part and not more than 42 inches (1067 mm) in length. It usually weighs no greater than four pounds (1.8 kg). The batter uses the bat to try to hit a pitched ball so that he may run around the bases and score points.

Bats are sometimes used as a weapon in fights or attacks. When a bat is used this way, it can be called a club.

Major League Baseball is using bats of pink color by players who agree during games played on Mother's Day as an event to support the pink ribbon campaign (breast cancer extermination movement). 

[[Softball]]

CATEGORIES: Team sports

Softball is a sport similar to baseball.  Men, women, boys, or girls can play softball.     

There are three types of softball: fastpitch, modified and slow pitch.  In both types of softball, pitchers throw underhand (with hand below shoulder level).

[[Bat (disambiguation)]]

Bat or Bats may mean:

Sports:

Entertainment:

Science:

Computing:

Military:

Roller coasters:

Other languages:

[[Dietrich Buxtehude]]

CATEGORIES: 1630s births, 1707 deaths, Baroque composers, Danish composers, German composers, German organists

Dietrich Buxtehude (or Dieterich according to Danish spelling) (born about 1637; died May 9, 1707) was a German (or Danish) composer and organist.  He is one of the most important composers of the mid-Baroque period.  He is best known for his organ works which are very often heard at recitals and church services. He also wrote a lot of excellent choral music and music for instruments, including the viola da gamba, an instrument which he played.  He had a very important influence on Johann Sebastian Bach.  When Bach was a very young man he walked over 200 miles to hear Buxtehude play the organ.

[[Buxtehude]]

Buxtehude (bʊkstəˈhuːdə) is a town in Northern Germany. It has 39,000 inhabitants. It is by the Este river which joins the city to the important river Elbe just 6 miles away.

Buxtehude is known as "The Fairytale Capital" of the world. The tale of "The Bunny and the Hedgehog" by the Brothers Grimm is set in this town.

The Pistennacht is an event where bars, restaurants and clubs in the old part of town are open all night long. The Pfingstmarkt is a big fair which is held at Whitsun (Pfingsten). There is a lot to do including rides on a Ferris Wheel. On the first weekend of June there is a big feast in the old part of the town, which also has a wine festival every year.

[[Summit Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 establishments in California, American entertainment companies, Movie production

[[Harlem Renaissance]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s in the United States, African-American history, American music history, Literature

The Harlem Renaissance is the name for a movement in African-American culture in the 1920s and 1930s which has had a big influence  on African-American literature, philosophy and music. The Harlem Renaissance is also called the "Black Literary Renaissance", '"The New Negro Movement" and "The flowering of Negro literature". 

The movement began in Harlem, New York after World War I. In 1925 a book was published called "The New Negro", edited by Alain Locke. This book was a collection of writing by African-Americans which looked at their people's lives experiences since the Civil War. From 1925 onwards, there was a movement called the "New Negro Movement", named after the book. 

The movement began to affect the thinking of many African-American writers and artists of all sorts. They challenged the thinking of many white Americans towards black Americans. They refused to be treated as if they were not equal. They refused to just copy the sorts of writing, art and music that white Americans did. They wanted to celebrate the fact that their African culture had survived through the terrible years of slavery, and was being "reborn". (The word "Renaissance" means "rebirth" and is generally used for a time from 1400 to 1600 in Europe.)

[[Hollywood Pictures]]

CATEGORIES: Movie studios, Disney, Defunct companies

Hollywood Pictures was one of Walt Disney Studios movie companies. It makes movies for a more adult audience than Walt Disney Pictures.  It is similar to Disney's Touchstone Pictures brand. The studio was launched in 1989, but was closed in 2007.

[[Third World]]

CATEGORIES: politics, economics, Country classifications

The "third world" describes the developing countries.

[[Thirty Years' War]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century in Europe, Thirty Years' War, Wars involving England, Wars involving France

The Thirty Years' War was fought from 1618 until 1648. Though it was primarily centered in Germany, several other countries became involved in the conflict, including France, Spain, and Sweden. In fact, almost all of the powerful countries in Europe were involved in the war. It began as a fight about religion — the Protestants and Catholics were the two groups that disagreed. As the war continued, the Habsburg dynasty (a Catholic family) and other organizations used the war to try and get more power. One of the examples of this is that Catholic France fought for the Protestants. This made the France-Habsburg rivalry even worse.

The Thirty Years' War caused things like famine and disease in almost every country involved. The war lasted for 30 years, but the problems that caused the war were not fixed for a long time after the war was over. The war ended with the Treaty of Westphalia.

[[Database normalisation]]

CATEGORIES: Database modeling

Database normalisation is an approach to designing databases which was introduced by Edgar F. Codd in the 1970s. Certain databases, known as relational databases, allow data to be stored in separate groups. Each group is commonly called a table.  To provide useful information, these groups are connected to each other. For example, students could be stored in one group, and classes in another group. To show that a student is enrolled in a class, a "relationship" is established from one group to the other. A student could have a relationship to many classes, each of which he or she would be enrolled in, while a class would have a relationship to many students.

A traditional alternative is the "flat file database", where all of the data is grouped together like in a spreadsheet. The problem with flat file databases is that they can have a lot of blank spaces and there is a lot of information that has to be repeated for each entry. This means that the database is bigger than it has to be, and it makes it more likely that the database will contain mistakes. Relational databases, by breaking the data into groups, reduce the chance of mistakes happening and does not take up any more space than necessary. But for it to work it needs to be well designed. 

Database normalization is a method of designing good relational databases. There are several "normal forms", each of which have rules which the database should be designed to meet. Codd originally specified three sets of criteria that different databases must meet: first, second and third normal form.

If a relation (or "database table") meets a certain normal form, it is not vulnerable to certain modifications, that will affect data integrity. The drawback of meeting such a set of criteria is usually that querying certain data from the database will become more difficult.

[[Clipboard]]

CATEGORIES: Tools

A clipboard is a thin board with a large (usually metal) clip at the top. Clipboards are a little larger than a piece of paper. They are used to support paper with one hand, while writing on the paper with the other hand. Clipboards are often used in situations where a person may not be able to find a good writing surface.

Clipboards can be made of many things. Most clipboards are made of masonite or particleboard, two types of wood. They can also be made from aluminum, steel, or acrylic, which is a type of plastic. 

[[Ugliness]]

CATEGORIES: Characteristics

Ugliness is a property of physical things that are not nice to look at. Something or someone who has ugliness is called ugly. This word is commonly used in when talking about human appearance. The opposite of ugliness is beauty. Someone who discriminates against ugly people is called a  lookist or cacophobe.

Ugliness can be a matter of opinion. Two people can look at the same object and one may think it is beautiful and the other may think it is ugly. This is shown in the popular phrase eye of the beholder. 

Although ugly usually means "a lack of physical beauty", the property of ugliness may also be used to describe other things such as music, literature, or human behavior. The word can also be used as an insult, even if the person does not think the person they are talking about is ugly.

[[Texture]]

CATEGORIES: Vocabulary, Sensory system

The word texture means: what things are made of and how they feel.  Textures can be described as “rough”, “smooth”, “hard”, “soft”,  “liquid”, “solid”, “lumpy”, “gritty” etc.  The word “texture” is used for many different things.  It can even be used in abstract senses, e.g. for music and poetry.

0\

[[Outlook Express]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft software, E-mail

[[Michael Spinks]]

CATEGORIES: American boxers, American Olympic gold medalists, Sportspeople from St. Louis, Missouri, 1956 births, Living people

Michael Spinks (born on July 13, 1956) is a retired American boxer. He was the light heavyweight and heavyweight champion of the world. 

Spinks was a member of the 1976 United States Olympics team and won a gold medal in the boxing competition. He became a professional boxer in 1977 and won the light heavyweight championship in 1981. In 1985 he fought heavyweight champion Larry Holmes and beat him for the title. It was the first time a light heavyweight champion had become heavyweight champion. He beat Holmes again in a rematch and defended his title another two times before losing to Mike Tyson in 1988. He never fought again.

Michael Spinks is the brother of heavyweight champion Leon Spinks.

[[Goodbye]]

Goodbye is a word used to express good wishes when parting. It may originate from the phrase "God be with you".

Goodbye can also mean:

[[Candy cane]]

CATEGORIES: Candy, Christmas

A candy cane is a hard cane-shaped candy stick. It is usually white with red stripes and tastes like peppermint. It is also made in many other flavors and colors.  The candy cane is a traditional candy of the Christmas holiday in the United States, but you can find them during the rest of the year. It is a symbolic figure in the Christmas season.

In the 17th century, white sticks of candy were popular, but they were not colorful. According to legend, a choir leader in Germany asked the people that made the candy to bend the sticks so that they looked like shepherd's staffs. He then gave the candy canes to the children to keep them quiet during church services. The colors are also said to be symbolic. The white part represents purity, and the red represents the blood of Jesus.

[[Leon Spinks]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, American boxers, American Olympic gold medalists, Sportspeople from St. Louis, Missouri

Leon Spinks (July 11, 1953 – February 5, 2021) was an American boxer. He won the world heavyweight championship. He won a gold medal in the 1976 Olympics in the boxing category. He became a professional boxer. In his eighth bout, he won the heavyweight championship from Muhammad Ali. In his first defense, he lost the title back to Ali. He was born in St. Louis, Missouri.

Spinks continued boxing with little success after that. He fought Larry Holmes for the heavyweight title in 1981, but lost. He also fought for the cruiserweight championship, but he lost that fight, too. He stopped fighting in 1995.

He ws the brother of boxer Michael Spinks and the father of boxer Cory Spinks.

In December 2019, Spinks was hospitalized in Las Vegas after his prostate cancer spread to his bladder. He died on February 5, 2021 from the disease in Henderson, Nevada at the age of 67.

[[Cruiserweight]]

CATEGORIES: Boxing

Cruiserweight is a division in boxing for fighters who weigh over 175 pounds and up to 200 pounds (91 kg). The weight limit was once 190 pounds. The World Boxing Council created this weight division in the late 1970s because it felt that some fighters were too small to fight in the heavyweight division but too big to fight in the light heavyweight division. So they made a weight class in-between. Many cruiserweight champions and contenders may eventually fight in the heavyweight division. 

[[Botanic]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Ireland

Botanic is a district of South Belfast, in the country of Ireland. It is named after Botanic Gardens, a local park dedicated to the science of botany.

[[Steve Jay]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Bassists

Stephen "Steve" Jay (born January 26, 1951) is a bassist best known for working with the singer-songwriter "Weird Al" Yankovic.

[[Minimum wage]]

CATEGORIES: Macroeconomics

The minimum wage is the least amount of salary that employees of a business can be paid. Around the world, the minimum wage is enforced as a law that every company must follow. If companies do not give their employees at least the minimum wage, the companies will be forced to pay an expensive fine for breaking the law.

Minimum wage is a relative term. Different countries have different minimum wages. Nunavut in Canada has a minimum wage of $11.00 per hour. Ontario, another place in Canada has a minimum wage of $10.25 per hour. 

Some people think the minimum wage should be raised, so poor working people will have more money and enjoy human rights. Others think it is worse because the government will not have enough money to pay all the employees, so they will raise the taxes or raise the inflation. Some people think that the minimum will hurt employees because companies only hire employees whose labor is worth the price they are required to pay. They think that if the minimum wage is raised employees will lose their job because companies cannot afford to pay them the raised minimum wage.

[[Joe Manchin]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, United States senators from West Virginia, Governors of West Virginia

Joseph (Joe) Manchin III (born August 24, 1947) is an American politician. He was elected Governor of the state of West Virginia in the 2004 election. He took office as Governor on January 17, 2005 and remained in that position until 2010. In 2010, he became a Senator for West Virginia, after the death of Robert Byrd. He is one of the least liberal Democrats in the Senate, having conservative views on social issues, energy, the environment, and the military. He co-sponsored an amendment, a change to a bill, with Senator Pat Toomey (R-PA) that would require gun sellers to check whether gun buyers are mentally ill or have a criminal record. This amendment did not become law.

[[Renaissance art]]

CATEGORIES: Art, Renaissance

Many of the most famous and best-loved works of art in the world were created during the time known as the Renaissance. The Renaissance began about 1400 and lasted until about 1600. Italy, and in particular the city of Florence is thought of as the home of Renaissance art. 

Many Flemish painters from the area of modern Belgium were also very busy at this time. The style of their pictures, and their use of oil painting influenced the Italian painters. 

[[Renaissance architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Architecture, Renaissance

The Dome of Florence Cathedral

This country house was built by Palladio in 1550. It is a square building which looks the same from every side. At the centre, there is a dome. On every side is a large porch, (portico), like a Greek temple. It is such an elegant design that other architects used the same style which can be seen on churches, houses and palaces, including the White House.

[[Fiji One]]

CATEGORIES: Television networks, Fiji

Fiji One is a free-to-air television channel run by Fiji Television. It is shown all across Fiji. It is paid for by advertisements. For this reason, programs on Fiji One have commercial breaks, to allow advertisers that fund the programs to showcase their products or services.

[[Comet Group]]

CATEGORIES: Shops

Comet was a chain of shops in the UK. They were the second largest retailer of TVs, and biggest retailer of fridges, washing machines and dishwashers in England.

[[Sainsbury's]]

CATEGORIES: Supermarkets of the United Kingdom, Shops, 1869 establishments in the United Kingdom

[[Venus of Willendorf]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeology, Statues

Venus of Willendorf, also known as the Woman of Willendorf, is an 11.1 cm (4 3/8 inches) high statuette of a female figure. It was discovered in 1908 by archaeologist Josef Szombathy at a paleolithic site near Willendorf. Willendorf is a village in Lower Austria near the city of Krems. The statuette is made of a kind of limestone that can not be found in the area. It is colored with red ochre.

A study made in 1990 suggests that the figure was made between 24.000 and 22.000 BCE. Very little is known about its origin, how it was made, or what it meant to the people who made it.

The Venus is not a realistic portrait but rather an idealization of the female figure. Her vulva, breasts, and swollen belly are very pronounced. This suggests a strong connection to fertility. Her tiny arms are folded over her breasts, and she has no visible face.  Her head is covered with what might be coils of braids, eyes, or a kind of headdress. The lack of a face has prompted some archaeologists and philosophers to view the Venus as a "universal mother."

To add to this, many scientists believe that the coils of the venus’ hair were meant to represent the cycles of a woman’s period or ovulation. 

The nickname, urging a comparison of this rather obese figurine to the classical image of "Venus", causes resistance in some modern analysis. "The ironic identification of these figurines as 'Venus' pleasantly satisfied certain assumptions at the time about the primitive, about women, and about taste," Christopher Witcombe has noticed http://witcombe.sbc.edu/willendorf/. At the same time there is professional reluctance to identify her as an Earth Mother goddess of paleolithic Old Europe.February 2007 Some suggest that her corpulence would represent high status in a hunter-gatherer society, and that beside her obvious fertility she could be an emblem of security and success.February 2007

The statue's feet do not allow it to stand on its own. Due to this it has been speculated that it was meant to be held, rather than simply looked at. 

Catherine McCoid and LeRoy McDermott think that the figurines were done as self-portraits by the women themselves. Most scientists agree that the head, seen from a profile view, while having no distinct facial features, appears to be looking down. The common physical characteristics of all of the Venus figures are: a thin upper torso, largely exaggerated breasts, large buttocks and thighs, a large stomach (possibly due to pregnancy), and oddly bent, short legs, that end with disproportionately small feet. Yet when looked upon as if you were a woman looking down at your body, the physical features, in perspective, seem correct. There are striking similarities between the Venus of Willendorf and a pregnant woman when perceived from above.

Venus of Willendorf is part of the collection of the Naturhistorisches Museum in Viennahttp://witcombe.sbc.edu/willendorf/.

Since this figure's discovery and naming, several similar statuettes and other forms of art have been discovered. They are collectively referred to as Venus figurines.

[[Acts of Supremacy]]

CATEGORIES: 1550s in England, 1558, Protestant Reformation

The Acts of Supremacy was passed by Elizabeth I in 1558. This act stated that the king, not the pope was the head of the Church of England.

When this act was originally passed by Henry VIII, in 1534, he had been the ‘Head of the Church in England’ but under Elizabeth’s reign, she was “Supreme Governor of the Church in England”.

The change may have been made to appease Catholics who could not accept the monarch as "Head of the Church", seeing the church as the Pope's domain, or it may have been made because Elizabeth was a woman. In the sixteenth century, women were regarded as inferior to men in spiritual matters, and many were uncomfortable with the idea of a woman being in charge.  This act also included an oath of loyalty to the Queen that the clergy were expected to take. If they did not take it, then they would lose their office.  A High Commission was established to ensure that the oath was taken.

[[Compact fluorescent lamp]]

CATEGORIES: Lamps

A compact fluorescent lamp (CFL), is a type of lamp (or light bulb) designed to fit into the same space and usually also the same socket as an incandescent bulb, but with the advantages of a fluorescent lamp. Many CFLs can directly replace an existing incandescent lamp. They were invented late in the 20th century and much used after the turn of the century (after 2000).

The purchase price of a CFL is often much higher than an incandescent lamp of the same output, and the light from CFLs looks different to light from incandescent lamps. CFLs have a longer rated life and use less energy than an incandescent lamp of the same brightness. A CFL can save over US$30 in electricity costs over the lamp’s lifetime compared to an incandescent lamp.

As in other fluorescent lamps, electrified mercury vapor emits ultraviolet (UV) light. A phosphor converts it to visible light. The ballast prevents too much electricity from flowing through the tube.  It is usually in the plastic base of the bulb.  If the ballast is in the bulb, the bulb is called a self-ballasted lamp.  Most are electronic ballasts.

[[PL Kyodan]]

CATEGORIES: New religious movements, Japanese culture, Organisations based in Japan

PL Kyodan or the Church of Perfect Liberty is an international religion that developed from the Zen Buddhist culture of Japan early in the 20th century. PL teaches that "Life is art." Humans have been born to express their own unique individuality in everything they do - "creating true art". 

To assist them in improving their lives and overcoming hardships believers are taught why they have these problems and are guided in solving them by the Patriarch (Oshieoya-sama) and ministers.

PL does not have a holy book (like a Bible), however, they have PL 21 Precepts and the PL 21 Principles which were revealed by the Founders of the Church. 

Nowadays the group claims having more than 3 million followers worldwide. Most of the parishes are in Japan, however, due to the active missionary work in the 1960s PL was established in South-America and USA as well. Today they are present also in Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Peru. Oceaninan headquarters was founded in the 1990s in Brisbane, Australia. Small communities exist in Europe as well, especially in France, Portugal and Hungary.

PL presents each year in the Japanese headquarters the world' biggest firework. The baseball group of PL High School is very famous in Japan, often they win the national championship. 

[[Winston Smith]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in written fiction

Winston Smith is a fictional character and the protagonist of George Orwell's 1949 novel Nineteen Eighty-Four. In the book, Winston is a clerk for the Ministry of Truth, where his job is to rewrite historical documents so that they match the current party line, which changes on a daily basis.

[[Yantai]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Yantai is a city in Shandong, China. It is on the coast facing the Huang Hai. The average annual temperature is 12°C. The annual rainfall is 20 mm. 

The city used to be called "Chefoo" because an island close to the city was named "Chefoo". The name of the city means "Smokey Tower" (yan - smoke, tai - tower). The city is named "Yantai" because in 1398 the Hongwu Emperor of the Ming dynasty, built watch towers nearby to tell everyone if Japanese pirates were coming.

[[Qiemo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Qiemo, also called Cherchen, is an inland city in Xinjiang, China. About 60,000 people live in the city. It is a river town on the edge of the Taklamakan Desert. The area has been settled for a long time. A cemetery at least 3,500 years old is near the town, as well as Bronze Age rock carvings. The town was along the trade route to Tibet. Marco Polo is supposed to have passed through the town in 1273.

[[Fictional universe]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional universes, Children's literature, Fantasy movies

A fictional universe is a made up world that is used as the setting for one or (more commonly) many works of fiction. It is often used in books but can be used in any form used to tell a story, for example role-playing games, television or movies. It can be said that every work of fiction makes a world of its own. A fictional universe is used when things in a story become a part either of other stories, or of games or other things.

Fictional universes are most often used in science fiction and fantasy stories but they can be used in any type of fiction. A fictional universe usually has certain things in them that make them different from the real world. These things could affect anything from cities the author created to entire galaxies. In most fictional universes, the laws of physics are different to let things exist which commonly do not, for example, magic or space travel to other planets. Fictional universes may also take place in any time period during the past, present, or future.

The fictional universe featured world's finest perhaps team-up and crossover respectively favorite adventures characters including Superman, Batman, Spider-Man, other Marvel superheroes, Darth Vader, Star Trek characters, Doctor from Doctor Who, Dalek, Harry Potter characters, Planet of the Apes characters, James Bond, Narnia characters, Charlie Chaplin, Laurel and Hardy, The Three Stooges, Snow White, The Seven Dwarfs, Sheriff Woody, Buzz Lightyear, other Toy Story characters, Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Porky Pig, Elmer Fudd, Looney Tunes, Merrie Melodies, Pikachu, King Kong, Godzilla, Tom and Jerry, The Flintstones, Tex Avery cartoon characters, Mario characters, Sonic the Hedgehog characters, Pac-Man, Mega Man, Donkey Kong, Thomas & Friends, Simpsons family, The Lord of the Rings characters, The Hobbit, Pirates of the Caribbean, Goku, other Dragon Ball characters, SpongeBob SquarePants, Marx Brothers, Marilyn Monroe, Abbott and Costello, Frankenstein, Dracula, Sherlock Holmes, The Cat in the Hat, Dr. Seuss, The Pink Panther, Cartoon Network characters, Happy Tree Friends, Ronald McDonald, Crash Bandicoot, Banjo Kazooie, South Park, The Addams Family, Garfield, The Smurfs, Snoopy, Charlie Brown, Peanuts, Santa Claus, Kermit the Frog, The Muppets, Kirby, Flash Gordon, Masters of the Universe, ThunderCats, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Doraemon, Hello Kitty, Domo-kun, Asterix, The Beano, Blondie and Dagwood, Buster Keaton, Mr. Bean, Mr. Men and Little Miss, Captain Underpants, The Wizard of Oz, WWE, Angry Birds, Terminator, Selene, Wallace and Gromit, The Wiggles, Bananas in Pyjamas, Our Gang, Shrek characters, Madagascar characters, Kung Fu Panda characters, M&M's (Red, Yellow, Green, Blue, Orange and Brown), Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Family Guy, Ice Age characters, Michael Jackson, The Burger King, Jack Box from Jack in the Box, Kool-Aid Man, Rocky and Bullwinkle, Maya the Bee, LazyTown, Beavis and Butt-Head, Annoying Orange, Hercule Poirot, Miss Marple, Cereal Mascots, Teletubbies, Astro Boy, Rick and Morty, Fireman Sam, ALF, Futurama, Adolf Hitler, Postman Pat, Pingu, EarthBound, The Andrews Sisters, Hi-5, Totally Spies, Dora the Explorer, Peppa Pig, Bob the Builder, Bobby's World, Power Rangers, Alien, Predator, The Shining, Horror movie characters, Princess Knight, Barney & Friends, Sesame Street, Police Academy, Popeye, Betty Boop, Felix the Cat, Woody Woodpecker, Heathcliff, Cubitus, Happy Feet, Shaun the Sheep, Mighty Mouse, Terrytoons, Casper the Friendly Ghost, Little Lulu, PaRappa the Rapper characters, Care Bears, Strawberry Shortcake, My Little Pony, Raggedy Ann and Andy, Rupert Bear, Babar the Elephant, Where's Wally, EarthBound, Sabrina the Teenage Witch, Inspector Gadget, H.R. Pufnstuf, Jollibee, Colonel Sanders from KFC, Farmer Alfalfa, The Katzenjammer Kids, Humphrey B. Bear, Fat Cat and Friends, Mr. Squiggle, Play School, Blinky Bill, Detective Bogey, Lucky Lotteries Cat, Monty Python,  The Bill, Naruto, Paddle Pop Lion, Miraculous: Tales of Ladybug & Cat Noir, Robot Chicken, Rick and Morty, Rugrats, Nickelodeon characters, Rayman, Rabbids, Monster High, The NeverEnding Story, PJ Masks and Ghostbusters.

[[Ronnie James Dio]]

CATEGORIES: American rock singers, Bassists, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from stomach cancer, People from Portsmouth, New Hampshire, Singers from New York, Singers from New Hampshire, 1942 births, 2010 deaths

Ronnie James Dio (born Ronaldo Giovanni Padovan July 10, 1942 - May 16, 2010) was an American heavy metal singer. His parents were Italian Americans. He performed with Elf, Rainbow, Black Sabbath, and his own band Dio. He was also part of the band Heaven and Hell (named after Black Sabbath's most famous song), with some of the original Black Sabbath members. Dio was born in Portsmouth, New Hampshire and raised in Cortland, New York. He starred in the Tenacious D movie, The Pick Of Destiny.

In November 2009, Dio was diagnosed with stomach cancer, which caused his death in Houston, Texas, on May 16, 2010. He was 68. 

[[Chow Yun-Fat]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Actors from Hong Kong

Chow Yun-fat SBS (born May 18, 1955), formerly called Donald Chow, is a Hong Kong actor and singer. He often worked with John Woo in the action movies A Better Tomorrow, The Killer, and Hard Boiled. He also acted in Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End, and has acted in many drama movies.

[[Anglican Communion]]

CATEGORIES: Anglicanism

The Anglican Communion is an association of all Anglican churches in full communion with the Church of England. There is no single "Anglican Church" with universal authority, because each national or regional church has full autonomy. With over one hundred and ten million members, the Anglican Communion is the third largest communion in the world, after the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Churches.

The status of full communion means that all rites conducted in one church are recognised by the other. Some of these churches are known as Anglican, explicitly recognising the link to England (Ecclesia Anglicana means "Church of England"). 

The Archbishop of Canterbury, religious head of the Church of England, has no formal authority outside that jurisdiction, but is recognised as symbolic head of the worldwide communion. 

[[1019]]

CATEGORIES: 1019

[[Joan of Acre]]

CATEGORIES: English royalty, 1272 births, 1307 deaths

Joan of Acre (April 1272 – 7 April, 1307) was a daughter of King Edward I of England and his first wife, Eleanor of Castile (1241-1290).

[[Jules Verne]]

CATEGORIES: 1828 births, 1905 deaths, French writers, French politicians

Jules Verne (February 8, 1828– March 24, 1905) was a French writer. He was one of the first authors to write science fiction. Some of his books include Journey To The Centre Of The Earth (1864), From the Earth to the Moon (1865), Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea (1870), and Around the World in Eighty Days (1873).

[[Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 establishments, American animated television series, Comic books, Fictional characters introduced in 1984, Fictional turtles, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles

The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (TMNT; known as the Teenage Mutant ''Hero'' Turtles, TMHT when they were introduced in the UK) are a fictional group of four mutant turtles who were taught how to be ninjas by a mutant rat named Splinter. The TMNT were created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird and made their comic book debut in 1984. In October 2009, Nickelodeon purchased the intellectual property rights from The Bage Studios.

[[Atze Schröder]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Fictional characters

Atze Schröder is a German comedy figure played by Hubertus Albers.

[[Autonomy]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy

Autonomy means being able to rule without having to obey some other higher authority. Autonomy is something that philosophers often talk about.  The idea occurs in moral, political, and bioethical philosophy.  It means that someone is able to make a sensible decision without being forced to do so by someone else.  They are able to make a "free" decision.  

In moral and political philosophy, autonomy is often used when discussing whether someone has a moral responsibility for what he does. One of best known philosophical theories of autonomy was developed by Kant. In medicine, doctors have to respect the autonomy of the patient, i.e. the patient has been given good information about their illness, they should be able to decide whether they want treatment.  The doctor cannot force it on them.

In politics, autonomy means self-determination that people can govern themselves instead of being ruled by someone else.

[[Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel]]

CATEGORIES: Continental philosophers, German philosophers, People from Stuttgart, 1770 births, 1831 deaths

Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (August 27, 1770 – November 14, 1831) was a German philosopher born in Stuttgart, Württemberg, which is now southwest Germany. He started Hegelianism and is a part of German Idealism. He influenced many writers and philosophers, including those who agreed with him (Bradley, Sartre, Küng, Bauer, Stirner, Marx), and those who did not agree with him (Kierkegaard, Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Schelling). Hegel's books are difficult to read and deal with many different ideas at the same time. He has written about history, politics, religion, art, logic and metaphysics.

[[London Borough of Croydon]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Croydon

The London Borough of Croydon is a London Borough. It is in south London. The borough is the farthest south of Greater London, with the M25 circle motorway touching it at the bottom. In North Croydon the borough mainly borders the London Borough of Bromley to the east as well as the London Boroughs of Southwark and Lambeth to the north. The boroughs of Sutton and Merton are west of Croydon.

Croydon's main town centre is Croydon itself. The town offers the most office space in Southeast England apart from Central London. There are two shopping centres in Croydon which are named Centrale and the Witgift Centre. Croydon was named the 20th best shopping town in the UK.December 2016 Croydon is currently being modernised (meaning new buildings are being built). Croydon College and John Ruskin College are the only schools for people over 16 years old.

The London Borough of Croydon asked the government for city status in 2000 and again in 2002 but it failed. If the government said yes it would have been the third council in Greater London to hold that status, the others being the City of London and the City of Westminster.

The borough is the home of two football clubs, Crystal Palace F.C. who are in the Football League Championship and Croydon F.C. who are in the Ryman League. Croydon is also known for having a lot of parks and open spaces like Mitcham Common and South Norwood Lakes.

Croydon is a tourist attraction in London. One of the reasons is because it is close to Gatwick Airport and because it has lots of entertainment and historic facilities including the Fairfield Halls, Warehouse Theatre, Croydon Airport (disused), Shirley Windmill, Croydon Palace and the Croydon Clocktower.

[[Nicolas Sarkozy]]

CATEGORIES: French Roman Catholics, French lawyers, Politicians from Paris, Honorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, Presidents of France, Princes of Andorra, 1955 births, Living people, French Ministers of Finance

Nicolas Sarkozy, born on 28 January 1955 in Paris, France,

He was the leader of the UMP, and was elected President of the French Republic on 6 May 2007. He defeated Ségolène Royal, of the Socialist Party.

[[RVV Hillesluis]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 establishments in Europe, 2012 disestablishments in Europe, Dutch football clubs, Rotterdam

Rotterdamse Voetbalvereniging "Hillesluis" (translated:Rotterdam's Football Society "Hillesluis") was a football club in Rotterdam. It was located near the Feyenoord stadium. It was created in 1932 in a Rotterdam's town with the same name. It was disestablished in 2012.

This club has 21 teams from which:

[[Tyrant]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Ancient Greece

A tyrant (pronounce: tie-rant) is a person who rules with absolute power. In its Greek origin the word has no negative meaning: we translate Oedipus Tyrannus as 'Oedipus the King'. A tyrant  usually rules a country, and he often got his position as powerful ruler by force, although some of them inherited their power.

Later, the word came to mean someone who ruled with cruelty and injustice. The rule of a tyrant is called tyranny.  The adjective is tyrannical.

A dictator or despot is someone who rules with absolute authority, usually cruelly. It now has the same meaning as 'tyrant', whereas before, 'tyrant' meant something like 'ruler' or 'king'.

In the 10th and 9th centuries BC, Ancient Greece was ruled by monarchs. By the 7th century BC, they were ruled by groups of aristocrats. These aristocrats started to become unpopular. This gave cruel people the chance to get power for themselves, telling the people that they would be good rulers, but turning bad once they got power.

Around 650 BC the tyrant Cypselus became powerful in Corinth.  There were other tyrants in the Asiatic countries that were ruled by Greece.  Cypselus’s son Periander was also a cruel tyrant who ruled for 40 years. The tyranny in Corinth came to an end after he died.

[[Johann Pachelbel]]

CATEGORIES: 1653 births, 1706 deaths, Baroque composers, Entertainers from Bavaria, German composers, German organists, People from Nuremberg

Johann Pachelbel  (born Nuremberg (German:Nürnberg), baptized 1 September, 1653; died Nürnberg, buried 9 March, 1706) was a German composer and organist.  He is very famous for his organ music.  He also wrote other keyboard music and music for the Protestant church.  His Canon in D has become a very popular piece of music and is very often played today at church weddings and other events.

He was brought up in Nürnberg and had his first music lessons there.  In 1669 he went to study at the university of Altdorf, but after a year he had to leave because his father could not afford to keep him.  About a year later he went to study at the Gymnasium Poeticum in Regensburg.  The directors of that school must have realized that he was an extremely talented musician, because they made an extra scholarship for him and allowed him to have special music lessons outside the school.

In 1673 he went to Vienna where he was deputy organist at  St Stephen’s Church.  He heard a lot more music there, especially the music of the catholic composers of  South Germany and Italy.  After a short while at Eisenach he got the job of organist at the Predigerkirche in Erfurt.

In 1681 he married, but his wife and their baby boy died in the plague.  In 1684 he married again and the couple had five sons and two daughters. Pachelbel taught Johann Christoph Bach who later taught Johann Sebastian Bach.

Pachelbel became a very famous organist.  He stayed in Erfurt until 1690.  After another five years he became organist at St Sebald, Nürnberg where he stayed for the rest of his life.

[[Opioid]]

CATEGORIES: Opioids, Analgesics

Opioids are substances that act on opioid receptors to produce morphine-like effects.  Opioid receptors are widespread in the brain, and are also in the spinal cord and digestive tract.

Opioids are chemical substances that relieve pain. There are a wide range of natural and artificial opioids. They are used in hospitals to treat acute pain, as can occur after an operation. They can also be used to relieve pain, where treatment no longer makes sense, for example in certain cancer patients. Drugs that can relieve pain are broadly known as analgesics.

Certain opioids are used as anesthetics, as well as in emergency medicine and intensive care. There are cases which are difficult to manage with non-opioid analgesics.

Certain opioids have been used as illegal drugs. They can cause impairment if taken in large amounts. Most opioids are controlled substances, only available by prescription.

The term Opiate is sometimes used as a synonym. Most often it is used to refer to opium alkaloids, and semi-synthetic opioids.

[[Analgesic]]

CATEGORIES: Analgesics

Analgetics (one analgetic) (or analgesics) is a word for some drugs that are used to stop pain. These are also known as painkillers. There are several kinds of painkillers. All act on the nervous system. Some painkillers (such as opioids) can make people addicted if they are taken for a long time. Some painkillers have side effects that can harm people when they take too much (e.g., too much paracetamol can be dangerous for the liver)

[[Blender (program)]]

CATEGORIES: Graphics software, Free software, Animation

Blender is a free, open source 3D computer graphics program. It is available for many operating systems, for example Microsoft Windows, macOS and Linux. It is made by the Blender Foundation. It was used, for example, to make the short movies Elephants Dream, Big Buck Bunny and Sintel.

[[Mark Shuttleworth]]

CATEGORIES: White South African people, South African businesspeople, 1973 births, Living people

thumb|right|200px|Mark ShuttleworthMark Richard Shuttleworth (born 18 September 1973) is a South African business person. He was the first African in space. He bought himself his space travel. He is also the leader of the Ubuntu project.

[[Paracetamol]]

CATEGORIES: Analgesics

Paracetamol (or acetaminophen) is a common analgesic, a drug that is used to relieve pain. It can also be used to reduce fever, and some kinds of headache. This makes it an antipyretic, something that reduces fevers. It is used in many drugs that treat the flu and colds.

The words acetaminophen and paracetamol both come from the names of the chemicals used in the compound: N-acetyl-para-aminophenol and para-acetyl-amino-phenol. Sometimes, it is shortened to APAP, for N-acetyl-para-aminophenol.

Harmon Northrop Morse was the first to make Paracetamol, in the year 1878. Drugs made with Paracetamol became common in the 1950s. Today, these drugs are some of the most used, together with those containing salicylic acid or Ibuprofen. In the year 1977, Paracetamol was put on the List of Essential Medicines of the WHO.

[[Morphine]]

CATEGORIES: Opioids, Analgesics

Morphine (INN) (IPA: ˈmɔ(ɹ)fin) is a strong opiate pain killer drug. It is the principal active agent in opium and the prototypical opiate.  Like other opioids, e.g. diacetylmorphine (heroin), morphine acts directly on the central nervous system (CNS) to relieve pain, and at synapses of the nucleus accumbens in particular.  Morphine is highly addictive when compared to other substances, and tolerance and physical and mental dependences develop very rapidly. 

Patients on morphine sometimes say they have insomnia, visual hallucinations and nightmares; if these occur then reduction in dosage or switch to an alternative opioid analgesic should be considered.

The word "morphine" is derived from Morpheus, the god of dreams in Greek mythology. He is the son of Hypnos, god of sleep.

[[Ségolène Royal]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Government ministers of France, Socialist Party (France) politicians, People from Dakar

Marie-Ségolène Royal (born September 22, 1953 in Dakar, French West Africa, now Senegal) is a French politician. She is the president of the Poitou-Charentes region, a member of the National Assembly and a prominent member of the Socialist Party in France. She was the Socialist Party's candidate for the 2007 French presidential election but lost to Nicolas Sarkozy. She was the partner of former President of France François Hollande from 1978 until 2007.

She is known for her admiration for some "Third Way" policies, for her controversial insistence on law and order issues and for her support of devolution and participatory democracy.

[[Codeine]]

CATEGORIES: Opioids, Analgesics

Codeine or methylmorphine is an opiate used for its analgesic properties. It is also used to treat coughing and diarrhea. It is marketed as the salts codeine sulfate and codeine phosphate. Codeine hydrochloride is more commonly marketed in continental Europe and other regions.

Codeine is an alkaloid found in opium in concentrations ranging from 0.3 to 3.0 percent. Codeine can be extracted from opium. Today, most codeine is synthesized from morphine through the process of O-methylation.

[[Opium]]

CATEGORIES: Opioids

Opium is a narcotic resin produced from opium poppies (Papaver somniferum). It contains up to 16% morphine, an opiate alkaloid, which is most frequently processed chemically to produce heroin for the black market. The resin also has non-narcotic alkaloids in it. Some of these are papaverine and noscapine. Opium is also known as afeem, and was called "God's Own Medicine" during its time of greatest popularity. It can be yellow or dark brown, and has a bitter taste.

Opium has been used and produced for thousands of years. During this time, the source plant has been changed and adapted. The methods of processing the plant, and extracting substance and consuming it also have changed.  The medicinal use of poppies for pain relief dates back to ancient times, but widespread use in patent medicines or as a recreational drug has occurred only in the last few centuries.  Drug prohibition laws in most countries were introduced in the 20th century.  Today the opium crop is worth in excess of $400 million legally and $7 billion illegally, after processing. Opium has caused many wars in China, such as the Opium Wars, because of heavy addiction to the drug. People who become addicted to opium become dull, lazy, and even sleepy. Opium itself is a very harmful and addictive ingredient and comes in many other forms of illegal drugs; including Heroin and/or Diamorphine. 

Health Risks

Health risks include, overdose, respiratory depression, risk of HIV if injected, and risk of permanent brain dulling if used for prolonged periods of time.

[[Union for a Popular Movement]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 establishments in France, 2015 disestablishments in Europe, Conservative parties, Political parties in France

The Union for a Popular Movement (French: Union pour un Mouvement Populaire, UMP), was the main French centre-right political party. It was formed in 2002. On 30 May 2015, it was replaced by The Republicans.

The party had an absolute majority in the National Assembly but lost its majority in the Senate in September 2011. The UMP is a member of the European People's Party (EPP), of the Christian Democrat International (CDI) and of the International Democrat Union (IDU).

[[Oxycodone]]

CATEGORIES: Opioids, Analgesics

Oxycodone is a medicine that is used to treat pain.  This kind of pain medicine is called an analgesic.

Oxycodone is a man-made opioid.  This means that in the body, it acts like morphine, a powerful, natural painkiller.  The chemical elements in oxycodone are very similar to codeine, another natural painkiller.

[[Pethidine]]

CATEGORIES: Opioids, Analgesics

Pethidine or meperidine (often called Demerol in the United States) is a synthetic opioid - a man-made drug similar to morphine. It is a painkiller. It is used against moderate to severe pain. It can mix badly with other medicines, including muscle relaxants, some antidepressants, benzodiazepines, and alcohol.

Pethidine can be bad for people with liver disease, kidney disease, an enlarged prostate, trouble peeing, hyperthyroidism, asthma or Addison's disease. It can also be bad for people who have had seizures or epilepsy.

[[National Assembly (France)]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of France, Parliaments

The French National Assembly (French: Assemblée nationale) is one of the two houses of the Parliament of France under the Fifth Republic. The other is the Senate ("Sénat").

The National Assembly consists of 577 members known as députés (deputies), each elected by a single-member constituency. Deputies are elected in each constituency through a two-rounds system. It is presided over by a president normally from the largest party represented, assisted by vice-presidents from across the represented political spectrum. The term of the National Assembly is five years; however, the President of France may dissolve the Assembly (by i.e.: calling a new election), unless he dissolved it in the preceding year.

The official seat of the National Assembly is the Palais Bourbon on the left bank of the river Seine. 

[[Hyperthyroidism]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Endocrine system

Hyperthyroidism is a medical condition. It is caused by a thyroid gland that is too active. The thyroid gland makes hormones. These hormones manage the body’s metabolism. An example of one of these hormones is thyroxine. The thyroid-stimulating hormone starts the making of thyroxine. The thyroid-stimulating hormone is also called “TSH.” TSH is made in the pituitary gland. Hyperthyroidism is determined by a doctor by blood tests that show a decreased thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level.

The most common cause of this disorder is "Graves’ disease.” Graves’ disease is a condition in which the thyroid gland becomes overactive. Antibodies from the immune system in the bloodstream attack itself (this is called an autoimmune disease). This causes the thyroid gland to grow, as well as produce more thyroid hormones.

Some symptoms of this disorder are the swelling of the neck, as well as weight loss. In addition, patients could experience their hands trembling, as well as their blood pressure increasing. They could also experience nervousness and anxiety attacks. Medication can stop the effects of hyperthyroidism. However, hyperthyroidism cannot be fixed completely. Hyperthyroidism can occasionally cause death.

[[99942 Apophis]]

CATEGORIES: Asteroids

(99942) Apophis is a near-Earth asteroid that worried people for a short time in December 2004. This was because observations seemed to show that it would hit the Earth in 2029. Other observations had more accurate, or better, ideas. During 2029, Apophis would go through a "gravitational keyhole", an area in space no more than about 400 meters across. This would make it hit the Earth on April 13, 2036. This danger made the asteroid Level 1 on the Torino impact hazard scale until August 2006.

More watching showed scientists that the "keyhole" would be missed. On August 5, 2006, Apophis was lowered to a Level 0 on the Torino Scale. As of October 19 2006 the probability that Apophis will hit the Earth on April 13, 2036 is something around 1 in 45,000. It may also hit in 2038, but however the probability for that encounter, or meeting, is 1 in 12.3 million.

[[Dance music]]

CATEGORIES: Dance music

Dance music is music that is made to be danced to.  In a broader sense, an enormous amount of music sounds like dance music, even if it is not composed for dancing.  The history of dance music is similar to the history of dance as well as to the history of music.

Dance music was probably the first kind of music there was.  Thousands of years ago human beings must have discovered the joy of making noises by beating sticks in rhythm.  They probably danced as they did this.

We know that the Ancient Greeks danced to music, although we do not know much about what that music was like.

In the Dark Ages (before the Middle Ages) dancing was very popular.  The Christian Church thought that dancing was bad because it was always linked to the devil.  This is why the church people thought that musical instruments were bad, because instruments were used for dancing.

The earliest Western dance music that we know are some of the medieval dances such as caroles and the Estampie.   Composers started to write their music down on music staves.  Dance music had to have a regular beat so that the dancers could dance in time.  This is why barlines were invented.  The music was divided into bars with a particular number of beats in each bar.  This was different from church music which was based on plainchant which was very free in the way it was sung.

In the Baroque period many composers started to write pieces of music which were based on dance rhythms.  Composers such as Johann Sebastian Bach wrote suites which were collections of dance movements.  The most popular dances in a suite were: allemande, courante, sarabande, minuet and gigue.  Even when not writing dance movements, a lot of Baroque music is based on dance rhythms, for example: the grand opening chorus of Bach’s St Matthew Passion is based on the rhythm of a sicilienne.

In the Classical music period composers wrote a lot of symphonies and string quartets.  They had four movements.  The third was normally a minuet, although it was not for dancing to.  Composers such as Mozart and Schubert also wrote a lot of music which was for dancing or easy listening.  This was the popular music of its time.

In the Romantic era the waltz became popular.  Many waltzes were written to be danced to, but other composers simply wrote music (especially piano music) called “waltz”.  Chopin wrote piano pieces called after several kinds of dance: waltz, polonaise, mazurka etc.  Ballet had become very popular.  There was a lot of dance music in operas, especially in French operas.

In the 20th century “dance music” was often thought of as meaning:  music played by dance bands.  This kind of music developed into rock and roll in the 1960s.  Nowadays there is a wide variety of popular dance music, including  hip hop.  Spanish or  Latin American dances such as the samba, tango and cha cha cha are popular all over the world. Towards the end of the 20th century, a form of dance music known as electronic dance music (EDM) arose. This is electronic music which is made in a specific way as to be danced to, usually in the setting of a nightclub, discothèque or a party. Genres of EDM include post-disco, techno, house and trance, amongst several others.  

[[Baruch Spinoza]]

CATEGORIES: 1632 births, 1677 deaths, 17th century philosophers, Dutch Jews, Dutch philosophers, Jewish philosophers, Writers from Amsterdam

Baruch Spinoza (24 November 1632 in Amsterdam – 21 February 1677 in The Hague) was a Dutch philosopher of Portuguese Jewish origin. He is considered to be one of the great Rationalist philosophers of the 17th century. Other famous rationalists include Gottfried Leibniz and René Descartes.

[[Rationalism]]

CATEGORIES: Epistemology, Philosophical movements and positions

Rationalism is the view that reasoning by itself is a source of knowledge or proof. It is a philosophical movement that began in the 17th century, but the same ideas were also talked about before then. Rationalist philosophers believe that all knowledge can be understood through a process of reasoning, without any external sources. They do not believe that human beings can understand everything this way, but that it is theoretically possible. Rationalist philosophers attempt to understand ideas like God and the soul in this manner.

The first people to talk about rationalism were Marin Mersenne and René Descartes, in the 17th and 18th centuries. Other philosophers who are seen as rationalist today include Baruch Spinoza, Gottfried Leibniz and Immanuel Kant. Famous people opposed to this idea were David Hume and John Locke.

Rationalism also influenced natural law. Natural law is a theory that says that there are laws given by nature, valid everywhere. Deism was also influenced by rationalism. According to deism, a supreme being created the universe. This being, and other religious truths can be determined by observing nature, and finding natural laws. This would make religions that are based on  revelation unnecessary. 

[[List of Universal Pictures movies]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of movies, Universal Pictures movies

This is a partial listing of movies produced and/or distributed by Universal Pictures, the main production/distribution arm of Universal Studios, a subsidiary of NBCUniversal and Comcast.

[[2029]]

CATEGORIES: 2029, Years in the future

2029 (MMXXIX) will be 2029.

[[Elephants Dream]]

CATEGORIES: Animated movies, 2006 movies, English-language movies

Elephants Dream is a short movie made using mostly open source software. Blender was the main program used to make the movie. It began production in September 2005 and was released on March 24, 2006. It was first developed under the name Orange, then later changed to Machina then finally to Elephants Dream since the people working on the movie could not decide how "Machina" would be pronounced. The movie is 11 minutes long.

[[Chapel Royal]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in the United Kingdom, British royalty, Church architecture

The Chapel Royal is a department of the monarch's household in the United Kingdom. 

Incorrectly, the term is also used for the choirs of these chapels. The correct name for these choirs is the Gentlemen of the Chapel. They are a group of priests and singers who sing church services for the British monarch (king or queen). They are helped by young boy singers called choristers or Children of the Chapel. It is an old tradition.  

Today there are two consecrated buildings at St James’s Palace, near Buckingham Palace in London served by the Chapel Royal. These chapels do not belong to the diocese (group of churches in a district).  That is why they are called “royal peculiars” (“peculiar” in this sense does not mean “strange” but “special”). Services are held every Sunday except during August and September.  Members of the public are welcome to go to these services.  This is the only time that the public can go into the royal chapels. The choir also sing at special services, including one held every year on 6 January to celebrate Epiphany when offerings of gold, frankincense and myrrh are made on behalf of the queen.

[[Orlando Gibbons]]

CATEGORIES: 1583 births, 1625 deaths, Baroque composers, English composers, English organists, People from Oxford, Renaissance composers

Orlando Gibbons (born: Oxford, baptised 25 December 1583; died Canterbury, 5 June 1625) was an English composer and organist.  He was one of the most important composers of his day.  He is famous for his church music and organ music.  He lived in the late Tudor and early Jacobean periods.

Gibbons was born in Oxford where his father was a city wait.  The family moved to Cambridge and his brother Edward, who was 15 years older than Orlando, became Master of the Choristers at King’s College.   Between 1596 and 1598 Orlando sang in the choir of King's College, Cambridge where his brother was master.  He entered the university in 1598 and got the degree of Bachelor of Music in 1606. He married and had seven children.

James I made him a Gentleman of the Chapel Royal, where he was organist from at least 1615 until his death. In 1625 he became senior organist at the Chapel Royal, with Thomas Tomkins as junior organist. He was also keyboard player (mainly harpsichord) in the privy chamber of the court of Prince Charles (later King Charles I), and organist at Westminster Abbey.  He died an early death in Canterbury of apoplexy, and a monument to him was built in Canterbury Cathedral.

Gibbons wrote a lot of keyboard works, around thirty fantasias for viols, some madrigals (the best-known being The Silver Swan), and many popular anthems.  He was very good at writing counterpoint as well as lovely melodies.  His famous verse anthem This is the record of John is often sung by choirs at Advent. It has a lovely solo for a  countertenor who takes it in turns with the full chorus.  Gibbons wrote two settings of the Evensong service: a long one with several verses, and the Short service. His full anthems include O Lord in thy wrath, and the Palm Sunday setting of O clap your hands together for 8 voices.

[[Waits]]

CATEGORIES: Music, History of Europe

Waits or waites were British town musicians. From medieval times up to the early 19th century, every important British town and city had a band of waites. Some other countries in Europe also had waits.  They were called Stadtpfeifer in Germany and Pifferi in Italy.

The duties (things they had to do) varied in different towns and at different times in history.  One of their most important jobs was to play at certain times of day so that people knew what the time was.  They often played from the top of church towers.  Sometimes they were also guards, watching from the towers so that they could spot any danger.  They were like watchmen, making sure everything was all right (there was no police at that time).  They woke people up in the mornings by playing music in the streets.

The instruments they played also varied.  Mostly they were loud wind instruments such as the shawm.  It was a paid job.  The waits wore smart liveries and silver chains of office with the town's arms.

In Germany the Stadtpfeifer would also play at church services.  They would play shawms or  trombones on normal days, but trumpets and drums on feast-days.

In Britain there were no more waits after 1835. The name “waits” is still used in “Christmas Waits” (any group of people singing carols at Christmas).

[[Tennis Court Oath]]

CATEGORIES: 1789, French Revolution

The oath was a pledge signed by 576 members out of 577 of France's Third Estate and a few members of the First Estate on June 20, 1789 in a tennis court near the Palace of Versailles. 

The meeting hall of the Estates General had been locked accidentally, but the Third Estate thought that this was an invasion of their rights, and were very angry with the king. They stood in a nearby indoor tennis court. They made a solemn vow that they would not move until "the voice of the country was heard" and their requests were met. They were joined by the nobles and clergy.

The vote had always been taken by class, and usually, the clergy and the nobility voted to support whatever the king wanted, so the vote of the middle class did not matter. The middle class argued that voting should be "by poll" not by order, because they had more representatives than the first two estates combined. They also wanted the Estates General to meet as one body, so that voting would be by poll, rather than by class.

A week later, the king agreed and the Estates General met as the "National Assembly".

[[Chart]]

CATEGORIES: Charts

A chart or graph is an image which summarizes data and presents it in an easy to understand way. Charts are often used to make it easier to understand the relationships of different aspects of the data. It is easier to read a chart than the raw data.

[[Samuel Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1722 births, 1803 deaths, American Calvinists, Congregationalists, Founding Fathers of the United States, Governors of Massachusetts, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence

Samuel Adams (September 27  (OS), 1722–October 2, 1803) was an American leader, politician, writer, and political philosopher, and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. Adams helped gather support in the American colonies to rebel against Great Britain. This led to the American Revolution. Adams shaped the foundations of American politics.

Adams, born and raised in Boston, Massachusetts, was brought up in a religious family. He was educated at Boston Latin School and Harvard College. He started his life as a businessman, but did not like his occupation. He then turned his interest to politics, and became an influential political writer. Adams urged the colonists to withdraw from Great Britain and form a new government. He told the colonies to defend their rights and liberties at town meetings in Boston. He wrote protests against Parliament's taxes against the colonies, such as the Stamp Act of 1765. Adams also organized the Boston Tea Party in 1773 and he was a member of the Continental Congress. He argued for the Declaration of Independence at the Second Continental Congress in 1776.

Adams helped write the Massachusetts Constitution with James Bowdoin and his cousin John Adams. Later, Adams helped draft the Articles of Confederation. After the Revolutionary War ended, he ran for the House of Representatives in the 1st United States Congressional election. He lost the election to Fisher Ames. He was elected Lieutenant Governor of Massachusetts in 1789. After John Hancock's death in 1793, Adams served as the acting governor. He was then elected governor in January of 1794. He served in that position until June 1797. He then retired from politics and settled in his home in Boston. He died six years later on October 2, 1803.

[[Bar chart]]

CATEGORIES: Charts

A bar chart is a type of chart which shows the values of different categories of data as rectangular bars with different lengths. A histogram is a bar chart that shows how data is spread over its categories.

It is another one dimensional diagram also known as pillar diagram or column graph. These bars do not have any specific width but the height of the bar is proportionally to the value of an element. When the variations are small this method is very efficient. 

[[Pie chart]]

CATEGORIES: Charts

A pie chart is a type of chart with the shape of a pie or circle. It presents the relationship of different parts of the data. One would easily see the biggest or smallest share of the total data, by simply looking at the pie chart.

[[Biographical Directory of the United States Congress]]

CATEGORIES: Legislative branch of the United States government

The Biographical Directory of the United States Congress is a biographical dictionary of all present and former members of the United States Congress. It also includes all members of the Continental Congress. It also includes delegates from territories and the District of Columbia and Resident Commissioners from the Philippines and Puerto Rico.

[[Teapot]]

CATEGORIES: Tea, Cooking appliances

A teapot is a container used to mix tea leaves with boiling water to make tea. Usually the tea leaves are in a tea bag when the tea leaves are put into the water. The tea can be poured from the teapot into cups.

[[Le Monde]]

CATEGORIES: French-language newspapers

Le Monde (English: The World) is a French daily evening newspaper.  It is amongst the newspapers most read in France. Its political opinion is slightly left-wing. In many countries outside France, this is the only French newspaper available.

The newspaper should not be confused with the monthly publication Le Monde diplomatique. Le Monde has 51% ownership of the monthly. Despite this, the monthly has a different editorial staff.

Le Monde was founded by Hubert Beuve-Méry. This was at the request of General Charles de Gaulle after the German army was driven from Paris during World War II. The newspaper took over the format of Le Temps, because the reputation of the latter had suffered during the Occupation. Beuve-Méry reportedly asked for total editorial independence as the condition for his taking on the project. Its first edition appeared on December 19, 1944. Le Monde has been available on the Internet since December 19, 1995. It is the principal publication of Groupe Le Monde.

In 2004, it had a circulation of 371,803 copies.

[[Begging the question]]

CATEGORIES: Logical fallacies

Begging the question requires two or more ideas. Each of these ideas may or may not be true. The speaker of these ideas tries to show that one idea is true by saying a second idea proves it, but the second idea is only true if the first idea is true already.

Begging the question is commonly known as circular reasoning, though they are not exactly the same.

Begging the question is a fallacy.

[[Ciwan Haco]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Kurdish people, Singers

Ciwan Haco (born 1957) is a Kurdish singer. He was born near Qamishlo in Syria. After finishing high school, he left for Germany in order to continue his studies. He studied music at the University of Bochum for three years. After university, he started his career as a singer. He combined Kurdish folk music with western style pop music, rock, blues, and jazz. He has released 14 albums. He become well-known on the kurdish music scene after he sang for more than 200.000 people in Batman, south Turkey, in 2003. Haco lives in Sweden with his wife. He has two children, Lorin, 7, and Rosa, 5.

[[Tata Young]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, People from Bangkok, Thai singers, Thai actors, Bollywood playback singers

Amita Marie "Tata" Young (born December 14, 1980 in Bangkok) is a Thai singer, model and actress, partly from American descent. 

She became a singer when she was 15. Her first album was called Amita Tata Young and it was very successful. It sold more than a million copies in less than 5 months. In 2004, she made an English album called I Believe. It sold many copies and made her famous in other countries as well.

In 2006  she made her second English album called "Temperature Rising", which made her even more popular, especially in Asia. In 2008 Tata Young released a Thai language album called "One Love".

Her most recent album Ready for Love was released in 2009.

[[Trip]]

Trip has several meanings:

Trip may also be:

[[Practice]]

CATEGORIES: Skills

Practice or practise (a verb form in British English) is the act of repeating a behavior over and over, or doing an activity again and again.

It is a way to learn things faster, by repeating them. For example, sport teams practice to prepare for real games, or a musician practices for some hours every day, so he can play perfectly in his concert.

A practice can also mean the way something is done, like in "medical practice".

[[Stevens' power law]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Stevens' power law is a proposed relationship between the magnitude of a physical stimulus and the intensity or strength that people feel.

Most people think that it describes a wider range of sensations than Weber-Fechner law. But critics argue that the validity of the law is not sure.

The theory is named after psychophysicist Stanley Smith Stevens (1906–1973).  Although the idea of a power law had been suggested by 19th century researchers, Stevens is credited with reviving the law and publishing a body of psychophysical data to support it in 1956.

The general form of the law is

The table to the right lists the exponents reported by Stevens.

[[Stimulus]]

A Stimulus (plural stimuli) is something which causes a response. It is used in various bodies:

[[Logic gate]]

CATEGORIES: Logic gates, Electronic circuits

A logic gate is an electronic component that can be used to conduct electricity based on a rule. The output of the gate is the result of applying this rule to one or more "inputs".  These inputs may be two wires or the output of other logic gates.

Logic gates are digital components. They normally work at only two levels of voltage, a positive level and  zero level. Commonly they work based on two states: On and Off. In the On state, voltage is positive. In the Off state, the voltage is at zero. The On state usually uses a voltage in the range of 3.5 to 5 volts. This range can be lower for some uses. 

Logic gates compare the state at their inputs to decide what the state at their output should be. A logic gate is on or active when its rules are correctly met. At this time, electricity is flowing through the gate and the voltage at its output is at the level of its On state.

Logic gates are electronic versions of Boolean logic. Truth tables will tell you what the output will be, depending on the inputs.

[[Plaza Mayor of Madrid]]

CATEGORIES: Madrid, Town squares, 1400s establishments, 15th century establishments in Spain

The Plaza Mayor of Madrid was built in the 1400's on the same location as the old Plaza del Arrabal (square outside the walls). It was used as a market in the Middle Ages. It is also called the Plaza de la Constitución.

In the 1560s, King Philip II and his architect, Juan de Herrera planned to change it into a proper square for the Courts. The first part to be finished was the Casa de la Panaderia (bakery) in 1590. Gómez de Mora gave it the rectangular form. The ground is still cobbled. It finally opened in 1620 under the rule of King Philip III.

The statue in the middle is King Philip III on horseback made by Juan de Bologna. The statue was moved from the Casa de Campo to the Plaza Mayor in 1848.

In the 1700's, it was used for the crowning of kings, bullfights, carnivals and even executions. People watched from the balconies around the square. 

The Plaza has been damaged by three fires. Juan de Villanova had the plaza built again in 1853 and that is what is seen today. People can enter the plaza through nine different arches.

[[Gran Vía]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Madrid

The Gran Vía (The Great Way) is one of the most important shopping areas in Madrid, Spain.  It also has hotels and large movie theaters.

Many of the buildings on the Gran Vía are decorated with fancy sculptures.  One of the more impressive buildings on the Gran Vía is the Edificio Metropolis.  It was built in 1907 by Jules and Raymond Février.  It has a statue of the winged Roman goddess, Victoria, on the top.  Madrid's first skyscraper, Telefonica's Head Office, is also on the Gran Vía.

The Gran Vía was planned in the 1850s.  They did not start building the road until 1904 and finished it in 1929.  People laughed at the plan because it took so long to get started.  As a joke, they called it the 'gran vía' or 'great road'.

[[Fountain of Cibeles]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Madrid

Cibeles is the name given to the marble fountain found in the Plaza de Cibeles (Cybele's Square) in Madrid, Spain. It is on a very busy road crossing. The statue was made by Ventura Rodriguez. King Carlos III asked to have it made in 1716. It has changed several times. It was moved to the central position in 1895.

The lady is the Goddess of Fertility. She sits on a chariot pulled by lions. The lions' names are Hippomenes and Atalanta. They were people that the goddess turned into lions because they ruined her temple. The lions were made by Robert Michel. 

[[Puerta del Sol]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Madrid

The Puerta del Sol (Sun Gate) is known as 'Spain's belly button'. In the 1400s, it was the gate or entrance of the east side of the city. Since the sun rises in the east, it got the name Puerta del Sol. It is now the center of 'kilometer 0' of Madrid. All roads are measured from this point.

It was rebuilt in 1854. The statue of King Carlos III is in the middle of the square. The red brick building there is the former post office. The famous Oso y el Madroño (bear eating madroños) statue can also be found here. The Puerta del Sol is also famous for its New Year's celebration which has been broadcast on television since December 31, 1962.

[[Royal Palace of Madrid]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces in Spain, Buildings and structures in Madrid

The Palacio Real de Madrid (Royal Palace of Madrid) is the official home of the King of Spain. It is located in Madrid, Spain. It is one of the largest palaces in western Europe.

King Felipe V had the palace built to replace the Alcazar that was burned down. It is made of limestone and granite. It was supposed to look a little like the Palace of Versailles in France. Juan Bautista Sachetti was in charge of building the palace. They started to build it in 1738. Carlos III moved into the palace in 1764. It took a hundred years to decorate all the rooms.

Spanish kings lived there until 1931 when King Alfonso XIII was forced to leave Spain. The Royal Palace is still used for special ceremonies. Letizia was supposed to walk on a red carpet from the Royal Palace to the cathedral for the wedding with Prince Felipe but it rained so she was taken in car.

Fifty of the rooms in the palace are open for public visits. Visitors enter the palace from the Plaza de la Armería. Some of the rooms that can be seen are: the 'porcelain' room, 'throne' room and 'clock' room. There is a royal army museum in the palace.

[[Puerta de Alcalá]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Madrid

The Puerta de Alcalá (Alcalá Gate) is a monument in the Plaza de la Independencia ("Independence Square") in Madrid, Spain. Francisco Sabatini created the monument in 1778 for Carlos III when he arrived in Madrid.  It is the gateway to the Court.  It is built of granite and limestone.  It has three big arches that have lion's heads on top made by Robert Michel.  There are two smaller arches on the sides.  At the very top of the monument, there are angels, trophies and the coat of arms which were all made by Francisco Gutiérrez.

[[Plaza]]

CATEGORIES: Town squares, Spanish culture

Plaza is a Spanish word related to "field" which describes an open public space in a city, such as a city square. In Spanish America, the plaza mayor of each city had three things: the cathedral, the cabildo or administrative center, and the audiencia or law court. The plaza might be large enough to serve as a military parade ground. At times of crisis or fiesta, it was a space where many people could be together at once. Similar to Italian piazzas, plazas are still a center of community life, like the market-place.

Most colonial cities in Spanish America were planned around a square plaza de armas, where troops could gather.

A plaza de toros is a bullring.

[[Transduction (physiology)]]

CATEGORIES: physiology

In physiology, transduction is the change of a stimulus from one form to another. 

Transduction in the nervous system typically means synaptic events where an electrical signal is converted into a chemical one by the release of neurotransmitters. 

In sensory transduction a chemical or physical stimulus is transduced by sensory receptors into an electrical signal.

For example, in the visual system, sensory cells called rod  and cone cells in the retina change the physical energy of light signals into electrical impulses that travel to the brain. The light causes a change in a protein called rhodopsin. In mammalian examples, more light hitting the receptor results in the transduction of a signal into fewer electrical impulses. In invertebrates, however, more rhodopsin activation results in increased frequency of neuron firing.

[[Resource]]

A Resource is something that can be used for a purpose. For example, tools and materials are resources. There are many kinds of resource:

[[Sport Club Corinthians Paulista]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in São Paulo (state), 1910 establishments in South America, 1910s establishments in Brazil

S.C. Corinthians Paulista is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[Lyrics]]

CATEGORIES: Songs, Poetry, Writing

Lyrics are the words to a song. A person who writes lyrics is called a lyricist.

The lyrics of a song will usually have a meaning. Some times the meaning is easy to find but other times it can be very difficult to know what the lyrics mean. Some lyrics are so strange that it is nearly impossible to understand them. In such cases, people tend to look more at the form, articulation, meter, and symmetries of the lyrics instead of looking at their meaning.

There are many websites that have the lyrics to songs. This may be a bad thing since many web sites include copyrighted lyrics without permission from the copyright holder. The United States Music Publishers' Association (MPA), which represents sheet music companies, created a campaign against such sites in December 2005. MPA president Lauren Keiser said that the sites are "completely illegal" and that he wanted to see some site operators put in prison.

[[Judicial review]]

CATEGORIES: Law

Judicial review is the power of a court to decide whether a law or decision by the government is constitutional. This power was established in the United States in the Supreme Court case Marbury v. Madison.

Countries that have judicial review are: India, Ireland, Malaysia, the Philippines, England, Scotland, Spain, Switzerland, and the United States.

[[Torrance]]

Torrance is the name of several places:

People:

[[Asian Dust]]

CATEGORIES: Weather events

Asian Dust (also yellow dust, yellow sand, yellow wind, or China dust storms) is a weather occurrence that happens each year. It affects much of East Asia during the spring. The dust comes from deserts in Mongolia, northern China, and Kazakhstan. The dust comes from surface winds and dust storms in the desert. The wind carries the clouds eastward to China, Japan, Eastern Siberia, and the Koreas. Smaller particles in the clouds can travel much farther to places like the United States. In the last ten years, these dust storms have become a serious problem because they have picked up industrial pollutants.

[[Aden Abdullah Osman Daar]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 2007 deaths, Presidents of Somalia

Aden Abdulle Osman Daar (Aaden Cabdulle Cusmaan Daar) (9 December 1908 – 8 June 2007), was a Somali politician. 

In February 1944, he joined the Somali Youth Club (later called the Somali Youth League). The group was a nationalist party that wanted independence for Somalia. Daar became a member of the party's steering board. In 1946, he was appointed as the secretary of one section of the party. He was chairman of the Somali Youth League from 1954 to 1956, and again from 1958 to 1959. In 1956, he was elected chairman of the Legislative Assembly.

When Somalia gained its independence on July 1, 1960, Daar was elected as the first president of Somalia. He was beaten in the 1967 presidential election against Abdirashid Ali Shermarke. He finished his term as president on June 10, 1967.

[[Service of worship]]

CATEGORIES: Worship

A service of worship is a religious meeting where people of a church come together, usually in a cathedral or church building, in order to worship God. It may also be called a church service or prayer service or just service.  It is the usual term used in the Christian religion for such a meeting.  The term is also used sometimes in Judaism, although prayer service or just service are more common.

[[Bandidos]]

CATEGORIES: Motorcycle clubs

Bandidos is a motorcycle club with a worldwide membership. The club was formed in 1966 by Don Chambers in Texas. Its slogan is "We are the people our parents warned us about". Bandidos is estimated to have 2 400 members in 195 chapters, located in 14 countries.

[[Hells Angels]]

CATEGORIES: Motorcycle clubs

Hells Angels is a motorcycle club with a worldwide membership. The club was formed in 1948 in Fontana, California. One of the best known members is Ralph 'Sonny' Barger, the "Godfather of the Hells Angels".

[[Outlaws Motorcycle Club]]

CATEGORIES: Motorcycle clubs

The Outlaws Motorcycle Club is an American motorcycle club. It was formed in Mc Cook, Illinois in 1935. The club has chapters in USA, Canada, Australia, Asia and Europe.

[[Blood and Honour]]

CATEGORIES: Rock Against Communism

Blood and Honour is a Neo-Nazi music promotion network. The group organises concerts and distributes records by Rock Against Communism bands. Ian Stuart Donaldson, singer of the band Skrewdriver, was the founder of Blood and Honour. The name Blood and Honour is taken from the motto of the Hitler Youth, Blut und Ehre.

[[Perry Rhodan]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction books, Series of books

Perry Rhodan is a German science fiction series, published since 1961.

Perry Rhodan picks up nearly every theme that has ever appeared in science fiction. People from outside have criticised the series, but its commercial success during several decades has become a literary phenomenon in itself.  If nothing else, Perry Rhodan provides a mirror of the 1960s Cold War, 1970s New Age, and 1980s peace movement in its story line.  The series has an important influence on German writers in the field. The writing of the series still goes on.

[[Wieluń]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Poland

Wieluń is a city in the central part of Poland in Łódź Voivodeship. Around 27,000 people live here. The city was started in 1283.

[[Nasjonal Samling]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Norway, 1940s in Norway, 1933 establishments, 1945 disestablishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Norway, 1930s establishments in Europe, World War II

Nasjonal Samling (Norwegian for "National Gathering" or "National Unity") was a fascist party in Norway, active in the period 1933–1945. The party was founded by Vidkun Quisling and a group of sympathisers. The party's paramilitary wing was called Hirden (the Hird).

[[One Piece]]

CATEGORIES: Anime

One Piece (ワンピース Wanpīsu)

is a manga and anime series created by Eiichiro Oda. It is the story of the Strawhat Pirates, led by captain Monkey D. Luffy, on their adventures in Grand Line. The main theme is Monkey D. Luffy's dream to find the One Piece, a grand treasure that the King of the Pirates, Gold Roger left behind. One Piece seems to take place in a world with one continent, many different islands, and a vast and large sea filled with monsters, pirates and treasure. One Piece is serialized in weekly JUMP(週刊少年ジャンプ）. The most successful movies are "Strong World" and "One Piece Film Z".

[[Style guide]]

CATEGORIES: Writing, Language, Graphics

A style guide (also known as style manual) is a set of rules for language usage and design of documents (records). Some style guides are about things related to graphic design, such as arranging words and white space on a page. Website style guides often help with visual or technical things. Literary style guides help with choosing the best words, common errors in grammar, punctuation and spelling; and help for how to express ideas in a precise, fair and forceful way.

Some modern style guides are for use by all people. These are usually more about language than about how it should look.

Style guides do not stop a writer from using his own unique style, but some writers believe style guides are too restrictive.

Like language itself, many style guides change as time passes. For example, the Associated Press stylebook is updated every year.

[[Parque del Buen Retiro]]

CATEGORIES: Madrid, Parks, 1868 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in Spain

The Retiro Park is the best known park in Madrid.  It was planned in 1632 as palace gardens by King Felipe IV.  'Retiro' means retreat or a place to rest.

When it was first built, it was a little way from the city.  Now, the city has become so big that it is in the city center.  It was opened to the public in 1868.

Places in the park include a famous rose garden, a museum, a boating lake and the Crystal Palace. Many shows and street theaters can be seen at the park on weekends.

[[Crystal Palace (Madrid)]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Madrid, 1887 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in Spain

The Palacio de Cristal or Crystal Palace is a large glass building in Madrid, Spain. It is located in the Retiro Park on the Paseo Duque de Fernán Nuñez.  The palace was built in 1887 to keep exotic plants from the Philippines.  It is made of glass and steel. Later in 1924 plastic and rubber were added to it. 

[[Las Ventas]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings, Buildings and structures in Madrid, 1929 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Spain

The Plaza de Toros de Las Ventas is a building in Madrid, Spain used mainly for bullfighting. Sometimes it is just called Las Ventas.  It is made of red brick and ceramic tiles.  It was built in 1929 by José Espelious and Muñoz Monasterio.  The first bullfight was June 17, 1931. It is also used for concerts.

Most fights start at 7 p.m. when the sun is not too hot.  Tickets are sold for 'sol' or 'sombra'.  The 'sombra' tickets for seats not in the sunlight cost more.

[[Yellow spot]]

CATEGORIES: Eye anatomy

The yellow spot or macula is an oval yellow spot near the centre of the retina of the human eye. It has a size of 1.5 millimeters. 

It is specialized for seeing things with highest clearness or visual acuity.

It is the area of best vision where maximum amount of cone cells are present.It is also known as fovea centralis and Macula Lutea.

Most of the sensory cells are present at this spot. It is another name for the macula. It is subdivided into the umbo, foveola, foveal avascular zone, fovea, parafovea and perifovea areas. It has a diameter of 5.5mm in humans. They contain the pigment Iodopsin and respond to bright light and colour, because of which we can see stuff clearly around us. It lies at the back of the eye almost center of the horizontal axis of the eye ball.

It is responsible for the central, high-resolution, colour vision that is possible in good light; and this kind of vision is impaired if it is damaged. It is about 6mm in diameter. The yellow spot is the most sensitive spot on the retina, the sharpest image of the object forms only here.

[[Retina]]

CATEGORIES: Eye anatomy

The retina is the thin layer of cells that lines the back of the eyeball in humans and in many animals. It is made mainly of neurons and its role is to sense the light which gets into the eye and send information about it to the brain.

Most information about light that leaves the retina travels through the optic nerve, and is used by the brain to recognize what you're seeing.  Information about light which travels through the retino-hypothamalic tract is for adjusting circadian rhythms to the 24-hour day. 

The center of the human retina, called the fovea centralis, or just fovea, has the most rod cells and cone cells for receiving light. Even though the fovea takes up only 1.5 square millimeters, it plays the most important roles in vision.  It is only around 1% of the human retina, but the fovea sends about as much information to the visual cortex as the rest of the retina combined. 

[[The Exploited]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish rock bands, British punk bands

The Exploited is a Scottish punk metal band. The band was formed in 1979 in Edinburgh, Scotland.

[[4Kids]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in the United States, Companies based in New York City, Entertainment companies

4Kids Entertainment (commonly known as 4Kids) was an American movie and television production company. They specialized in the creation and distribution of children's entertainment around the world. The company is most well known for the large number of Anime and animated television series it has provided to television stations. These series included Yu-Gi-Oh! and Sonic the Hedgehog. 4Kids Entertainment dubbed Pokémon until 2006. The company was first created in 1970 as Leisure Concepts, Inc.

4Kids Entertainment has provided a number of series for the Fox television network. These series have been shown on the network using the name 4Kids TV.

4Kids Entertainment filed for bankruptcy twice. They first filed for bankruptcy in 2011, and again in 2016.

[[Cubism]]

CATEGORIES: Art movements

Cubism was one of the most significant art movements of the 20th century. It began in France about 1907, and flourished from 1910 through the 1920s. It was pioneered by Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso.

Pablo Picasso's 1907 painting Les Demoiselles d'Avignon was an early Cubist work. Georges Braque's 1908 Houses at L’Estaque (and related works) prompted the critic Louis Vauxcelles to refer to "bizarreries cubiques" (cubic oddities).

The first organized group exhibition by Cubists took place at the Salon des Indépendants in Paris in the spring of 1911. It included works by Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Fernand Léger, Robert Delaunay and Henri Le Fauconnier, but no works by Picasso and Braque were exhibited.

According to one art historian, there were three phases of Cubism. There was "Early Cubism", (from 1906 to 1908) when the movement was initially developed by Picasso and Braque. In the second phase, "High Cubism", (from 1909 to 1914), Juan Gris emerged as an important exponent after 1911. Finally "Late Cubism" (from 1914 to 1921) was the last phase of Cubism as a radical avant-garde movement. Douglas Cooper's emphasis on the work of Braque, Picasso, Gris (from 1911) and Léger (to a lesser extent) was an intentional value judgement.

[[Sham 69]]

CATEGORIES: English punk bands

Sham 69 is a punk rock band from England. The band was formed in Hersham in 1975.

[[Visual acuity]]

CATEGORIES: Optometry

Visual acuity (VA) is acuteness or clearness of vision, especially form vision, which depends on the sharpness of the retinal focus within the eye, the sensitivity of the nervous elements, and the interpretative faculty of the brain.

VA is a quantitative measure of the ability to identify black symbols on a white background at a standardized distance when the size of the symbols is varied. The VA represents the smallest size that can be reliably identified. VA is the most common clinical measurement of visual function.

Some people may suffer from other visual problems, such as color blindness, reduced contrast, or inability to track fast-moving objects and still have normal visual acuity. Thus, normal visual acuity does not mean normal vision. The reason visual acuity is very widely used is that it is a test that corresponds very well with the normal daily activities a person can handle, and evaluate their impairment to do them.

[[Robert Baker]]

CATEGORIES: American boxers, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania, 1926 births, 2002 deaths

Bob Baker (October 26 1926 - April 23 2002) was an American boxer who fought professionally from 1949 to 1960. He was one of the world's leading bulky heavyweight boxers in the 1950s. Bob "The Grinder, Big Bob, The Behemoth" Baker was born in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania. After serving 3 years in the navy, he fought out of Pittsburgh. His most notable accomplishments include the 1949 Pennsylvania Intercity Golden Gloves championship in the heavyweight division. In 1947, he won Pittsburgh Golden Gloves Championship. His amateur record is respectable 33-2. In 1948, Coley Wallace won an unpopular split decision vs. Marciano in the semifinal of the New York Golden Gloves Tournament of Champions and then he won the final of that tournament by an unpopular very close split decision vs 'Big' Bob Baker.

In 1948, Wallace & Baker met again in the final match. This time Baker won & became 1948 Golden Gloves champion again.

Baker started his professional career with 26 undefeated fights before drawing against bulky Kid Riviera but only 10 days later lost to another top boxer, Clarence Henry.

From April 1955 until February of 1956, Bob Baker was ranked as the leading challenger to Rocky Marciano's heavyweight title by IBC-International Boxing Club, however Ring Magazine still rated him as #2. On Wednesday, December 7th 1955, Baker beat Nino Valdez in a rematch, again by unanimous decision. The winner of that fight was scheduled to fight Marciano.

After 13 straight wins (Baker's dozen), Baker lost to Tommy Hurricane Jackson on February 3 1956, in New York's Madison Square Garden. It was a conytorversial split decision win for Jackson. In May 1956, Baker easily defeated John Holman. Baker also lost another controversial split decision rematch with Jackson on September 26 1956. Both fights should have been draws.Opinions on both Baker-Jackson fights were divided in many publications with most of them giving the fight to Baker. United Press scored the fight 7-5 for Baker. A poll of all 13 ringside writers favored Baker 9-4.

After 1956, Baker's success was limited. His most notable victory was a sound unanimous decision defeat of solid Canadian George Chuvalo, the future Canadian heavyweight champion, by unanimous decision on September 9 1957. Chuvalo was also a multiple time championship contender in the 1960s and 1970s.

Baker died on April 23 2002, from acute heart failure, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He is survived by his son Bob Baker jr.

[[Michaëlle Jean]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian journalists, Haitian people, 1957 births, Living people, Order of Canada, Governors General of Canada, Knights of Justice of the Order of St John, Port-au-Prince

Her Excellency the Rt. Hon. Michaëlle Jean (born September 6, 1957, in Port-au-Prince, Haiti) is a Haitian-born Canadian politician and journalist. She was the Governor General of Canada, replacing Adrienne Clarkson on 27 September 2005, until 1 October 2010 when David Lloyd Johnston took over. She is the Secretary General of Organisation internationale de la Francophonie since 2015 and multilingual who speaks English, French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese and Haitian Creole.

Jean was formally appointed Special Envoy for Haiti for the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization on November 8, 2010, for a four-year term.

[[Pascal Duquenne]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Belgian movie actors, Belgian stage actors, Belgian television actors, Belgian voice actors, People from Flemish Brabant

Pascal Duquenne is a Belgian actor. He was born in Vilvoorde, Flanders, Belgium on 8 August 1970. He was diagnosed with Down syndrome.

It was Jaco van Dormael who noticed him (as Ducquenne was playing theatre). Dormael offered him his first roles in movies.

In 1996 Pascal Duquenne and Daniel Auteuil were awarded a prize (for best male interpretation) at the Cannes Film Festival. Duquenne received the prize for the role of a boy who has Down syndrome. The movie was called Le Huitième Jour (The Eighth Day).

He also has acted in other movies. Currently he lives in Brussels.

[[Catherine Emmerich]]

CATEGORIES: 1774 births, 1824 deaths, German Roman Catholics, Nuns, Stigmata

Sister Anne Catherine Emmerich (September 8, 1774 - February 9, 1824) was a German Augustinian nun. She is remembered for her mystical visions of Jesus' and Mary's lives. What she saw was written in books, for example, The Dolorous Passion of Our Lord, Jesus Christ. The book later had an important part as a main source of information for Mel Gibson's movie The Passion of the Christ.

[[New Year]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, Years

The New Year is an event that happens when a culture celebrates the end of one year and the beginning of the next year. Cultures that measure yearly calendars all have New Year celebrations. On January 1, 1600 Scotland, was the first country to adopt January 1 as the first day of the New Year. Now, many countries celebrate the New Year on 1st of January.

[[Polyethylene]]

CATEGORIES: Thermoplastics

Polyethylene (also called polyethene, usually shortened to PE) is a thermoplastic. It is used in consumer goods, typical examples are transport wraps, and garbage bags. Other uses include pre-fabricated plastic parts, plastic tubes, and insulation of electric cables. Plastic wrap is usually less adhesive than PVC, but this can be remedied by adding linear low-density polyethylene (LLDPE), which also increases the film's tensile strength. The world makes over 80 million tonnes of polyethylene per year.

[[Polyvinyl chloride]]

CATEGORIES: Thermoplastics, Chlorine compounds

Polyvinyl chloride, also called Polychloroethene or PVC, is a thermoplastic. It turns soft when heated and hard when cooled. Polyvinyl chloride is made by polymerization of the monomer vinyl chloride (chloroethene) CH2=CHCl. PVC can be made softer and more flexible by adding plasticizers. Phthalates are often used to soften PVC in this way.

Vinyl polymers are the most common type of plastic. "Vinyl" is actually Ethylene, a gas that is used to make those plastics including PVC. In popular usage, "vinyl" is often short for PVC, but there are two other vinyl polymers which are more common. The most common is polyethylene, the second-most common is polypropylene. Another, less used, is polystyrene.

[[Polyamide]]

CATEGORIES: Polymers

A polyamide is a polymer made of amides which are joined by peptide bonds. Examples for polyamides that occur naturally are proteins, such as wool and silk. It is also possible to artificially produce polyamides, one growth-step at a time. Examples for artificially-made polyamides are nylons, aramids and Sodium poly(aspartate).

[[Clarence Henry]]

CATEGORIES: American boxers, Sportspeople from San Antonio, Texas, 1926 births, 1999 deaths

Clarence Henry (b. March 27, 1926, d. February 28 1999) was an American heavyweight boxer. Contender for Rocky Marciano's title. 

He was a leading boxer in the heavyweight division in the early to mid-1950s. Henry was 1948 Los Angeles Times Golden Gloves Heavyweight Champion. 

He was elected into the World Boxing Hall of Fame in 1998.

[[Supreme Leader of Iran]]

CATEGORIES: Iran, Heads of state, Religious leaders, 1979 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Iran

The Supreme Leader of Iran is the head of state of the Islamic Republic of Iran. 

The Supreme Leader is also the highest ranking Islamic cleric in the country.

The position of Supreme Leader was created after the Islamic Revolution of 1979 in Iran.

The Supreme Leader is more powerful than the President of Iran and chooses the heads of many powerful posts in the military, the government, and the judiciary.

Ayatollah Khomeini (died 1989) and Imam Khamenei have become Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic so far.

[[President of Iran]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Iran, Lists of heads of state

The President of Iran is the head of government of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The president is chosen by direct popular vote, that is the voters choose the president, they do not vote for other people to choose as in the USA. Unlike other countries, in Iran, the President is not the leader of the country. The President does many of the things that are normally done by a head of state but the Supreme Leader is the person who is actually in control of the country. The current President of Iran is Ebrahim Raisi.

[[Ayatollah Khomeini]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1989 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Iran, Heads of state, Iranian clerics, Iranian Muslims, Iranian politicians, Time People of the Year

Ayatollah Khomeini was born Sayyed Ruhollah Mustafavi Khomeini, 24 September  1902 in Khomein, Central Iran (then Persia), and died 3 June 1989) (Persian: روح الله موسوی خمینی). He was also known as 'Imam Khomeini'. Khomein was the political leader of the Islamic Revolution in 1979. 

Khomeini was also a poet. His poems are collected together in an Imam Divan. Khomeini died of intestinal cancer and a heart attack on June 3, 1989, in Tehran at the age of 86.

[[Theocracy]]

CATEGORIES: Forms of government

In Theocracy, a form of government, the institutions and people that govern the state are very close to the leaders of the main religion. If the religious leaders do not directly run some bodies of the state, they influence them very much. The word theocracy comes from two Greek words literally meaning God-government, and meaning the government is run by "The Church".

[[Ahmad Jannati]]

CATEGORIES: Iranian people, Religious leaders, Muslims, 1926 births, Living people

Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati (born 1926) has been the secretary of the Guardian Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran since 1988.

[[Guardian Council]]

CATEGORIES: Government agencies, Iran, Courts (law), 1979 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Iran

The Guardian Council is part of the government of Iran. It ensures the laws passed by Iran's legislature conform to Islam. It was created in 1979.

[[Incumbent]]

CATEGORIES: Voting

An incumbent is someone who currently holds a political office.  This word is usually used when talking about elections, which are often between the incumbent and one other person or several other people.  For example, Joe Biden is the incumbent President of the United States since he is still president. It can also be used in sports to let people know if a sportsman still holds the position or award in question.

[[Assembly of Experts]]

CATEGORIES: Iran, Islam

The Assembly of Experts was created after the Islamic Revolution in Iran.  It is an assembly of Islamic clerics who have the power to choose the successor of the Supreme Leader of Iran.

[[Ali Meshkini]]

CATEGORIES: Iranian people, Religious leaders, 1922 births, 2007 deaths, Legislative speakers

Ayatollah Ali Meshkini (1922-30 July 2007) was the chairman of the Assembly of Experts of the Islamic Republic of Iran from 1984 to 2007.

[[Judiciary]]

CATEGORIES: Law

In the law, the judiciary or judicial system is the system of courts that administers justice in the name of the sovereign or state. A judicial system is used to resolve disputes.

[[Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi]]

CATEGORIES: Chief Justices of Iran, Deaths from cancer, 1948 births, 2018 deaths

Ayatollah Seyyed Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi (15 August 1948 – 24 December 2018) was an Iranian politician. He was the Chief Justice of Iran from 1999 to 2009. He was born in Najaf, Iraq.

Ayatollah Shahroudi was best known for ordering a moratorium on stoning as a form of the death penalty. However, later it was shown that executions by stoning are still being carried out, in spite of his claims that they have stopped. Stoning is still happening inside prisons, where the public cannot see it.

From August 2017 to December 2018, Shahroudi was Chairman of Expediency Discernment Council.

He died on 24 December 2018 from cancer in Tehran at the age of 70.

[[Expediency Discernment Council]]

CATEGORIES: Iran

The Expediency Discernment Council is a governmental body for resolving disputes between the Guardian Council and the legislature in the Islamic Republic of Iran.

[[Mata Hari]]

CATEGORIES: 1876 births, 1917 deaths, Dutch artists, Erotic dancers, People executed by firearm, People from Leeuwarden, Spies

Mata Hari was the stage name of Margaretha Geertruida (Grietje) Zelle (7 August 1876, Leeuwarden, The Netherlands – 15 October 1917, Vincennes, France). 

She was  a Dutch-Frisian exotic dancer and spy. She was executed by a firing squad of the French Army. French authorities thought she was a spy during World War I. Because she had relationships with both German and French officers, they thought she was a double agent (working for both sides). Her dossier (file) was released in 2017, a hundred years after her death.

[[Father Damien]]

CATEGORIES: 1840 births, 1889 deaths, Belgian priests, Belgian Roman Catholics, Christian saints, Hawaii, Missionaries, People from Flemish Brabant

Father Damien, also Saint Damien of Molokai, born as Joseph de Veuster in Belgium on January 3, 1840 and died on April 15, 1889, was a Roman Catholic Priest and missionary. He was known for helping people with leprosy in the colony of Kalaupapa on the island of Molokai in Hawaii. Father Damien came to Hawaii in 1864. During this time, many Native Hawaiians were dying from many of the diseases they caught from the white settlers. The King of Hawaii, made the people who had leprosy live in a colony away from other people. Father Damien went to help the sick people and gave them hope. Father Damien also died from leprosy, but what he did helped many people. 

In 1995, he was beatified (made an important person) by the Pope, and he is recognized by both the Catholic and Anglican churches. Father Damien was canonized by Pope Benedict XVI on Sunday October 11, 2009.  

His is Patron Saint of the Diocese of Honolulu, as well as all of Hawaii, of  people with leprosy, and of outcasts, as well as people suffering from HIV and AIDS as well.

[[Jack Dempsey]]

CATEGORIES: American boxers, Sportspeople from Colorado, 1895 births, 1983 deaths

William Harrison "Jack" Dempsey (June 24, 1895 – May 31, 1983) was an American boxer who held the world heavyweight title between 1919 and 1926  Known as "The Manassa Mauler", Dempsey was a tremendous puncher famous for his exciting fights, many of which set financial and attendance records.

He won the title by beating Jess Willard on July 4, 1919. He defended the title six times before losing it to Gene Tunney in 1926. They had a rematch in 1927 and Tunney again beat Dempsey. It was during this fight where the "Long Count" took place. Dempsey knocked Tunney down in the seventh round. The referee would not start counting until Dempsey went to a neutral corner, so it is estimated that Tunney had as many as fourteen seconds to rise (instead of the usual ten).

Dempsey retired in 1928. He fought exhibitions after his retirement, served as a commander in the Coast Guard during World War II, and opened a restaurant in New York City.

Dempsey died in 1983.

[[Jess Willard]]

CATEGORIES: 1881 births, 1968 deaths, American boxers, Sportspeople from Kansas

Jess Willard (December 29, 1881–December 15, 1968) was an American boxer. He was the heavyweight best puncher in the world from 1915 to 1919. When Jack Johnson was the Black world champion, Willard was one of the many "White Hopes" who wanted to take the title. He succeeded when he beat Johnson by a 26th round out-cold punch in Cuba in 1915. He fought to keep the title and won once before losing it to Jack Dempsey in 1919.

[[Nicholas II of Russia]]

CATEGORIES: 1868 births, 1918 deaths, House of Romanov, People executed by firearm, Russian Revolution, Russian tsars, Russian Orthodox saints

Nicholas II of Russia, (May 18, 1868 – July 17, 1918) was the last Tsar (Emperor) of the Russian Empire. He became Tsar in 1894 after his father, Tsar Alexander III died. His reign lasted until the 1917 Russian Revolution.

He married Princess Alix of Hesse, who was the daughter of Princess Alice of the United Kingdom and the  granddaughter of Queen Victoria , and they had five children, Olga, Tatiana, Maria, Anastasia, and Alexi. Alexi suffered from a disease called haemophilia, which caused his parents great sadness. After 1905, the royal family became friends with Grigori Rasputin, a priest whom they believed could treat Alexi.

In the first 20 years of his reign, Nicholas tried to make Russia more modern, but these plans were held back by the nobles and the Tsar's weak leadership.  He and his chief ministers Sergei Witte and Pyotr Stolypin encouraged railways, land reform, education, the borrowing of money and ties with France.  In 1905, after Russia's disastrous defeat in the war with Japan and the massacre of protestors on Bloody Sunday, he faced widespread protests and calls for a parliament.  He created one (the Duma), but he would not allow it to have many powers. His reign began with the Khodynka Tragedy. Other problems included attacks on the Russian Jews, anger over the power of Grigori Rasputin, and the imprisonments and executions of people who opposed the government.

In 1914, he led Russia into World War I, but the war went badly for Russia and caused great hardship. It led to the fall of the monarchy in the 1917 Russian Revolution. He abdicated (quit being Tsar) in March of that year. He and his family were held as prisoners under house arrest. On July 17, 1918, Nicholas, his wife and their children were killed by a firing squad, on the orders of the new Bolshevik government. In 1981, the Tsar and his family were made Saints by the Russian Orthodox Church. In 1990, the bones of the Tsar and his family were found in the woods and given a proper burial in St Petersburg in 1998.

[[William Tell]]

CATEGORIES: Swiss people

William Tell was a folk hero from Switzerland. In the story, William Tell is a man who refused to bow down to pole that was set up by an army who had taken over the place where he lived. He was arrested and forced to shoot an apple off his son's head with a crossbow. If he did not, both he and his son would be killed. So he shot the apple off the son's head and did not harm his son. He is considered a legend and his actions helped form Switzerland as a nation.

[[Antioch]]

CATEGORIES: 4th-century BC establishments

Antioch on the Orontes was an ancient city on the eastern side (left bank) of the Orontes River on the site of the modern city of Antakya, Turkey.

It was founded near the end of the 4th century BC by Seleucus I Nicator, one of Alexander the Great's generals. Antioch became a rival of Alexandria as the chief city of the nearer East and the cradle of gentile Christianity. It was one of the four cities of the Syrian tetrapolis.

The geographical character of the district north and north-east of the elbow of Orontes makes it the perfect natural centre of Syria, so long as that country is held by a western power; and only Asiatic, and especially Arab, dynasties have neglected it for the oasis of Damascus. During the Crusades, the Christian crusaders laid siege to Antioch. One Wijerd Jelckamas ancestors from his father's side of the family had died at the Siege of Antioch.

The siege of Antioch (lost by the Crusaders, initially), was a turning point in the Crusades.

[[Board]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Board could mean: 

[[Pitman arm]]

CATEGORIES: Auto parts

The Pitman arm is a part used in automobiles, trucks, SUVs and other vehicles to steer the wheels. When the steering wheel is turned right or left the pitman transmits the motion it receives from the steering gearbox to the tie rod. A "drop pitman arm" is used to correct the steering when a vehicle has a suspension lift.

[[F1]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

F1 is a function key on the keyboard. It is mainly used to open help pages about an application or a part of it.

[[Solvent]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

A solvent is a substance that becomes a solution by dissolving a solid, liquid, or gaseous solute. A solvent is usually a liquid, but can also be a solid or gas.  The most common solvent in everyday life is water.  

Most other commonly-used solvents are organic (carbon-containing) chemicals. These are called organic solvents. Solvents usually have a low boiling point and evaporate easily or can be removed by distillation, thereby leaving the dissolved substance behind.  Solvents should therefore not react chemically with the dissolved compounds - they have to be inert.  Solvents can also be used to extract soluble compounds from a mixture, the most common example is the brewing of coffee or tea with hot water.  Solvents are usually clear and colorless liquids and many have a characteristic smell. The concentration of a solution is the amount of compound that is dissolved in a certain volume of solvent.  The solubility is the maximal amount of compound that is soluble in a certain volume of solvent at a specified temperature.

Common uses for organic solvents are in dry cleaning (e.g. tetrachloroethylene), as paint thinners (e.g. toluene, turpentine), as nail polish removers and glue solvents (acetone, methyl acetate, ethyl acetate), in spot removers (e.g. hexane, petrol ether), in detergents (citrus terpenes), in perfumes (ethanol), and in chemical syntheses. Inorganic solvents are used in research chemistry and in a few technological processes.

[[Chemically inert]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical nomenclature, Noble gases

In chemistry, the term inert is used to describe something that is not chemically active.  The noble gases were described as being inert because they did not react with the other elements or themselves. 

Inert gases are completely inert to basic chemical reactions (such as combustion, for example) because their outer valence shell is completely filled with electrons. With a filled outer valence shell, an inert atom is not able to acquire or lose an electron, and is therefore not able to participate in any chemical reactions. For inert atoms or molecules, a lot of energy is involved before it can combine with other elements to form compounds. A high temperature and pressure is necessary, and sometimes requires the presence of a catalyst.

For example, elemental nitrogen is inert under standard room conditions and exists as a diatomic molecule, N2. The inertness of nitrogen is due to the presence of the very strong triple covalent bond in the N2 molecule.

Inert atmospheres of gases such as carbon dioxide, nitrogen and argon are routinely used in working with processes that will go wrong if air or water is present. For example, some welding must be done in argon so the material will not burn.

[[Electron shell]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Quantum mechanics, Chemical bonding

An electron shell, or main energy level, is the part of an atom where electrons are found orbiting the atom's nucleus.

In chemistry and atomic physics, an electron shell may be thought of as an orbit followed by electrons around an atom's nucleus. All atoms have one or more electron shell(s), all of which have varying numbers of electrons.  

The name for electron shells came from the Bohr model, which states that electrons orbit the nucleus at certain distances so that their orbits form "shells". This term was presented by Niels Henrik David Bohr.

[[Wheelchair]]

CATEGORIES: Disability, Human-powered vehicles

A wheelchair is a type of chair usually used by disabled people.

A wheelchair is moved either manually (by pushing the wheels with the hands, or pushed from behind with handles by somebody who is not sitting in the wheelchair) or by automated systems such as electric motors which can be controlled by the wheelchair user (the person sitting in the chair) or by somebody walking behind or beside the wheelchair if the wheelchair user needs help to move their wheelchair. 

Wheelchairs are used by people for whom walking is difficult or impossible due to illness, injury, or disability. Wheelchairs can have extra cushions and other parts added to improve support if the wheelchair user cannot keep their body in a good sitting position, or to make the wheelchair more comfortable to sit in. The earliest record of the wheelchair in England dates from the 1670s English Dictionary, (2nd Ed.), 1989, Vol. XX., p. 203., and in continental Europe this technology dates back to the German Renaissance.

[[Fuel oil]]

CATEGORIES: Fossil fuels, Chemical compounds, Oils

thumb|right|300px|An oil tanker taking on bunker fuel.Fuel oil is a fraction obtained from petroleum distillation, either as a distillate or a residue at the oil refinery.

Broadly speaking, fuel oil is any liquid petroleum product that is burned in a furnace or boiler for the generation of heat or used in an engine for the generation of power, except oils having a flash point of approximately +40 °C and oils burned in cotton or wool-wick burners. In this sense, diesel is a type of fuel oil. Fuel oil is made of long hydrocarbon chains, particularly alkanes, cycloalkanes and aromatics. The term fuel oil is also used in a stricter sense to refer only to the heaviest commercial fuel that can be obtained from crude oil, heavier than gasoline and naphtha.

[[List of large wind farms]]

CATEGORIES: Wind farms, Science-related lists

This is a list of large wind farms, with a generating capacity of 100 megawatts (MW) or more, which are currently operating, under construction, or proposed. Wind power capacity has expanded quickly to 336 GW in June 2014, and wind energy production was about 4% of total worldwide electricity usage, and growing fast. 

Wind power is widely used in Europe, and more recently in the United States and Asia. Wind power accounts for approximately 19% of electricity generation in Denmark, 11% in Spain and Portugal, and 9% in the Republic of Ireland.

[[Horse Hollow Wind Energy Center]]

CATEGORIES: Wind farms in Texas

Horse Hollow Wind Energy Center is a large wind farm with 735.5 megawatt (MW) capacity.  It consists of 291 GE 1.5 MW wind turbines and 130 Siemens 2.3 MW wind turbines spread over nearly 47,000 acres (190 km²) of land in Taylor and Nolan County, Texas. 

The first phase of the Horse Hollow Wind Energy Center consisted of 213 MW and was completed in late 2005; phase two consisted of 223.5 MW and was completed in the second quarter of 2006; phase three which consisted of 299 MW, was completed by the end of 2006.

[[List of solar thermal power stations]]

CATEGORIES: Solar power plants, Science-related lists, Environment

This is a list of solar thermal power stations. These include the 354 megawatt (MW) Solar Energy Generating Systems power plant in the USA, Solnova solar power station (Spain, 150 MW), Andasol solar power station (Spain, 100 MW), Nevada Solar One (USA, 64 MW), PS20 solar power tower (Spain, 20 MW), and the PS10 solar power tower (Spain, 11 MW). Many other plants are under construction or planned, mainly in Spain and the USA. In developing countries, three World Bank projects for integrated solar thermal/combined-cycle gas-turbine power plants in Egypt, Mexico, and Morocco have been approved.

[[Andasol Solar Power Station]]

CATEGORIES: Solar power plants, Buildings and structures in Spain, Andalusia, 2009 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Spain

Andasol Solar Power Station is a large solar thermal power plant, near Guadix in Andalusia, in the province of Granada, one of the sunniest regions in Spain. The plant will cost 310 million euros and is currently under construction.

Andasol will have a generating capacity of 50 megawatts and liquid salt heat storage will allow for electricity to be generated for seven hours after the sun has gone down. Annual electricity production will be 179 gigawatt hours which will cover the electricity demands of 50,000 households or 200,000 people.

Andasol should be completed in mid-2008 and a second plant, Andasol 2, is planned.

[[Atlantic slave trade]]

CATEGORIES: Historic slave trade

The Atlantic slave trade was the selling of African slaves by Europeans that happened in and around the Atlantic Ocean. It lasted from the 15th century to the 19th century. Most slaves were shipped from West Africa and brought over to the New World on a slave ship. The slaves were transported on a ship on which slaves lived in bad conditions. The journey by ship was known as the Middle Passage.

[[African slave trade]]

CATEGORIES: History of Africa, Historic slave trade

The African slave trade was a trade in slaves and, like most of the world, has carried on for thousands of years in Africa. The first main route passed through the Sahara. After the Age of Exploration, African slaves became part of the Atlantic slave trade, from which comes the modern, Western type of slavery. Despite being against the law, slavery continues in all parts of the world, including Africa. In Mauritania, slavery was not made illegal until August 2007.

[[Pocking Solar Park in Germany]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Bavaria, Power stations in Germany, Solar power plants

The Pocking Solar Park is a 10-megawatt (MWp) solar photovoltaic plant which is among the largest in the world. Construction of the power plant started in August 2005 and was completed in March 2006. On the former military training area in the Lower-Bavarian town of Pocking, sheep are now grazing under and around the 57,912 photovoltaic modules.

[[Fractional distillation]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

Fractional distillation is a process of separating a mixture of chemical compounds. This means that each part (called a "fraction") of the mixture can be kept apart from the other chemicals. Different chemicals have different boiling points. Fractional distillation is done by heating the mixture so that it evaporates and then each fraction condenses in its own separate compartment. The reason we don't use simple distillation is because for liquids that boil at less than 25°C from each other, some of the other liquid(s) may evaporate and so part of the separated liquid may have part of the other liquid(s).

It is a special type of distillation. Generally, the component parts boil at less than 25°C from each other under a pressure of one atmosphere (atm). If the difference in boiling points is greater than 25°C, a simple distillation is used. 

Fractionation is done by boiling a mixture in a fractionating column. The mixture evaporates at different times and is caught in a container as a pure compound. 

Fractional distillation is the main activity of oil refineries, and is done in a large fractionating column known as a "fractionation tower".

Industrially, crude oil is heated and sent up along the fractionating column that has decreasing temperatures with height and several platforms at different levels to collect the condensate. Different components of crude oil have different boiling points. High molecular weight components have higher boiling points and condense at lower portions of the column while fractions with lower boiling points rise to the top of the column to condense.

The main fractions include refinery gases, gasoline (petrol), naphtha, kerosene, diesel oil, fuel oil, and a residue that contains bitumen. These fractions are mainly used as fuels, although they do have other uses too. Hydrocarbons with small molecules make better fuels than those with large molecules because they are volatile, flow easily and are easily ignited

[[Monte Alto solar power plant]]

CATEGORIES: Spain, Solar power plants

The Monte Alto photovoltaic power plant in Spain has a generating capacity of 9.55 megawatts peak (MWp) and will generate 14 million kilowatt-hours of electricity per year.  It cost 65 million Euros million. 

The plant covers an area of 51 hectares on agricultural land near the locality of Milagro (Navarre) and contains 889 solar structures, of which 864 have automated solar tracking. The rest are fixed structures adapted to the terrain. 

[[Odor]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

An odor or odour is a volatilized chemical compound, usually at a very low concentration, which humans and other animals perceive by the sense of olfaction.   

Odors are also called smells, which can be used to describe both pleasant and unpleasant odors. The words fragrance, scent, or aroma are used mostly by the food and cosmetic industry to describe a pleasant odor, and is sometimes used to refer to perfumes.  On the other hand, the words stench, reek, and stink are used specifically to describe unpleasant odors.

[[European ash]]

CATEGORIES: Trees, Oleaceae

The European ash (Fraxinus excelsior) is a kind of ash tree. It is found throughout Europe and not just Scandinavia. It is a deciduous tree that grows to a height of 20–35 metres.

[[Solar power in Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Solar energy, Spain

Spain is the fourth largest manufacturer in the world of solar power technology and exports 80 percent of this output to Germany. Spain is one of the most attractive countries with regard to the development of solar energy, as it has the greatest amount of available sunshine of any country in Europe.

The Spanish government wants to produce 12 percent of primary energy from renewable energy by 2010. That would mean a solar generating capacity of 400 megawatts.

Through a ministerial ruling in March 2004, the Spanish government removed economic barriers to grid-connection of renewable energy. The widely applauded Royal Decree 436/2004 equalises conditions for large-scale thermal and photovoltaic plants and guarantees feed-in tariffs.

[[Sensation]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Physiology

A sensation is something that produces excitement. A new song or a new play might be termed a "sensation" or producing "sensation". A thrilling ride on a roller coaster might be described as "sensational".

[[Instant soup]]

CATEGORIES: Soups

Instant soups are a kind of soup. They are produced on an industrial scale. Later they are treated in different ways to preserve them. Usually they are dried, canned, or treated by freezing. 

Packaged instant soups come in two varieties:

[[Sensation (disambiguation)]]

Sensation may refer to any of the following:

[[Perception]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Perception

In psychology and the cognitive sciences, perception is the process of taking in, picking, organizing, and understanding sensory information. It includes collecting data from sense organs and interpreting it in the brain. Consider this: Light enters our eyes, and the brain works on this information to build up a mental picture of what is going on "out there". Perception is a lot more than just "information coming in". It is an active process.

There are many ways to study perception. There are  biological or physiological approaches, psychological approaches through the philosophy of mind and experiments. There are studies by philosophers such as David Hume, John Locke, George Berkeley.

[[Soba]]

CATEGORIES: Noodles

Soba is a type of thin Japanese noodle. It is made from buckwheat flour. It is served either chilled with a dipping sauce, or in hot broth as a noodle soup. Moreover, it is not uncommon in Japan to refer to any thin noodle as soba in contrast to udon which are thick noodles made from wheat.

Because noodles made out of pure buckwheat can easily fall apart when boiled, the buckwheat flour is usually mixed with binders - often wheat flour. Under the Japan Agricultural Standards regulations, the noodles must contain at least 30% buckwheat in order to be called soba but noodles with a high buckwheat content are seen as more desirable. The raw noodles are made by making a dough out of buckwheat flour and binder. The dough is then spread out flat. After that, strands of noodles are sliced off with a special knife. The quality of noodles is highly dependent on the skill of the maker, especially for soba noodles with high buckwheat content. The raw noodles are boiled before being served hot or cold.

In Japan, soba noodles are served in a variety of situations. They are a popular inexpensive fast food at train stations throughout Japan, they are served by exclusive and expensive specialty restaurants, and they are also made at home. Markets sell dried noodles and men-tsuyu, or instant noodle broth, to make home preparation easy.

Some establishments, especially cheaper and more casual ones, may serve both soba and udon (thick wheat noodles) as they are often served in a similar manner. However, soba is traditionally the noodle of choice for Tokyoites. This tradition originates from the Edo period. At that time, the population of Edo (Tokyo) was much richer than the rural poor, were more susceptible to beriberi because of  their high consumption of white rice which is low in thiamine. They are thought to have made up for this by regularly eating thiamine-rich soba. Every neighbourhood had one or two soba establishments, many also serving sake, which functioned much like modern cafes where locals would drop by casually.

[[Carmen Basilio]]

CATEGORIES: American boxers, Sportspeople from New York, 1927 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia

Carmen Basilio (born April 2, 1927 – November 7, 2012) was an American boxer who held the welterweight and middleweight world championship. He won the welterweight title from Tony DeMarco in 1955. He then fought Sugar Ray Robinson for the middleweight title. He won the belt from Robinson in 1957, but lost it when they fought again.

He is the uncle of former welterweight boxing champion Billy Backus.

[[Johnny Saxton]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 deaths, American boxers, Sportspeople from Newark, New Jersey, 1930 births

Johnny Saxton (b. July 4, 1930 in Newark, NJ, d. October 4 2008) was an American boxer who won the welterweight championship.

Saxton beat Kid Gavilan in 1954 to become the welterweight champion.  The lost the title the following year to Tony DeMarco.  In 1956 he won the title again by beating Carmen Basilio, but lost the title in a rematch with Basilio later in the year.  He retired in 1958.

[[Weber-Fechner law]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Perception

The Weber–Fechner law is a proposed relationship between the magnitude of a physical stimulus and the intensity or strength that people feel. 

[[Logarithmic scale]]

CATEGORIES: Logorithms

A logarithmic scale is a scale used when there is a large range of quantities. Common uses include earthquake strength, sound loudness, light intensity, spreading rates of epidemics, and pH of solutions.

It is based on orders of magnitude, rather than a standard linear scale. The value of each mark on the scale is the value at the previous mark multiplied by a constant.

Logarithmic scales are also used in slide rules for multiplying or dividing numbers by adding or subtracting lengths on the scales.

The logarithmic scale can be helpful when the data cover a large range of values – the logarithm reduces this to a more manageable range. 

Some of our senses operate in a logarithmic fashion (multiplying the actual input strength adds a constant to the perceived signal strength, see: Stevens' power law). That makes logarithmic scales for these input quantities especially appropriate. In particular, our sense of hearing perceives equal multiples of frequencies as equal differences in pitch.

On most logarithmic scales, small multiples (or ratios) of the underlying quantity correspond to small (possibly negative) values of the logarithmic measure.

[[Noodle soup]]

CATEGORIES: Soups, Noodles

Noodle soup is a kind of soup. It contains the normal soup stock, together with noodles, and sometimes other ingredients. This kind of soup is very popular in Asia, where it originally came from.  There are also many instant soups of this kind.

Some of the varieties are:

[[Scale (ratio)]]

CATEGORIES: Measurement

The scale of a map shows the ratio between the distances on the map and the corresponding distances in reality. For example, a map of scale 1:50,000 shows a distance of 50,000 cm (or 500 m) as 1 cm on a map. A 1:25 scale model of a building with a height of 30 m has a model height of 1.20 m.

When a drawing or model or photograph of an object is larger or smaller than the original, the scale represents how much the object has been "grown" or "shrunk".

[[Scale]]

Scale could mean:

[[Scale (map)]]

CATEGORIES: Cartography, Measurement

A map scale is the size of an object compared to the size of the object's smaller representative on a map. This can be shown by a scale bar and a ratio 1:n. The reader can measure a distance on the map to know what is the distance on the ground. 

People sometimes speak of a map as one with a "large scale" or "small scale".  A "large scale" map makes things look large, and a "small scale" map makes things look small.  For example, an island displayed on a 1:10,000 map will appear larger than if it were displayed on a 1:25,000 map.  Thus, the former is "large scale". What can be confusing is that for a map of a given physical size, say 11 by 17 inches, a "large scale" map will have a smaller geographic extent than a "small scale" map centred on the same point. 

Maps with a ratio of 1:50 000 or larger (for example, 1:40 000 would be larger) are considered large scale. Maps with a ratio of 1:50 000 to 1:250 000 are considered intermediate scale. Any maps with a smaller scale (for example 1:300 000) are considered small scale. 

[[Midnight sun]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical phenomena

Midnight sun is a phenomenon that exists north of the Arctic Circle and south of the Antarctic Circle. It means that the sun, on parts of the year, is visible the whole night long. The sun above the horizon at midnight in the arctic or Antarctic summer.

There are no people living permanently south of the Antarctic Circle, but in Alaska, Canada, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Russia, and some other countries it is possible to watch the Midnight sun in the summer.

The opposite of the Midnight sun is the Polar night.

[[Eight Below]]

CATEGORIES: Disney movies, American adventure movies, 2006 movies, Movies about animals, 2000s adventure movies, American drama movies

Eight Below is a 2006 Walt Disney Pictures movie. It was directed by Frank Marshall and written by David DiGilio. The movie was released on February 17, 2006 in the United States.

[[Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Muslims, Presidents of Indonesia

General Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono (born 9 September 1949), is an Indonesian retired military general and politician. He was the sixth President of Indonesia from 2004 to 2014. Yudhoyono is the first president to be elected directly by voters.  Yudhoyono won the presidency on 20 September 2004. He defeated President Megawati Sukarnoputri.

[[Order of the Garter]]

CATEGORIES: Knights of the Garter, 1348 establishments, 1340s establishments in England

The Most Noble Order of the Garter is an English order of chivalry. It was started in 1348, by King Edward III of England. The Order is the highest level of knighthood that can be given by the English monarch. It is the world's oldest national order of knighthood. Membership in the Order is limited to those people who have done many great things for the United Kingdom.

The Order of the Garter is made up of a very small number of people. This group includes the Sovereign (the King or Queen of Britain) and no more than 25 full members. These members are called "Companions". Male companions are called "Knight Companions". Female members are called "Lady Companions". There are also a number of extra members known as "Supernumerary" Knights and Ladies. These members are usually members of the British royal family, and monarchs of other countries. 

The monarch alone can grant membership to the order. He or she is known as the Sovereign of the Garter, and the Prince of Wales is known as a Knight Companion of the Garter.

Knights of the Order use the post-nominal letters (KG) and Ladies of the Order (LG). Knights Companion can use the title "Sir" before their first name, and their wives can use the title "Lady" before their surnames. Ladies Companion can use the title "Lady" before their first name, but their husbands cannot use any title.

[[HD DVD]]

CATEGORIES: Optical discs

HD DVD, also known as High-Definition DVD, is an optical disc that is able to store large amounts of data, such as high-definition videos. It was considered to be the successor of the DVD. It used to compete against the Blu-ray Disc, a similar version of an optical disc that is designed to hold large amounts of media, but all of the companies that backed it decided to only use Blu-ray discs, so the HD DVD format is now considered dead.

[[Bruges]]

CATEGORIES: Bruges, World Heritage Sites in Europe

Bruges (Dutch: Brugge) is a city in the northwest of Belgium. 

It is the capital and largest city of West Flanders. In 2007, 116,982 people lived there.

Bruges is at 51° 12 North, 03° 13 East.

It is a centre of tourism because of its historic medieval city centre. The centre was named a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. It is a center of commerce because of its port, Zeebrugge. The movie In Bruges with Colin Farrell, Brendan Gleeson and Ralph Fiennes was made there in 2008.

[[Immortality]]

CATEGORIES: Life, Death

Immortality or eternal life is the idea of something which is alive that will stay alive forever. The opposite of immortality is mortality, which means a living thing can die. Right now, only a small number of living things are known to be immortal. These are mainly simple, lower forms of life like bacteria.  Stories about immortal people or animals are popular in fiction and mythology, but not yet actually possible. Many religions say people have an immortal soul with an afterlife.

Some people have long used magic and science to look for a way to live forever.  Others feel that death is what defines all living things, and as a natural part of life, should not be taken away.

Insurance actuaries have calculated that even if everyone were physically immortal, the average life span would still be only be 400 years because of the accident rate; eventually, everyone would die of a fatal accident and it would be very unusual to encounter anyone more than 800 years old.  Therefore, it would seem that the only practical way to achieve actual immortality is to upload one's mind into a supercomputer to live in virtual reality.  Futurists such as Ray Kurzweil believe this will become possible about the year 2045 in the technological singularity.

The color amaranth represents immortality in Western civilization, while the color peach represents immortality in Chinese civilization.

[[European Union budget]]

CATEGORIES: European Union

The European Union (EU) has an independent parliament and civil service which is distinct from those of the 27 member states. It has to pay for expenditure on common policies throughout the EU. Therefore, the EU has an agreed budget of €862 billion for the period 2007-2013. By comparison, the UK expenditure for 2004 alone was estimated at about €759 billion.

[[Wittingen]]

Wittingen is a small town in the north of the district of Gifhorn, Lower Saxony, Germany. It has 12.268 inhabitants (2005). Wittingen is located at 52° 43′ N, 10° 44′ E and its postal codes are 29378 and 29379.

Around Wittingen, there are 26 villages:

[[Golden Gloves]]

CATEGORIES: Boxing

The Golden Gloves is the name given to competitions held every year for amateur boxing in the United States. The Golden Gloves is often the term used to refer to the National Golden Gloves competition, but it can also mean a few other amateur tournaments, including regional golden gloves tournaments and other notable tournaments such as the Intercity Golden Gloves, the Chicago Golden Gloves, and the New York Golden Gloves.

The Golden Gloves are open to all non-professional boxers age 16 and over. There is also a Silver Gloves amateur tournament, which is for young amateur male boxers age 8 to 15 years old.

[[Sonny Liston]]

CATEGORIES: African-American boxers, American people convicted of assault, American robbers, Drug-related deaths in the United States, Sportspeople from Arkansas, 1932 births, 1970 deaths

Charles L. "Sonny" Liston (May 8, 1932 – December 30, 1970) was an American boxer. He held the world heavyweight championship from 1962 to 1964. He was a boxer who was disliked by much of the public because of his criminal history and rumored association with organized crime characters. Liston served prison sentences for armed robbery and assaulting a police officer. However, he was a skilled boxer and gained a shot at the heavyweight title held by Floyd Patterson. He knocked Patterson out in the first round to gain the title in 1962. He defeated Patterson by another first round knockout in their rematch in 1963.

He lost the championship to Muhammad Ali (then known as Cassius Clay) when he quit in his corner before the start of the seventh round in their 1964 fight. He was then knocked out in the first round during their second fight, which happened in 1965.

Liston continued to box, but died from a drug overdose in 1970 in Las Vegas, Nevada.

[[Buckwheat]]

CATEGORIES: Caryophyllales, Edible nuts and seeds, Breakfast foods

Buckwheat (or common buckwheat) is a plant whose seeds may be used as a cereal. Buckwheat is not a true grass. It is not related to wheat, because wheat is a true grass, and buckwheat is not. 

Buckwheat seeds look like small beech tree seeds. Both seeds have three sides. Beech is also called buck, which is how buckwheat got its name. 

Instead, buckwheat is related to sorrel, knotweed, and rhubarb. Buckwheat is referred to as a pseudocereal because its seeds are used in cooking the same as cereals, because they have complex carbohydrates.

The cultivation of buckwheat grain declined sharply in the 20th century with the adoption of nitrogen fertilizer which increased the productivity of other staples.

[[Kinston Indians]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball teams, Sports in North Carolina

The Kinston Indians were a Minor league baseball team in Kinston, North Carolina.  The team played in the Carolina League from (1956–1957, 1962–1974 and 1978–2011). Professional baseball in Kinston started in 1908, and there have been many teams since then. 2007 was the twenty-first season the Kinston team had been known as the Indians. Before that they were known as the Eagles and the Blue Jays. The Indians, or K-Tribe as they were nicknamed, played their home games in Grainger Stadium. The Indians' mascot was a dog named Scout.

The Kinston Indians won their league championship in 1988, 1991, 1995, 2004 and 2006.

For the 2012 season the Indians moved to Zebulon, North Carolina to become the Carolina Mudcats. The team still plays in the Carolina League.

[[Columbia University]]

CATEGORIES: Columbia University, Association of American Universities, Ivy League, Pulitzer Prizes, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, 1754 establishments, 1750s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies

Columbia University (officially Columbia University in the City of New York) is a research university in the United States. It is an Ivy League university and often considered one of the best in the world. It is the fifth oldest college in the United States.

It was ranked 2nd best college in the United States by Times Higher Education in 2017. It was ranked 8th best university in the world by U.S. News & World Report.

The university was founded as King's College by royal charter from King George II of Great Britain. It was the first college in New York, and the fifth college in the Thirteen Colonies. A lot of the money that paid for the school came from slavery. After the American Revolution it was renamed "Columbia College" in 1784 and renamed once again to "Columbia University" in 1896 when it moved to its current location in Morningside Heights.

Ninety-Six Nobel Prize winners have been at Columbia, the second most in the United States after Harvard University. Five Founding Fathers attended Columbia: Alexander Hamilton, John Jay, Robert Livingston, Gouverneur Morris and Egbert Benson. Three U.S. Presidents have attended Columbia: Barack Obama, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Theodore Roosevelt. Ten Supreme Court Justices have attended Columbia including the most recent Associate Justice, Neil Gorsuch, and the first Chief Justice, John Jay. Other famous alumni include: Warren Buffett, Madeline Albright, and Lou Gehrig.

Columbia is home to the Pulitzer Prize for good work in journalism, literature and music.  FM radio was created at Columbia. The school is where the foundation of modern genetics was discovered. Its Morningside Heights campus was the first North American site where the uranium atom was split.

Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and College of Dental Medicine are in Washington Heights in Northern Manhattan.

[[Columbian Exchange]]

CATEGORIES: History of Africa, Trade, History of Asia, History of Europe, History of North America, History of South America

The Columbian Exchange, sometimes called the Grand Exchange was the exchange of goods and ideas from Europe, Africa, and Asia and goods and ideas from the Americas. It also spread different diseases. It started in 1492 when Christopher Columbus arrived in the West Indies (North America).

This exchange of plants and animals changed European, American, African, and Asian ways of life.  Foods that had never been seen before by people became a major part of what they ate.  For example, before 1492, no potatoes were grown outside of South America.  By the  1840s, Ireland was so dependent on the potato that a diseased crop led to the devastating Irish Potato Famine. The first European import to the Americas, the horse, changed the lives of many Native American tribes on the Great Plains, letting them to change to a nomadic lifestyle based on hunting bison on horseback. Italy became famous for its Tomato sauce, made from New World tomatoes, while coffee from Africa and sugarcane from Asia became the main crops of very large Latin American plantations. Also the chili and paprika from South America was introduced in India by the Portuguese and it is today an important part of Indian cuisine.

Before the Columbian Exchange, there were no oranges in Florida, no bananas in Ecuador, no paprika in Hungary, no zucchini in Italy, no pineapples in Hawaii, no rubber trees in Africa, no cattle in Texas, no chili peppers in Thailand and India, no cigarettes in France and no chocolate in Switzerland.  Even the dandelion was brought to America by Europeans for use as an herb.  

Before there was regular communication between the two hemispheres, the different types of domesticated animals and diseases were more numerous in the Old World than in the New.  This partly led to the horrible effects of Old World diseases on Native American tribes. Smallpox probably caused in the highest death toll for Native Americans.   

Barely any civilization on earth stayed the same by this global ecological exchange.

[[Ragusa]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Italy, Cities in Sicily

Ragusa is the capital of the Province of Ragusa in Italy, with 72,808 inhabitants in the city and more than 310,000 in the province area. 

[[Elliott Carter]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 2012 deaths, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, American centenarians, American composers, Grammy Award winners

Elliott Carter (December 11, 1908 - November 5, 2012) was an American composer. He is one of the most important composers of classical music of his time. He experimented with new ideas of composition. He lived to be 103 years old and continued composing all his life.  He recently composed a piece called Interventions for Piano and Orchestra which was given its first performance in the Symphony Hall, Boston where it was played by the Boston Symphony Orchestra conducted by James Levine with the pianist Daniel Barenboim as soloist. The same players played it again a week later on 11 December 2008 in the Carnegie Hall, New York to celebrate Carter's 100th birthday. 

[[Dubrovnik]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Croatia, World Heritage Sites in Europe

Dubrovnik is a city in Croatia on the Dalmatian coast. More than 500 years ago it was called "Ragusa". The Italian name of the city is still "Ragusa"; this sometimes leads to confusion because there is already a city named Ragusa on Sicily. It is on the Adriatic Sea. About 50,000 people lived there in 2001. Because of its age and unique buildings, the old city of Dubrovnik has been declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

[[Sichuan pepper]]

CATEGORIES: Sapindales, Spices

Sichuan pepper (or Szechuan pepper) is plant fruit which is used as a spice. The outer pods of some species in the genus Zanthoxylum are used to make the spice. Many people in Asia grow them for the spice. Although the plants are called peppers, they are not related to either black pepper or Chili pepper. 

Sichuan pepper is widely used in food from Sichuan, China, from which it takes its name, as well as Tibetan, Bhutani, and Japanese food cultures, among others.

[[Antiparticle]]

CATEGORIES: Subatomic particles, Antimatter

There is an antiparticle corresponding to most kinds of particle. It has the same mass and opposite electric charge.

Even electrically neutral particles, such as the neutron, are not identical to their antiparticle. In the example of the neutron, the 'ordinary' particle is made out of quarks and the antiparticle out of antiquarks.

Particle-antiparticle pairs can annihilate each other if they are in appropriate quantum states. They can also be produced in various processes. These processes are used in  particle accelerators to create new particles and to test theories of particle physics. High energy processes in nature can create antiparticles. These are visible in cosmic rays and in certain nuclear reactions. The word antimatter properly refers to (elementary) antiparticles, composite antiparticles made with them (such as antihydrogen) and to larger assemblies of either.

[[Hamo Beknazarian]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1965 deaths, Armenian movie directors

Hamo Beknazarian, also known as Hamo Bek Nazarov (born May 19, 1891 in Yerevan, died April 27, 1965 in Moscow) was a Armenian movie director. His career in cinema started in 1914, when a friend offered him a part in a movie. Between 1914 and 1918, he played about 70 parts, becoming a popular actor in pre-Revolutionary Russian movie. In 1920, instead of going to Armenia as he planned, he went to Tbilisi, where he developed a movie department for Georgian Commissioner's office of Public Education. Many of his movies were filmed in Tbilisi, including The Father Murderer and Lost Treasures. In 1925, he filmed his first Armenian movie and moved to Armenia. In 1933, he made the first Armenian movie to have sound, Pepo.

Beknazarian also made a few documentary movies.

[[Henrik Malyan]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian movie directors, 1925 births, 1988 deaths

Henrik Malyan (Armenian language:Հենրիկ Մալյան; September 30, 1925 in Telavi, Georgia – March 14, 1988 in Yerevan, Armenia) was an Armenian movie director.

His 1977 movie Life Triumphs (Nahapet) is considered to be one of the most important Armenian movies to deal with the Armenian Genocide. It was exhibited in the 1978 Cannes Film Festival.

[[Septuagint]]

CATEGORIES: Septuagint

The original Septuagint (often referred to LXX) was a translation of the Torah, the five books of Moses from the Hebrew Bible into the Greek language. It was done between the 3rd and 1st centuries BC in Alexandria. It was the first translations of the Hebrew Bible. After 350 years, the Church translated all the books of the Old Testament, and it also has books that Catholics and Orthodox Christians call the Deuterocanon. These books are called Apocrypha by Protestants because they do not think these books are sacred.

An ancient tradition says that 70 Jewish scholars were in a different room when they translated the Torah from Hebrew into Greek, yet they all wrote down exactly the same text. People thought this was a miracle. The Latin language word for "70" is septuaginta, and the word "Septuagint" comes from that. Another way to write "70" is "LXX" which is why writers sometimes use that as a short name for Septuagint.

The Septuagint was used as the starting point for some later translations of the Bible.

[[Katharine McPhee]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Singers from Los Angeles, California, American Idol contestants

Katharine Hope McPhee (born March 25, 1984) is an American Pop/R&B singer. She was the runner-up to Taylor Hicks on the fifth season of the television show American Idol in 2006. Her first album, named Katharine McPhee, was released January 30, 2007.

[[World Heavyweight Championship (WWE)]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment championships, 2002 establishments, 2013 disestablishments

The World Heavyweight Championship was one of the top wrestling championships in the WWE along with the WWE Championship. It was created on RAW to match SmackDown's WWE Championship in August 2002. Some of the past champions include Edge, Triple H, The Undertaker, Booker T, Batista, and Kurt Angle.

The World Heavyweight Championship was brought to Raw by then-General Manager Eric Bischoff after WWE Champion Brock Lesnar became exclusive to SmackDown. Bischoff awarded the championship to Triple H, but he had to defend it against his then-best friend, Ric Flair. Triple H was successful and has held the championship on five different occasions. Other holders of this prestigious championship include Shawn Michaels, Undertaker, Rey Mysterio and more.

The final champion was Randy Orton. He beat then-champion John Cena on December 15, 2013 at TLC: Tables, Ladders, & Chairs. He was already WWE Champion when he won the championship and unified the World Heavyweight Championship with the WWE Championship to make the "WWE World Heavyweight Championship". The World Heavyweight Championship was retired the next day.

[[Islamic calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Calendars, Islamic calendar

The Islamic calendar (التقويم الهجري) is a calendar. It is used to determine islamic holidays in most of Islam. It is a lunar calendar. It has 12 months, and 354 or 355 days. This means that each year, the calendar is about 11 days shorter than a solar calendar, like the Gregorian. Islamic years are often called hijra years, because the first year of the calendar when the hijra occurred, that is when Prophet Muhammad went from Mecca to Medina.

The current Islamic Calendar year is 1442 H'' (AH = Anno Hegiræ = Hijri year)''.

Two Islamic countries (Iran and Afghanistan) use a different calendar, the Solar Hijri Calendar.

The hijiri calendar uses the moon. 

[[Town privileges]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Ages

Town privileges were important things. They were special treaties or royal charters used in the Middle Ages. In such a charter, a sovereign, a monarch granted the town or city special rights. These usually included

Many of those charters were very similar. In the end, only few charters remained in use. Notable ones in the territory of modern-day Germany  include the  Lübeck law, the Magdeburg rights and the Kulm law.history

[[Afternoon]]

CATEGORIES: Parts of a day

Afternoon is the time period from noon to evening. It is generally agreed upon that afternoon starts at 12:00 pm, but there is no exact definition of when it ends.

[[Medieval music]]

CATEGORIES: Medieval music, Periods in music history

Medieval music is music from the Middle Ages. The time we call the Middle Ages is a long period from about 400 AD to 1400 AD. We do not know a great deal about music of this time because it was such a long time ago and music was not often written down. Music was used for both entertainment and religious practice.

[[Neolithic]]

CATEGORIES: Neolithic

The neolithic is the youngest part of the Stone Age. The word "neolithic" comes from two words in Greek meaning "new" and "lithic", meaning "stone". The neolithic period is the time when farming was invented and when people started caring for animals, such as cows, sheep and pigs. The neolithic starts at different times in different places, since not everyone started farming at the same time. After the neolithic period came the Bronze Age.

[[Crotchet]]

CATEGORIES: Note values

A crotchet or quarter note is a note played for one fourth of a whole note (or semibreve). Quarter notes are written as a filled-in oval (or round) note head and a straight, flagless stem (the line). The stem usually points up (like a d) if it is below the middle line of the stave or down (like a p) if it is on or above the middle line.

When beginners start to learn to play an instrument they are often taught that one crotchet lasts for one beat (one count). That is because they are learning pieces with simple time signatures. It is, however, important to remember that other note lengths (minims, dotted crotchets etc.) can also be treated as one beat, depending on the time signature.

[[44 BC]]

CATEGORIES: 44 BC

Year 44 BC was either a common year starting on Sunday or Monday or a leap year starting on Friday or Saturday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Antony.

[[Burzum]]

CATEGORIES: Black metal bands, Thrash metal bands, Norwegian heavy metal bands, Musical groups from Bergen, Musical groups established in 1991, 1991 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Norway, Musical groups disestablished in 1999, 1999 disestablishments in Europe, Musical groups established in 2009, 2009 establishments in Europe, 21st century establishments in Norway

Burzum is a black metal/dark ambient one man band from Bergen, Norway. The band was formed in 1991 by Varg Vikernes. He is best known for serving a prison sentence for the murder of Mayhem guitarist Øystein Aarseth and arson of churches.

[[John Collins]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Scottish footballers

John Collins (born January 31, 1968 in Galashiels, Scotland) is a Scottish footballer. He is currently the manager of Charleroi. Collins played for Celtic in the early 1990s. 

[[Mayhem (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Black metal bands, Norwegian heavy metal bands

Mayhem is a Norwegian black metal band. It was founded in 1984 by guitarist Øystein Aarseth (aka Euronymous), bass guitarist Jørn Stubberud (aka Necrobutcher), and drummer Kjetil Manheim (aka Manheim). The band name is taken from the Venom song, "Mayhem with Mercy."

During the early years, the band used either session vocalists Messiah or Maniac for live/studio performances. During rehearsals, they played either without a singer, or either Necrobutcher or Euronymous would sing.

By late 1987, both Manheim and Maniac had left the band. Members of the band Vomit sang for the band for a short time. In 1988, singer Dead, and drummer Hellhammer joined the band.

[[Shrek (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 movies, 2001 animated movies, 2001 computer-animated movies, Academy Award winning movies, American adventure movies, American animated movies, American family movies, American comedy movies, DreamWorks Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies composed by Danny Elfman, Movies composed by Harry Gregson-Williams, Movies composed by John Powell, Movies that won the Best Animated Feature Academy Award, Shrek, 2000s adventure movies, Screenplays by Joe Stillman, United States National Film Registry movies

This page is about the movie Shrek. For the character Shrek, see Shrek (character)

Shrek is an animated movie based on William Steig's 1990 fairy tale picture book. The name Shrek likely comes from the Yiddish word שרעק (pronounced Shreck) or the German word Schreck. Both words mean "fear" or "terror". It was directed by Andrew Adamson and animated by DreamWorks Animation. It was the first movie to win an Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, a category introduced in 2001 . It was released on DVD on November 2, 2001. There have also been three sequels (follow-ups) of Shrek, called Shrek 2 and Shrek the Third and Shrek Forever After. There is also a Christmas special, a Halloween special and a spinoff movie all about a minor character in the sequels and specials. It was adapted into a Broadway musical.

[[Mom at Sixteen]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, 2000s teen drama movies, American teen drama movies, English-language movies

Mom at Sixteen is a 2005 American made-for-TV movie. It is about a sixteen year old mother, Jacey Jeffries (Danielle Panabaker) in high school.

[[Danielle Panabaker]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Disney actors, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state)

Danielle Nicole Panabaker (born September 19, 1987) is an American actress. She is known for acting in many movies. These include Sky High and Mom at Sixteen. She has also acted on the television series including Shark. Panabaker is the older sister of child actress Kay. Both girls act in Disney Channel programs.

[[Renaissance music]]

CATEGORIES: Renaissance, Periods in music history

Renaissance music is European music written from about the year 1400 to 1600. This section of time is called the Renaissance, a word which means “rebirth”. The Renaissance comes between the Middle Ages and the Baroque times.

Putting music into time sections does not mean that there were quick changes of type. Music changed slowly, and early Renaissance music was similar to Medieval music. Slowly music-writers started to try new ideas. A lot of medieval church music had become very hard with lots of rules about rhythms and clashes of notes to make dissonances. A lot of Renaissance composers wrote music which was smoother and more gentle. The music was still polyphonic with each voice having a share of melody. Music was starting to become less modal and more tonal. By the time the Baroque period started composers were using a system of major and minor keys like we do today.

[[Kay Panabaker]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American child actors, Disney actors, Actors from Texas

Stephanie Kay Panabaker (born May 2, 1990) is an American actress from Orange, Texas. Some of her best known roles are Emily on Life is Ruff and Debbie on Phil of the Future. Panabaker is the younger sister of actress Danielle. The two sisters starred together in the movie Read it and Weep for the Disney Channel. She has had recurring roles on the television series CSI:Crime Scene Investigations and Angel.

[[Haley Hudson]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Chicago, 1986 births, Living people

Haley Hudson (born June 14, 1986) is an American actress. Her best known roles were in Freaky Friday and Lizzie McGuire. Her image is a punky Gothic type person.

[[Enslaved (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Black metal bands, Norwegian heavy metal bands

Enslaved is a band from Haugesund, Norway; their music has been called black metal and viking metal. The band was formed in 1992.

[[Viking metal]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy metal subgenres

Viking metal is a heavy metal music subgenre inspired by Norse mythology. Swedish metal band Bathory's fourth album, released in 1988 and called Blood Fire Death, was the first Viking metal album. 

[[Musica ficta]]

CATEGORIES: Musical notation, Medieval music

Musica ficta is a term used in medieval and Renaissance music. It means that when musicians play or sing music they put in accidentals (sharps and flats) which are not written in the music.

In those days (near the end of the 16th century) music used modes instead of the modern system of major and minor keys. Sometimes the music would not sound right unless a note was sharpened or flattened (raised or lowered a semitone). For example, to go down from the note B to an F would have sounded bad, so the F would need to be an F sharp. The composer who wrote the music down might not bother to put the sign for F sharp. He would expect the performer to know that it should be an F sharp and not an F. This is what is called musica ficta.

Gradually it became more and more necessary for composers to write exactly what notes they wanted. The modern system of keys was developing. They developed the system of key signatures and accidentals (sharps and flats which are not in the key signature, but written as and when they are needed). The practice of musica ficta gradually ended.

[[Universal Studios Japan]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in Japan, Companies of Japan, Osaka, Theme parks in Japan

Universal Studios Japan is one of four Universal Studios theme parks. It is in Osaka, Japan. The park opened on March 31, 2001.

[[Gap year]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities, Travel, Leisure

A gap year is time taken between completing secondary school and going to a university or college or also between college and graduate school or a profession. It is generally a practice of young people from Australia, Poland, Scandinavia, United Kingdom and United States. The time between the two events is often, but not always, a year. It is often used to travel or to gain experience with an internship at the lowest cost possible.

[[Beam bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridge types

A beam bridge is a strong, horizontal structure that rests on two end supports, and carries traffic by acting as a beam. 

Beam bridges are often used for heavy cars and trains to pass, and some are also built for people to walk on. Beam bridges used to be made from wood and were called log bridges. Modern ones are mostly made of steel. Beam bridges are usually placed over highways, rivers or gaps in the earth so people or cars can cross over them.  Beam bridges are simple but they cannot be as long as more complex and expensive kinds.  Beam bridges can be connected to make one longer bridge.  

[[Gene Simmons]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Kiss, Singers from New York City, American rock guitarists, American heavy metal musicians, American heavy metal singers, Musicians from New York City, American Jews, American bloggers

Gene Simmons (born August 25, 1949 in Haifa, Israel) is an Israeli-American hard rock bass guitarist and singer for the hard rock band Kiss.

[[Beam]]

Beam could mean:

[[Fox News]]

CATEGORIES: Cable television, Fox Broadcasting Company

The Fox News Channel (commonly known as Fox News) is an American 24-hour cable and satellite television news network. It was made by Rupert Murdoch and Roger Ailes. It is owned by Fox Broadcasting Company. the channel was officially launched in 1996.

[[Omsk]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Russia, Siberia, Capital cities in Russia

Omsk is a city in Russia in the Siberia region. As of the census in 2000, Omsk had been declared one of the cities in Russia with over 1 million people. Omsk is close to the border of Kazakhstan.

[[Mayhem]]

Mayhem could mean:

[[Question mark]]

CATEGORIES: Punctuation, Typography

The question mark is a punctuation mark that is used at the end of a sentence when asking a question.

The symbol is thought to come from the Latin quæstio, meaning "question", which was shortened to Qo. The uppercase Q was written above the lowercase o, and this mark was turned into the symbol that we use today.

Another guess about where question mark comes from says that it comes from the 9th century, when it was a point followed by the curved part written slanted.

Some writers put a space between the end of their sentence and the question mark. This is thought to come from a French practice and is called French spacing. In French a space is always put before question marks, exclamation marks, colons, and semicolons. In English, however, using this space is thought of as bad form. The Oxford English Dictionary does not encourage it. Some English books do have these spaces, but are often a very thin space, which are not full spaces but an attempt to make the words easier to read.

[[Kevin Federline]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, American dancers, American rap musicians from California, Britney Spears, People from Fresno, California

Kevin Earl Federline (born March 21, 1978) is an American entertainer, who dances, raps and models as his job. He is famous for being the former husband of pop singer Britney Spears. Federline has 4 kids, 2 with actress Shar Jackson and 2 with Spears.

[[Mercyful Fate]]

CATEGORIES: Black metal bands, Danish heavy metal bands, People from Copenhagen, Musical groups established in 1980

Mercyful Fate are a heavy metal band from Denmark. The band was formed in Copenhagen in 1980.

[[Basic]]

Basic may be:

[[Electrical circuit]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A circuit is a closed path that consists of circuit components in which electrons from a voltage or current source can flow.  If the circuit consists of electric components like a resistor, a capacitor, an inductor etc. then it will be called an Electrical circuit and if the circuit consists of any of the electronic circuit components like a diode, a Transistor etc. then it will be called an Electronic circuit. So, the electronic circuits may consist both of the electrical and electronic circuit components, but an electrical circuit will have only the electrical components.

The point where electrons enter an electrical circuit is called the "source" of electrons. The point where the electrons leave an electrical circuit is called the "return" or "earth ground". The exit point is called the "return" because electrons always end up at the source when they complete the path of an electrical circuit.

The part of an electrical circuit that is between the electrons' starting point and the point where they return to the source is called an electrical circuit's "load". The load of an electrical circuit may be as simple as those that power home appliances like refrigerators, televisions, or lamps or more complicated, such as the load on the output of a hydroelectric power generating station.

Circuits use two forms of electrical power: alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC). AC often powers large appliances and motors and is generated by power stations. DC powers battery-operated vehicles and other machines and electronics. Converters can change AC to DC and vice versa. High-voltage direct current transmission uses big converters.

[[Quiz]]

CATEGORIES: Games

A quiz is a type of game in which players (as individuals or in teams) try to answer questions correctly. Quizzes are also  used in education and similar fields to improve the growth of someone's  knowledge, abilities, and/or skills. 

Quizzes are usually scored in points. Many quizzes are designed for people to determine the winner of a group of participants - usually the participant with the highest score.

[[John Hancock]]

CATEGORIES: 1737 births, 1793 deaths, American revolutionaries, Founding Fathers of the United States, Governors of Massachusetts, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence

John Hancock  (January 12, 1737 – October 8, 1793) was an early American patriot, a leader in the American Revolutionary War, and an American statesman. He was the first man to sign America's Declaration of Independence. In modern America, "John Hancock" is a synonym for signature.

Hancock's ancestors arrived in the English colonies in 1652. In 1737, Hancock was born in Braintree (now Quincy, Massachusetts). When John Hancock Jr. his father died, he was adopted by his uncle, a merchant in Boston, Massachusetts. At his uncle's death in 1754, Hancock inherited the business. He became a leading merchant in Boston and one of the richest in the colonies. 

In 1768, British officials seized his ship, the Liberty. It carried a shipment of wine. The officials said he was smuggling. Boston patriots rioted and he was acquitted. This incident was one of the events that led to the American Revolutionary War.

Hancock had several important jobs in Colonial America and the early United States of America. He was president of the Massachusetts Provincial Congress in 1774 and 1775. He used his money to support American independence. The British thought him a very dangerous man.

Hancock was president of the Continental Congress in 1774 and 1775. He wanted to lead the Continental Army. George Washington got the job instead. With 5,000 troops, he tried to free Rhode Island from the British. He was not successful.

Hancock led the convention that adopted the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780. He was first Governor of the state Massachusetts. He served nine terms. Hancock suffered from gout in his later life.  He died in 1793.

[[Huldrych Zwingli]]

CATEGORIES: 1484 births, 1531 deaths, Calvinists, Christian theologians, Protestant Reformers, Swiss people

Huldrych (or Ulrich) Zwingli or Ulricus Zuinglius (January 1, 1484 – October 11, 1531) was the leader of the Protestant Reformation in Switzerland, and founder of the Swiss Reformed churches. Separately from Martin Luther, Zwingli arrived with similar final beliefs. He did this by studying the Bible from the point of view of a humanist scholar. Zwingli's father was named Ulrich Zwingli also and his mother was named Margaret Meili. Zwingli had 2 sisters and 7 brothers.

Zwingli was born in Toggenburg, Wildhaus, St. Gallen, Switzerland, to an important family of the middle class. 

Zwingli's Reformation was supported by the judge and people of Zürich. It led to major changes in the lives of the people and state matters in Zürich.

Zwingli was killed at Kappel am Albis, in a battle against the Roman Catholic Cantons of Switzerland.

[[20th-century classical music]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in music, Classical music, Periods in music history

20th-century classical music is classical music written during the last century. During earlier periods of music history composers from different countries wrote in styles which were often quite similar. For example, composers in the Classical music period (about 1740-1820) had fairly similar ideas about what forms to use (e.g. sonata form), what instruments should be used in orchestras or how to write good tunes.

Classical music from the 20th century is extremely varied. There are lots of different “schools” (meaning: ways of thinking) as lots of composers had their own ideas about how to compose in ways that were different from what had been done before. A lot of these genres (types of music) had names ending in “ism”: there was serialism, Expressionism, Neoclassicism, Impressionism as well as jazz, world music (music from non-European cultures) and folksong and, later on electronic music and then Minimalism and even post-modernism.

The names of periods in history were usually given to them many years afterwards. For example, the term Middle Ages was not used until long after the Middle Ages had finished. It is difficult to know what to call the period we live in now. In music people often talk about “Modern Music” meaning any music written after 1900. We also talk about “Contemporary Music” meaning more or less the same thing (“contemporary” means “things that are happening in our time”, i.e. “living composers”). Now that the 21st century has started some musicians are starting to talk about “20th century music” (1900-2000) and a period called “Contemporary Music” (1975-today).

This article will discuss classical music written from 1900 to the year 1999.

[[Cuxhaven]]

CATEGORIES: Port cities and towns of the North Sea

Cuxhaven is a town in Lower Saxony, Germany. About 55,000 people live there. It is on the shore of the North Sea at the mouth of the Elbe River. Cuxhaven is the capital of the Cuxhaven district. It is a popular vacation spot on the North Sea.

In 1896, when the town was an exclave of Hamburg, the railway line from Bremerhaven Hauptbahnhof was built.

[[Haifa Wehbe]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Lebanese Muslims, Lebanese singers, Models, Movie actors, People from Beirut

Haifa Wehbe (هيفا وهبي, born March 10, 1972) is a female Lebanese singer, actress, model, and jewelry designer who is known in the Arab world. Wehbe was born in a rural town in South Lebanon and currently lives in Beirut. She started her music career with her debut album Huwa az-Zaman (هو الزمن, It is Time).

[[Dynamics (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical notation

In music, the dynamics in the  piece is the variation in loudness between notes or phrases. 

In written music the dynamics are shown by letters which stand for Italian words for the dynamic levels. They are listed in the table below. Notice that “piano” is pronounced the Italian way (“pi-AH-no”), to tell it apart from the

Use more than two ps or fs to show that the music is very, very quiet, or very, very loud. Tchaikovsky sometimes used five ps or fs, though only up to three are normally found in sheet music.

Dynamic levels are not something that can be measured exactly. Exactly how loud mp should be depends on several things: what is happening in the music, the instrument, the size of the room in which the music is being played etc. The important thing is that dynamic levels should be correct in relation to one another.

Some composers are very precise about writing the dynamics they want. Others leave a lot to the performer to decide. Historically, composers several centuries ago, such as Bach, only wrote occasional dynamic marks. Even Mozart only wrote a few, mostly p and f. By the 19th century composers were writing dynamics in much more detail in their music.

Sometimes accents are shown by marks similar to dynamic marks. Sforzando means a strong, sudden accent and is abbreviated as sf, sfz or fz. The notation sfzp (or sfp) means a sforzando followed immediately by piano

The terms crescendo, and diminuendo (or sometimes decrescendo), mean a gradual getting louder or quieter. They can also be shown by signs known as "hairpins". A hairpin opening out is a crescendo, one which closes is a diminuendo.

For a quick change in dynamics, molto cresc. and molto dim. are often used (molto means a lot). For slow changes poco a poco cresc. and poco a poco dim. are used (poco a poco means little by little, i.e. very gradually.)

[[Francesco Botticini]]

CATEGORIES: 15th century Italian painters, People from Florence, 1446 births, 1498 deaths

Francesco di Giovanni Botticini (ca. 1446 – July 22, 1498) was an Italian painter. He lived in the early part of the Renaissance period. He was born in Florence about 1446 and is best known for his painting called "Assumption of the Virgin".

He died in 1497 or 1498. After he had been an assistant to the painter Neri di Bicci he started his own workshop. The shop was famous for its decorative works, a few of which can be seen in the cloistered church of Empoli. Botticini was influenced by Filippino Lippi and Botticelli who were two very famous Florentine painters.

[[Grana Padano]]

CATEGORIES: Italian cheeses

Grana Padano is a type of hard cheese. It is similar to parmesan cheese. The name comes from the noun grana (‘grain’), which refers to the distinctively grainy texture of the cheese, and the adjective Padano, which refers to the river Po.

Grana Padano was created by the Cistercian monks of Chiaravalle. They used ripened cheese as a way of preserving extra milk. By the year 1477, it was regarded as one of the most famous cheeses of Italy. Today, this product is made in the regions of Piedmont, Lombardy and Veneto, and in the province of Trento.

Like Parmigiano Reggiano, Grana Padano is a semi-fat hard cheese which is cooked and ripened slowly (for up to 18 months). It is produced by curdling the milk of grass-fed cows. The cows are milked twice a day, the milk is left to stand, and then partially creamed. It is produced all year round and the quality can vary seasonally as well as by year.

A wheel of Grana Padano is cylindrical, with slightly convex or almost straight sides and flat faces. The rind, which is thin, is white or straw yellow.

Grana Padano cheese has been produced since the 12th century, and production and quality are now overseen by the Consorzio per la Tutela del Formaggio Grana Padano.

[[North American Free Trade Agreement]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 in the United States, 1994 in Canada, 1990s in Mexico, Commerce, 1990s treaties, International organizations, Economics organizations, Economy of North America, Economy of Canada, Economy of Mexico, Economy of the United States, 1994 works

The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) was a trade agreement between Mexico, the United States, and Canada. The agreement was signed by U.S. President George H.W. Bush, Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, and Mexican President Carlos Salinas on December 17, 1992 in San Antonio, Texas, and took effect on January 1, 1994. It removed taxes on products traded between the United States, Canada, and Mexico. It also protects copyrights, patents, and trademarks between those three countries. It was updated with the North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation, which helped set more environment regulations and helped reduce pollution. It was also updated with the North American Agreement for Labor Cooperation, which helped people fight for better work conditions.

On September 30, 2018, it was announced that the United States, Mexico, and Canada had come to an agreement to replace NAFTA with the United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement (USMCA).

[[Language revival]]

CATEGORIES: Language

Language revival is people trying to make a language spoken often again when it is not spoken or is spoken very little. Language death happens when a language is not used by the people who used to speak it.

Language revival tries to save a language that is dead or endangered. The Hebrew language was once a language that was not spoken, but the language was revived, and people now speak and use it again. Many people are now trying to revive their languages. The revival of languages is good, beautiful, and useful.

[[John Travolta]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Actors from New Jersey, People from Englewood, New Jersey, American aviators, American movie actors, American television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, American musicians, Scientologists

John Joseph Travolta (born February 18, 1954) is an American actor, dancer and singer.

[[Ukrainian]]

Ukrainian might mean:

[[Objectivity (science)]]

CATEGORIES: Science

Objectivity in science means that scientific ideas and measurements are tested. That means they are independent from the individual scientist (the subject) who proposes them. In other words, if scientist A claims something, scientist B must be able to check whether A is right.

The evidence can (in principle) be shown to anyone who doubts it. The "in principle" bit is because some science needs complex machinery, and if you don't understand the machinery, you won't understand the results. But elementary science can often be shown in a classroom, or on television.

Some science does need a proper scientific education. To some extent the general public has to trust a qualified scientist to present the idea in some suitable form. That means on television or on the web, or perhaps in published articles or books. Most awards of the Nobel Prize in science are followed by presentations on various web channels.

It is generally agreed that, at least in some subjects, modern science needs a person to have some education before they can understand it. Specialist communicators often do this on television or the web. 150 years ago, people read science directly from books written by scientists like Faraday and Darwin. Now most people get their science from people who act as communicators of science.

[[Roundhay Garden Scene]]

CATEGORIES: Silent movies, 1888

Roundhay Garden Scene is a short movie made on October 14, 1888 in the garden of Oakwood Grange, Roundhay, Leeds, West Yorkshire, England. It was made by a French man named Louis Le Prince. It was silent. The movie had Adolphe Le Prince, Sarah Whitley, Joseph Whitley, and Harriet Hartley walking in the garden of Oakwood Grange. It is believed to be the oldest surviving movie by many people. It is 1.66 seconds long. The digitalized version lasts 2.11 seconds.

[[Herpetology]]

CATEGORIES: Branches of zoology, Reptiles, Amphibians

Herpetology is the branch of zoology concerned with reptiles and amphibians. It is about cold-blooded animals like salamanders, frogs, toads, snakes, lizards, turtles, tuataras and crocodilians.

[[Hector Barbossa]]

CATEGORIES: Pirates of the Caribbean characters

Captain Hector Barbossa is a character of the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise. He appeared in all movies of the series. 

At first he was the villain as an undead pirate in The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003). The character dies at the end of the movie, however, he is revealed to have been brought back to life at the end of Dead Man's Chest. 

He later became an antihero in supporting roles as a Pirate Lord in At World's End (2007), a privateer with the Royal Navy in On Stranger Tides (2011), and finally as the rich pirate in Dead Men Tell No Tales (2017).

He is seen as the evil version of Captain Jack Sparrow.

[[Alpha Kappa Alpha]]

CATEGORIES: Fraternities and sororities, 1908 establishments, Organizations based in the United States

Alpha Kappa Alpha is the first sorority founded by African-American women.  The sorority was founded on January 15, 1908, at Howard University. The sorority has more than 300,000 women in over one thousand chapters. They are in the United States, the Caribbean, Germany, Korea and Japan.

[[Objectivity]]

Objectivity can mean:

[[Fraud]]

CATEGORIES: Types of crime

Fraud (or defrauding or scamming) is a crime in which someone tricks somebody else to get unfair or unlawful gain. Frauds are almost always about money, either directly or indirectly.  

A fraudster or a fraud is the person who commits the fraud. Fraudulence is the adjective, as in He tried to pass a fraudulent cheque. To defraud someone is to commit a fraud against them. 

Fraudsters may find people to defraud by phone calls, emails, or websites. Fraud often starts by saying there is a free or low price item. The fraudster then asks for personal information, such as a home address and bank account numbers. Instead of giving an item, the fraudster takes their money. Fraudsters often target senior citizens.

Fraud is a criminal wrong: a fraudster may be prosecuted and imprisoned. It is also a civil wrong: a fraud victim may sue the fraudster to get compensation.

All societies have laws against fraud, but the details differ in each jurisdiction. In England an Act of Parliament defines three kinds of fraud.

Lesser cases are heard in a Magistrates' Court; more serious offences are tried in the High Court (jury proceedings).

[[Pump]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering, Mechanics, Tools

A pump is a machine which moves a liquid from one place to another, often upwards.

Pumps need some kind of power, often kinetic energy, to make them work. Sometimes the power comes from a person. Sometimes the power comes from a motor.

[[Alpha (disambiguation)]]

Alpha may mean: 

[[Ioan P. Culianu]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 1991 deaths, Romanian writers, Romanian historians, Poets, 20th century philosophers

Ioan Petru Culianu (January 5, 1950–May 21, 1991) was a Romanian historian of religion, culture, ideas, philosopher, political essayist, poet, mystic and short story writer.

He was 41 when he was shot in the head in the men's room in his University, Divine School where he was teaching on May 21 1991. At times he preached against communism and its system of brainwashing youth. It is alleged that he was killed on the orders of outgoing Romanian Communist Party leaders.

[[Single (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Marketing, Songs

In popular music marketing, a single is a record release with only one or two songs. The first song (usually the one given the most promotion, and heard more often in the media) is called an A-side, while any other song on the single is called a B-side.

The pairing of recordings on a single comes from the days of shellac and vinyl records, when discs had two playable sides. Modern compact disc singles may contain more than one version of either the A- or B-side, or sometimes an additional recording by the same performer. B-sides may be selections from an album, or songs not otherwise issued for sale.

Many times the chance to get a new song issued as an A-side creates competition between members of bands, or teams of songwriters. John Lennon and Paul McCartney of the Beatles tried to write better songs than each other, to get more A-sides than the other. George Harrison, also a Beatle, rarely had his songs chosen for singles, but had a hit with "Something" for the band. 

In the days of vinyl singles, royalty for both A- and B-sides were paid equally. Many listeners never played B-sides more than once, and radio focused on A-sides. Many people who made recordings knew this, and used it to earn extra money from sales, or to promote other music they made. Phil Spector sometimes used short jam session by his studio band as B-sides to singles he produced. 

Michael Nesmith of the Monkees wanted his songs to appear on Monkees singles. He would settle for B-sides, if he could not get an A-side. Don Kirshner, who oversaw the band's early music, wanted the B-sides to come from other songwriters who worked for him. Nesmith and Kirshner disagreed, and it caused tension for the Monkees and their company.

Records that include more than two or three songs are usually called EPs (for "extended play"), and may include four or more distinct songs, but not as many as on an album.

[[Captain America]]

CATEGORIES: Comic books, Fictional characters introduced in 1941, Marvel Comics adapted into movies, Marvel Comics superheroes, Marvel vs. Capcom fighters, Fictional American people, Fictional characters

[[Objectivity (journalism)]]

CATEGORIES: Mass media, Journalism

Objectivity is a significant principle of journalistic professionalism. It involves presenting information that can be relied upon.

Objectivity may have several meanings in the eye of the public. "Fairness" involves making sure that multiple sides of an issue are presented. "Disinterestedness" means that the presenters are neutral in a story in which the people involved try to influence them. "Factuality" bases story content on facts that can be checked by an independent agent. "Nonpartisanship" means not taking sides, especially on political matters. Depending on the topic of a story, any or all of these factors may be relevant in the journalist's remaining objective.

The editorial board of media outlets such as the press or broadcast news chooses what information to present, so the editors' selection may be biased toward one position or belief system.

In many countries, "advocacy journalism," which supports a particular position, is considered as a legitimate sort of professional journalism. These stories may be either news or analysis. They may or may not be objective.

[[Genesis Nomad]]

CATEGORIES: Handheld video games, Sega video game consoles

The Genesis Nomad is a portable video game console released by the Sega Corporation. It has a colour screen and can play most games designed for the Sega Mega Drive/Genesis.

It cannot be used with the Sega CD and Sega 32X unless special modifications are made. But such special modifications may not be safe.

Fewer than one million Genesis Nomads were sold. 

[[Erlasee Solar Park]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Bavaria, Power stations in Germany, Solar power plants

The Erlasee Solar Park  is in one of the sunniest regions of Germany. On the former wine-producing Erlasee estate near Arnstein in Bavaria, in southern Germany, SOLON has constructed what is currently the largest tracking photovoltaic solar power station in the world with an output of 12 MW. Just under 1,500 "SOLON-Movers" modules convert sunlight into environmentally friendly power, generating as much as the average consumption of the nearby town of Arnstein.  

The solar power plant cost £35 million and covers 77 hectares of land.

[[Khula]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage, Islamic culture

Khula is the right of a woman to ask her husband for a divorce and to offer him a compensation in case he does so. Following the Sharia the husband has no right to ask for a compensation of a higher value than that what he gave his wife when they married. 

After divorce the former husband is responsible for education, food and residence of children. The children live with the mother for 7 years. After 7 years children have the right to live with father or mother, as they decide.

[[Hashemi Rafsanjani]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Iranian clerics, Iranian Muslims, Speakers of the Islamic Consultative Assembly, Presidents of Iran

Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani (Persian: اکبر هاشمی رفسنجانی Akbar Hāshemī Rafanjānī), Hashemi Bahramani (هاشمی بهرمانی) (August 25, 1934 – January 8, 2017) was an influential Iranian politician. He has been the Chairman of the Expediency Discernment Council of Iran from 1989 until his death in 2017.

Forbes magazine listed Rafsanjani in their list of richest people in the world and has written that as the real power behind the Iranian government, he "has more or less run the Islamic Republic for the past 24 years."  His wealth has earned him the infamous nickname of Akbar Shah in Iran.

He served as President of Iran from 1989 to 1997, losing on the second ballot to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in the 2005 election on his attempt for a third term in office. After this, he has tried to use his position in the Expediency Council to denounce President Ahmadinejad's administration.  He said he would do some  privatizations and change foreign policy. However, President Ahmadinejad has noted Rafsanjani's failure to make a difference between  privatization and self takeover of government-owned companies. Ahmadinejad has also commmented on  the foreign policies of Rafsanjani's administration which lead to sanctions against Iran in 1995 and 1996.

Currently, one of his sons has been accused of receiving a bribe. Analysts expect that his son will not be put on trial, however. 

Rafsanjani died on January 8, 2017 in Tehran from a heart attack, aged 82.

[[Evander Holyfield]]

CATEGORIES: African-American boxers, American Olympic bronze medalists, Celebrity Big Brother contestants, Dancing with the Stars participants, Medalists at the 1984 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Alabama, 1962 births, Living people

Evander Holyfield (born October 19, 1962) is an American boxer. He held both the world heavyweight championship and the world cruiserweight championship. He also won a bronze medal at the 1984 Summer Olympics.

Holyfield was born in Atmore, Alabama. He became a professional boxer in 1984 and won the cruiserweight championship from Dwight Muhammad Qawi in 1986. He moved to the heavyweight division in 1988 and won the world championship from James "Buster" Douglas in 1990. He defended the title three times, including fights against former champions Larry Holmes and George Foreman. He lost the title to Riddick Bowe in 1992 but won it back the next year. In 1994 he lost to Michael Moorer and briefly retired. He soon fought again, however, and surprised many by knocking out Mike Tyson in 1996. He had a draw against Lennox Lewis in 1998 and then lost a rematch to him in 1999. 

In 2005, Holyfield  was a contestant on season 1 of Dancing with the Stars. He was a housemate in the January 2014 series of Celebrity Big Brother (UK).         

[[Porthmadog F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Welsh football clubs, 1884 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1880s establishments in Wales

Porthmadog Football Club is a football team, playing in the League of Wales. The club was started in 1884.

[[Sharia]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic law

Sharia, Sharia law or Islamic law is a set of religious principles which form part of the Islamic culture. The Arabic word sharīʿah (شريعة) refers to the revealed law of God and originally meant "way" or "path".

Classical sharia deals with many aspects of public and private life, including religious rituals, family life, business, crimes, and warfare. In former times, sharia was interpreted by independent jurists, who based their legal opinions on Qur'an, Hadith and centuries of debate, interpretation and precedent. Some parts of sharia can be described as "law" in the usual sense of that word, while other parts are better understood as rules for living life in accordance with God's will.

Modern countries in the Muslim world all have their own laws. In most of them only a small part of the legal system is based on classical sharia. Muslims disagree on how sharia should be applied in the modern world.

Some classic sharia practices include serious violations of human rights, gender equality and freedom of speech. The situation of women 'captured in wars' is a critical issue in terms of human rights. According to traditional interpretations of the Qur'an, these women are regarded as war lootings. Whether these women are married or not, is not taken into account, and like other enslaved women, right-holders (warriors or buyers of them) can make sexual practices over their bodies without their consent.(Al-Mu’minun;5-6)(see:War crimes, Apostasy in Islam)

[[Wadowice]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Poland

Wadowice w (Frauenstadt – Wadowitz) is a town in Poland in Lesser Poland Voivodeship in the mountainous range known as Zakopane region, 50 southeast of Krakow - (former Polish capital).

Pope John Paul II (Karol Wojtyla) was born there on May 18 1920. He also attended elementary and high school there, graduating with honors in 1938.

The town is twinned with 4 others, all in Italy.

[[Piano duet]]

CATEGORIES: Musical forms, Piano

A piano duet is a piece of music written for two people to play at one piano. It is often called Piano 4 hands.

To play piano duets the two players sit with one person on the right (playing the high notes) and the other person on the left (playing the low notes). The person on the right is called “Primo” (“First”) and the person on the left is called “Secondo” (“Second”).

Piano duet music is usually printed with the Secondo part on the left-hand page and the Primo part on the right-hand page. Occasionally it is printed with the two parts underneath one another.

Playing piano duets is great fun and an excellent way to become a better musician. Like all group music making, each player has to learn to listen and adapt to what is going on in the other part. Sometimes one player will have to take away his or her hand quickly so that the other player can play the same note immediately afterwards. Sometimes the players have to cross their hands (secondo’s right hand crosses with primo’s left hand).

A lot of the time the primo’s part may have both hands written in the treble clef and the secondo’s part may have both hands written in the bass clef. This can sometimes be confusing at first.

The pedalling is usually done by the secondo player. This is because pedalling is very much about keeping chords going (“sustaining”), and it is the secondo who usually has the chords which give the harmony because these are in the lower part.

[[Piano six hands]]

CATEGORIES: Musical terminology, Piano

Music described as piano six hands is for three pianists at one piano, as distinct from piano duet which is music for two pianists at one piano, and from piano trio which is music for piano, violin and cello.  Not much music has been written for this combination, although there are several arrangements of music originally written for other forces.

[[Pedal]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics

A pedal is something that is made to work by someone's foot.  The word "pedal" comes from the Latin word for "foot".  Many things can be made to work by pedals.  These include:

[[Rice wine]]

CATEGORIES: Wine

Rice wine is a word some people use to talk about alcoholic drinks. However, it is not a true wine, despite the name. True wine is made by fermenting grapes, and perhaps other fruit. In rice wine, the starch in the rice is first changed into sugar. This sugar is then fermented. This process is more like the fermentation as it is done in beer. 

The rice wines made in this manner have more alcohol in them than normal wines (18–25% alcohol compared to 10–14% for normal wines). Beers on the other hand usually have 4–8% alcohol in them.

Many people use the term rice wine to refer to sake (which is just one variant of many different kinds of rice wines). 

[[Alcopop]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink

Alcopops are alcoholic drinks. They are also known as Ready-to-drink (RTD), Flavored Alcoholic Beverage (FAB) or Flavored Malt Beverage (FMB). They are usually available in bottles or cans. They contain about the same amount of alcohol as a beer. Usually, they are very sweet, so that the alcohol can not be tasted. 

There are two different kinds of this drinks. In Europe, they are usually spirits mixed with lemonade, like vodka with lemon juice (and a lot of sugar, so the alcohol cannot be tasted),  or rum with fruit juice (also very sweet). In the US, they tend to be beers, which taste very sweet.

Because they are very sweet, alcopops tend to be more popular among young people. Since the fact that they contain alcohol is usually not obvious from the taste, these drinks are considered to be dangerous for young people by many countries. These have either raised the taxes on the drinks, or they have outlawed the sale of these drinks to people under a certain age (usually 18, sometimes 21 years).

[[Pedal (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical terminology

Pedals on musical instruments are used to control parts of the instrument, or provide extra notes.

There are several musical instruments which have pedals for various reasons.

[[Alcoholism]]

CATEGORIES: Addiction, Alcohol drinking habits, Diseases

Alcoholism is addiction to alcohol. People who have alcoholism are called alcoholics.  

Alcoholism is a disease. It often gets worse over time, and can kill a person. However, alcoholism can be treated.

Alcohol is the most commonly used drug in the world. Around the world, there are at least 208 million people with alcoholism.  

Alcoholism is a condition with a social stigma. Because of this, alcoholics often feel ashamed of their drinking. They may try to hide their drinking, avoid getting help, or refuse to believe that they are alcoholics, because they are too ashamed.

[[Sprain]]

CATEGORIES: Skeletal system

A sprain is a type of injury in which a person hurts the part really bad, but it is not broken. It has common side affects of a broken bone, but it is less serious.

[[Second Sino-Japanese War]]

CATEGORIES: Second Sino-Japanese War, Wars involving Japan, Wars involving China

The Second Sino-Japanese War (July 7, 1937--September 9, 1945) was a major war fought between the Republic of China and the Empire of Japan, besides Northern part of Burma.  It is a part of World War II that started years before the other parts.  The war ended when Japan surrendered unconditionally after two nuclear bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki by the United States.

[[Ligament]]

CATEGORIES: Skeletal system

In anatomy, the word ligament usually means the fibrous tissue that joins bones to other bones or cartilages.

A ligament is a short band of tough fibrous connective tissue made of long, stringy collagen fibres. Ligaments join bones to other bones to form a joint. They do not connect muscles to bones; that is the function of tendons. Some ligaments limit the amount of movement in a joint, or stop certain movements altogether. 

Ligaments are only slightly elastic; when under tension, they gradually lengthen. This is one reason why dislocated joints must be set as quickly as possible: if the ligaments lengthen too much, then the joint will be weakened. Athletes, gymnasts, dancers, and martial artists perform stretching exercises to lengthen their ligaments, making their joints more supple. 

The result of a broken ligament can be instability of the joint. Not all broken ligaments need surgery, but if surgery is needed to stabilise the joint, the broken ligament can be joined.

[[Powiat]]

CATEGORIES: Poland

A county (Polish: powiat, pronounced "povyat"; plural, powiaty) is the Polish  second-level unit of  administration, equivalent to a county, district or prefecture in other countries.  A county is part of a larger unit called a "voivodship" (in Polish, województwo. One would call it in English "province").

[[1. FC Köln]]

CATEGORIES: Cologne, German football clubs, Sport in North Rhine-Westphalia, 1948 establishments in Germany

1. FC Köln is a football club that is from Cologne, Germany. The 1. FC KOLN was created in 1948. It was a connection of two football clubs in Cologne (Kölner BC 01 und SpVgg Sülz 07).

In the present day, 1.FC Köln plays in the Bundesliga, the first teir of German football. The club's main rival is Borussia Mönchengladbach, though their Ultrá group WH96 does have friendly connections to The Unity of Borussia Dortmund.

[[Carolina Gynning]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Big Brother winners, Swedish entertainers, Swedish models

Carolina Gynning (born 6 October 1978) is a Swedish celebrity and model. She also is the winner of the 2004 season of reality television program Big Brother. Gynning has also written the book, Ego Girl. It is a biography of her early life. In 2008 it was reported that Gynning would write a continuation to Ego Girl called Ego Woman.

[[Carrie Underwood]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, American Idol winners, Grammy Award winners, Singers from Oklahoma, Christian music singers, Country musicians, American Music Awards

Carrie Marie Underwood (born March 10, 1983) is a US country singer-songwriter and actress. She won the fourth season of American Idol. Her first album, Some Hearts, has sold 7 million copies. Underwood has won one American Music Award, eight Billboard Music Awards, and two Grammy Awards (including Best New Artist) and more.

Carrie Underwood grew up in Oklahoma, on her family's farm in Checotah. She started singing at a young age, initially at church and later in school plays and talent shows. In 2002 she entered Northeastern State University in Tahlequah, Oklahoma, with intentions to pursue a career in broadcast journalism. She has had fourteen songs reach number one on charts in the United States and Canada, including "Inside Your Heaven", "Jesus, Take the Wheel", and "Before He Cheats". In 2007, Underwood sang during one of the live shows of American Idol, season 6. On December 5, 2013, Underwood appeared in The Sound of Music Live on NBC television. She played the heroine Maria von Trapp in the three-hour production. She received critical praise in the New York Times for her singing, but was reviewed negatively for her acting. She is married to Nashville Predators ice hockey player, Mike Fisher. They married on July 10, 2010 at the Ritz Carlton Resort at Reynolds Plantation in Greensboro, Georgia.

She has released six albums.

[[Nicole Richie]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, American television personalities, American voice actors, American socialites, Participants in American reality television series, Singers from California, Actors from San Francisco, 1981 births, Living people

Nicole Camille Richie (born September 21, 1981) is an American socialite, actress, and author She is the adopted daughter of Lionel Richie, and is best known for being in the reality show The Simple Life. During late 2007 Nicole Richie faced charges of drunk driving and risked a jail sentence similar to Paris Hilton, her co-star and friend in The Simple Life. She has had two children with Joel Madden: Harlow and Sparrow Madden. On February 15, 2010, she announced that she was engaged with Madden. They got married later in 2010.

In 2013, Richie was in the video for the song "Let There Be Love" by Christina Aguilera.

Richie is of black, Creole, English, French, French-Canadian, Indigenous Mexican, Mexican, Cherokee Native American, Scottish and Spanish descent.

[[The Simple Life]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 American television series debuts, 2007 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, American reality television series, Fox television series, English-language television programs

The Simple Life is the name of a reality television series originally broadcast on Fox from 2003 to 2005 and on E! from 2006 to 2007. The series stars Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie doing ordinary jobs.

[[Jordin Sparks]]

CATEGORIES: American Idol winners, Singers from Phoenix, Arizona, 1989 births, Living people, Mezzo-sopranos, People from Glendale, Arizona

Jordin Brianna Sparks (born December 22, 1989 in Phoenix, Arizona) is an American recording artist, singer and actress. On May 23, 2007, she won the 6th season of the reality television show American Idol. She was the youngest winner of the talent show. She has released two studio albums Jordin Sparks and Battlefield. She has a vocal range of a mezzo-soprano. 

[[Taylor Hicks]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, American blues singers, American rock singers, American soul singers, American blues musicians, American rock musicians, American soul musicians, Musicians from Birmingham, Alabama, Writers from Birmingham, Alabama, Singers from Birmingham, Alabama, American Idol winners

Taylor Reuben Hicks (born October 7, 1976) is an American singer, songwriter and musician. In 2006, he won the fifth season of American Idol. His runner-up was Katharine McPhee. After he won, he was signed to Arista Records. His album called Taylor Hicks was released on December 12, 2006.

[[Oba Chandler]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2011 deaths, American people executed for murder, American robbers, American thieves, Criminals from Ohio, People executed by lethal injection, People from Cincinnati, Ohio

Oba Chandler (October 11, 1946 in Cincinnati, Ohio - November 15, 2011 in Raiford, Florida) was an American convicted murderer who was executed in Florida for the murders of Joan Rogers and her two teenage daughters. The women's bodies were found floating in the Tampa Bay, Tampa in June 1989. They had been bound and gagged and then tossed into the bay with concrete blocks tied to their necks while still alive.

Billboards where at the later stages of the investigation used in trying to find however did the murders, the billboards that was spread all over Tampa had pictures of the Rogers women and a picture of the hand-writing of the suspected triple murderer. This method had never been used before, and became useful in searches for missing people later on.

Chandler was arrested in September 1992. He was put on trial where he was found guilty of the murders by a 12-member jury. In November 4, 1994 he was sentenced to death by a deadly injection by the judge in the case. Before his execution, Chandler was locked up at Union Correctional Institution in Florida. Author Thomas French in 1998 won the Pulitzer Prize for his article series Angels & Demons which told the story of the murders.

[[All Saints' Day]]

CATEGORIES: Christian holidays, November events

All Saints' Day is celebrated by Catholic Christians on November 1. Other Christians celebrate it as well. (May not be on the same day) It is a mandatory Catholic holiday. It is celebrated in the Catholic Church.

The next day, November 2 is celebrated as All Souls' Day, souls in Purgatory are especially remembered. Both days are considered important and they are integrated with each other. 

The older name is All Hallows or Hallowmas 

All Saints is also a Christian formula involving all the faithful saints and martyrs, known and unknown.

[[Ishy Bilady]]

CATEGORIES: National anthems, United Arab Emirates, 1971 establishments in Asia, Establishments in the United Arab Emirates

Ishy Bilady is the national anthem (a song that represents the country) of the seven United Arab Emirates. The tune was written in the year 1971 without words to sing. Then, in the year 1986 Arif Al Sheikh Abdullah Al Hassan Sahab came up with words for the song. The song is dedicated to the UAE. In the song, the people praise their country by stating that "the unity of the Emirates has lived" and "the United Arab Emirates has lived to be the nation, whose religion is Islam and whose guide is the Quran" the people also vow to forever work hard and sincerely for the country. The people also state that they "supply their country with their body, blood and souls." The song is a representation of love and submission of the Emirati people to country. It music was composed by Mohammed Abdul Wahab.

[[Origami]]

Origami is a traditional Japanese art of paper folding. It uses many techniques and various objects can be created. The object is made of origami paper, which is specially made for folding and staying in shape. Many dictionaries and television shows suggest that origami is only paper cranes, waterbombs, and paper planes, but many new models and creatures have been made because new folding techniques have allowed this.

When the Japanese first folded origami, they used only one piece of paper. A different kind of origami called modular origami uses many small pieces that are the same, which are combined to form one large model. Also, many mathematical shapes can be made with origami.

[[JSPWiki]]

CATEGORIES: Wiki software

JSPWiki is a feature-rich and extensible WikiWiki software built around the standard J2EE components (Java, servlets, JSP).

It was created by Janne Jalkanen.

[[Statement]]

Statement has several meanings:

[[Salvation]]

CATEGORIES: Theology

In theology, salvation can mean various things:

[[Polyhedron]]

CATEGORIES: Polyhedra

A polyhedron (one polyhedron, many polyhedra, or polyhedrons) is a geometrical shape. It is a 3D shape with flat faces, and straight edges. Each face is a polygon surrounded by edges. Usually it is defined by the number of faces, or edges. 

Two types of polyhedron are convex and concave. The line connecting any two points of a convex polyhedron is inside the polyhedron. The line connecting two points of a concave polyhedron may go outside the polyhedron. 

Mathematicians do not agree on what makes a polyhedron. They do agree that there are five Platonic solids, which are regular polyhedra. On a regular polyhedron, all faces are the same and all vertices are the same.

[[Pentagon]]

CATEGORIES: Polygons

A pentagon is a polygon with five edges. It is defined by five points, which are all on a plane. If all the edges have the same length and the angles at the corners are all 108°, the pentagon is called regular. If the pentagon intersects itself, it is called a pentagram.

Pentagons also occur in nature: Fruits of the Okra are pentangular. The flowers of Ipomoea are pentagular. In chemistry, many Cyclic compounds are pentangles: Cyclopentane and Furan are examples for this. In architecture, many bastions are pentangular: Bourtange, in the Netherlands has been completely restored, and is a pentangle.  The Citadel of Lille, Nyenschantz, near St. Petersburg, or the Citadel of Pamplona are . The Villa Farnese is a palace in the form of a pentagon, so is the castle of Nowy Wiśnicz. The Pilgrimage Church of Saint John of Nepomuk near Žďár nad Sázavou  also uses a pentangular design.

[[Calendar date]]

CATEGORIES: Calendars

A Calendar date is a way to refer to a certain day in a calendar. With the calendar date and the calendar, the exact day can be identified. With a different calendar, the same calendar date may refer to a different day. This can be seen easiest when comparing the Julian calendar with the Gregorian calendar. 

Calendar dates are important to refer to events (most holidays are fixed with reference to a particular event or calendar date.) One example may be Easter. In the Middle Ages, it has been fixed that Easter is to be the first Sunday that is (on or after) the 14th day after the spring equinox. 

Most calendar systems have a date format that has three parts, the day of a certain month, the month and the year. Sometimes the week is added. 

[[Persian calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Calendars

The Iranian calendar گاه ‌شماری هجری خورشيدى also known as Persian calendar or the Jalāli Calendar is a solar calendar. It is currently used in Iran and Afghanistan. It is observation-based, rather than rule-based. Each year starts on the vernal equinox as precisely determined by astronomical observations from Tehran (or the 52.5°E meridian, which also defines IRST) and Kabul. This makes it more accurate than the Gregorian Calendar.

The current Iranian Calendar year is 1400AP'' (AP = Anno Persico/Anno Persarum = Persian year)''.

[[Hexagon]]

CATEGORIES: Polygons

A hexagon is a polygon with 6 sides and 6 corners (vertices). Like regular triangles and squares, hexagons fit together without gaps, which are known as tesselations. They therefore are often used for tiling floors. They are also quite common in nature. The honeycombs in beehives are hexagons, for example.

[[West Edmonton Mall]]

CATEGORIES: Malls, Alberta

The West Edmonton Mall (WEM) is the largest shopping centre in North America. It is in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. It is one of the main tourist attractions in Alberta. The mall is also the fourth largest in the world. WEM first opened on September 15, 1981.

[[Ahmad Khatami]]

CATEGORIES: Muslims, Iranian people, Religious leaders, 1960 births, Living people

Ayatollah Sayyid Ahmad Khatami (احمد خاتمی) is a member of the Iranian Assembly of Experts.

Although his name resembles that of Mohammad Khatami, the reformist former president of Iran, the two men are not related.  In fact, they have opposite points of view on many issues, such as democracy and velayate faqih in Iran.

[[Tendon]]

CATEGORIES: Skeletal system

A tendon (or sinew) is a tough band of tissue that connects muscle to bone. It is built to withstand tension. Tendons are similar to ligaments except that ligaments join one bone to another. Tendons and muscles work together. They can only create a pulling force.

[[Coffee substitute]]

CATEGORIES: Coffee

Coffee substitutes are products that try to taste like coffee. The idea for using them is to have a drink that tastes like coffee, but has no caffeine in it. The main reasons for making coffee substitutes are medical, economic and barbaric. In World War II, acorns were used to make coffee, however it tasted foul. It was also hard to get. In the American Civil War there was a similar story -

"For the stimulating property to which both tea and coffee owe their chief value, there is unfortunately no substitute; the best we can do is to dilute the little stocks which still remain, and cheat the palate, if we cannot deceive the nerves." The Southern Banner, 1865

[[Kuzcham Dherai]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Pakistan

Kuzcham Dherai (also sometimes called Dherai, Dehrai or Derai) is a town in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, Pakistan. It is located on the bank of the river Swat and a couple of miles away from Swat Saidu Sharif airport. The population of Dherai is about 10,000 people.

[[Class]]

Class could mean:

[[Croatian language]]

CATEGORIES: Slavic languages, Croatia, Languages of Europe

The Croatian language is spoken mainly throughout the countries of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the surrounding countries of Europe.

Croatian grammar is the grammar of the Croatian language. The Croatian language consists of three vernaculars (Kaikavian, Chakavian and Shtokavian). 

Croatian grammar books show that the codification of the language started at the beginning of the 17th century (the first grammar was written by Bartol Kašić in Latin in 1604). This means that the rules for the language were written down. From 1604 to 1836 there were 17 grammars. Most of them described the Štokavian dialect, but some were about Kajkavian. In the 19th century, more grammars based on Štokavian were written. They were "Nova ricsoslovnica illiricka", written by Šime Starčević (1812), and "Grammatik der illyrischen Sprache", written by Ignjat Alojzije Brlić (1833),. Even before the 19th century, the three dialects of the Croatian language were almost equally used. However, the way each dialect was written down varied throughout Croatia. Near the Adriatic coast, it was more similar to Italian, and near the Hungarian border, it was more similar to Hungarian. 

All grammars of the above period (1604-1836) used three accents: acute, grave and circumflex, Starčević's grammar is an exception as it uses a system of four accents.

In 19th century, Ljudevit Gaj proposed new letters from Czech (č,ž,š,ľ,ň,ď and ǧ). The letters that were accepted were č, ž and š, and from Polish, ć. For other phonemes (sounds), the digraphs that were accepted were ie, lj, nj and dž. Later dj or gj was changed to đ (according to proposal by Đuro Daničić).

[[Prize]]

CATEGORIES: Awards

A prize is an award given to a person or a group of people to reward good work. 

Official prizes often include monetary rewards as well as the fame that comes with them. Some prizes are given out in famous ceremonies, such as the Oscars.

Prizes are given for a number of reasons: as an honour for special persons, for exemplary behaviour and to provide incentives in competitions, etc. In general, prizes are regarded in a positive light, and their winners are admired. However, many  prizes, especially the more famous ones, have often caused controversy and jealousy.

Specific types of prizes include:

[[Christian Church]]

CATEGORIES: Christian terminology, Church organization

The term Christian Church, Catholic Church or One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church, as it was called by 110 AD, refers to the "universal company of believers". It means every person who has ever accepted or ever will accept the Christian Faith. The idea is that all these people together make up one "body" called "the Church". "The Church" (in this sense) is not thought of by Christians as an ordinary human organisation. It is thought of as being part of God's way to bring people close to him. "The Church" was begun by Jesus in the 1st century AD. It is called "The Christian Church" because Jesus was called "The Christ" (or holy one from God).

Today there are many churches in the sense of "church organisations". The different organised churches are called Christian denominations.

The main Christian beliefs are held by all major Christian denominations. These beliefs are often said aloud by Christian people in a "statement of faith" which is called the Creed. The Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Lutheran, Anglican Communion and other Protestant churches all believe that God is the "creator and eternal father of all things", that Jesus was the "Christ" and son of God who died to save people from the punishment for their sins, and that the Holy Spirit is God's gift to help and comfort Christian people. Christians believe that these are three parts of One God.

There are many other beliefs that are different between different denominations. These differences have sometimes caused arguments and have caused the organised church to split into denominations. The different opinions are called controversies.

During Late Antiquity, the Christian Church started became the most important persecuting organization in human history.201

[[Church (disambiguation)]]

Church could mean:

[[Religious denomination]]

CATEGORIES: Religious denominations

A religious denomination (also simply denomination) is a subgroup within a religion that has a common name, tradition, and identity.

The term is often used for several Christian denominations including Eastern Orthodoxy, Catholicism, and the many sorts of Protestantism like Baptist, Methodist, Episcopalian and Pentecostal.

It is also used for the four branches of Judaism (Orthodox, Conservative, Reform and Reconstructionist), and for the main branches of Islam (Sunnism and Shi'ism, Quranism, Ibadism, Sufism, Muwahhidism).

In Hinduism the major deity or philosophical belief functions as the identifier of a denomination and typically each has distinct cultural and religious practices. The major denominations include Shaivism, Shaktism, Vaishnavism, Smartism, and Halumatha.  

[[Christian denomination]]

CATEGORIES: Christian denominations

The word denomination is used for a large group of Christian people right across the world who use the same name, the same sort of organisation and have the same (or very similar) beliefs.  Christianity is divided into ten main groups. These groups all branched out at different dates from the early Christianity founded by the followers of Jesus. The splits generally happened because they could not agree on certain beliefs or practices. The groups then divided into smaller groups. Each group that has its own separate name is a "denomination". The word "denomination" means "Being given a name!” 

[[List of Christian denominations by number of members]]

CATEGORIES: Christian denominations, Religion-related lists

This article gives information about the relative size of denominations, based mainly on claims by the churches themselves.

[[Christendom]]

CATEGORIES: Christian terminology, Christianity of the Middle Ages

Christendom or the Christian world, in the widest sense, means Christianity as a territorial phenomenon. That means: those countries where most people are Christians and because of that are part of Christendom.

People have used the term Christendom for the medieval and Renaissance understanding of the Christian world as one single Body of Christ with Christ as the head.  With the rise of Modernity and the Reformation during the early 16th century the understanding changed to a modern idea of a tolerant and diverse society that consists of many different communities.

[[Creed]]

CATEGORIES: Christian genres, Christian creeds

A creed is a statement or confession of belief — usually religious belief — or faith. The word comes from the Latin credo for I believe. It is  called symbol (Greek, συμβολον), that means a "token" by which persons of like beliefs might recognize each other.

[[Creed (disambiguation)]]

A creed is a statement of belief, usually religious.

Creed may also refer to:

[[Shahada]]

CATEGORIES: Arabic words and phrases, Islam

The Shahadah (ٱلشَّهَادَة, Ar-shahadah.oga) is the first pillar of Islam. The saying is "Lā ʾIlāha ʾIllā Allah, Muḥammadun Rasūl Allah", meaning "There is no deity but God, Muhammad is the messenger of God". The Shia and Quraniyoon sects may have slight differences in their shahada.

[[Purgatory]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholicism, Afterlife

According to the teaching of the Roman Catholic Church, Purgatory is the "final purification of the elect": "All who die in God's grace and friendship, but still imperfectly purified, are indeed assured of their eternal salvation; but after death they undergo purification, so as to achieve the holiness necessary to enter the joy of heaven." 

“In Purgatory there are different levels; the lowest is close to hell and the highest gradually draws near to Heaven. It is not All Souls Day, but, Christmas, that the greatest number of souls leave Purgatory.

There are in Purgatory, souls who pray ardently to God, but for whom no relative or friend prays on earth. God makes them benefit from the prayers of other people.

It happens that God permits them to manifest themselves in different way, close to their relatives on earth, in order to remind men of the existence of Purgatory and to solicit their prayers to come close to God who is just, but good.

[[William Blake]]

CATEGORIES: 1757 births, 1827 deaths, Artists from London, British abolitionists, British esotericists, Christian mystics, Christian theologians, English activists, English painters, English poets, English Protestants, English theologians, Printmakers, Writers from London

William Blake (28 November 1757 – 12 August 1827) was an English poet, visionary, painter, and printmaker. He was born in London and died there.

During his lifetime he was not very well known. Today Blake's work is thought to be important in the history of both poetry and the visual arts. Blake's first collection of poems, Poetical Sketches, was printed around 1783. His most famous poem "And did those feet in ancient time" was, over 100 years later, put to music by Hubert Parry. The hymn is called "Jerusalem".

Blake was voted 38th in a poll of the 100 Greatest Britons organised by the BBC in 2002.

[[Institution]]

CATEGORIES: Social sciences

An institution is a social structure in which people cooperate and which influences the behavior of people and the way they live.

An institution has a purpose. Institutions are permanent, which means that they do not end when one person is gone. An institution has rules and can enforce rules of human behavior. The word "institution" can be used in two ways. It can mean a very broad idea, or a very "specific" (narrow) one. For example: 

Institutions, in the broad sense, are found in every society. The way that each institution works is different in different cultures. Some important institutions are: 

Some societies have many institutions in the "specific" sense. These societies have an organised government, schools, hospitals, churches, clubs, armies, markets, courts and places for entertainment. Some societies have very few of these things, but this does not mean that there are no "institutions". The way in which the people relate to each other may have just as many "controls" as in a society with schools, markets and a government. An example of a society that has lots of "specific" institutions is Western Europe. 

Historians look at institutions to find differences between eras or periods. They sometimes judge political and military events by the effect that they had on institutions.

[[Race (biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy

In biology, races are distinct populations within the same species with relatively small morphological and genetic differences. 

The populations are ecological races if they arise from adaptation to different local habitats or geographic races when they are geographically isolated. 

If sufficiently different, two or more races may be described as subspecies, which is an official biological taxonomy unit below 'species'. 

If not, they are called races, which means that a formal rank should not be given to the group, or taxonomists are unsure whether or not a formal rank should be given. 

According to Ernst Mayr, "a subspecies is a geographic race that is sufficiently different taxonomically to be worthy of a separate name" 

[[Phenotype]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics, Developmental biology

The phenotype of an organism is the whole set of characters (or traits) of that organism.

It does not mean just 'what you can see on the surface'. Rather, it means anything which can be made visible by suitable means. For example, blood groups are definitely a part of the phenotype. However, they are not visible just by looking at a person.

In biology, the phenotype is distinguished from the genotype. This was proposed by Wilhelm Johannsen in 1911 to make clear the difference between an organism's heredity and what that heredity produces. The distinction is similar to that proposed by August Weismann, who distinguished between germ plasm (gametes or their stem cells) and somatic cells (the body).

The phenotype is important because it is exposed to natural selection:

Phenotypes are determined mainly by genes and are influenced by environmental factors. So, knowing the genome of an organism does not give an exact prediction of its phenotype.

Traits vary greatly in how much they owe to heredity (nature vs nurture). The interaction between genotype and phenotype has often been conceptualized by the following relationship:

[[Key lime]]

CATEGORIES: Citrus

The Key lime is a citrus fruit. Its Latin name is  Citrus aurantiifolia (often, less correctly: C. aurantifolia), or Citrus x aurantiifolia (Christm.) Swingle. It is also known as the Mexican lime, West Indian lime or Bartender's lime. It is a shrub that grows to about 5m in height. 

Its fruit is 2.5-5 cm in diameter (1-2 in). The fruit is yellow when ripe but usually it is picked green. It is smaller, seedier, has a higher acidity, a stronger aroma, and a thinner rind than that of the more common Persian lime. It is valued for its unique flavor compared to other lime.  The Key lime usually has a more tart and bitter flavor. It is perhaps most distinguished as an ingredient in the Key lime pie. 

C. aurantiifolia is a shrubby tree, that grows to 5 m (16 ft), with many thorns. Dwarf varieties are popular with home growers and can be grown indoors in winter in colder climates. The trunk rarely grows straight, with many branches that often originate quite far down on the trunk. The leaves are ovate 2.5–9 cm (1–3.5 in) long. They resemble orange leaves (the scientific name aurantiifolia refers to the leaves' resemblance). The flowers are 2.5 cm (1 in) in diameter. They are yellowish white with a light purple tinge on the margins. Flowers and fruit appear throughout the year but are most abundant from May to September description_a description_b.

C. aurantiifolia originally came from  Southeast Asia.  It was introduced through the Middle East to North Africa and Europe during the Crusades. Spanish explorers then took it to the West Indies (at some point including the Florida Keys) contemporaneously with Columbus, then tropical and sub-tropical North America including Mexico, Florida, and later California path_a.  The English name "lime" was derived from the Persian name لیمو Limu in this course.  "Key" would seem to have been added some time after the Persian lime cultivar became more important commercially in the United States. This was after the hurricane of 1926. The hurricane destroyed most U.S. C. aurantiifolia plants.  Some plants growing in the wild in the Keys survived the hurricane.1926_a  Since the North American Free Trade Agreement came into effect, many Key limes are grown in Mexico and Central America. They are also grown in Texas and California.

[[Age of Discovery]]

CATEGORIES: History of Europe

The Age of Discovery or Age of Exploration was a period from the early 15th century that continued into the early 17th century, during which European ships traveled around the world to search for new trading routes and partners.

They were in search of trading goods such as gold, silver and spices. In the process, Europeans met people and mapped lands previously unknown to them. Among the most famous explorers of the period were Christopher Columbus, Vasco da Gama, Pedro Álvares Cabral, John Cabot, Yermak, Juan Ponce de León, Juan Sebastian Elcano, Bartholomeu Dias, Ferdinand Magellan, Willem Barentsz, Abel Tasman, Jean Alfonse, Jacques Cartier, Samuel de Champlain, Willem Blaeu and Captain James Cook. 

[[Persian lime]]

CATEGORIES: Citrus

Persian Lime (Citrus x latifolia), also known as Tahiti lime or Bearss lime is a kind of citrus fruit. It is the primary citrus fruit grown commercially in the U.S. It is sold simply as a "lime". The fruit is about 6 cm in diameter. Very often, it has slightly nippled ends. It is usually sold quite green, although it yellows as it reaches full ripeness. It is larger, thicker-skinned, and less aromatic than the key lime. The key lime is grown more often worldwide. The Persian lime is bigger than the key lime, and has fewer seeds. The plant is also hardier, and has no thorns on the bushes. The fruit also has a longer shelf life. 

Persian limes are less acidic than key limes and do not have the bitterness that lends to the key lime's unique flavour. Persian limes are sold primarily in six sizes, known as 110's, 150's, 175's, 200's, 230's and 250's. They are grown primarily in Florida in the U.S. The Persian lime became more important when key lime orchards were wiped out by a hurricane in 1926. Persian lime orchards themselves were devastated by Hurricane Andrew in 1992. Large numbers of Persian limes are grown, processed and exported every year primarily from Martínez de la Torre, Veracruz, Mexico, to the American, European and Asian markets. U.S. Persian lime imports from Mexico are handled mostly through McAllen, Texas.

[[Kaffir lime]]

CATEGORIES: Citrus, Herbs, Spices

The Kaffir lime (Citrus hystrix DC., Rutaceae), also known as kieffer lime, makrut or magrood, is a citrus fruit native to Indonesia. It is widely grown worldwide as a garden shrub. It is usually grown it for its fruit, the lime. The leaves are used for cooking. Vegetable oil obtained from the leaves is used to make perfumes.

[[Medina]]

CATEGORIES: Medina

Medina (m; المدينة المنورة, ar , "the radiant city"; or المدينة, ar (almaˈdiːna), "the city"), also transliterated as Madīnah, is a city in the Hejaz, and the capital of the Al Madinah Region of Saudi Arabia. The city contains al-Masjid al-Nabawi ("the Prophet's Mosque"), which is the burial place of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, and is the second-holiest city in Islam after Mecca.

Medina was Muhammad's destination after his Hijrah from Mecca, and became the capital of a rapidly increasing Muslim Empire, first under Muhammad's leadership, and then under the first four Rashidun caliphs, Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman, and Ali. It served as the power base of Islam in its first century where the early Muslim community developed. Medina is home to the three oldest mosques, namely the Quba Mosque, al-Masjid an-Nabawi, and Masjid al-Qiblatayn ("the mosque of the two qiblas"). Muslims believe that the chronologically final surahs of the Quran were revealed to Muhammad in Medina, and are called Medinan surahs in contrast to the earlier Meccan surahs.

Similar to Mecca, non-Muslims are forbidden from entering the sacred core of Medina or the center of the city.

[[Doctrine]]

CATEGORIES: Christian genres, Politics, Christian theology

Doctrine (Latin: doctrina) is a code of beliefs or "a body of teachings".

Doctrine often means several religious dogmas that a church teaches. 

But it can also mean a principle of law, in the common law traditions, established through a history of past decisions, such as the doctrine of self-defense, or the principle of fair use.

In matters of foreign policy, a doctrine, also known as dogma, is group of fundamental rules for a nation's foreign policy. Examples include the Monroe Doctrine, the Stimson Doctrine, the Truman Doctrine, the Eisenhower Doctrine, the Nixon Doctrine, the Brezhnev Doctrine, the Kirkpatrick doctrine, and the Bush Doctrine.

[[Citron]]

CATEGORIES: Citrus

The citron (Citrus medica) is a species of citrus fruit. It usually has a thick rind and small sections. Originally, the tree came from Southeast Asia. Today it is mainly grown in Sicily, Morocco, Crete, and Corsica, as well as Puerto Rico. The tree can grow to a size of about 3 metres. The fruit can grow to a size of about 25 cm in length, and about 4 kg in weight. The pulp of the fruit is hardly ever used. The rind is used. It is made into an additive for cooking. Jam can also be made from the rind. The rind is also used to make vegetable oil, which is used for perfumes.

Generally, it is eaten preserved or in bakery goods, such as fruitcakes. (The candied peel rather than the fruit is often used in cooking.) In some cultures, it is made into a fruity tea. Pliny the Elder states that in his time , the citron could only be grown in Media and Persia (HN xii.7). The Romans tried to transport it into the Roman Empire in tightly packed pots, but failed, according to Pliny. There is evidence, however, which shows it was cultivated in the Mediterranean during Pliny's lifetime. Zohary and Hopf believe this tree was first domesticated in India. They think that its wild forms, along with those of the mandarin and pomelo, were the original citrus species.

The citron has many names in different countries; one popular reference is Cedrat, which is the French name for the fruit. Theophrastus referred to the citron as the Persian or Median Apple, and the fruit later came to be known as the Citrus Apple. Pliny calls the tree the Assyrian, or the Median, "apple" (the generic Greco-Roman name for globose fruits). Other citrus crops were not introduced to the Mediterranean basin until Islamic times.

In many languages other than English, a normal lemon is called a "citron" and a Lime is called a "limon". Although the East Asian citrus fruit yuzu (also called yuja) is sometimes called a citron, it is actually a separate species, Citrus junos. 

[[Citric acid]]

CATEGORIES: Acids, Citrus

Citric acid is a weak organic acid. It can be found in citrus fruits ( like oranges). It is used by organisms for Krebs cycle. It acts like a preservative when added to food. It is also used to add a sour (acidic) taste to foods and soft drinks. In the European Union it is known as E 330, as a food additive.

Carl Wilhelm Scheele was the first who could extract citric acid from lemons, in 1782. The substance was probably known to alchemists, perhaps with a different name. The Arabian alchemist Geber is said to have discovered citric acid in the 9th century. Citric Acid contains 6 Carbon atoms, 8 Hydrogen atoms and 7 Oxygen atoms. Its chemical formula is C6H8O7.

[[Geber]]

CATEGORIES: Chemists, Muslims, Philosophers, Physicians, Physicists, Pharmacists

Jābir ibn Ḥayyān (جابر بن حيان; Geber; died between 806 and 816), is the name for the writer of a great number of writings in Arabic. The writings together have the name Jabirian corpus. The most important subjects of these writings are: alchemy, cosmology, numerology, astrology, medicine, magic, mysticism, and philosophy.

Jabir's writings have in them the oldest known list of chemical substances. For the first time, the writings gave an explanation of how to produce an inorganic substance (ammonium chloride) from organic substances (such as plants, blood, and hair).

Modern scholars doubt the historical existence of Jabir. It is probable that one person did not write all of the writings in the Jabirian corpus. Instead, scholars see Jabir ibn Hayyan as a pseudonym that a group of writers used.

Translations into Latin of some of Jabir's Arabic writings (like the "Book of Mercy", and the "Book of Seventy") came into existence in the Middle Ages. In Latin, Jabir had the name "Geber", a transliteration of "Jabir".

In 13th-century Europe an anonymous writer, called pseudo-Geber, started to produce new writings about alchemy under the name Geber. People still read the none in the 17th century. The none was one of the writings that pseudo-Geber produced in the 13th century. It was an influence on early modern chemists like Robert Boyle (1627–1691).

[[Carl Wilhelm Scheele]]

CATEGORIES: 1742 births, 1786 deaths, German chemists, People from Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Swedish scientists

Carl Wilhelm Scheele (December 9, 1742 - May 21, 1786) a German-Swedish pharmaceutical chemist, born in Stralsund, Western Pomerania, Germany (at the time under Swedish rule), was the discoverer of many chemical substances, most notably discovering oxygen before Joseph Priestley and chlorine before Humphry Davy.

[[Micheline Calmy-Rey]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Presidents of the Swiss Confederation

Micheline Calmy-Rey (born 8 July 1945) is a Swiss politician. She was Switzerland's foreign minister as head of the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs. She was also a member of the Swiss Federal Council from 2003. She was President of the Confederation in 2007 and again in 2011. She resigned her office as member of the Federal Council on 31 December 2011.

[[Criss Angel Mindfreak]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 American television series debuts, 2010 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American reality television series, Magic, English-language television programs

Criss Angel Mindfreak is an American television program. The program is hosted by illusionist Criss Angel. Angel performs many different types of stunts and illusions on the program such as street magic, levitation, and setting himself on fire. The program was first shown on July 20, 2005. It is shown and distributed by the A&E network.

[[Piano trio]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups, Piano

A piano trio is a group of three instruments including a piano. Usually it is a piano, a violin and a cello. This combination of instruments has been a very popular form of chamber music from the Classical music period onwards. A piano trio can also mean a piece of music written for a piano trio to play.

Other combinations of piano with two instruments are often called by the featuring wind instrument. For example: Mozart wrote a trio for piano, clarinet and viola which is usually called a “clarinet trio”. Brahms wrote a trio for piano, violin and French horn which is usually called a “horn trio”.

Music for three people to play at one piano is called music for piano six hands.

[[Franz Grillparzer]]

CATEGORIES: 1791 births, 1872 deaths, Austrian poets, Writers from Vienna

Franz Grillparzer (born Vienna, 15 January 1791 - died Vienna, 21 January 1872) was an Austrian dramatist and poet. His dramas include three plays (a “trilogy”) called Das Goldene Vliess (The Golden Fleece).

[[Pastry]]

CATEGORIES: Foods

Pastry is the dough from which some baked products are made. Pastry dough is rolled out thinly and used as a base for baked products. It is made from ingredients such as flour, sugar, milk, butter, shortening, baking powder, and/or eggs. Common pastry dishes include pies, tarts, quiches and pasties.

Pastry is also the name given to various kinds of baked products. Small cakes, tarts and other sweet or savoury baked products are called "pastries." 

Greek food such as Spanakopita are made from pastries.

[[Johann Georg Albrechtsberger]]

CATEGORIES: 1736 births, 1809 deaths, Austrian composers, Classical era composers, Music theorists, Organists, People from Lower Austria

Johann Georg Albrechtsberger (born 3 February 1736 in Klosterneuburg near Vienna; died 7 March 1809 in Vienna) was an Austrian composer, organist, music theorist and music teacher.  He is most known today because he was Beethoven’s teacher for a time.

[[Fidelio]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, Operas

Fidelio is an opera in two acts by Ludwig van Beethoven. It is Beethoven's only opera. The German libretto is by Joseph Sonnleithner based on a French story.  The opera tells how Leonore, disguised as a prison guard called "Fidelio", rescues her husband Florestan from death in a political prison.

Fidelio is an example of a “rescue opera”, a type of opera which was popular at the time. The hero (or heroine) has to fight against cruel people in order to rescue a lover.  It was written at the time of the French Revolution.  At this time,  ideas about freedom and peace were being talked about by everyone, and this led to wars all over Europe.  The famous Prisoners’ Chorus is a song for freedom, just like the last movement of his Ninth Symphony.

Beethoven spent some time working on the opera before he was completely happy with it. The first time it was performed (in 1805) it was a three-act opera called Leonore. There were a lot of French military officers in the audience and they thought they were being criticised.  In 1806 it was performed again with two acts and a new overture (now known as "Overture: Leonore No. 3").  But arguments between Beethoven and the theatre management meant there were no more performances.  Eight years later Beethoven revised his opera again.  This time it was called Fidelio, and it was a great success.  It has remained a famous opera ever since.

[[Für Elise]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, Solo piano pieces

"Für Elise" (German for For Elise) is the common name of the "Bagatelle in A minor", written by Ludwig van Beethoven in 1810. The song is thought to be written for Therese, a woman that Beethoven wanted to marry in 1810, however his handwriting was misspelt undergoing transcription, allowing the piece to be known as Fur Elise rather the Fur Therese. Therese did not want to marry him.

The piece of music, which was written for the piano, was not published until 1865, a long time after Beethoven’s death. It is one of the most well-known pieces of piano music in the world. 

[[Teplice]]

CATEGORIES: Spa towns in the Czech Republic, Cities in the Czech Republic

Teplice  (German name: Teplitz) is a city in Bohemia, the western area of the Czech Republic.  Teplice (pronounced in Czech: “Tep-li-tse”) is a famous spa town where, in earlier times, lots of famous people went for holidays to improve their health.  Goethe, Beethoven, Chopin, Franz Liszt and Richard Wagner all stayed there.

Teplice lies between Prague and Dresden in a mountain area called Krušné hory (Iron Mountains).  In the year 762 hot springs were found there.  The waters from these springs helped people who were ill to get better so it became a spa town.

Since 1990 many buildings have been restored.  The Krušnohorské divadlo (Krušnohorské theatre) is now being refurbished.  The North Bohemia Philharmonic Orchestra give concerts there in the open air.  There is a museum and many restaurants, wine bars and cafés.  In the winter the mountain slopes are good for skiing.

[[Symphony No. 9 "Choral" (Beethoven)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, Symphonies

Symphony No. 9 in D minor op 125 (Choral Symphony) by Ludwig van Beethoven is one of the most famous pieces of music ever written.

A symphony is a piece of music for orchestra. Beethoven wrote nine symphonies. This one, the last one he wrote, is very unusual because the last movement also has singing in it: there are four soloists (soprano, alto, tenor and bass) and a choir. This is why it is known as the “choral” symphony (“choral” means: “for choir”). It is a very long work, lasting more than an hour. This, too, was unusual.

This symphony has four movements. The first movement is in sonata form. The second and third movements come the other way round from the usual order: the second movement is the scherzo and the third movement is the slow movement. It is a theme and variations. The last movement sets the words of a poem by Friedrich Schiller, a famous poet who had only recently died. The poem was called Ode an die Freude (in English: Ode to Joy). The poem has a strong message to all mankind: it is about living in peace and harmony together. It was written at the time of the French Revolution when these ideas were becoming very important in Europe.

The main tune of the last movement (sung to the words: “Freude, schöne Götterfunken, Tochter aus Elysium”) is one of the best known tunes in the world. Many children like to play it on instruments because the first part of the tune only uses five notes (it can be played on C, D, E, F, G). When the tune comes the first time in the symphony it is played by the cellos and double basses.

The Ode to Joy was adopted as Europe's “National anthem” in 1972, with an official arrangement for orchestra written by Herbert von Karajan.

Beethoven had been interested in Schiller’s famous poem since he was young. In 1817 he started to write the first two movements of the symphony. In 1822 he decided to use Schiller’s poem in the symphony. Most of the rest of the symphony was written in 1823 and he finished it in 1824. It was first performed in May of that year. Beethoven conducted the performance. The story is told that he wondered why the audience were not applauding when it had finished. They were applauding, but Beethoven was deaf so he could not hear. Someone made him turn round, and he saw that people were applauding enthusiastically.

[[Shatin Pui Ying College]]

CATEGORIES: Education in Hong Kong

Shatin Pui Ying College (沙田培英中學) is a Christian secondary school in Hong Kong. Its English name is simply said to be SPYC or PYC. It was started in 1978, and uses the money given by the Hong Kong government. There are 4 classes each for Forms 1 to 6 (as in 2019). The school icon is an eagle, which means courage and determination. Its location is at 9 Fung Shun Street, Wo Che Estate, Sha Tin District, Hong Kong.

[[Heuristic]]

CATEGORIES: Problem solving, Mathematics, Computer science

A heuristic is a practical way to solve a problem. It is better than chance, but does not always work. A person develops a heuristic by using intelligence, experience, and common sense. Trial and error is the simplest heuristic, but one of the weakest. Rule of thumb and 'educated guesses' are other names for simple heuristics. Since a heuristic is not certain to get a result, there are always exceptions.

Sometimes heuristics are rather vague: 'look before you leap' is a guide to behaviour, but 'think about the consequences' is a bit clearer. Sometimes a heuristic is a whole set of stages. When doctors examines a patient, they go through a whole set of tests and observations. They may not find out what is wrong, but they give themselves the best chance of succeeding. This is called a diagnosis.

In computer science, a 'heuristic' is a kind of algorithm. Algorithms are written to get a good solution to a problem. A heuristic algorithm might usually find pretty good solutions, but there is no guarantee or proof that the solutions are correct. The time it takes to run the algorithm is another consideration.

[[Mersenne prime]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory, Prime numbers

In mathematics, a Mersenne number is a number that is one less than a power of two.

A Mersenne prime is a Mersenne number that is a prime number. This however, is not sufficient. Many mathematicians prefer the definition of a Mersenne number where exponent n has to be a prime number.

For example, 31 = 25 − 1, and 5 is a prime number, so 31 is a Mersenne number; and 31 is also a Mersenne prime because it is a prime number. But the Mersenne number 2047 = 211 − 1 is not a prime because it is divisible by 89 and 23. And 24 − 1 = 15 can be shown to be composite because 4 is not prime.

Throughout modern times, the largest known prime number has very often been a Mersenne prime. Most sources restrict the term Mersenne number to where n is prime, as all Mersenne primes must be of this form as seen below.

Mersenne primes have a close connection to perfect numbers, which are numbers equal to the sum of their proper divisors. Historically, the study of Mersenne primes was motivated by this connection; in the 4th century BC Euclid demonstrated that if M is a Mersenne prime then M(M+1)/2 is a perfect number. In the 18th century, Leonhard Euler proved that all even perfect numbers have this form. No odd perfect numbers are known, and it is suspected that none exist (If it exist, it would have to be greater than 101500).

It is currently unknown if there is an infinite number of Mersenne primes. Most mathematicians who have studied the question think there are an infinite number of Mersenne primes. Carl Pomerance, Samuel S. Wagstaff Jr. and Hendrik Lenstra developed a formula which they think should say about how many Mersenne primes there are under a given number.

The binary representation of 2n - 1 is n repetitions of the digit 1.

For example, 25 - 1 = 11111 in binary.

The first four Mersenne primes were known by the Ancient Greeks. They are 3, 7, 31 and 127. The next, 8191, was discovered in 1456. Some people like trying to find big primes. Since there are tricks and algorithms to finding Mersenne primes quickly, the largest known primes are also Mersenne primes.

[[Insolation]]

CATEGORIES: Solar energy, Climate

Insolation is derived  from  the  words "incoming solar radiation". Insolation is specifically applied to radiation which is arriving at earth’s atmosphere first and then earth's surface. The heat is derived from solar energy, normally called solar radiation. Insolation is the solar radiation that reaches the earth's surface. It is measured by the amount of solar energy received per square centimetre per minute. Similarly, solar energy received by the earth is called insolation. It is the amount of incoming solar radiation that is received over a unit area of the earth’s surface. Solar energy received over the planet’s surface varies according to season, latitude, transparency of the atmosphere, and aspect or ground slope.

Insolation affects temperature. The more the insolation, the higher the temperature.

In any given day, the strongest insolation is received at noon.

[[The Settlers II]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 video games, Real-time strategy video games

The Settlers II is a real-time strategy (RTS) computer video game. It was released by Blue Byte Software in 1996.

[[Hugo Chávez]]

CATEGORIES: Deaths from colorectal cancer, Deaths from respiratory failure, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cancer deaths in Venezuela, Presidents of Venezuela, Democratic socialists, Roman Catholics, 1954 births, 2013 deaths

Hugo Rafael Chávez Frías (IPA: rafa'el 'tʃaβes 'fɾias) (July 28, 1954 – March 5, 2013) was president of Venezuela from 1999 until his death in 2013. He was the leader of the "Bolivarian Revolution" and  promoted his vision of democratic socialism, Latin American integration, and anti-imperialism. Chávez was also an ardent critic of neoliberal globalization and U.S. foreign policy.

[[Granule]]

Granule is a generic term used for a small particle or grain.  The generic term is used in a lot of contexts.

[[Granule (cell biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

In cell biology, a granule can be any structure barely visible by light microscopy. The term is most often used to describe a secretory vesicle.

[[Cytosol]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

The cytosol (also known as intracellular fluid (ICF) or cytoplasmic matrix, or groundplasm) is the internal fluid of the cell, and a part of cell metabolism occurs here.

Proteins within the cytosol play an important role in signal transduction pathways and glycolysis.

Cytosol mostly consists of water, dissolved ions, small molecules, and large water-soluble molecules (such as protein). It contains about 20% to 30% protein.

Normal human cytosolic pH is (roughly) 7.0 (i.e. neutral), whereas the pH of the extracellular fluid is 7.4.

The texture of cytosol being described as granular can be attributed to the fact that in order to study the texture, an electron microsope must be used, which requires a process of dehydration prior to study.

[[Joan Jett]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American rock guitarists, American rock singers, Singers from Pennsylvania, Musicians from Pennsylvania, American punk musicians, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees

Joan Jett (born February 1958) is an American singer and guitarist. She is best known for her number one single "I Love Rock n Roll". Jett has a punkish, tomboy appearance and is a Democrat.

In 2015, she was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

[[Marble]]

CATEGORIES: Metamorphic rocks, Building materials, Carbonate rocks

Marble is a metamorphic rock that developed from limestone. Most of the material is calcite (a crystalline form of calcium carbonate, CaCO3) and dolomite. It is often used for sculpture, as a building material, and for many other purposes.

The word 'marble' is also used for other stones that can be polished well and for ball shaped objects used for child games. 

'Faux marble' is a wall painting technique that imitates the color patterns of real marble (not to be confused with paper marbling). Marble dust can be combined with cement or synthetic resins to make reconstituted or cultured marble.

Marble has been used in construction for thousands of years. It was widely used by Greek and Roman sculptors and architects. Places named after the stone include Marble Arch, London; the Sea of Marmara; India's Marble Rocks; and the towns of Marble, Minnesota; Marble, Colorado; and Marble Hill, Manhattan, New York. The Elgin Marbles are marble sculptures from the Parthenon that are on display in the British Museum.  They were brought to Britain by the Earl of Elgin.

[[Fan fiction]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction, Fandom

Fan fiction or fanfiction (also known as fanfic) is a name for fiction created by fans instead of the original author.

Fanfiction writers take fictional characters and settings from fictional (or sometimes historical) stories that were created by other people, and write original stories about them. People write fan fiction for many different book, television series, and movie fandoms.

When fanfiction first began, it was often only published in fan magazines. Today fanfiction, like many fandom activities, can be usually found on the internet. This has created many fanfiction communities. People in these communities post their fanfiction and receive feedback (reviews) from other community members.

There is also fan art (also called fanart), which is often drawings or other visual art based on a fandom.

[[Three Laws of Robotics]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction, Isaac Asimov

The Three Laws of Robotics are three rules which Isaac Asimov thought should be programmed into robots. The rules assume that robots will be human-type machines, able to walk about and do things. Asimov called these robots positronic robots. The laws are presented in his 'Robot' series of short stories and novels.

The first mention of the laws is in Asimov's short story Runaround (written in 1942). 

Later, Asimov added the Zeroth Law: "A robot may not harm humanity, or, by inaction, allow humanity to come to harm"; the rest of the laws are changed one by one so that there can be no reason for a robot to break the Zeroth Law. .

According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the passage in Asimov's short story "Liar!" (1941) that mentions the First Law is the earliest recorded use of the word robotics. Asimov was not aware of this at the time; he assumed the word already existed by analogy with mechanics, hydraulics, and other similar terms denoting branches of applied knowledge.

The Three Laws form a theme in his Robot series and the other stories linked to it, as well as his Lucky Starr series of science fiction for children.  Other authors working in Asimov's fictional universe have adopted them, and references (often parodic) appear in science fiction and other genres. Technologists in the field of artificial intelligence have speculated upon the role the Laws might have in the future.

[[Nathuram Godse]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1949 deaths, Assassins, Indian Hindus, Indian criminals, Indian activists, People executed by hanging, Political activists

Nathuram Vinayak Godse (नथुराम गोडसे, May 19, 1910 – November 15, 1949) was the man who assassinated Mahatma Gandhi.

Nathuram Godse was born at Baramati, Pune District, British India. His father was Vinayak Vaman Rao Godse, his mother was Lakshmi (Godavari before marriage). His father was a fifteen-rupee-a-month employee of the post office.

[[Cradle of Filth]]

CATEGORIES: English heavy metal bands

Cradle of Filth is an extreme metal band from England. Some people say the band’s musical style is black metal, others say that it is gothic metal, extreme metal, or many other different styles. Cradle of Filth had many different members. It was founded by Dani Filth in 1991. He is still the leader of the band. Cradle of Filth is very well known and has enjoyed success on TV and the radio.

[[Makoto Sakurai]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Japanese activists, Bloggers, People from Fukuoka Prefecture, Living people

Makoto Sakurai (桜井 誠) is the leader and founder of the very right-wing hate group Zaitokukai (在日特権を許さない市民の会). It is one of the largest hate groups in Japan, with over 14,000 members as of March 2014. The name means "Citizens’ League to Deny Foreigners in Japan Special Rights." As the leader, Sakurai participates in demonstrations, appears in videos, and blogs.

Sakurai was arrested for spitting on another person at a protest. The United States Department of State criticized his actions with Zaitokukai.

[[George Adamski]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1965 deaths, Writers from California, Writers from Oregon, Writers from New York City, Writers from Wyoming

George Adamski (April 17, 1891 – April 23, 1965) was a Polish-born American who became known in ufology circles after he said he photographed ships from other planets, met with aliens, and took flights with them. He considered himself to be a "philosopher, teacher, student and saucer researcher." 

[[Efficiency]]

Efficiency could mean:

[[Manga Kenkanryu]]

CATEGORIES: Manga, Korea, History of Japan

Manga Kenkanryu is a Japanese manga book.

[[Donkey Kong]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional animals, Fictional characters introduced in 1981, Mario series characters, Donkey Kong

Donkey Kong is a Nintendo video game character. He was first seen in a video game in 1981. He is a large gorilla who lives deep in the jungles of his very own island. Since 1994 he has worn a red necktie with his initials "DK" in yellow, his only piece of clothing. He appears as both the hero and villain of the Donkey Kong games.

[[Sharin Yamano]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Japanese manga artists

Sharin Yamano is a Japanese manga artist. He is well known for his books, Manga Kenkanryu (Hate Korea Wave) and Manga Kenchogokuryu (Hate China Wave). He is thought to be anti-Korean and anti-Chinese, but the detail of his profile is not known well.

[[Categorical imperative]]

CATEGORIES: Ethics

The categorical imperative is an idea that the philosopher Immanuel Kant had about ethics.  Kant said that an "imperative" is something that a person must do.  For example:  if a person wants to stop being thirsty, it is imperative that they have a drink.  Kant said an imperative is "categorical," when it is true at all times, and in all situations.   

The example of a thirsty person Kant named the Hypothetical Imperative.  Kant used the hypothetical imperative to explain his ideas about the ethics of a categorical imperative.  For example, it is not usually a moral choice when a person decides to drink water, no matter why they are drinking the water.  If a person is very thirsty, then it is a hypothetical imperative that they drink the water.   

Instead of the hypothetical imperative, Kant said that the moral choices are governed by a categorical imperative.  The categorical imperative is something that a person must do, no matter what the circumstances.    It is imperative to an ethical person that they make choices based on the categorical imperative. Another way of saying that, is that an ethical person follows a "universal law" regardless of their situation.   

Kant explained his ideas about following the categorical imperative by introducing one more idea he called a "maxim."  A maxim is another way of saying what we want to do and why we want to do it in one sentence.  We can learn ethical maxims by applying the test of the categorical imperative.  And he said we can live ethical lives if we use these maxims whenever we make decisions.   

The categorical imperative, hypothetical imperative, and the maxim can all be seen in the example of the thirsty man.   A man locked alone in a room for one night, and he brought nothing with him except a bottle of water.   The man has had nothing to drink all day and is very thirsty. We can call this man, "Thirsty Man."   

A hypothetical imperative might be that "a thirsty man must drink water if he wants to stop being thirsty."  If Thirsty Man lived by a maxim based on this hypothetical imperative, it might be "If I can, I will drink water whenever I am thirsty."   In this example, Thirsty Man is not making any obvious moral choice.  Some philosophers would say that the Thirsty Man's maxim is a reasonable one.  Based on Thirsty Man's maxim, he will soon drink the water.   A few minutes later a second man is brought into the room.  Both men are told that they will be in the room all night, and that no one else will be back to see them until morning.  

Thirsty Man has not yet opened the water bottle.  The new man has not had anything to drink for many days.  The second man is clearly dying of dehydration.  If he is not given water soon he will die.  We can call this second man, "Dying Man."  Thirsty Man now has a decision to make, will he share the water or drink it himself?  Thirsty Man does not live by the maxim of "I will drink water when I am thirsty," because that maxim fails the test of being universally fulfilling the categorical imperative.  

Thirsty Man believes that the categorical imperative is the Golden Rule.  To be an ethical person, Thirsty Man believes he must at all times treat others the way he would want them to treat him.   From the categorical imperative of the Golden Rule, Thirsty Man has adopted a maxim of "I will give anything I can to anyone I meet, if that person needs what I have much more than I need it."  Thirsty Man prepares to decide if he will drink the water that he wants to drink, or if he will give it to Dying Man.   Thirsty Man tests both choices by comparing them to his maxim.   He sees that it is imperative  that he give the water to Dying Man.  Thirsty Man gives the water to Dying Man.  Dying Man drinks nearly the entire bottle, but then he chokes on the last sip.  There is nothing Thirsty Man can do to stop the choking, and Dying Man dies.  There are many philosophies of ethics, and many philosophers who have very different opinions.   Some philosophers might say that it would have been ethical if Thirsty Man had kept the bottle for himself to drink.   It was his bottle to begin with and he could do whatever he wanted with it.  Other philosophers might say that Thirsty Man was ethically wrong to give the bottle to Dying Man because the water ended up choking the Dying Man to death.  

Kant's idea of the categorical imperative would say that Thirsty Man made the right choice, for the right reasons, and he made those ethical decisions in a logical way.  

An important part of Kant's idea is that the morality of a choice is based on why we make the choice (intention), and not based on what happens after we make it (consequence).  Another important part of Kant's idea is that these ethical decisions are not rules or laws handed down to us (universal law or objectively true ethical statement).  Kant thought that ethical decisions needed to be based in logic and reason (correct reasoning or deductive reasoning).  

Kant elaborated on these ideas by saying that we should treat other persons as persons and not as tools who can help us in some way. He said we should do this based on the ethical duty that all persons have to each other, an ethical duty which could be called a universal law. Kant's ideas about this universal law and the categorical imperative are important basic components of the philosophy of Absolutism.  

[[Multiculturalism]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology

Multiculturalism is a word that describes a society where many different cultures live together. It is the simple fact of cultural diversity.

In a multicultural society, there is not an official (decided by the people in charge) culture that every person must be a part of. Instead, all cultures are respected as much as each other.

A multicultural society can result when people from many different countries migrate to one place, or an empire conquers many countries. Tolerance is a big help for multiculturalism. Xenophobia makes it difficult. 

A multicultural society would be composed of people from different ethnic backgrounds and cultures living and working together. In society when people from different backgrounds link with each other's culture shows the acceptance of each other's culture and background.

[[Comfort women]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Japan, World War II, Prostitution, Sexuality

Comfort women were women and girls forced into sexual slavery. These women, mostly Korean, were forced by the Imperial Japanese Army in occupied territories before and during World War II. Estimates of the number of these "comfort women" range up to 20,000 while two-fifths of them were Japanese. Some Chinese scholars claim it to be as much as 410,000. 

[[Glycolysis]]

CATEGORIES: Cellular respiration, Metabolism

Glycolysis is a metabolic process in most organisms. It is the first stage in cellular respiration. It allows both aerobic  and anaerobic respiration. Glycolysis releases only a small amount of energy. The word "glycosis" comes from the Greek words γλυκύς (meaning "sweet") and λύσις (meaning "rupture").

Glycolysis is thought to be the archetype of a universal metabolic pathway. It occurs, with variations, in almost all organisms, both aerobic and anaerobic. The wide occurrence of glycolysis shows that it is one of the most ancient known metabolic pathways.

Glycolysis has ten intermediate compounds, catalysed by ten different enzymes. Only the broad outline is described here.

[[Archetype]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

In psychology, an archetype is a model of a person, personality, or behavior.

In the analysis of personality, the term archetype is often broadly used to refer to

But in a strict linguistic sense, an archetype is merely a defining example of a personality type. In this sense "mother figure" can be considered an archetype and instances can be found in various female characters with distinct personalities.

Archetypes have been present in mythology and literature for hundreds of years. The use of archetypes to analyze personality was advanced by Carl Jung early in the 20th century. The value in using archetypal characters in fiction derives from the fact that a large group of people are able to unconsciously recognize the archetype, and thus the motivations, behind the character's behavior.

[[Prototype]]

CATEGORIES: Manufacturing

A prototype is an original type, form, or instance of some thing.  It serves as a typical example or standard for things of the same category. Some prototypes are used to find defects or to test an idea.

[[Archetype (disambiguation)]]

Archetype can mean:

[[Microdon]]

CATEGORIES: Flies

Flies in the genus Microdon are a type of hoverfly. Microdon and its subfamily are different from most other flies because they are myrmecophiles. This means they live in ant colonies (nests). There are more than 350 species of Microdon in the world. Some of these will be split off in time because Microdon has been used as a catch-all for various unrelated species. Most Microdon live in the tropics; 30 species live in North America.

[[Pattern]]

CATEGORIES: Everyday life, Computer science

A pattern is an idea, a concept or a model. The model is usually abstract, and can then be applied to the domain where it is used. Pattern matching is checking if a certain pattern is present. Many patterns can directly be recognised by the senses. 

Some patterns are based on the fact that there are repetitions, that a certain thing occurs over and over again. An example of a simple pattern might be the tiling of a floor. For example, lots of bathrooms have a paisley or floral tiling pattern on the floor. In computer science, design patterns are model solutions for problems that occur often. Sometimes people see patterns when there are none. This is called pareidolia.

[[Bean]]

CATEGORIES: Beans

Bean is the name used for the seeds of several plants. Most of these plants are known as legumes. Their scientific name is Fabaceae. Common beans, lentils, soybeans, peas are some types of beans.  Beans contain a lot of fibre. They are also high in protein. Vetches and lupins are all in that group of plants but not all legumes are edible. Laburnums for example are very poisonous as are some lupins.  

The seeds of other plants (which are not Fabaceae), are sometimes also called beans. This is mostly because they look like true beans. Example for such beans are Coffee beans, Cocoa beans, and Vanilla beans.

[[Luxembourg franc]]

CATEGORIES: Luxembourg, Former currencies of Europe

The Luxembourg Franc was the type of currency used in Luxembourg from 1848 to 1999. Belgium was another country that used the Luxembourg Franc. The symbol for the Luxembourg Franc is fr. or F. On January 1, 1999, the Luxembourg Franc was replaced by the Euro (€). 1 Euro is equal to about 40 Luxembourg Francs.

[[Belgian franc]]

CATEGORIES: Former currencies of Europe, Economy of Belgium, 1848 establishments in Europe, 1999 disestablishments in Europe

The Belgian franc was a type of money. It is nearly the same as its partner, the Luxembourg franc. The Belgian franc was founded in 1848 in Belgium. The symbol for the Belgian franc is fr. or F. It was replaced by the euro (€) on January 1, 1999. One euro has the same value as about forty Belgian francs.

[[Paradise Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of the Bahamas

Paradise Island is an island in the Bahamas. The island is just north of the island of New Providence, Bahamas. There are two bridges connecting the two islands. One was built in 1999 and the other one was built in the late 1990s.

[[Eddie Izzard]]

CATEGORIES: British stand-up comedians, British television producers, Drama Desk Award winners, English comedians, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, LGBT actors, LGBT comedians, English LGBT people, 1962 births, Living people

Edward Jonathan "Eddie" Izzard (born 7 February 1962) is a English actor and stand-up comedian. She has acted in movies and television. She is known for her strange comedy and for being a transvestite (she often wears men's clothes when working and in her personal life). Before going into entertainment, she had a successful career in clinical research where she was widely regarded as the 'Queen of risk-based monitoring'.

[[Emulator]]

CATEGORIES: Software, Computer science

An emulator is a computer program or hardware that makes one kind of computer behave like a different one, so that it can use the same programs or do the same things as the other one. They are best for using old software and games on newer computers. They can be hardware that you add to the computer, or software that you use on it. Some types of emulators require newer computers that have the right system requirements. For example, you need a processor that is fast enough to meet the demands of the emulator. Memory (both RAM and hard drive space) may be another factor to help it run smoothly and more accurately. With the more advanced emulators, if your computer is too old, the emulator or even the operating system may crashJuly 2010.

[[ReactOS]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

ReactOS is a project to develop an operating system that is compatible with software for Microsoft Windows Server 2003 and its successors. In 2018, the project is still in its first stage of development. ReactOS is not based on Linux or Unix. ReactOS uses some code from the Wine project.

[[MenuetOS]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

MenuetOS (also known as MeOS) is an operating system for architecture computers for x86 and x86-64 processors, by Ville Mikael Turjanmaa.  It is a very small system, which can be run from a floppy disk.  It is written in only assembly code, and works fast because of these differences and because it has less "code overhead".

It is available in English, Russian, Czech, Serbian, and Chinese.

[[SkyOS]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

SkyOS is a privately-owned operating system currently in production. SkyOS is mostly POSIX-compliant. It comes with the core of the open source GNU tools, including GCC. 

Due to its level of POSIX-compliance and port of the GTK+ widget toolkit, many Linux or other UNIX applications have been ported, including AbiWord and Gaim, as well as a few games, such as Quake. 

It was made by Robert Szeleney.

[[Jodie Foster]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Lesbians, LGBT actors, LGBT directors, LGBT people from Los Angeles, California, LGBT producers, Movie directors from Los Angeles, California, Movie producers from Los Angeles, California, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Jodie Foster (born Alicia Christian Foster; November 19, 1962) is an American actress, movie director and producer. She has starred in many movies like Bugsy Malone, Taxi Driver, The Silence of the Lambs and Panic Room. She has won many awards including two Oscars. 

Foster began directing movies in 1991. These include Little Man Tate; Home for the Holidays  and The Beaver.

Foster is openly lesbian and is married to photographer Alexandra Hedison. Hedison is the daughter of actor David Hedison.

[[President of the French Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of France, Princes of Andorra

The President of the French Republic is the head of state of France. The current President is Emmanuel Macron since 14 May 2017 defeating Marine Le Pen in the second round of the presidential election on 7 May 2017.

[[Context]]

The word Context have a couple of meanings:

Context may also be used for:

[[Orthodoxy]]

CATEGORIES: Theology, Christian terminology

Orthodoxy means right belief or purity of faith. Orthodoxy is established by an absolute authority. 

The term "orthodoxy" or "orthodox" is typically used to label or identify a specific kind of theology and doctrine of religion.

Orthodoxy or "correct" belief is not subjective.

[[Corn Pops]]

CATEGORIES: Breakfast cereals

Corn Pops is a breakfast cereal made by Kellogg's. It was originally called Sugar Pops in 1951, and then changed Sugar Corn Pops, and then to "Corn Pops" and in January of 2006 the name of the cereal was changed to Pops, only to be changed back to Corn Pops several months later. In the middle of 2007, Corn Pops made a new kind of cereal called "Peanut Butter Pops".  

[[Końskowola]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Końskowola  kɔɲskɔˈvɔla is a village in Southeastern Poland. It is the capital of a separate commune within Puławy County and the Lublin Voivodeship. It has 2,188 inhabitants (as of 2004).

[[Erich Maria Remarque]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1970 deaths, German Roman Catholics, German writers, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Pen names, People from Osnabrück

Erich Maria Remarque (22 June 1898–25 September 1970) was the pseudonym of Erich Paul Remark, a German author.

[[Bellinzona]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Ticino, Capital cities in Switzerland

Bellinzona (bɛllin'dzoːna in French Bellinzone bɛlɛ̃'zon and Bilitio bi'litsjo in Latin) is the capital of the Swiss Canton of Ticino. Its German name Bellenz 'belents is no longer in use. With about 17.300 people living there, it is the second biggest city of the canton (after Lugano, with about 52.000 people).

On 2 April 2017 the former municipalities of Camorino, Claro, Giubiasco, Gnosca, Gorduno, Gudo, Moleno, Monte Carasso, Pianezzo, Preonzo, Sant'Antonio and Sementina merged into the municipality of Bellinzona.

[[J. R. Richard]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, American baseball players, Houston Astros players, Sportspeople from Louisiana, National League All-Stars, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States

James Rodney "J. R." Richard (March 7, 1950 – August 4, 2021) was an American Major League Baseball starting pitcher for the Houston Astros. Richard was excellent in basketball and baseball in high school. He was drafted by the Houston Astros in the first round of the 1969 amateur draft. He made his baseball debut on September 5, 1971, and pitched a complete game and had fifteen strikeouts. After that, he was one of the top pitchers in the National League, and in all of baseball. He led the league in many pitching categories. They include strikeouts, earned run average (ERA) and hits allowed per nine innings.

On July 30, 1980, Richard suffered a stroke and collapsed while playing catch before a game. He was sent to Methodist Hospital in Houston, Texas and had emergency surgery. The surgery removed a dangerous blood clot in his neck. The next year, Richard tried to make a comeback into baseball, but the stroke had slowed down his reaction time and vision. He then spent the next few seasons in minor league baseball. He was later released by the Astros on April 27, 1984. After baseball, Richard was involved in business. He had a few bad business deals and went through two divorces. This left him homeless in 1994. He then found help in a local church, and then became a minister and baseball instructor for young people in Houston.

Richard died on August 4, 2021 at a hospital in Houston, aged 71. The cause of death was problems caused by COVID-19.

[[Conrad Lant]]

CATEGORIES: Venom (band), 1963 births, Living people

Conrad "Cronos" Lant (born 15 January 1963) is the vocalist and bass player in black metal band Venom. He was born in 1963 in London, England.

[[County Wicklow]]

CATEGORIES: County Wicklow

County Wicklow (Irish: Contae Chill Mhantáin) is a county on the east coast of Ireland. It is directly south of Dublin. County Wicklow has an area of 2,024 square kilometres (781 sq mi). Wicklow is known as "The Garden of Ireland" because of its scenery.

The county town is Wicklow. County Wicklow's largest municipality is Bray. Bray has a population of 30,951 and is not a suburb of Dublin. Other main towns include Greystones and Arklow.

[[Lusaka]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Cities in Zambia

Lusaka is the capital of Zambia. It is also the largest city in that country. It is in south central Zambia on a plateau at 1300 m (4265 ft) in altitude. Lusaka has 1,084,703 people living in it.

[[Shield]]

CATEGORIES: Armour

A shield is the name used to refer to any object or force used to block something.

[[Kite shield]]

CATEGORIES: Armour

A kite shield is a Middle Age shield in the shape of a kite. The kite shield was used by many knights and people for protection, but was given up for two-handed weapons and more mobility.

The efficiency of the kite shields shields shape came into action when cavalry combat occurred, useful to protect most of the body from the shoulders down to the feet, giving the knight more options in combat.

[[Gerbilling]]

CATEGORIES: Folklore

Gerbilling is an urban legend.  This means it a story that is not true.  It is the act of placing a gerbil into the human rectum for sexual pleasure.  Other small live animals (usually gerbils but also mice, hamsters, rats and various other rodents) are used.

Folklorist Jan Harold Brunvand writes that the urban legend began in 1984.  It involved a mouse and an unidentified gay man. In passing years this story changes into a gerbil, and was made to involve to many named male celebrities that were publicly thought to be gay. Rumors about various male celebrities engaging in gerbilling have become popular urban legends over the years. 

In Poland, World War II historian Marek Jan Chodakiewicz lectured on gerbilling at the Institute of National Remembrance's educational center, describing that his ex-girlfriend Debbie, a registered nurse, extracted a fat-smeared hamster from the rectum of a gay man in 1984. Polish media stated that the hamster story is a well known urban legend, so well known that it has a Wikipedia page.

[[Socialist Party (France)]]

CATEGORIES: Socialist International, Social democratic parties, Political parties in France

The Socialist Party (Parti Socialiste, PS) is one of the largest political parties in France. It replaced the French Section of the Workers' International (SFIO) in 1969.

It is one of the social democratic parties.  

It first won power under the Fifth Republic with François Mitterrand's victory at the 1981 presidential election. 

The party's candidate for the 2007 presidential election, Ségolène Royal, was defeated by Nicolas Sarkozy by about 53% to 47%. In 2012, Socialist Party's candidate François Hollande won the presidential election.

[[Anomie]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology, Words

Anomie means the absence of the usual moral or ethical values, where a person or group lacks ethical standards. In the context of society or government it may be a cause of social unrest.

[[Fog]]

CATEGORIES: Weather

Fog is a meteorological phenomenon when the clouds are getting thick. It may appear on land or sea and it usually lowers visibility (makes it hard to see very far). When fog forms at high levels it creates a cloud called stratus. When the air chills, moisture will turn to fog. 

Fog is made up of tiny water droplets or, in very cold conditions, ice crystals. When seen on a high speed camera, (a special camera that takes many frames and can view videos at very low speed) it looks like hundreds of small water droplets moving through the air. These water droplets make up the fog or mist. 

There are many types of fog, classified according to what makes the condensation. They include evaporation fog, advection fog, radiation fog, and upslope fog. The thickness of fog varies depending on the atmosphere, temperature, weather and location.

[[Frost]]

CATEGORIES: Water, Weather

Frost is ice that is formed when water vapor freezes onto a surface. It has a white, powdery appearance. It forms on cold surfaces when the temperature of the air is very low. It can destroy crops.

Many plants can be damaged or killed by freezing temperatures or frost. This varies with the type of plant and tissue exposed to low temperatures. Greenhouses help to protect crops from cold and frost damage.

[[1983 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic hurricane seasons, 1983

The 1983 Atlantic hurricane season was the least active Atlantic hurricane season ever recorded. The season officially started on June 1, 1983, and ended on November 30. The seaon had only a total of 4 named storms, which was less than half of the average number of storms in a season. In addition, it was the least active season since ACE recording began in 1950.

The most strongest and deadliest storm of the season was Hurricane Alicia, which hit Texas causing great destruction and killing 21 people directly. The damages it brought totaled up to be $2 billion.

[[Alexandra Feodorovna (Alix of Hesse)]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1918 deaths, People executed by firearm, People from Darmstadt, Russian nobility, Russian Orthodox saints

Alexandra Fyodorovna (Russian: Императрица Александра Фёдоровна) (born Princess Alix of Hesse and by Rhine 6 June 1872 – 17 July 1918) was Empress consort of Nicholas II, the last Tsar of the Russian Empire. She was a granddaughter of Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom. The Russian Orthodox Church canonised her as Saint Alexandra in 2000.

Alexandra is best remembered as the last Tsarina of Russia. She is also one of the most famous  royal carriers of the haemophilia disease.  Her friendship with the Russian mystic Grigori Rasputin was also an important part of her life.

[[Richard Gere]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American Buddhists, American human rights activists, American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, People from Syracuse, New York, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, 1947 births, Living people

Richard Tiffany Gere (born August 31, 1949) is an American actor and activist. He grew up in Syracuse, New York. He has been acting for over 20 years. In favour with 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, Gere is a devout Tibetan Buddhist, which he converted to in 1978. He has three sisters and a brother. Gere was married to model Cindy Crawford from 1991 until 1995, when the two divorced. 

[[Rikishi]]

CATEGORIES: Wrestling

A rikishi (力士) is a professional sumo wrestler. The Japanese characters making up the name mean "strong man". The people who take part in sumo wrestling are very strong and big.

During their careers, the sumo wrestlers live in "stables" kept by a former wrestler. The former wrestler makes sure the new wrestlers who live there live a very strict life.

[[Thorax]]

CATEGORIES: Animal anatomy

The thorax is a part of an animal's body that is between the head and the abdomen. 

In mammals, the parts that make up the thorax are the sternum, the thoracic vertebrae and the ribs. It starts from the neck and stops at the diaphragm. 

In insects and crustaceans, it is the middle of the three main body sections. The walking legs are usually on the thorax.

[[Edda]]

CATEGORIES: Norse mythology

Edda or the plural Eddas or Eddur, including Poetic Edda (or Older Edda) and Prose Edda (or Younger Edda), are two collections of stories about Viking deities. They were made in around 9th to 13th century by Icelandic Christian historians.

Although the Eddur are the most important written records remaining today about Norse mythology, they are not very reliable because Christians hated pagan religions, and they changed the original tales to make the Norse gods and goddesses look silly, lusty, and barbaric.

The term "Edda" most likely refers to Oddi, a place where both Saemund Sigfusson (a cleric who is rumoured author of Older Edda), and Snorri Sturluson (a Christian politician, author of Younger Edda) lived.

[[Njord]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses

Njörðr is the god of the seas and the wind in Norse mythology. A member of the Vanir, he is the father of the twin gods Freyr and Freyja by an unnamed sister of his. He is married to the jötunness Skaði, daughter of Þjazi.

[[Freyr]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses

Freyr (Old Norse: “the Lord”) is the god of prosperity, fair weather, and fertility in Norse mythology, associated with sacral kingship, and virility. A member of the Vanir, he is the son of Njörðr and twin brother of Freyja. Husband of Gerðr, Freyr rides into battle on the massive shining boar Gullinbursti (Old Norse: “Golden maned” or “bristled”) and possesses the mighty ship Skíðblaðnir (Old Norse: “assembled from thin pieces of wood”), both forged by the drawrven brothers collectively known as the Sons of Ivaldi. Skíðblaðnir is said to always have a favorable breeze and can be folded together and carried in a pouch when not in use. Freyr once wielded the legendary sword Sümrbranðr (Old Norse: “Sword of summer”), which was said to be able to fight by itself.

When Freyr snuck in and sat on Odin's throne Hliðskjálf (on which one can see anything, anywhere across the Nine Worlds), instead of seeing Freyja (who was recently lost somewhere), Freyr came across Gerðr, a beautiful giantess native to Jötunheimr. He fell in love, and sent his servant Skírnir to woo her for him, but Gerðr refused to marry the god until Skirnir threatened to kill Gerðr with Freyr's sword and damage her lands. Gerðr finally agreed to marry Freyr, who then gave his sword to Skírnir as a reward.

Frey's realm is Álfheimr, the land of the elves. He is the patron god of Sweden. Statues of Odin, Thor, Frey, Frigg, and Freyja are often found in ancient temples.

[[Folkvang]]

CATEGORIES: Norse mythology

Folkvanger, in Norse mythology, is the goddess Freyja's place. Its name means "Field of the Folk". The "folk" here refers to men sent to battle.

[[Sessrumnir]]

CATEGORIES: Norse mythology

In Norse mythology, Sessrumnir (Old Norse: “seat-room” or “seat-roomer”) is an enormous hall belonging to the goddess Freyja. There she receives half of those killed in battle, as chosen by the Valkyries. It is said to be very large and has many seats. 

[[Spinach]]

CATEGORIES: Leaf vegetables, Amaranthaceae

Spinach is a green, leafy vegetable. It comes from southwestern and central Asia. Its flowers are small and yellow. Spinach is rich in vitamin K, vitamin A, vitamin C, and folate, making it healthy. Spinach, along with other green, leafy vegetables, is rich in iron.

Here are some perceptions about spinach that come from popular culture:

[[Arta Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Prefectures of Greece

Arta Prefecture is one of the 51 prefectures of Greece. It is in the west of Greece. Many of its people live in the west parts, near the Arachthos valey. Its capital is Arta.

[[Cardiomyopathy]]

CATEGORIES: Heart disease

The word cardiomyopathy means "heart muscle disease". Cardiomyopathies are a group of diseases in which the function of the myocardium (heart muscle) is impaired for any reason. People with cardiomyopathy are often at risk of arrhythmia and/or sudden cardiac death.

There are four main types of cardiomyopathy:

[[Norm]]

One common understanding of norm is: something that is regarded as normal or typical.

But it may mean as well:

In mathematics:

Norm may also be:

Norms may refer to Norms Restaurants, a chain of restaurants in Southern California.

[[Fire salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamandridae

The fire salamander (Salamandra salamandra) is a species of salamander which can be found in Europe. It is black and has different kinds of yellow spots or stripes. Some salamanders are mostly black while others are mostly yellow. Shades of red and orange may sometimes appear. They either mix with the yellow, or replace it completely. This depends on the subspecies. Fire salamanders can have a very long life. In the German natural history museum of Alexander Koenig a salamander lived more than 50 years.

[[Clamp]]

CATEGORIES: Tools

A clamp is a device used to hold things tightly together and to prevent movement and/or separation of objects.

Clamps are used in technical work, such as woodworking. There are also special types of clamps used in medicine.

[[Miamisburg, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, 1797 establishments in the United States, 1790s establishments in the Northwest Territory

Miamisburg is a city in Montgomery County, Ohio, United States.

[[Salamandridae]]

CATEGORIES: Salamandridae

The family Salamandridae is a family of amphibians. It consists of true salamanders and newts. 

The species are spread all over the northern hemisphere - Europe, Asia, the northern tip of Africa and North America. 

As of 2007, there were 74 known species, in 20 genera.

[[Legalism]]

CATEGORIES: History of China, Philosophical movements and positions

Legalism was one of the four main philosophies in Chinese history during the Warring States Period. It is a political philosophy which says that people are bad by nature and need to be controlled by the government. It was introduced by Qin Shi Huang.

One of the most important contributors to Legalism was Han Fei Zi (韓非子). He said that a ruler must use following tools to govern a state:

1. Fa (Chinese: 法; pinyin: fǎ; literally "law or principle"): The law must be known by everyone. Everybody under the ruler is equal before the law. If you do what law wants you will be rewarded. If you break the law or try to break it, you will be punished.

2. Shu (Chinese: 術; pinyin: shù; literally "method, tactic or art"): These are methods the ruler has to use so that nobody is able to abolish the system.

3. Shi (Chinese: 勢; pinyin: shì; literally "legitimacy, power or charisma"): The position of the ruler is important, not the ruler himself.

[[Gold Coast Art Centre]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Queensland

The Gold Coast Art Centre is a place on the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia. The Art Centre is home to many facilities including the Gold Coast City Art Gallery. The Art Centre holds events like weddings, Theatre, parties, corporate functions, seminars and conferences. The art centre is funded by the Gold Coast City Council

[[Reynoldsburg, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Reynoldsburg is a city in Fairfield, Franklin, and Licking counties in the U.S. state of Ohio.

[[Sekhmet]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

In Egyptian mythology, Sekhmet was the goddess of the sun, fire plagues, healing and war. She had the head of a lioness and the body of a woman.  She was married to Ptah, the god of healing. They balanced each other. It was believed that her breath created the desert.

Sometimes known as sister to Bastet/Bast, a goddess who protected pregnant women and children.

[[Heterodoxy]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

Heterodoxy means a position that is not within the standards of orthodoxy or to put it precisely "any opinions or doctrines at variance with an official or orthodox position". As an adjective, heterodox is used to describe a subject as "characterized by departure from accepted beliefs or standards" (status quo). 

[[Isotherm]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology, Thermodynamics

Isotherms are lines drawn around places with the same temperature range on isotherm maps. Each point on this line shows one temperature reading, or the average of many temperature readings. Isotherm maps also have scales that tell the signals or colors for the different temperatures. Isotherm lines are usually curvy and not straight lines.

[[Plate boundary]]

CATEGORIES: Plate tectonics

The major types of plate boundaries are:

All boundaries except the conservative ones are sites of major geological activity.

[[Hourglass dolphin]]

CATEGORIES: Oceanic dolphins

The hourglass dolphin (Lagenorhynchus cruciger) (also known as the electra dolphin, little killer whale, or many-toothed blackfish) is a species of dolphin. It is small and wide compared to other dolphins. It only lives in the very cold waters of the Antarctic. It was not known to science until a drawing was made of it in 1820. Only six Hourglass dolphins have been examined by scientists. Boats do not usually go where they live. The average water temperature they live in is 0.1-0.3 degrees Celsius.  

The hourglass dolphin is black and white and for this reason was called the "sea skunk". On each side there is a white patch that looks a little like an hourglass shape. That is how it got its name. 

An adult is about 1.8 m in length and weighs 90-120 kg. There is only one other dolphin that is as small in its area.

Hourglass dolphins usually stay in groups of 5-10. Once a group of 60 was recorded. They like to ride the bow of boats. There are usually fin whales with them. It is thought they eat small fish, crustaceans, and squid. They have conical teeth probably used to crack the shells of crustaceans. 

The hourglass dolphin stays around the Antarctic. Some have been seen from the south of New Zealand and Chile. 

[[Berberis]]

CATEGORIES: Shrubs, Ranunculales

Berberis or barberry is a genus of shrub, usually with spines and yellow flowers and red or blackish berries. It is used for medicines.

[[Magic (card game)]]

CATEGORIES: Card games, 1993 establishments

Magic: The Gathering is a trading card game. Players buy and trade cards, and build their own card decks. Decks must have at least 60 cards. Players can play in tournaments, and there are even professional Magic players. Most players of Magic: The Gathering simply call the game Magic.  The game is in a fantasy world involving magic. Richard Garfield made the game in 1993. It is said to be the first trading card game. The current Head Designer is Mark Rosewater, who also writes a weekly article about the game called "Making Magic."

2 or more people play the game. Players attack each other causing them to lose life points. Each player starts at 20 life points. There are many kinds of cards that can be used to reduce another player's life. Players can attack another player with a creature or deal direct damage with a spell. You win the game by reducing your opponent's life to 0, when your opponent runs out of cards to draw, or when a card says that you win the game.

[[Giant salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

The giant salamanders are a family of large aquatic amphibia, the Cryptobranchidae. 

They are the largest living amphibians. The Japanese giant salamander (Andrias japonicus), reaches up to 1.44, feeds on fish and crustaceans, and has been known to live for more than 50 years in captivity. The Chinese giant salamander (Andrias davidianus) can reach a length of 1.8.

They live in brooks and ponds in the eastern United States (the hellbender), and in China and Japan.

[[Manfred von Richthofen]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1918 deaths, German aviators, German military personnel of World War I, Military people killed in action, People from former German territories, People from Wrocław

Manfred Albrecht Freiherr von Richthofen  (2 May 1892 - 21 April 1918) was a German fighter aircraft pilot in World War I. His nickname was the "Red Baron". He is considered the ace-of-aces of the war, being officially credited with 80 air combat victories. The "Red Baron" is one of the most famous aviators in history and the subject of numerous representations in music, film and other media. He already received numerous honors and award for his exploits.

Richthofen was born in Breslau, Germany.

In August 1914, Richthofen became a cavalry officer in World War I. In May 1915, he joined the air service and became an observer. He did that because the training course was shorter and would get him to fighting faster. In October, he began training as a pilot.  In March 1916, he entered combat. He had his first victory in April. In 1917, he was in command of a squadron nicknamed the "flying circus". He painted his airplane red so his fellow Germans could see him. Richthofen’s sixteenth victory flying a plane made him the best pilot in Germany in 1917.

On April 21, 1918, Richthofen was fatally shot, whilst flying low above the Somme Valley, near Amiens while fighting in France. He was 25 years old. He was chasing an enemy plane when a bullet passed through his chest. He then made a smooth landing, in a field on a hill near the Bray-Corbie road, just north of Vaux-sur-Somme. His Fokker Dr.I was not damaged by the landing. One witness, Gunner George Ridgway, said that Richthofen was still alive when he and other Australian soldiers reached the plane, but he died moments later. Another eyewitness, Sergeant Ted Smout, said that Richthofen's last word was "kaputt" ("finished"), immediately before he died.

Canadian fighter pilot Arthur Roy Brown was officially credited with killing Richthofen. However, it is now generally agreed that the bullet that killed Richthofen was fired from the ground. The enemy buried Richthofen's body with full military honors.

[[Fokker Dr.I]]

CATEGORIES: World War I aircraft, Military aircraft, Fokker aircraft

The Fokker Dr.I was a World War I fighter airplane. It was designed by Reinhold Platz and built by Fokker-Flugzeugwerke. 

The Dr.I was used only in small numbers and it had many problems. It is well known as the plane flown by the "Red Baron", Manfred von Richthofen.

[[Butch Hartman]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, American animators, American screenwriters, Writers from Michigan

Elmer Earl "Butch" Hartman IV (Born January 10, 1965, Highland Park, Michigan) is an American Christian conservative animator, creator of The Fairly OddParents and Danny Phantom.

[[Modes of limited transposition]]

CATEGORIES: Music theory

Modes of limited transposition are a kind of musical scale.  They were used by the French composer Olivier Messiaen.

Major scales have twelve different transpositions.  This means that a major scale can start on any of the twelve notes (C, C#, D, D# etc.).  There are also twelve different transpositions of the minor scale.  Each transposition (“each scale”) is a different combination of notes (in this case: all of them).

A chromatic scale (one which uses every note, i.e. using all white and black notes of a keyboard) only has one transposition.  This means that a chromatic scale can start on any note: each time it is the same combination of notes.

Messiaen was fascinated by scales that only had a few (usually two or three) transpositions.  For example: the whole tone scale, which rises by a whole tone each time, has two transpositions.  It can start, for example, on a C, so that the notes are C, D, E, F#, G#, A#, C.  It can start on a C# so that the notes are C#, D#, F, G, A, B, C#.  Transposing this up another semitone, starting on D,  would give D, E, F#, G#, A#, C, D which is exactly the same combination of notes as the first one (the starting note is not important).  The whole-tone scale was used by many composers including Glinka, Liszt and, especially, Debussy.  Messiaen called it the  first mode of transposition.

Messiaen’s second mode, also called the “octatonic scale”,  rises by alternating semitone, tone, semitone, tone etc.  Messiaen used this scale a great deal, not just in his tunes but in the chords that he used (i.e. melodically and harmonically).

The third mode rises by a pattern of tone, semitone, semitone.  It has four transpositions.

The other four modes each have a total of six transpositions.

Messiaen liked these modes because there is no note which sounds like the starting note.  All the notes sound equal.  He described them as having "the charm of impossibilities."

[[Olivier Messiaen]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1992 deaths, 20th century composers, Avignon, French composers, French military people, French organists, French Roman Catholics, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, World War II people

Olivier Messiaen (born Avignon, 10 December 1908; died Clichy, near Paris, 27 April 1992) was a French composer and organist. He is the most famous French composer of the mid-20th century and one of the most important and original composers of his time. He was a brilliant organist and played the organ at the church of La Trinité in Paris for over 60 years.  He wrote music for orchestra, piano and organ, most of which is very difficult to play. He was also a great music teacher who taught several young students who became well-known composers e.g. Pierre Boulez, Yvonne Loriod (who became his second wife), Karlheinz Stockhausen, George Benjamin and Iannis Xenakis.

[[Simplified Chinese characters]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese language, Writing systems

Simplified Chinese characters are one of the two commonly used forms of Chinese characters. As its name shows, it is made of characters that have in part been "simplified" from the original written form, which are called traditional Chinese characters.

[[Traditional Chinese characters]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese language, Writing systems

Traditional Chinese characters are one of the two commonly used forms of Chinese characters. As its name shows, it is the "traditional" written form of the Chinese language that first came about during the Han Dynasty (shortly after the Qin Dynasty) in 206 BC. The name "traditional" is used to set them apart from simplified Chinese characters.

Court officials in the Han Dynasty believed that small seal script characters, which were standardized under Emperor Qin Shi Huangdi when he unified China, took too much time to write because Chinese characters at the time were written using curved lines instead of more angular lines. So Han officials decided to simplify writing Chinese characters by using multiple strokes, or lines, to form characters and radicals, rather than long curved lines. The changed small seal script characters are now commonly known as Hanzi (Simplified Chinese: 汉字 / Traditional Chinese: 漢字, meaning "Han characters"), because they were from the Han Dynasty. Hanzi became the standard writing system of Chinese and it even spread to other countries and languages. It was also used (with some differences) in the Japanese, Korean, and Vietnamese languages.

Today, Japanese is the only non-Chinese language that still uses Chinese characters in daily life. They call them Kanji. After WWII, the Japanese simplified many of the characters. They called their simplified characters Shinjitai (which are not to be confused with simplified characters in Chinese), while traditional characters were called Kyujitai.

The older, "traditional" forms of Chinese characters remained more or less the same (although there were a few changes now and then) until the People's Republic of China (PRC) was formed in 1949. At that time, the Communist Party of China (CPC) started to create simplified Chinese characters, in which anywhere between 20-30% of all the Chinese characters used in daily life were replaced by ones that had fewer strokes and were easier to write. This move by the CPC, which took place in the 1950s throughout Mainland China, was made in order to make education more available to common people, especially farmers.

At the same time, the government of the Republic of China, which had fled to Taiwan, chose not to simplify its writing system. They continue to use traditional Chinese characters, believing that simplified characters were made to take away important details in traditional characters in order to limit thought. The Cantonese-speaking territories of Hong Kong and Macau have also kept using traditional characters, even though they are politically part of the PRC, which uses simplified characters. The Chinese taught as a second language in Southeast Asia uses simplified characters, and the government of Singapore and the Chinese community in Malaysia have adopted simplified characters as their standard script. Many immigrant communities of overseas Chinese also tend to use traditional rather than simplified characters.

[[Windows Server 2008]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft operating systems

Windows Server 2008 is the name of a server operating system from Microsoft, the previous version of which was Windows Server 2003.

This operating system was codenamed named Windows Server "Longhorn", but on May 15, 2007,  Bill Gates announced its official name on Windows Hardware Engineering Conference 2007.

This operating system has several new features compared to its previous version. Many of these new features are present in Windows Vista.

[[Windows Server 2003]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft operating systems

Windows Server 2003 is a server operating system produced by Microsoft. Introduced on April 24, 2003 as the next version to Windows 2000 Server, it was considered by Microsoft to be the cornerstone of their Windows Server System line of business server products.

According to Microsoft, Windows Server 2003 is more scalable and delivers better performance than Windows 2000.

[[Perry]]

CATEGORIES: Fermented drinks

Perry or pear cider is an alcoholic drink that is made from pear juice. Its alcohol content is around 5 to 8 percent.

Perry may contain high amount of sugar, while cider does not.

Perry is made in many countries. The countries that produce the most perry are the United Kingdom, France, and Spain.

[[Plate tectonics]]

CATEGORIES: Plate tectonics

Plate tectonics is a theory of geology. It explains movement of the Earth's lithosphere: this is the earth's crust and the upper part of the mantle. The lithosphere is divided into plates, some of which are very large and can be entire continents.

Heat from the mantle is the source of energy driving plate tectonics. Exactly how this works is still a matter of debate.

[[Lithosphere]]

CATEGORIES: Structure of the Earth

The lithosphere is the solid shell of the planet Earth. That means the crust, plus the part of the upper mantle that behaves elastically on long time scales. 

Under the lithosphere is the asthenosphere, the weaker, hotter, and deeper part of the upper mantle. This part can flow.  

The lithosphere provides a conductive lid atop the convecting mantle: it reduces heat transport through the Earth, A lithosphere (Ancient Greek: λίθος lithos for "rocky", and σφαίρα sphaira for "sphere") is the rigid,1 outermost shell of a terrestrial-type planet or natural satellite that is defined by its rigid mechanical properties. On Earth, it is composed of the crust and the portion of the upper mantle that behaves elastically on time scales of thousands of years or greater. The outermost shell of a rocky planet, the crust, is defined on the basis of its chemistry and mineralogy.

[[New Jersey Devils]]

CATEGORIES: New Jersey Devils, 1974 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in New Jersey

The New Jersey Devils are an ice hockey team that is part of the NHL. They play in the state of New Jersey. They have won the Stanley Cup, awarded to the best team in the NHL, 3 times.

[[Nashville Predators]]

CATEGORIES: Nashville Predators, 1997 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Tennessee

The Nashville Predators are a professional ice hockey team based in Nashville, Tennessee. They play in the National Hockey League (NHL).  Their name is sometimes shortened to the "Preds." They play in Bridgestone Arena (formerly named Nashville Arena, Gaylord Entertainment Center, and Sommet Center). Their logo is a reference to a partial Smilodon skeleton that was found beneath downtown Nashville in 1971, during the construction of the First American National Bank. The franchise held a vote with the fans to choose a team name. The three candidates that were chosen were: The Ice Tigers, Fury, and Attack. Another choice, Predators, was added to the vote. Predators won the vote, and the new franchise was named the Nashville Predators.

[[Crookes]]

CATEGORIES: Sheffield

Crookes is an area of the City of Sheffield, England, about 2.5 kilometers (1.5 miles) west of the center of the city. It borders Broomhill to the south, Walkley and Crookesmoor to the east and open countryside around the River Rivelin to the north. The area is  

thought to have got its name from the Old Norse word "Krkor" which means a corner of land.

[[Dallas Stars]]

CATEGORIES: Dallas Stars, 1990s establishments in Texas

The Dallas Stars are a professional ice hockey team based in Dallas, Texas. They play in the National Hockey League (NHL). They have won 1 Stanley Cup, in 1999.

The team began in the autumn of 1967, as the Minnesota North Stars. After the 1992-1993 season, the team moved to Dallas. Texas is known as the "Lone Star State". The team changed its name from "North Stars" to just "Stars" when they moved.

[[Pharmaconomist]]

CATEGORIES: Pharmacology, Drugs, Care, Healthcare occupations

Pharmaconomist means expert in pharmaceuticals (expert in medicine).

A pharmaconomist is a Danish person who works in a pharmacy. Just like pharmacists, pharmaconomists have to be trained to work there, and have lots of knowledge about the drugs and treatments that they give out.

[[Broomhill]]

CATEGORIES: Sheffield

Broomhill which includes the areas of Sheffield of Broomhill, Crookesmoor, Endcliffe, and Tapton, is one of the 28 wards in City of Sheffield, in the country of England. It is in the western part of the city and covers an area of 2.7 km2. The population of this ward in 2001 was 16,800 people in 5,700 houses.

[[Owen Hargreaves]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, English footballers, Living people, Manchester United F.C. players, Sportspeople from Calgary, Premier League players

Owen Hargreaves (born 20 January 1981 in Calgary, Alberta) was a Canadian-born English football player. He played his club football for Bayern Munich, Manchester United and Manchester City. He is now retired, and works as a commentator.

His speciality was midfield defence, running interfenence in front of the back four.

[[Asthenosphere]]

CATEGORIES: Structure of the Earth

The asthenosphere is part of earth's mantle. It is about 100 km to 350 km under the surface. It is the lower part of the upper mantle, and behaves as a hot viscous liquid.

It consists of hot, weak material that can be deformed like silly putty. That means it is capable of gradual flow. It is under the lithosphere.

[[Carlo Airoldi]]

CATEGORIES: Italian athletes, 1869 births, 1929 deaths

Carlo Airoldi (21 September 1869–18 June 1929) was an Italian marathon runner, famous for walking to the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece.

[[Joseph Priestley]]

CATEGORIES: 1733 births, 1804 deaths, Unitarians, English chemists, English philosophers, Members of the Lunar Society

Joseph Priestley (13 March 1733 – 8 February 1804) was an English chemist, philosopher, clergyman, and teacher.  He is known as the discoverer of oxygen. He was a Unitarian.

On 1 August 1774, Priestly identified oxygen in his laboratory at Bowood House in Wiltshire, England.

[[Vince McMahon]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Businesspeople from North Carolina, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Professional Wrestling broadcasters, Sportspeople from North Carolina, WWE people

Vincent Kennedy McMahon, better known as Vince McMahon or Mr. McMahon (born August 24, 1945) is an American businessman, wrestling promoter, professional wrestler, and movie producer. He is the Chairman of the board and main owner of WWE, Inc.. McMahon has been both the ECW World Champion and the WWE Champion.

Forbes estimates his net worth to be around $2 billion.

[[Ogden Nash]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1971 deaths, American poets, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Writers from New York, People from Rye, New York

Ogden Nash (August 19, 1902 - May 19, 1971) was an American poet. His poetry is thought by many people to be very funny. Nash was born in Rye, New York on August 19, 1902. In 1932, he joined the staff of The New Yorker. He died of Crohn's disease on May 19, 1971 in Baltimore, Maryland.

[[1986 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic hurricane seasons, 1986

The 1986 Atlantic hurricane season officially started on June 1, 1983, and ended on November 30. The season had a total of 6 named storms and 4 hurricanes.

[[Abidjan]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Cities in Ivory Coast, 1931 establishments, 20th-century establishments in Africa

Abidjan is the largest city and former capital of Ivory Coast. It is the commercial and banking center of Ivory Coast as well as the de facto capital. Yamoussoukro is the official capital. The city is in Ébrié Lagoon. It is built on many peninsulas and islands which are connected by bridges. There are an estimated 4 to 5 million people living in the metropolitan area.

[[Accra]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ghana, Capital cities in Africa, 15th-century establishments, Establishments in Africa

Accra is the capital city of Ghana.  It has a population of about 1,970,400 (2005).  The city is Ghana's largest city. It is also the administrative, communications, and economic center of the country. The main economic activities in Accra are financial and government services, communications, construction, transportation and agriculture (mostly fishing). Most of Ghana's ability to make build things is in the capital area.

[[César Franck]]

CATEGORIES: 1822 births, 1890 deaths, Belgian composers, French composers, French organists, People from Liège, Romantic composers

César Franck (born Liège, 10 December, 1822; died Paris, November 8, 1890), was a composer, organist and music teacher of Belgian and German origin who lived in France.  He was one of the great musicians of his time. He was organist at the church of Sainte Clotilde in Paris for more than 30 years, and he taught many talented young musicians.  Most of the music for which he is famous was composed when he was already quite old.

[[Addis Ababa]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 establishments, Addis Ababa, 19th-century establishments in Africa, Regions of Ethiopia

Addis Ababa (spelled Addis Abeba by the Ethiopian Mapping Institute, also called Finfinne) is the capital city of Ethiopia. It is also the capital of the African Union and the Oromia region of Ethiopia. 

[[Home directory]]

CATEGORIES: Software

In Computing, a home directory is a special directory (or location in the File system, Apple calls directories folders). Very often, there is one such home directory per user. Some users, which were created by the system and usually do not log in, do not have such a home directory.

A home directory is used to store personal files of the respective user, including written document and settings for programs.

[[Nowruz]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays

Nowruz (نوروز, meaning "The New Day", nouˈɾuːz; Newroz it is what the Iranians call their New Year. It is one of the ancient celebrations which has survived throughout history and is considered to be a day in which new good things start.

Nowruz (نوروز‎, IPA: nouˈɾuːz, meaning "The New Day", Newroz) is the name of the Iranian New Year.

Nowruz is the day of the spring equinox, when the amount of light and dark is the same during the day. It is the beginning of the year in the Persian calendar. It is usually celebrated on March 21.On September 30, 2009, UNESCO registered Nowruz as an intangible cultural heritage under the official name "International Nowruz Day". The UN General Assembly then listed Nowruz, which has roots in Iran, on its calendar. A document approved by the United Nations General Assembly on February 23, 2010 explains that Nowruz on March 21 originated in Iran more than 3,000 years ago and is celebrated by more than 300 million people today. There is. UN member states celebrated Knowles in 1391 (2012) for the first time in Iran-sponsored UN and UNESCO public places, and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon also sent a message to the celebration .

[[Earth's mantle]]

CATEGORIES: Structure of the Earth

Earth's mantle is the 1,800 mile (2,900 km) thick shell making up about 84% of Earth's volume. It is over the Earth's iron-rich core, which takes up about 15% of Earth's volume.

[[Robert Burns]]

CATEGORIES: 1759 births, 1796 deaths, Scottish writers, Scottish poets

Robert Burns (25 January 1759  1796) was a famous poet born in Alloway, Ayrshire, Scotland. Some of his most famous poems include To A Mouse, Auld Lang Syne, and Tam o Shanter. Burns is seen as the national poet of Scotland. Much of his work is written in broad Scots, a sister language to English. His poem and song A Man's A Man For A' That was sung at the opening of the Scottish Parliament in 1999. "To A Louse, On Seeing One on a Lady's Bonnet at Church" is a 1786 Scots poem by Robert Burns.

Burns died at 37, and is buried in the graveyard of St Michael's Church, Dumfries, Scotland.

[[Book club]]

CATEGORIES: Books, Organizations

A book club is a club where people regularly meet to discuss a book that they have read and talk about their opinions, likes, dislikes of the characters and plot. Book clubs meet in private homes, libraries, bookstores, pubs, cafes or restaurants over meals, etc.

[[Video Relay Service]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics

VRS or Video Relay Service is a service by which deaf people can use sign language on phone calls. In some countries it has largely replaced the use of TTY for for this pupose.

VRS uses a video camera and a high-speed Internet connection, to let people call friends, family, and business associates.  A deaf or hard of hearing person can use a remote control and call an interpreter.  When interpreter comes on their screen, the caller can call any hearing person and have a phone conversation through the interpreter.

VRS was invented in the 1990s in Sweden. In the early 21st century it became available in the United States. A person in the United States, can make calls to, or receive calls from, anybody in the world via VRS. 

[[Florida Panthers]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 establishments in Florida, Ice hockey teams in the United States, National Hockey League teams, Sports in Florida

The Florida Panthers are an ice hockey team that plays in the NHL. They play in Sunrise, Florida at the BB&T Center. They were named for the Florida panther, a type of cougar that is considered an endangered species.

The Panthers have made it to the Stanley Cup Finals once in 1996 when they lost to the Colorado Avalanche in four games.

[[Carolina Hurricanes]]

CATEGORIES: Carolina Hurricanes, 1972 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in North Carolina

The Carolina Hurricanes are an ice hockey team that plays in the  NHL. The team's home arena is PNC Arena, in Raleigh, North Carolina. They won the Stanley Cup during the 2005-2006 season by beating the Edmonton Oilers. They play in Raleigh, North Carolina, but they moved in 1999 from Hartford, Connecticut, where they were known as the Hartford Whalers. They play in the Metropolitan Division of the NHL.

The name "Hurricanes" was chosen because the eastern part of North Carolina is often hit by hurricanes during tropical storm season.

[[Dakar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Senegal, Capital cities in Africa

Dakar is the capital city of Senegal. It is on the country's Atlantic coast on the western edge of Africa. The city is a trade seaport for items leaving Africa. Dakar has a population of 1,030,594 people. The metropolitan area has about 2.45 million people living in it.

The National Assembly of Senegal and Senegal Presidential Palace are in Dakar.

[[IRCAM]]

CATEGORIES: Music technology, Paris

IRCAM stands for Institut de Recherche et Coordination Acoustique/Musique (Institute for Research and Coordination of Acoustic Music).  It is an institute in Paris for composing electronic music.  IRCAM is housed underneath the Pompidou Centre which is a very large building devoted to the arts, and named after the former French president Georges Pompidou. 

In 1970 Georges Pompidou asked the composer Pierre Boulez to start an institution for music research.  Boulez was in put in charge of the institute.  It was opened in 1977. Composers were able to work there, composing music, without having to finish pieces by any particular date.  They were given plenty of time to experiment.  Many modern composers such as Harrison Birtwistle, Jonathan Harvey and George Benjamin have worked there or were influenced by the music that was being composed there.  Today musicians working in IRCAM continue to provide many interesting new ideas in electronic music.

[[Yaoundé]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Cameroon, Capital cities in Africa, 1888 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Africa

Yaoundé is the capital city of the Republic of Cameroon. It is the second largest city in the country after Douala.

[[Asmara]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Eritrea, 12th-century establishments in Africa, History of Italy

Asmara is the capital city of Eritrea. It is the largest settlement in the country. Asmara has a population of about 579,000 people. Textiles and clothing, meat, beer, shoes, and ceramics are the major industrial products of the city.

[[Bamako]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Cities in Mali, 17th-century establishments in Africa

Bamako is the capital and largest city of Mali. It is on the Niger River, near the rapids that divide the Upper and Middle Niger Valleys, in the southwestern part of the country.

[[Lomé]]

CATEGORIES: Togo, Capital cities in Africa

Lomé is the capital city of Togo. Lomé is the administrative and industrial center of the country. The city is also the main port of Togo. The city exports coffee, cocoa, copra, and palm kernels. The population of the city was estimated as around 700,000 people in 1998. It is estimated that more than 1 million people live in Lomé area at that time.

Lomé is on the Gulf of Guinea. It is in the south west of Togo, on the border between Togo and Ghana. Things to see in the city include Lomé Grand Market, the Togo National Museum in the Palais de Congrés, a fetish (voodoo) market, Lomé Cathedral, beaches and the former wharf.

[[2002 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 Atlantic hurricane season

The 2002 Atlantic hurricane season was a buzzword used to reference all of the hurricanes happening in 2012. The season officially began on June 1 and ended on November 30. In total, 12 named storms and 4 other hurricanes formed.

Because of an El Nino event happening in the Pacific Ocean, the season ended early on October 16 when the last storm died out. Although most of the season remained quiet, it was very active during the month of September and broke the record of the most number of storms forming in September. The most notable hurricanes were Hurricane Lili which was the strongest and deadliest storm of the season, and Hurricane Isidore which killed a total of 7 people in Louisiana.

[[Wireless Markup Language]]

CATEGORIES: Markup languages

Wireless Markup Language (WML) is a programming language used for of wireless devices. It is similar to HTML. WML is a version of XML. This means that syntax is very important. Every tag needs to be properly nested and closed. WML can only be displayed in a Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) Browser.

[[Maseru]]

CATEGORIES: Lesotho, Capital cities in Africa

Maseru (pronounced "ma'seru") is the capital city of Lesotho. It is near Mohokare River. Maseru is on the border with South Africa, and is connected to it through Maseru Bridge. The nearest city to Maseru in South Africa is named Ladybrand.

The National University of Lesotho amd the international airport called Moshoeshoe International Airport are near Maseru.

Maseru is a sister city of Austin, Texas.

[[Fandom]]

CATEGORIES: Fandom

Fandom (from the noun fan and the affix -dom, as in kingdom, dukedom, etc.) or fanbase is a name used for a group of people (called "fans") who are interested in something. A fandom can be about any interest or activity. Fandoms can be for example about hobbies, genres or fashions, book or movie series, or even individual celebrities.

[[New York Islanders]]

CATEGORIES: New York Islanders

The New York Islanders are an ice hockey team that plays in the National Hockey League (NHL). They were a great team between 1980 and 1983, winning four Stanley Cups and a record 19 consecutive playoff series. After playing from 1972 to 2015 at the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale, New York, the team moved to Brooklyn and the Barclays Center starting with the 2015–16 season.

The Islanders plan to return to Nassau County in the near future. Construction on a new arena next to the Belmont Park horse racing track in Elmont, which borders Queens, is planned to start in 2018, with the team hoping to move in for the 2020–21 season.

[[Arizona Coyotes]]

CATEGORIES: Arizona Coyotes, 1990s establishments in Arizona

The Arizona Coyotes are an ice hockey team that plays in the NHL. They play in Glendale, Arizona. 

[[Buffalo Sabres]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in New York (state), Ice hockey teams in the United States, National Hockey League teams, Sports in Buffalo, New York

The Buffalo Sabres are an ice hockey team that plays in the National Hockey League.

[[Columbus Blue Jackets]]

CATEGORIES: Columbus Blue Jackets

The Columbus Blue Jackets are an ice hockey team that plays in the NHL. They are one of the newest teams in the NHL, created in 2000. The Blue Jackets first made the playoffs in 2009. The coach right now is John Tortorella. The Blue Jackets play at Nationwide Arena. They play in the Metropolitan Division.

[[Atlanta Thrashers]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 disestablishments in the United States, Defunct National Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Sports in Atlanta, Georgia, 1999 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

The Atlanta Thrashers were an American professional ice hockey team that played in Atlanta, Georgia. They played in the National Hockey League (NHL). The Thrashers played their home games at Phillips Arena. The team played in the Southeast Division of the Eastern Conference.

They only made the NHL playoffs once, in the 2006–2007 season.

On May 31, 2011, investors named True North Sports and Entertainment purchased the Atlanta Thrashers. The sale was approved by the National Hockey League on June 21, 2011.

[[Rachael Ray]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Emmy Award winners, Writers from New York

Rachael Ray (born August 25, 1968 in Glen Falls, New York) is an Emmy Award-winning television personality and author. Her family roots are from Sicily, Italy. Her TV shows include 30 minute Meals, $40 a Day, Rachael Ray's Tasty Travels and The Rachael Ray Show in September 2006 First Episode in Rachael Ray. In September 2010, Rachael Ray's Week In a Day began airing on the Cooking Channel. She has written 12 cookbooks. Plus Stay Home & More Episodes in Season 14/Season 15 Make Room For Season 16  

[[Sophora]]

CATEGORIES: Faboideae, Trees

Sophora is a genus of about 45 species of small trees and shrubs. It is in the subfamily Faboideae of the pea family Fabaceae. Many students see Sophora as three genera: Sophora, Calia (S. secundiflora) and Styphnolobium (S. japonica).

[[Cyanobacteria]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria, Cell biology, Photosynthesis

Cyanobacteria are a taxon of bacteria which conduct photosynthesis. They are not algae, though they were once called blue-green algae. It is a phylum of bacteria, with about 1500 species. In endosymbiont theory, chloroplasts (plastids) are descended from cyanobacteria. Their DNA profile is evidence for this.

Cyanobacteria have an extremely long fossil record, starting  at least 3,500 million years ago. They were the main organisms in the stromatolites of the Archaean and Proterozoic eons.

The ability of cyanobacteria to perform oxygenic photosynthesis is highly significant. The early atmosphere on Earth was largely reducing, that is, without oxygen. The cyanobacteria in stromatolites were the first known organisms to photosynthesise and produce free oxygen. After about a billion years, the effect of this photosynthesis began a huge change in the atmosphere. The process, called the Great Oxygenation Event, took a long time. Eventually, it killed off most of the organisms which could not live in oxygen, and led to the kinds of environment we know today, where most organisms use and need oxygen.

[[Teletypewriter]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics, Writing

A teletypewriter (TTY; also called a teletype or teleprinter) is a device that sends a typed message to another place. A teletypewriter has a typewriter keyboard, a local printer (so the user can see what has been typed) and a transmitter. Messages can be sent over wires or radio waves. Teletypes were used mostly in the early to mid-20th century. They were developed to improve telegraphs, some of which also used keyboards, though not typewriter keyboards.

Though teleprinters have been replaced by other technologies, TDDs (Telecommunications Devices for the Deaf), which are based on the idea and design of teletypes, are still used these days. Not all people who are deaf, hard of hearing, or speech-impaired have switched to using instant messaging or texting or other modern services. Many still type messages back and forth to one another by TDD.

[[Of Montreal]]

CATEGORIES: American pop music groups, American rock bands, Funk bands, Musical groups from Georgia (U.S. state), Indie rock bands

of Montreal is an American indie pop band. The band was formed in Athens, Georgia. The lead singer of the band is Kevin Barnes. He started the group as the only member. It was one of the second wave of groups to come from The Elephant 6 Recording Company. They have released twelve studio albums.

[[Alcalá de Henares]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Community of Madrid, Municipalities in the Community of Madrid

Alcalá de Henares is a city in the Community of Madrid, Spain. It is thirty kilometres from Madrid. It has about 200,000 people. There is a university. Miguel de Cervantes, an important Spanish writer, the author of the "Don Quixote", was born there.

[[Alpine newt]]

CATEGORIES: Newts

The alpine newt (Ichthyosaura alpestris) is an amphibian. It is a  Salamander (Urodela or Caudata). The alpine newt is one of five newts in Germany.

[[Differential equation]]

CATEGORIES: Differential equations

A differential equation is a mathematical equation that involves variables like x or y, as well as the rate at which those variables change. Differential equations are special because the solution of a differential equation is itself a function instead of a number.

In applications of mathematics, problems often arise in which the dependence of one parameter on another is unknown, but it is possible to write an expression for the rate of change of one parameter relative to another (derivative). In this case, the problem is reduced to finding a function by its derivative related to some other expressions.

[[Windhoek]]

CATEGORIES: Windhoek

Windhoek (Windhuk) is the capital city of Namibia. It has a population of 230,000 people. Windhoek is the trade center for sheep skins.  The area was controlled by Germany in 1885. It became the capital of the German colony, German South-West Africa, in 1892. During World War I, Windhoek was captured by South Africa. It was the capital of South West Africa (Namibia) under South African control until the independence of Namibia in 1990. 

Windhoek has a semi-desert climate.

Windhoek is known to be among the cleanest cities in Africa.

[[Boiling tube]]

CATEGORIES: laboratory equipment

A boiling tube is a large tube made of glass, which is used in laboratory to strongly heat substances. A boiling tube is a scaled-up test tube, but larger in size. This larger size allows substances to boil freely inside a boiling tube.

Boiling tubes can also be used as a replacement for test tubes specially when a larger volume is desired.

Boiling tubes are commonly made from Pyrex glass which can tolerate high temperatures.

[[1982 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic hurricane seasons, 1982

The 1982 Atlantic hurricane season was a yearly event of tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean. The season officially started on June 1, 1982, and ended on November 30, 1982. Six named storms formed during the season, along with 2 hurricanes.

While most of the storms were usually weak, the most deadliest storm of the season was Tropical Storm Beryl which killed 115 people while moving across the Caribbean Sea.

[[Ouagadougou]]

CATEGORIES: Ouagadougou

Ouagadougou (ˌ, is the capital of Burkina Faso. It is also the country's biggest city. In Ouagadougou, people mainly make clothing and food. Ouagadougou's mayor is chosen every five years. Ouagadougou is near the equator. It is always warm. In Ouagadougou, people speak French. Ouagadougou is one of the poorest cities in Africa. Almost 70% of its people can not read or write but the city has ten universities.

[[Venetian language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Europe, Romance languages, Venice

The Venetian language (in Venetian: vèneto) is a Romance language.

It was the language once spoken in the Republic of Venice.

In the present day, it is spoken in the Italian regions of Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, in Slovenia and in Croatia. It is also spoken in Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina states) and Mexico (town of Chipilo) by the descendants of Italian immigrants.

[[Yamoussoukro]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Cities in Ivory Coast

Yamoussoukro is the capital city of Côte d'Ivoire (The Ivory Coast). About 200,000 people live in this city. It is not the biggest city in Côte d'Ivoire. Abidjan is the biggest city in Côte d'Ivoire, and it is where most of the country's money comes from. Yamoussoukro became the capital in 1983. Abidjan was the capital before that.

[[Bloemfontein]]

CATEGORIES: Bloemfontein, 1846 establishments, 19th-century establishments in South Africa, 1840s establishments in Africa

Bloemfontein is one of the three capital cites of South Africa. It is the judicial capital of South Africa, as the Supreme Court is there. In Afrikaans and Dutch, Bloemfontein means "Spring of Bloem (Bloom)". It is also known as the city of roses. There are a lot of flowers in Bloemfontein.

[[Jack Black]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Actors from Santa Monica, California, American guitarists, American movie actors, American movie producers, American rock musicians, American rock singers, American television actors, American television producers, American television writers, American voice actors, Comedians from California, Singers from California, Writers from California

Thomas Jacob "Jack" Black (born August 28, 1969) is an American actor, voice actor, comedian, musician, producer, singer, and writer. He is an important member of the Frat Pack, a name used by members of the media for a group of comedians active in today's Hollywood movies. Black is also in demand for some of Hollywood largest movies and smallest indie films. He and Kyle Gass make up the comedy/rock duo Tenacious D. Black starred in the movie Tenacious D in The Pick of Destiny, which is based on a true story. Black is also known by his nicknames, Jables or JB. He also played in the 2008 movie Tropic Thunder.

[[Dough]]

CATEGORIES: Slang, Doughs

Dough is a paste made out of flour by mixing it with a small amount of water. Dough can be used to make bread, pastries, cookies, muffins, and other foods.

In many parts of central India, people use the quick method of making an instant roasted dough ball or baati. Flat, unleavened breads known as roti, lavash, yufka, matzo, and tortilla are used in many parts of the world today.

Leavened dough, made from dry, ground grains mixed with water and yeast, is used all over the world. It includes all kinds of breads made from wheat, maize, rice and other grains or similar crops used today in the world.

Fried dough foods are common in many cultures. In the United States, "elephant ears" is a common name for fried dough.

In slang, dough is money.

[[Muffin]]

CATEGORIES: Cakes, Sweet breads

A muffin is a small bread- or cake-like baked food. Muffins are similar to cupcakes: they have round bases, rounded tops, and are usually sweet, but there are also savory kinds (like cornbread muffins). A muffin can also mean a different baked food, the smaller, disk-shaped English muffin, although this is not common outside Britain. In Britain, the term can mean either type of muffin. Muffins can also have extra ingredients to its flavour, such as blueberries or chocolate chips. Muffins are usually eaten at breakfast but can be eaten at any other meal. It is usually served with tea.

[[English muffin]]

CATEGORIES: Breads, Breakfast foods, British food

An English muffin (known as a muffin or breakfast muffin in the United Kingdom) is a round, flat bread made from a dough with yeast and enriched with butter and milk. It is often served toasted at breakfast in the UK, USA, Canada and Australia.

[[Cornbread]]

CATEGORIES: Breads

Cornbread or Johnny cake is a name for any number of "quick breads"- bread leavened chemically instead of by yeast- which has cornmeal. As maize (also known as corn) is native to North America, the various kinds of cornbreads are more prevalent there.  In Italy, the corn-based mush known as polenta is sometimes fashioned into a fried form resembling cornbread.

[[Cupcake]]

CATEGORIES: Cakes

A cupcake (also British English: fairy cake; Australian English: patty cake or cup cake) is a small cake designed to be eaten by one person. They are often baked in a small thin paper or aluminum cup. Like larger cakes, frosting and other cake decorations, such as sprinkles, are common on cupcakes. They are often sweet and include frosting. Some specialized bakeries sell only cupcakes.

[[Curry]]

CATEGORIES: Indian food, Pakistani food

Curry (from Tamil kari) is the English word for any of a general variety of spiced dishes, best known in Indian, Bangladeshi, Sri Lankan, Indonesian, Malaysian, Pakistani, Thai, and other South Asian and Southeast Asian cuisines, though curry has been adopted into many other cuisines. Curry first came from India. The idea of curry was later brought to the West by British colonialists in India from the 18th century. Dishes that are often called curries in Europe and America are rarely called curries in the native language.

Curry can also be found in the United Kingdom and Jamaica. It is usually eaten with Basmati rice or naan, a type of flat bread.

A curry dish called Balti is said to have been originated in Birmingham, United Kingdom and has been dubbed Britain’s de facto national dish.

[[Shore]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

A shore or shoreline is the land at the edge of a large body of water, such as an ocean or river. Where the water is a sea, the shore is also called a "coast".

Shores are influenced by the topography of the surrounding landscape, as well as by erosion caused by water, such as waves.  The geological makeup of rock and soil controls the type of shore which is created.  Erosion of sedimentary soils can make a sandy or pebbly shore, usually called a beach. 

A shore includes the intertidal zone that is alternately exposed and covered by waves and tides.

A shore will often have a lighthouse on it to help ships in the sea.

[[Stick]]

A stick is a long, slender piece of wood, usually a branch from a tree without the leaves.

Stick may mean:

In objects of similar shape:

Stick may also mean:

In nicknames:

In music:

[[Bleach (manga)]]

CATEGORIES: Manga, Afterlife

Bleach is a manga series created by Tite Kubo. It ran seventy four volumes for fifteen years, and was adapted into an anime series, two original video animations, four films, seven rock musicals and video games. Compilation volumes of the manga have sold over fifty million copies. The series follows a high school student with the ability to see spirits. After befriending a female shinigami, they work together to defend Japan from spiritual monsters and cleanse spirits. As the series progresses, they explore the world of the afterlife.

[[Whyalla, South Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Australia

Whyalla is a city on Eyre Peninsula, on the shore of Spencers Gulf, South Australia.

[[Ron Paul]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, American Baptists, Politicians from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 2008 United States presidential candidates, 2012 United States presidential candidates, United States representatives from Texas, US Libertarian Party politicians

Ronald Ernest "Ron" Paul (born August 20, 1935) is an American Libertarian. He was formerly a Congressman from the state of Texas. He is retired but still travels around giving speeches about his beliefs.

[[Djibouti (city)]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Djibouti

The city of Djibouti is the capital and largest city of the Republic of Djibouti. It lies on a peninsula between the Gulf of Aden and the Gulf of Tadjoura. Djibouti is home to about  400,000 people.

Features of Djibouti City include beaches, a large Central Market, the national stadium Stade du Ville, the Presidential Palace and Hamouli Mosque. The Djibouti-Addis Ababa Railway runs from the city to Addis Ababa. Djubouti is also home to the Djibouti-Ambouli International Airport.

[[Jamestown, Saint Helena]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Saint Helena, 1659 establishments, 17th-century establishments in Africa

Jamestown is a harbour and the capital of the British island of Saint Helena. It was founded in 1659 by the East India Company. It's also famous for being the place where the famous French emperor, Napoleon lived when he was exiled to St. Helena. The town has a population of about 1,000 people. 

The town's most known feature is Jacob's Ladder. It is a walkway up the mountains with 699 steps. The ladder was built in 1829 to connect Jamestown to the military base on Ladder Hill. The ladder is very popular with tourists. It is beautifully lit at night. Each year, people come from all over the world to take part in a timed run up the ladder.

Many buildings in the city are built out of volcanic rock from the local area. The town is has a church, and port for unloading items delivered to the island.

[[Markus Näslund]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, New York Rangers players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Swedish ice hockey players, Vancouver Canucks players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Swedish Hockey League players

Markus Näslund (born July 30, 1973, in Örnsköldsvik, Sweden) is a retired Swedish ice hockey player in the NHL. He was born in Ornskoldsvik, Sweden. He plays for the New York Rangers and is currently an alternate captain. He was considered very skilled and valuable and he was given the Lester B. Pearson award for the Most Outstanding Player in 2004.

[[Pier Gerlofs Donia]]

CATEGORIES: 1480 births, 1520 deaths, People from Friesland, Pirates

Pier Gerlofs Donia, 1480 - 1520. He fought for the independence of Friesland (which is now part of the Netherlands). He was an enormous man and was said to be well over 7 feet tall. Donia was also known as Grutte Pier, which means "Big Lad", in Frisian language, or Grote Pier, which means the same in Dutch language. He also was a pirate. This great man fought against the people from Holland, Germany, and the Burgundians. In his biggest battle at sea he captured 28 ships, and he killed all 500 men who had been taken prisoner. "Big Lad" was then called the Cross of the Dutchman.

According to legend, Pier forced his captives to repeat a shibboleth to show which people were Frisians and who were Dutch and Low Germans:

Or, in English translation:

Those prisoners who could not answer this in proper Frisian had their heads cut off by Donia himself. Pier was also noted for his ability to behead several people with a single blow. This meant he could kill many enemies at the same time during battle, and gave him an excellent advantage over his opponents. His famous fighting skills proved their worth in many battles.

One legend documents the fact that pier was strong enough to bend a coin between his fore finger and thumb.

Despite his many successes, Pier could not defeat the Burgundian/Hapsburg armies. He retired disillusioned in 1519. He died peacefully in bed in the Frisian town of Sneek on October 28 in the year 1520. His last words were spoken to his life-time enemy, the count of Nychlenborch. He was asked by the count were he wanted to go after he died, to which Pier replied "Nea myn Heer ta" ("To my Lord"). He then died. After the Giant of Kimswerd (another nickname) died, Friesland never again earned its freedom. It has remained a province of the Netherlands.

He was the uncle of the warrior Wijerd Jelckama.

[[Erasmus]]

CATEGORIES: 1466 births, 1536 deaths, 16th century philosophers, Bible translators, Christian theologians, Dutch philosophers, Dutch Roman Catholics, Protestant Reformation, Writers from Rotterdam

Erasmus, full name Desiderius Erasmus Roterodamus, (28 October, probably 1466 in Rotterdam – 12 July 1536 in Basel) was a Dutch humanist, theologian and philosopher.

Erasmus was a classical scholar who wrote in a "pure" Latin style. Although he was a Catholic, he was critical of the Roman Catholic Church and wrote satires of them. He stood at the beginning of the reformation.

The following information from * to * is sourced from 'Oxford AQA History A LEVEL, The Tudors: England 1485-1603:

*He visited England four times, his most important visit being from 1509 to 1514 when he was appointed to a professorship at Cambridge University. During this visit, he also became a well known figure around the court of King Henry VIII. 

In 1516, he published a Greek New Testament complete with a new Latin translation. 

Some of his works include Julius Excluded from Heaven, On Civility in Children, The Praise of Folly, Discourse on Free Will, Copia: Foundations of the Abundant Style and a Handbook of a Christian Knight.

Although he was an important humanist figure who inspired who had some influence on the younger generations of English Humanists, the scope of Erasmian humanism is quite limited and much of the change that took place in England at this time stemmed from the influence of new religious thinking rather than simply scholarly Renaissance humanism. 

The term Erasmianism is defined as the body of ideas that is associated with Erasmus and his followers. *

[[Elfstedentocht]]

CATEGORIES: Friesland, Skating, Sport in the Netherlands, 1909 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in the Netherlands, De Fryske Marren, Leeuwarden, Noardeast-Fryslân, Súdwest-Fryslân, Waadhoeke

The Elfstedentocht, Dutch for "Eleven cities tour" is a race for people on ice skates. The race takes place on canals in Friesland in the north of the Netherlands. The route of the race goes through eleven towns and is nearly 200 kilometers long. It can only be held in winters when it has been cold enough to freeze the canals to enough depth to make it safe for skating on.

The race starts and finishes in Leeuwarden, the capital city of Friesland. The route goes through all eleven places in Friesland which are officially called "towns". The race has been held 15 times. The first year it took place was 1909. The most recent race was on 4 January 1997. The ice on the canals has to be at least 15 cm thick for the race to take place. It is a very tough race, although some years the race has been tougher than others, depending on the weather conditions. 1963 was an extremely cold winter. That year only one in 100 people who took part managed to finish the race.

Medals are given to the first 11 men and the first 5 women.

[[Sneek]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Friesland, Former municipalities of Friesland, Súdwest-Fryslân

Sneek (Frisian: Snits) is a city in Friesland, in the Netherlands. In history, it is well known. The legendary warrior Pier Gerlofs Donia, fought a battle there. He is buried in the town in the Grote of Martinikerk. Since 2011, it has been part of the new municipality of Súdwest-Fryslân.

[[Huelva]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Andalusia, Capital cities in Spain, Municipalities in Andalusia

Huelva is a city in Andalusia, Spain and the capital of the province of Huelva. According to the Instituto Nacional de Estadística (INE), 149,310 people live in Huelva. Huelva is the center of a metropolitan area that has 490,000 inhabitants.

[[Richard Dawkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, British academics, English atheists, English evolutionary biologists, English science writers, People from Nairobi, HuffPost writers and columnists, Academics of the University of Oxford

Clinton Richard Dawkins DSc, FRS, FRSL (born Nairobi, 26 March 1941) is an English  biologist, evolutionist, and writer. He is an emeritus Fellow of New College, Oxford, and was the University of Oxford's Simonyi Professor for Public Understanding of Science from 1995 until 2008.

Dawkins is an atheist, a vice president of the British Humanist Association, and a supporter of the Brights movement. He is well known for his criticism of creationism and intelligent design. In his 2006 book The God Delusion, Dawkins contends that a supernatural creator almost certainly does not exist and that religious faith is a delusion—"a fixed false belief".5 As of January 2010, the English-language version had sold more than two million copies and had been translated into 31 languages.

Dawkins' ideas on evolution were heavily influenced by W.D. Hamilton. The influence can be seen throughout Dawkins' book The Selfish Gene. They became friends at Oxford and, after Hamilton's death, Dawkins wrote his obituary and organised a secular memorial service.

He also writes for The Huffington Post.

[[Stalactite]]

CATEGORIES: Caves

A stalactite is a form that can be found on the ceiling of a cave. When a drop of water flows down the stalactite, the water evaporates and leaves a mineral deposit of calcite. This slowly increases the length and thickness of the stalactite.

The corresponding formation on the floor underneath a stalactite is known as a stalagmite. Given enough time, these formations can meet. The results are known as columns.

[[Slayer (disambiguation)]]

A slayer is someone who kills animals or people. The past tense of the verb "slay" is "slew" or "slain".

Slayer could also mean:

[[Ranma ½]]

CATEGORIES: Anime, Manga, 1993 television series debuts, 2002 television series endings

Ranma ½ is an anime based on a manga by Rumiko Takahashi. It is 36 volumes long.

[[Engagement]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage

An engagement is an agreement or promise to marry, and also refers to the time between proposal and marriage. During this time, a couple is said to be affianced, engaged to be married, or simply engaged. An engagement can be seen by witnesses to confirm their marriage.

A fiance is the man who is engaged. A fiancee is the woman who is engaged.

Traditionally, a ring is presented during the engagement ceremony.

[[Enrique Gaspar y Rimbau]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1902 deaths, Spanish writers

Enrique Lucio Eugenio Gaspar y Rimbau (Madrid, March 2, 1842 – Olorón, September 7, 1902) was a Spanish diplomat and writer. Gaspar y Rimbau wrote plays, zarzuelas (light operas), and novels.

[[Laksa]]

CATEGORIES: Soups, Noodles

Laksa is a popular spicy noodle soup from Peranakan culture. Curry laksa (sometimes called just laksa) is a coconut soup made with prawns, beef, bean sprouts and chili. It is very spicy but can be made milder by leaving out some of the chilis.

Laksa is a popular food in Malaysia. A well-known Asam Laksa can be found in Air Itam, Penang.

[[Scarface (1983 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 crime movies, 1983 thriller movies, 1980s crime thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, American gangster movies, American movie remakes, Antisocial personality disorder in fiction, English-language movies, Movies directed by Brian De Palma, Movies set in Miami, Florida, Universal Pictures movies, American drama movies, Movies about the illegal drug trade

Scarface is a 1983 American crime thriller movie. It was directed by Brian De Palma, written by Oliver Stone, produced by Martin Bregman and stars Al Pacino. The story is about Tony Montana, a Cuban criminal who moves to Miami, Florida and creates his own cocaine business. It is a loose remake of the 1932 movie Scarface. The movie made $85 million.

[[Contract killing]]

CATEGORIES: Types of crime

Contract killing is murder where a person or group is paid (usually money) to kill someone else. Someone who does this is known as a hit man (also hitman), or assassin. Contract killing is illegal, and is punishable, sometimes by death. Contract killing is often used by the mafia.

[[Ecstasy (drug)]]

CATEGORIES: Illegal drugs

MDMA (3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine), also known as Ecstasy (abbreviated E, X, or XTC), molly (U.S.), or mandy (U.K.), is a psychoactive drug with stimulant and psychedelic effects that is primarily used as a recreational drug. Drugs sold under the street names ecstasy, molly, or mandy are often advertised as pure MDMA, but are often mixed with multiple other drugs. MDMA can cause feelings of euphoria (extreme happiness) and altered sensations. Bad side effects include insomnia, nausea, rapid heartbeat, and addiction. It causes an initial increase in neurotransmitters that is followed by a short-term drop in neurotransmitters, which can lead to severe depression after coming down from the high.

MDMA is illegal in most countries. Possessing, making or selling it could result in criminal prosecution and a possible prison term. Some countries, such as the U.S., have made limited exceptions to these laws for research. There have been some initial studies on whether it can help patients with severe PTSD (post-traumatic stress disorder) make progress in therapy if they take very low doses of MDMA immediately before appointments (under medical supervision). 2016, MDMA has no accepted medical uses. The use of MDMA has become more widespread in recent years. Among teens surveyed in 2018, more than 4% of 12th graders in the U.S. reported using ecstasy at some point in their lives. Even some very young teens are experimenting with the drug. More than 1.5% of 8th graders reported ever having used the drug.

Many ecstasy tablets, especially those sold online on the “dark net” are more potent than ever before, as well. According to one European study, while tablets in the 90s and early 2000s average about 50-80 mg, the average dose of an ecstasy tablet on the current market is now 125 mg. Some “super pills” have been marketed, with doses ranging between 270 and 340 mg.

[[Saffir–Simpson scale]]

CATEGORIES: Tropical cyclones, Winds

The Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale is a scale that is used to sort tropical cyclones in the Western Hemisphere. It is only used for storms that are stronger than "tropical storms", and become actual hurricanes. The categories into which the scale separates hurricanes are noted by the strength of their maximum sustained wind speeds. The classifications are used mainly to predict the possible wind damage a hurricane will create when it makes landfall. It does not measure rainfall or storm surge or how wide the storm is.

The scale is also used to classify subtropical cyclones after a change in the rules made by the National Hurricane Center in 2002.

The Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale is used only to describe hurricanes that form in the Atlantic Ocean and northern Pacific Ocean, to the east of the International Date Line. Other areas call their tropical storms by other names, and use their own classification scales.

[[Eastern Catholic churches]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Catholicism

The Eastern Catholic Churches are autocephalous Christian churches. They recognize the Bishop of Rome as their spiritual leader, like other Catholics.They differ on ideas as how a mass should be organised, or which prayers are more important than others. 

In total there are 23 such churches, the probably best known are listed below:

[[Sanjaya Malakar]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, singers from Washington, American Idol contestants

[[Pangolin]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals

Pangolins (or scaly anteaters) are mammals which live in Africa and Asia. They have scales on their skin. They are the only mammals which have this adaptation.

There are three genera of pangolin, all of which eat ants and termites. They catch their food using their tongues, and they do not eat anything else.

Pangolins have features of armadillos (long, ant eating tongue and broad tail) and sloths (claws), but the pangolin is in a completely different order. The pangolin belongs to the order Pholidota.

Pangolins have is marked by large, hardened, overlapping plate-like scales. The pangolin scales are made of keratin. and are attached to muscles under the skin. and can be moved to point towards predators. Hair grows between the scales and near the rear of the animal.

The pangolin's scaled body is a bit like a pine cone or globe artichoke. It can curl up into a ball when threatened, with its overlapping scales acting like armour while it tucks its face under its tail. The scales are sharp, providing extra defence from predators.

A pangolin's main predators are wild cats, hyenas and humans.

A mother pangolin's gestation period is between 120 and 180 days. Young pangolin are born with scales, and they harden by the second day the pangopup is out of the womb.

When walking on a level surface the pangolin is bipedal. It walks on the back legs. Its body is held horizontal, and is balanced by its heavy tail at the back.

Sometimes pangolins are smuggled into China on the black market. Their scales are used as an ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine.

Pangolins are a critically endangered species and have been hunted and trafficked all across Asia and Africa. They are usually sought after for their scales, meat and medical properties. This creature also has been identified as a host for SARS-CoV-2 and similar viruses. 

[[Antananarivo]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Madagascar, 1625 establishments, 17th-century establishments in Africa

Antananarivo is the capital city of Madagascar. It is the largest city in the country. The city is the administrative, communications and economic center of Madagascar.

Antananarivo has a population of over 1.4 million people. Including an Anglican cathedral and a Roman Catholic cathedral, there are about fifty churches in the city and its suburbs. There is also a Muslim mosque. Antananarivo is home of the University of Madagascar and the Collège Rural d'Ambatobe.

[[Alex (parrot)]]

CATEGORIES: Parrots, Individual animals

Alex (1976–2007) was an African grey parrot. 

[[Lobamba]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Eswatini

Lobamba is the legislative capital of Eswatini (which used to be called Swaziland). The Parliament of Eswatini and home of the Queen Mother are in this city. It is located in the west of the country, in the district of Hhohho. Its population is about 10,000 people.

Lobamba is famous for two ceremonies. The Reed Dance is in August and September. This celebration is in honour of the Queen Mother. The Incwala Kingship, in December and January, is in honour of the King. These ceremonies include dancing, singing, and celebrations with traditional clothing.

The Embo State Palace, the Royal Kraal, Swazi National Museum, Swazi Parliament and a museum about Sobhuza II of Eswatini are in the town. The Mlilwane Wildlife Sanctuary and Matsapha Airport lie nearby.

[[Bobby Lashley]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, African-American movie actors, African-American wrestlers, American military people, American mixed martial artists, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Kansas, TNA wrestlers

Franklin Roberto Lashley (born July 16, 1976) is an American professional wrestler, mixed martial artist and former collegiate amateur wrestler. He is better known as Bobby Lashley. He is currently signed to the World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) where he is the United States Champion. He is also known for his time in  Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), where he competed under the ring name Lashley.

Lashley was released from the WWE on February 4, 2008. He returned to WWE on April 8, 2018, where he currently appears on Raw. He is also an MMA fighter, where he was considered a top draw for Bellator. He has not fought professionally since 2016.

[[Newry]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Northern Ireland, County Armagh, County Down

Newry (Iúr Cinn Trá) is a city in Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom. It is partly in County Armagh and partly in County Down. It is the eighth largest city in Ireland. 27,430 people live in the city. A picture of a local bridge is on some British pound coins.

[[Shizuka Arakawa]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese figure skaters, 1981 births, Living people, Japanese Olympic gold medalists, Sportspeople from Tokyo

Shizuka Arakawa (荒川 静香)) is a figure skater from Japan. She went to the Olympics in 1998 for the first time at age 16. They were held in Nagano, Japan. She won the gold medal in single skating at the Olympics in 2006. That was the only medal for Japan at the 2006 Olympics. She also won the World Championships in 2004.

[[Ellipsis]]

CATEGORIES: Punctuation, Typography

An ellipsis is a type of punctuation mark. In writing, it is a row of three points (...). Its name comes from the ancient Greek word ἔλλειψις (omission/falling short). Notice that the three dots are not spaced as full points: they are a separate special typographic sign.

Depending on context and place in a sentence, ellipses can indicate an unfinished thought, a leading statement, a slight pause, a mysterious or echoing voice, or a nervous or awkward silence. An ellipsis can be used to trail off into silence—for example: But I thought he was...

When text is quoted from a book or a newspaper, it stands for words that have been cut out to save space in a page. For example:

When speaking, it can be referred to as "dot-dot-dot".

[[Mamoudzou]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Communes in Mayotte, Departmental capitals in France, Regional capitals in France

Mamoudzou is the capital of the French department of Mayotte. It is off the coast of Africa in the Indian Ocean. Mamoudzou is largest commune (municipality) of Mayotte. It has a population of 45,485.

Mamoudzou is apart of france on Grande-Terre (or Mahoré), the main island of Mayotte. The former capital of Mayotte was Dzaoudzi, on the small island of Petite-Terre (or Pamanzi). Mamoudzou was chosen as the capital in 1977.

[[Moroni, Comoros]]

CATEGORIES: Comoros, Capital cities in Africa

Moroni (Arabic: موروني) is the capital of the Comoros. It is the largest city in the country. Moroni replaced Dzaoudzi as the capital in 1962.  The city has a population of about 60,200 people.

The city is located on the western coast of Grande Comore island.  Moroni is served by the Prince Said Ibrahim International Airport.  There is also a harbour which has ship which go between the African mainland and the islands in the Comoros archipelago, as well as Madagascar and other Indian ocean islands.

[[Porto-Novo]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Settlements in Benin

Porto-Novo (also known as Hogbonou and Adjacé) is the capital of the West African country of Benin. The city has a population of 223,552 people  Porto-Nova is a port on an inlet of the Gulf of Guinea, in the southeastern part of the country. Porto-Novo is Benin's second largest city. The city of Cotonou is larger and more important, culturally and politically. The region around Porto-Novo produces palm oil, cotton and kapok. Petroleum was found off the coast of the city in the 1990s. It has become an important export of the city.

[[Praia]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Cape Verde, Municipalities of Cape Verde

Praia is the capital of the island nation of Cape Verde.  It lies on Santiago island in the Sotavento archipelago. The city has, in 2010, a population of 127,832. Praia is Cape Verde's largest city. It is also the commercial center of the country. The name Praia means "beach" in Portuguese.

Praia has a port that transports coffee, sugar cane, and tropical fruits.  Praia also has a fishing industry. The city is home to one of the nation's two international airports. There are resort beaches nearby.

[[Coptic Catholic Church]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Catholicism, Religion in Egypt

The Coptic Catholic Church is a church in full communion with the Pope in Rome instead of the Pope of the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria. The church has about 162,000 members (as of 2007). Most of the members are in Egypt. Coptic Catholics are seen as a schism from the Coptic Orthodox Church. They left that church in order to come into full communion with the Catholic Church. The current Coptic Catholic Patriarch of Alexandria is Archbishop Antonios Naguib.

In 1990, Coptic Catholic sources estimated that there were about 10,000 followers in countries other than Egypt. These followers are under the care of local Latin Rite bishops. There are Coptic Catholic parishes in: Paris, Montréal, New York City, Los Angeles, Sydney, and Melbourne.

[[Roberto Luongo]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Acadie–Bathurst Titan players, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Florida Panthers players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, New York Islanders players, People from Montreal, Val-d'Or Foreurs players, Vancouver Canucks players

Roberto Luongo (born April 4, 1979) is a former Canadian ice hockey goaltender who played in the National Hockey League (NHL). Luongo retired from the NHL in 2019 after playing for 19 seasons. 

[[Robert De Niro]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, American Roman Catholics, American television actors, American voice actors, Kennedy Center honorees, Movie directors from New York City, Movie producers from New York City

Robert Anthony De Niro (born August 17, 1943) is an Italian-American actor, voice actor, comedian, director and producer. His most well-known movies include Mean Streets (1973), The Godfather: Part II (1974), Taxi Driver (1976), The Deer Hunter (1978), Casino (1995), Jackie Brown (1997), Meet the Parents (2000), Silver Linings Playbook (2012), Joker (2019) and The Irishman (2019).

[[Erasmus (disambiguation)]]

Erasmus can refer to:

People:

In Rotterdam:

Other:

[[Internet Archive]]

CATEGORIES: Internet-related organizations, Archives, Non-profit organizations of California, 1996 establishments in California

The Internet Archive (IA) is a non-profit organization based in San Francisco, California that has an on-line library and archive of Web and multimedia resources. The Internet Archive was founded by Brewster Kahle in 1996.

This archive includes "snapshots of the World Wide Web" (archived copies of pages, taken at various points in time), software, movies, books, and audio recordings. To make the books available on the Internet, they are first placed into special scanning machines by volunteers and employees of the library. These machines take very high quality pictures of the books' pages, and then images and text of the books are freely available on the Website. This process is called "digitization". The old collections of films and sound are digitized in this way too before being made available online. All of the original books, movies, records and so on are stored in a giant warehouse in California, just like normal libraries store their smaller collections of books or other records. This collection is called the Open Library and aims to create "one web page for every book ever published." It was created by computer programmer and activist, Aaron Swartz.

The Archive also purchases new electronic books and loans them out to readers just like any other normal library. These electronic books can be read by viewing the Website, on the reader's own computer or electronic reading device, and even in special reading areas inside the Archive where the tables have touchscreens and computers built into them.

To ensure the stability and endurance of the archive, The Internet Archive is mirrored at Bibliotheca Alexandrina in Egypt, the only library in the world with a mirror. The Internet Archive makes the collections available at no cost to researchers, historians, and scholars. The Internet Archive is a member of the American Library Association and is officially recognized by the State of California as a library.

[[Archive]]

CATEGORIES: Documents

An archive is a collection of records. The term is also used for the location in which these records are kept.  Archives are made up of records which have been created during the course of an individual or organization's life. In general, an archive consists of records which have been selected for permanent or long-term preservation. Records, which may be in any media, are normally unpublished, unlike books and other publications. Archives may also be generated by large organisations such as corporations and governments.  Archives are different from libraries in that archives hold records which are unique. Archives can be described as holding information "by-products" of activities, while libraries hold specifically authored information "products".  The word 'archives' is the correct terminology, whereas 'archive' as a noun or a verb is related to computer science.

A person who works in archives is called an archivist. The study and practice of organizing, preserving, and providing access to information and materials in archives is called archival science.

[[Confirmation (Christianity)]]

CATEGORIES: Sacraments

In Christianity, babies might be baptised when they were young. When that baby grows to an adult, confirmation is used to make sure that the adult agrees with the promise to be a Christian, made when they were baptised. Usually in an Anglican church, people can only take their first Holy Communion if they do the confirmation before.

[[My-Otome]]

CATEGORIES: My-Otome

My-Otome (舞-乙HiME, Mai-Otome) is an anime made by the Sunrise Inc.. This is similar to My-HiME, as My-Otome has the same characters, but even they have different personalities.

[[Difference]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Difference can mean more than one thing.

[[Personality (disambiguation)]]

Personality might mean:

[[Royalty]]

Royalty could mean:

[[Osprey]]

CATEGORIES: Accipitriformes

An osprey is a type of fish-eating bird. They are also known as 'fish hawk', 'sea hawk', and 'fish eagle'.  It is a large bird measuring up to 60 cm (24 in) long from beak to tail. It has dark brown wings.

[[Thought]]

CATEGORIES: Thought, Physiology, Philosophy

Thought is the operation of the brain in conscious activity. It may or may not be goal-directed, aimed at solving specific problems. It is not the only way brains operate. Behaviour may occur as a result of instinct, and the adaptive unconscious may solve problems without a person being aware.

Other animals can use their brains to solve problems, but there is no way of telling whether they do so consciously. Thought is investigated by four or five academic disciplines, each in its own way. The disciplines include psychology, philosophy, biology, physiology, psychoanalysis and sociology.

[[Dauria (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 drama movies, 1970s action movies, 1970s romantic drama movies, Movies based on books, Russian movies

Dauria is a Russian 1971 historical action/drama directed by Viktor Tregubovich. Adapted from the novel of the same name by Konstantin Sedykh.

Epic scope and intense battle scenes won wide praise in Russia.

[[Petr Shelokhonov]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1999 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, People from Saint Petersburg, Soviet actors, Russian movie actors, Russian television actors, Russian stage actors

Petr (Peter) Shelokhonov (August 15, 1929 in Belarus - September 15 1999, St. Petersburg, Russia) was a Russian film and stage actor and director. He played over 90 roles in movies and on television. He also played over 100 roles on stage. Petr Shelokhonov received the title of Honorable Actor of Russia in 1979.

[[Skin cream]]

Skin cream could mean:

[[Conakry]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Guinea, Capital cities in Africa

Conakry or Konakry is the capital and largest city of Guinea. The city is a port on the Atlantic Ocean. The population of Conakry is about 2 million people.

[[Cotonou]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Settlements in Benin

Cotonou is the economy capital of Benin. It is the largest city in that country. The city officially has 761,137 people, but it is thought that the actual number of people living in the city may be as high as 1.2 million. Many of the government and diplomatic services of Benin are in Cotonou. Because of this, the city is Benin's de facto capital, even though the official capital is Porto-Novo.

The city is best known as a major port because of the Autonomous Port of Cotonou. It is also home to an airport and a railway between it and Parakou. Other features of Cotonou include Cotonou Friendship Stadium, Cotonou Cathedral, Cotonou Central Mosque and the 20-hectare Dantokpa Market. The National University of Benin is in Cotonou.

[[Dodoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tanzania, Capital cities in Africa

Dodoma is the capital city of Tanzania. It is the third biggest city in the country. The city is also the capital of the Dodoma region. The city has a population of 410,956 people. The name Dodoma means "It has sunk".

[[N'Djamena]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Cities in Chad, Regions of Chad

N'Djamena is the capital of Chad. It is the largest city in the country.  The city is a port on the Chari River. N'Djamena is also a special statute region. It is a regional market for livestock, salt, dates, and grains.  Meat processing is the main industry. N'Djamena has a population of 721,000 people.

Attractions in the city include the Chad National Museum, a cathedral and several mosques. Religiously the city is very mixed, although many of the people there are Islamic . N'Djamena has a university, schools of administration and veterinary medicine,  and the American International School of N'Djamena. N'Djamena International Airport is located just outside the city.

[[Development]]

Development  has meaning in several contexts:

[[San Jose Sharks]]

CATEGORIES: San Jose Sharks, 1990 establishments in California

The San Jose Sharks are an ice hockey team that plays in the National Hockey League (NHL). The team is based in San Jose, California and was founded on May 9th, 1990. It started playing in the NHL in autumn 1991. The team colours are pacific teal, grey, burnt orange and black. Because of this it is often called "Team Teal".

The Sharks host their games at SAP Center at San Jose and are coached by Peter DeBoer. Before that, Todd McLellan was their coach from 2008-2015. Some famous players for the Sharks are Joe Pavelski, Joe Thornton, Jonathan Cheechoo, Rob Blake, Evgeni Nabokov, Dan Boyle and Patrick Marleau.

On May 25, 2016, the San Jose Sharks went to their first Stanley Cup by beating the St. Louis Blues 5-2 in 6 games but however, on June 12, 2016, they lost to the Pittsburgh Penguins which was also in 6 games.

[[Bujumbura]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Cities in Burundi

Bujumbura is the former capital city of Burundi. The city is at the northeastern corner of Lake Tanganyika. It is the largest city in the country. The city is the administrative, communications, and economic center of Burundi. Bujumbura has a population of about 324,000 people.  The city makes textiles, soap and other things. Bujumbura is Burundi's main port. It transports most of the country's main export, coffee, as well as cotton, animal skins, and tin ore.

The city center is a colonial town. It has a large market, the national stadium, a large mosque, and a cathedral. Museums in the city include the Burundi Museum of Life and the Burundi Geological Museum. Other things to see include the Rusizi National Park.

Ferries sail from Bujumbura to Kigoma in Tanzania. The city is also home to the Bujumbura International Airport and the University of Bujumbura.

[[Stem]]

Stem may refer to:

[[Stem (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical notation

Stems can refer to two things in music, relating to music notation and production.

[[Hope]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Hope is a confidence in something wanted.  It can also mean:

[[Corn flakes]]

CATEGORIES: Breakfast cereals

Corn flakes are a breakfast cereal, normally served with milk. It is made by combining cooked corn along with sugar, vitamins and minerals. The dough is rolled and toasted to make the flakes. Corn flakes are marketed as a popular breakfast meal.

[[Frosted Flakes]]

CATEGORIES: Breakfast cereals

Frosted Flakes (North American countries) or Frosties (UK, Commonwealth of Nations and EU countries) is a cereal like Corn Flakes from Kellogg's, but coated with frosted sugar. Tony the Tiger has been the mascot in Frosted Flakes since it was first introduced in 1952 as Sugar Frosted Flakes (the word "sugar" was dropped in the mid-1970s), and he is known for saying the cereal's slogan: "They're grrreat!". Tony the Tiger was originally voiced by Thurl Ravenscroft, who continued providing his voice until his death in 2005. The character is currently voiced by former professional wrestling play-by-play announcer Lee Marshall, starting in January of 2006. Frosted Flakes are also available with apple pieces, banana pieces or coated in chocolate. In 2004, Kellogg's introduced a 1/3 Less Sugar recipe. 

[[Aqua Teen Hunger Force]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 television series debuts, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American animated television series, American teen television series, Aqua Teen Hunger Force, English-language television programs

Aqua Teen Hunger Force is an American animated comedy television series that is shown on the Cartoon Network's Adult Swim. The series is about three talking food items and their next door neighbor who live in New Jersey. In each 11 minute episode, the Aqua Teens often become part of some very unusual story that often involves one or more characters who often come on the show. The humor of the show is very unusual and some people do not understand it.

[[Cowley, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wyoming, Big Horn County, Wyoming, 1900 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Wyoming

Cowley is a town in the American state of Wyoming.  It is in Big Horn County in northern Wyoming. The mayor of Cowley is Roland Simmons.

[[Big Horn County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Big Horn County, Wyoming, 1897 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Wyoming

Big Horn County is a county in Northern Wyoming. The county seat is Basin. The largest city is Lovell.

[[Byron, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wyoming, Big Horn County, Wyoming

Byron is a town in the American state of Wyoming.  It part of Big Horn County. At the 2010 census, 593 people lived in Byron. 

In high school, students go to Rocky Mountain High School in Byron. Middle School students go to Rocky Mountain Middle School in Deaver and elementary school students attend Rocky Mountain Elementary School in Cowley. 

The town has an area of 0.9 mi². 0.1 mi² of it (5.62%) is water.

[[Fort Bragg, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Mendocino County, California

Fort Bragg is a town in California's Mendocino County. The population was 7,026 at the 2000 census. Fort Bragg is located on the Pacific Coast Highway, California Rte-1. A US Army officer named it for one of his old commanding officers, Braxton Bragg (1817–1876) who was a career U.S. Army officer. He was later a general in the Confederate States Army. Because of this, the town shares a name with Fort Bragg, North Carolina, and they are named for the same man.

[[Mendocino County, California]]

CATEGORIES: Mendocino County, California, 1850 establishments in California

Mendocino County is a county in Northern California.  The county seat is in Ukiah. In 2000, 

Towns in Mendocino County include:

[[Brigham Young University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Utah, Mormonism, West Coast Conference, Provo, Utah, 1875 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Utah

Brigham Young University (BYU) is an American university. It is named after the second Latter-day Saints prophet, Brigham Young. The school is in Provo, Utah. Their team colors are royal blue and white. Their mascot is the cougar. Their rivals are University of Utah.

Brigham Young University (BYU) is often called “The Y” and is a private research university. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) owns and runs the school. It is the biggest church school and third biggest private university in the United States with 33,511 students. About 99 percent of the students are part of the LDS Church, and 32% of them are from Utah. BYU students have to live an honor code, a set of rules on behavior. They must be honest in their work, follow dress rules, have no sex outside of marriage, and not take illegal drugs or drink alcohol. 66% of students (88 percent of men, 39 percent of women) start school late or take a break from school to be Mormon missionaries. It is cheaper to study at BYU than at other private universities because most of the cost of attending BYU is paid for by the LDS church.

BYU has many topics to study. This includes liberal arts, engineering, agriculture, management, physical science and mathematical sciences, nursing, and law. The university is grouped into 11 smaller parts that create their own rules on how to be allowed to study a topic. The university also has two satellite campuses(a small part of the campus that is far away from the rest of the campus), one in Jerusalem and one in Salt Lake City. The main university is run by the Church Educational System (CES), and also runs two other schools in Hawaii and Idaho. The main focus of the school is on undergraduate education, with 187 undergraduate majors and 110 undergraduate minors, but it also has 88 masters and 32 doctoral degree programs.

BYU’s sports teams compete in Division I of the NCAA and are known as the BYU Cougars.  Their football teem is a NCAA Division I independent. BYU's other sports teams play in the West Coast Conference or the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation. BYU’s sports teams have won fourteen national championships. In September 2021, BYU announced they would be joining the Big 12 Conference for all sports starting in Fall 2023.

[[Provo, Utah]]

CATEGORIES: Provo, Utah, County seats in Utah, 1849 establishments in the United States

Provo is an American city in the state of Utah. It is in Utah County and is east of Utah Lake. It lies to the west of high mountain peaks in the Wasatch Range. It is home to Brigham Young University. The city is the third largest city in the state. It has a population of 105,166 people.

[[Lil' Kim]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s births, Living people, American rap musicians from New York, Singers from New York

Kimberly Denise Jones, better known as Lil' Kim, (born July 11, 1974 in Brooklyn, New York) is an African-American rap artist and actress. She released her first album, Hard Core, in 1996. It was very successful. In 2001 she released a single with Christina Aguilera, Mýa, and Pink called "Lady Marmalade" for the Moulin Rouge! soundtrack which reached number 1 on the US Billboard Hot 100, making her the first female rapper to have a number 1 on that chart. It also reached number 1 in 13 other countries and won two MTV Video Music Awards and a Grammy Award for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals. Kim also rapped on Aguilera's 2003 single "Can't Hold Us Down", which was nominated for the 2004 Grammy Award for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals. 

[[Lovell, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wyoming, Big Horn County, Wyoming

Lovell is a town in the American state of Wyoming.  It is located in Big Horn County.

Lovell is the biggest town in the county. It is near the Shoshone river. It has an area of 1.1 mi². All of this area is land. At the 2010 census, it had 2,360 people living in it.

[[Basin, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wyoming, Big Horn County, Wyoming, County seats in Wyoming

Basing is a town in the American state of Wyoming.  It is the county seat of Big Horn County. It had 1,285 people living in it at the 2010 census.

Basin is near the Big Horn river. The town has an area of 2.0 mi². 0.04 mi² of it (1.47%) is water.

[[Lehi]]

CATEGORIES: Mormonism

Lehi is the first prophet listed in the Book of Mormon. He is the father of Nephi, Sam, Laman, Lemuel, Jacob, and Joseph. According to the Book of Mormon, Lehi was praying and was told in a dream to go to the wilderness with his family. They also believe that Judaism was the first real religion, but God left them, got into a human form and took on a different nation.

[[Otto, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Wyoming, Big Horn County, Wyoming

Otto is an unincorporated community in Big Horn County in the U.S. state of Wyoming. It was named for Otto Franc, a local cattle baron who ranched in the Big Horn Basin.

[[Saint-Denis, Réunion]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Communes in Réunion, Cities in overseas regions belonging to France, Departmental capitals in France, Regional capitals in France

Saint-Denis is the administrative capital (préfecture) of the French controlled island of Réunion, in the Indian Ocean. The city is the largest town on the island. In 2004, it had a population of about 133,700 people.

[[Chen Shui-bian]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Presidents of the Republic of China

Chen Shui-bian (c=, born October 12, 1950 in Guantian, Tainan, Taiwan) was the President of the Republic of China from 2000-2008. His term ended 55 years of Kuomintang rule in Taiwan. His nickname is Ah-bian (c=). Chen is a member of the Democratic Progressive Party.

[[The Suite Life of Zack & Cody]]

CATEGORIES: Television series by Disney, American sitcoms, 2005 television series debuts, English-language television programs

The Suite Life of Zack & Cody was a television series on Disney Channel. Because the series has already ended, it got followed by The Suite Life on Deck.

[[São Tomé]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, São Tomé and Príncipe

São Tomé is the capital city of São Tomé and Príncipe. It is the largest city in the country.  The city has a population of 56,166 people. Its name is Portuguese for "Saint Thomas."  São Tomé is important as a port. It is located on Ana Chaves Bay in the north east of São Tomé Island.

[[Everglades]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Florida, Animals of North America, National parks in the United States, World Heritage Sites in the United States, Biosphere reserves, Wilderness Areas of the United States, Wetlands

The Everglades is a flat tropical river and mangrove swamp. It is in the southern part of Florida near the city of Miami. The Everglades usually has tropical river delta which runs slowly through a low-lying basin near sea level. There are many plants many animals live there. It is the only place in the world where crocodiles and alligators live together. It is a National Park and part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site.

[[Lost (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 American television series debuts, 2010 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, ABC network shows, American drama television series, American science fiction television series, American time travel television series, Emmy Award winning programs, Golden Globe Award winning programs, Saturn Award winners, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, English-language television programs

Lost was an American television series about airplane crash survivors on a tropical island in the South Pacific. Most episodes showed events in the present combined with stories from a character's past or future. The show was created by J. J. Abrams, Damon Lindelof, and Jeffrey Lieber. It was mostly filmed in Oahu, Hawaii. The first episode was shown on September 22, 2004. Since then, a total of six seasons have been shown on television. The series is made by ABC Studios, Bad Robot Productions and Grass Skirt Productions. It plays on the ABC Network in the United States. Other television networks show the series in other countries. Because of its large cast and the cost of filming in Hawaii, the series was one of the most expensive on television.

Lost had an average of 15.5 million viewers per episode on ABC during its first year. It won many awards including the Emmy Award for outstanding drama series in 2005 and best American import at the British Academy Television Awards also in 2005.

Lost ended with its sixth season. The sixth season began in February 2010 and ended in May 2010.

[[Lost]]

Lost could mean:

In entertainment:

[[Western United States]]

CATEGORIES: Western United States, Census Regions of the United States

The Western United States—commonly referred to as the American West or simply The West—traditionally refers to the westernmost states of the United States.  As the United States has expanded westward since its founding, the definition of the West has changed over time.  In the 18th and early 19th centuries the Appalachian Mountains were considered to be the boundary.  Nowadays the Mississippi River is often referenced as the easternmost possible boundary of the West.  The Census Bureau defines the western United States as these states:

The "West" had played a large role in American history; the American Old West is an important part of America's folklore.

[[Monaco Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix

The Monaco Grand Prix (Grand Prix de Monaco) is a Formula One race held each year on the Circuit de Monaco. Run since 1929, it is widely considered to be one of the most important and prestigious automobile races in the world alongside the Indianapolis 500 and the 24 Hours of Le Mans.

[[Bangui]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Central African Republic

Bangui is the capital city of Central African Republic. It is the largest city in the country. The city has a population of 531,763 people. Most of the population of the Central African Republic lives in the western parts of the country, near Bangui.

[[ITV]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 establishments in Europe, 1950s establishments in the United Kingdom, ITV

ITV (first known as Independent Television) is a public television broadcasting service in the United Kingdom. It was set up in 1955 by the Independent Television Authority (ITA) to provide competition to the BBC.

[[Burlington, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wyoming, Big Horn County, Wyoming

Burlington is a town in Big Horn County, Wyoming, United States. It had 288 people living in it at the 2010 census.

The town has an area of 1.0 mi². This area is all land.

Children from Burlington go to Burlington High School, Burlington Junior High and Burlington Elementary.

[[Secularism]]

CATEGORIES: Religion

Secularism, also called Secularity, is the idea of something being not religious or not connected to a church or other religious organization. An example of this is the government, which is independent of any religion in many states. In some countries, such as Pakistan, England (though not the rest of the UK), Greece, Iran or Saudi Arabia, there is a state religion. In that case, the government follows the state religion. In contrast, India, South Africa or the United States have laws that religion and government should stay separate.

In a theocracy like the Vatican City and Iran, the priests of religion are the rulers of the country.

[[Jérémie Aliadière]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, French footballers

Jérémie Aliadière (born 30 March 1983) is a French football player. He plays for Middlesbrough.

[[Walgreens]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in Illinois, Chicago, Illinois, Companies based in Illinois

Walgreens is a pharmacy chain in the United States. It was founded in 1901 in Chicago. Its  headquarters are in Deerfield, Illinois.

In the 1980s, Walgreens owned and operated a chain of casual family restaurants/pancake houses called Wag's. It was very similar to Denny's, IHOP and Golden Bear. In 1988, Walgreens sold most of Wag's to Marriott Corporation and by 1991 the chain was out of business.

On October 27, 2015, Walgreens announced that it would acquire another pharmacy chain, Rite Aid.

[[Cascade Volcanic Arc]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Washington (U.S. state), Geography of Oregon, Geography of California, Volcanoes of British Columbia

The Cascade Volcanic Arc (also known as the Cascade volcanoes or the Cascade Arc) is a major range of volcanoes in southwestern British Columbia, Washington, Oregon and in northern California. The arc is central to the Cascade Range, a mountain range in the Pacific Northwest. It includes about 20 major volcanoes, among a total of over 4,000 separate volcanic vents.

Twelve volcanoes in the arc are over 10,000 ft (3,000 m) in height, and the two highest, Mount Rainier and Mount Shasta, are over 14,000 ft (4,300 m). By volume, the two largest Cascade volcanoes are the broad shields of Medicine Lake Volcano and Newberry Volcano, which are about 145 mi³ (600 km³) and 108 mi³ (450 km³) respectively.

The volcanism in the arc began about 37 million years ago, but most of the present-day Cascade volcanoes are less than 2 million years old. The most recent major catastrophic eruption in the arc was at Mount St. Helens on May 18, 1980.

The major volcanoes within the arc include Mount Silverthrone, Mount Meager, Mount Cayley, Mount Garibaldi, Mount Baker, Glacier Peak, Mount Rainier, Mount St. Helens, Mount Adams, Mount Hood, Mount Jefferson, Three Sisters, Broken Top, Mount Bachelor, Newberry Volcano, Mount Thielsen, Mount Mazama (Crater Lake), Mount McLoughlin, Medicine Lake Volcano, Mount Shasta, Shastina,Mount Tehama and Lassen Peak.

[[Satoru Iwata]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2015 deaths, Japanese businesspeople, Deaths from cholangiocarcinoma, Disease-related deaths in Japan, People from Sapporo, Nintendo people

Satoru Iwata was a Japanese businessman, video game programmer and gamer. He was the fourth president and CEO of Nintendo. He is widely regarded as someone who helped make video games liked by a wider audience by focusing on making entertaining games rather than advanced hardware.

On July 11, 2015, Iwata died of bile duct cancer at age 55. Iwata was posthumously awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award at the 2015 Golden Joystick Awards and the 2016 DICE Awards.

[[Lint (material)]]

CATEGORIES: Fibers, Materials

Lint is a collection of clothing fibers and other materials usually on or around clothing.

[[Lint]]

Lint could mean:

Lint could also mean:

[[Subtropical Storm Andrea (2007)]]

CATEGORIES: Subtropical cyclones, Hurricanes in the United States, 2007 Atlantic hurricane season, May events, 2000s in North Carolina, 2000s in South Carolina, 2007 in Georgia (U.S. state), 2007 in Florida

Subtropical Storm Andrea was the first named storm and first subtropical cyclone of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. It was made on May 9; three weeks earlier than when the 2007 season was supposed to start. Andrea started from a non-tropical rain weather area off the coast of Daytona Beach, Florida. After staying close to the same area, on May 10, Andrea weakened into a subtropical depression after coming near to dry air and wind shear, and on the next day, the National Hurricane Center stopped looking at the storm and stopped giving out advisories.

The storm made bad surf along the beach areas from Florida to North Carolina. Andrea killed a total of 6 people not in a direct way, and 5 of those deaths happened when Andrea was extratropical before being a subtropical storm.

Andrea was the first tropical storm to form before the official start of the season since Tropical Storm Ana from the 2003 season which formed on April 2003. The storm was also the first named storm to form in the month of May since Tropical Storm Arlene from the 1981 season.

[[Force field]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Science fiction technology

A force field is a field of energy that usually blocks something. The force field is common in science fiction and fantasy stories. The ideal of a force field may be from the vector field, thought it resembled the warding spells, the protective magic that was claimed to be used by shamans from long ago.

[[Shaman]]

CATEGORIES: Religious people

A shaman is a kind of medicine man who practices shamanism. Shamans were believed to be able to talk to the spirit world, usually animal spirits. In some tribes shamanism is important such as the Yanomamis (a Venezuelan tribe in the Venezuelan forest).

A shaman was a person who had a special connection to the spiritual world.

[[Plasma window]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

A Plasma window is a field of plasma that fills an area of space. It is similar to a force field. The area is created by using magnetism to hold the plasma in place. With current technology, this area of space is quite small. It is in the shape of a flat planes inside a cylinder.

As plasma increases in temperature, it becomes thicker. At a high enough temperature, plasma is thick enough to separate a vacuum from normal atmosphere. Plasma does not stop radiation, such as lasers, from moving through it. Because of this, scientists can use a plasma window to create an area of vacuum while still letting radiation to move through it. This is needed because certain types of radiation can only be created in a vacuum, but scientists need to use the radiation on things that are found in a normal atmosphere.

[[Advance]]

Advance can also mean:

[[Bari]]

CATEGORIES: Bari, Regional capitals in Italy

Bari (Bari; Bari dialect: Bare; Barium; Barion) is a city in southern Italy. Bari is the capital of Bari Provence and of the Apulia Region. The city itself has a population of about 320,475, as of 2011, over 116 km2, while the fast-growing urban area counts 653,028 inhabitants over 203 km2. The metropolitan area has a million inhabitants. It is the second biggest city in southern Italy (after Naples).

During World War II there was an air raid on Bari. It was called the "Little Pearl Harbor".

[[Plautus]]

CATEGORIES: 254 BC births, 184 BC deaths, Playwrights, Ancient Roman writers

Titus Macchius Plautus wrote plays in Ancient Rome. Many people just call him Plautus. He was probably born in Sarsina (a city in Romagna) around 254 BC. His comedies are among the earliest works of Latin literature that has not been lost. He is also one of the earliest writers of musical theater.

[[Mount Edziza]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of British Columbia, Volcanoes of British Columbia

Mount Edziza is a dormant volcano in British Columbia, Canada.

The volcano is 38 km southeast of Telegraph Creek in an area of potentially active volcanos in the Stikine Volcanic Belt. It is a shield volcano that began erupting about 10 million years ago with continued activity until about 1,340 years ago.

Edziza is made up of a lot of cinder cones and blocky lava flows that still keep their first forms. This is the second biggest area of volcanic activity in the northern Stikine Volcanic Belt as well as in Canada. The complex includes the Mount Edziza Plateau, a big volcanic plateau (65 kilometers long and 20 kilometers wide) made of mostly basaltic lava flows with four big stratovolcanoes built on top of the plateau.

A lot of eruptions have happened in the last 10,000 years including: Desolation, Mess Lake, Snowshoe lava fields, Kana Cone, Eve Cone, Cinder Cliff, Icefall Cone, Ridge Cone, Williams Cone, and Walkout Creek. Many of the volcanic features in the volcanic complex are protected as part of Mount Edziza Provincal Park one of the bigger provincial parks in British Columbia.

[[Omar Khayyám]]

CATEGORIES: 1048 births, 1131 deaths, Persian mathematicians, Persian poets, Muslims, Asian Sufis

[[Bobby Robson]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2009 deaths, British autobiographers, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from lung cancer, England national football team managers, English football managers, English footballers, Knights Bachelor, Sportspeople from County Durham, Eredivisie managers

Sir Robert William "Bobby" Robson UK (18 February 1933 – 31 July 2009) was an English association footballer and manager. As a player, he played almost 600 game and scored over 100 goals. He also played for the England national team. He scored four goals in 20 games for them.

Robson managed Fulham F.C. and Ipswich Town F.C.. He then managed the England national football team for eight years, from 1982 to 1990.  He led England to the semi-finals of the World Cup in 1990.  He left England to manage other football teams in Europe.  These included clubs from Holland, Portugal and Spain.  Robson came back to England to manage Newcastle United F.C. in 1999.

Robson was diagnosed with lung cancer. It was described as terminal in 2007. He died in 2009.

[[Deomyinae]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

The subfamily Deomyinae consists of four genera of mouse-like rodents. These were placed in the subfamilies Murinae and Dendromurinae until very recently.  They are sometimes called Acomyinae, particularly in references that predate the discovery that the link rat, Deomys ferugineus, is part of the clade.  Deomyinae is the older and more appropriate name.

Deomyines share no morphological characteristics that can be used to separate them from other muroids. Subtle aspects of the third upper molar have been suggested, though.  This subfamily is united solely on the basis of shared genetic mutations.  These conclusions have demonstrated good statistical support using nuclear and mitochondrial DNA, as well as DNA-DNA hybridization.

Because of the lack of physical characteristics that supportthis group, it is very possible that the subfamily as it is currently recognized could grow bigger.  Many of the genera currently placed in Murinae or Dendromurinae have never been included in a molecular phylogenetic analysis.  There are potential surprises awaiting when they are.

All genera are found in Africa, suggesting the deomyines may have originated there.  The spiny mice, Acomys spp. are also found in Asia.

There are currently 4 genera and 36 species included in the Deomyinae.

[[Spiny mouse]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

The term spiny mouse refers to any species of rodent within the genus Acomys. They are usually called spiny mice in English.  They look like mice of the genus Mus. Spiny mice are small mammals with bare, scaled tails.  Their coats have unusually stiff guard hairs that work the same way as the spines of a hedgehog. These stiff hairs are why they are called the spiny mouse.

Even though they look like members of the genus Mus, scientists thhink that the African spiny mice may be more closely related to gerbils than to common mice.

[[Anglicanism]]

CATEGORIES: Anglicanism

Anglicanism is a denomination within Christianity. It is made up of the Church of England and the Anglican Communion (a group of Anglican churches from many other countries). The term Anglicanism includes those who have accepted the English Reformation as embodied in the Church of England or in the offshoot Churches in other countries that have followed closely to its doctrines and its organisation.

In the English Reformation, the English Church kept the early Catholic ministry of bishops, priests, deacons, and most of the doctrine and liturgy. The event that led to the Anglican Church was the outright rejection of the Pope. This meant they also rejected the Catholic Church as an organisation.

It is sometimes seen as being the middle way between Roman Catholicism and Protestantism. That is why it is not always thought of as Protestantism.

The term Anglican comes from the phrase ecclesia anglicana. This is a Medieval Latin phrase dating to at least 1246. It means 'the English Church'. The noun Anglican is used to describe the people, institutions, churches, traditions and ideas developed by the state established Church of England and the Anglican Communion, a theologically broad and often divergent affiliation of thirty-eight provinces that are in communion with the Archbishop of Canterbury. 

[[Khayyam]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames

Khayyam could mean:

[[The Cumshots]]

CATEGORIES: Norwegian heavy metal bands

The Cumshots is a heavy metal band from Norway. The band was formed in 1999 by Kristopher Schau and Ole Petter Andreassen.

[[Pocket gopher]]

CATEGORIES: Geomyoid rodents

The pocket gophers are burrowing rodents of the family Geomyidae.  These are the "true" gophers. Several ground squirrels of the family Sciuridae are often called gophers as well. They are not true gophers,though.  The name "pocket gopher" on its own is used for a number of subspecies of the family. Pocket gophers, despite being largely a pest, are a symbol of the U.S. state of Minnesota, sometimes called "the Gopher State".

[[Geomyoidea]]

CATEGORIES: Geomyoid rodents

Geomyoidea is a superfamily of rodents that contains the pocket gophers (Geomyidae), the kangaroo rats and mice (Heteromyidae), and their fossil relatives.

[[Heteromyidae]]

CATEGORIES: Geomyoid rodents

The family of rodents that include kangaroo rats, kangaroo mice and rock pocket mice is the Heteromyidae family. Most heteromyids live in complex burrows in the deserts and grasslands of western North America. Some species within the Heteromys and Liomys genera are also found in forests and can be found down as far as northern South America. They feed mostly on seeds and other plant parts, which they carry in their cheek pouches to their burrows.

Although they are very different in physical appearance, the closest relatives of the heteromyids are pocket gophers in the Geomyidae family.

[[Kangaroo mouse]]

CATEGORIES: Geomyoid rodents

A kangaroo mouse is either one of the two species of jumping mouse (genus Microdipodops) native to the deserts of the Southwestern United States. Most of them can be found in the state of Nevada.  The name "kangaroo mouse" refers to the species' extraordinary jumping ability, as well as its habit of bipedal locomotion.  The two species are:

Both species of kangaroo mouse live in sandy desert ecosystems. They forage for seeds and vegetation amongst the scrub brush of their native habitat.  The Dark Kangaroo Mouse is also known to feed occasionally on insects and carrion.  Interestingly, the mouse never drinks water, instead deriving it metabolically from the foods it eats.  The kangaroo mouse collects food and maintains large stocks in their burrows. These burrows are excavated to a length of between 3 and 8 feet (1 to 2.5 meters).  The burrow, the entrance to which the mouse covers during daylight hours, is also used to raise litters of between 2 and 7 young.  The Pale Kangaroo Mouse burrows only in fine sand, while the Dark Kangaroo Mouse prefers fine, gravelly soils but may also burrow in sand or sandy soil.  Kangaroo mice are nocturnal, and are most active in the two hours following sunset.  They are believed to hibernate during cold weather.

The kangaroo mice are closely related to the kangaroo rats, which belong to the same subfamily, Dipodomyinae.

[[Silky pocket mouse]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

The silky pocket mouse (Perognathus flavus) is a species of rodent in the family Heteromyidae.  Like other members of the heteromyid family, they are more closely related to pocket gophers than to true mice.

[[Chaetodipus]]

CATEGORIES: Geomyoid rodents

Chaetodipus is a genus of pocket mouse.  Like other members of their family such as pocket mice in the genus Perognathus, they are more closely related to pocket gophers than to true mice.

[[Zarbon]]

CATEGORIES: Dragon Ball characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1989

Zarbon (ザーボン, Zābon) is a character in Dragonball Z.

[[Dodoria]]

CATEGORIES: Dragon Ball characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1989

Dodoria (ドドリア, Dodoria) is a character in Dragonball Z.

[[Perognathinae]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

Perognathinae is a subfamiliy of rodents. It contains the silky pocket mouse and the pocket mouse

[[Frieza]]

CATEGORIES: Dragon Ball characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1989, Fictional extraterrestrial characters, Galactic emperors

Frieza (フリーザ, Furīza) is a fictional character and first major villain in the Dragon Ball manga and Dragon Ball Z.

Frieza is one of the strongest aliens in Dragon Ball Z. He enjoys invading other planets. Frieza is a very mean person who thinks he is very strong. He has destroyed planets, without mercy. He will even kill his own servants if he wishes to. Frieza is always trying to get more power. Because of this, he ends up fighting the heroes of Dragon Ball Z so he can get the Dragon Balls. The Dragon Balls are magical balls that can grant wishes to whoever collects all 7.

Frieza is what the creator, Akira Toriyama, thought monsters looked like in his childhood.

[[Myrmecophile]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

A myrmecophile is an animal that lives with ants. A myrmecophile may help the ants, or it may be a parasite of the ants by eating them or their food.

Many myrmecophiles eat waste in ant nests, such as dead ants or fungi growing in the nest. Some myrmecophiles make food that the ants can eat. Aphids do this when they make honeydew. Ants may even farm or tend some insects, such as aphids, that make food for them. Other myrmecophiles eat the food supplies of ants, and a few eat ant eggs, larvae, or pupae.

One family (group) of butterflies lives with ants and sometimes makes food for the ants. The ants help the butterfly caterpillars by keeping away other animals that want to eat or hurt the caterpillars.

Other animals that live with ants include some beetles, flies, mites, and spiders. Flies in the genus (group) called Microdon live in ant nests and eat waste or eat larval ants. 

[[Argemone]]

CATEGORIES: Ranunculales

An argemone or prickly poppy is a plant used for decoration. It is related to the poppy. The plant is common in the Americas.

[[Grist]]

CATEGORIES: Grains

Grist is grain that has been separated from its chaff and is ready for grinding. It can also mean grain that has already been ground at a grist mill. The word grist is related to the verb "to grind".

[[Banjul]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Gambia, Capital cities in Africa, Local Government Areas of the Gambia

Banjul (formerly Bathurst) is the capital city of The Gambia. Only about 31,000 people live in the city. But the total urban area is many times larger with 413,397 people.  The city is on St Mary's Island (or Banjul Island) where the Gambia River enters the Atlantic Ocean.  The island is connected to the rest of Gambia by ferries to the north and bridges to the south. Banjul is the main urban area of The Gambia. It is the country's economic and administrative center.

Peanut processing is the main industry of the country. bee's wax, palm wood, palm oil, and animal skins are also transported from its port.

Things to see in the city include the Gambian National Museum, the Albert Market, Banjul State House, Banjul Court House, two cathedrals and several major mosques. The city is served by the Banjul International Airport.

[[Medieval Latin]]

CATEGORIES: Latin language

Medieval Latin was the form of Latin used in the Middle Ages. It was mostly used by scholars and as the liturgical language of the medieval Roman Catholic Church, but also as a language of science, literature, and administration.

Despite the clerical origin of many of its authors, Medieval Latin should not be confused with Ecclesiastical Latin. There is no real consensus on the exact tr that Late Latin ends and Medieval Latin begins. Some scholars have their surveys of it begin with the rise of early Christian Latin in the mid-4th century, but others have around the year 500.

[[Armen Grigoryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Russian singers, Armenian diaspora

Armen Grigoryan (Армен Григорян) is the front man (and main songwriter) of "Crematorium" (Krematorij) Russian rock-band.

Grigoryan was born on November 24, 1960 in Moscow. His parents were Armenian. In 1983, he formed "Crematorium" which gained a reputation throughout the former Soviet Union and began to perform at concerts all over the country. Armen Grigoryan helped the development of Russian rock music. He composes lyrics that frequently deal with the themes of life and death in various religious contexts.

[[Krematorij]]

CATEGORIES: Russian musical groups, Rock bands, Hard rock bands, Musical groups established in 1983, 1980s establishments in the Soviet Union

Krematorij (Russian: Крематорий) is a Russian rock band. The lead singer of the group is Armen Grigoryan (Армен Григорян). He is also the main songwriter for the band.

The band was formed in 1983 in Moscow. After the release of their Illusionary World album in 1985, the group was well known throughout the former Soviet Union. They began to perform at concerts all over the country. The band uses a violin in their music to give Krematorij a sound that is different from other bands. This has been important to the group's continued popularity.

[[Kristopher Schau]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Norwegian comedians, Norwegian singers, Norwegian television presenters, Musicians from Oslo

Kristopher Hugh Martin Schau (born 12 August 1970 in Oslo) is a Norwegian musician, presenter, comedian and songwriter. He was a singer in heavy metal band The Cumshots. Now he is the singer in the Norwegian rock band The Dogs.

[[Ole Petter Andreassen]]

CATEGORIES: Norwegian musical entertainers, Heavy metal guitarists, 1975 births, Living people

Ole Petter Andreassen (born September 22, 1975) is a Norwegian musician and producer. He plays guitar in heavy metal band The Cumshots.

[[InterCityExpress]]

CATEGORIES: Rapid transit systems in Germany

The ICE (InterCityExpress), is a category of high speed trains, which are operated by the Deutsche Bahn (in English: German Rail) since 1991.

The trains have an operating speed of up to 300 km/h. They are one of fastest trains in the world. Some of the high-speed lines in Germany are:

There are other (upgraded) lines where the trains can reach 200 km/h. Some new high-speed lines are under construction, some are in planning.

ICE trains are also travelling to Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, The Netherlands and Switzerland. Some of the destinations in other countries are: Aarhus, Brussels, Utrecht, Liege, Arnhem, Basel, Bern, Salzburg, Linz, Metz, Innsbruck, Amsterdam, Paris, Zürich and Vienna.

[[Honeydew]]

CATEGORIES: Botany, Insects

Honeydew is a liquid sugar that aphids and some scale insects make when they eat plant sap. Honeydew is very sticky.

To eat plant sap, the aphid or scale insect pushes its mouth parts into the plant. Plant sap is under pressure inside the plant. The pressure inside the plant pushes the sap into the insect. Sometimes the pressure is so great that the sap is forced out of the rear of the insect. This is how honeydew is made. The honeydew then drops from the insect and makes a sticky layer on the plant.

Honeydew on plants can cause sooty mould, which is white and appears as powder on the plant.

Honeydew is collected by some insects, such as some wasps and bees. Some honey bees make honeydew into a dark, strong honey, called honeydew honey. Honeydew honey is valuable in parts of Europe and Asia because people think it can be used as a medicine.

Ants collect honeydew from aphids. Many ants even harvest the honeydew directly from the aphids. This helps the aphids, because the ants chase predators, such as lady beetles, away from the aphids.

[[Ecclesiastical Latin]]

CATEGORIES: Latin language

The term Ecclesiastical Latin (sometimes called Church Latin or Italian Latin) means the Latin language that is used in documents of the Roman Catholic Church and in its Latin liturgies. It is not a distinct language but a form of Latin used for ecclesiastical purposes because the same language can be used also for commercial or other purposes.

The Church issued the dogmatic definitions of the first seven General Councils in Greek, and even in Rome, Greek remained at first the language of the liturgy and the language in which the first popes wrote. The Holy See is not obliged to use Latin as its official language, and in theory, it could change its practice.

However, Latin has the advantage that the meaning of its words is less likely to change radically over the centuries. That helps to ensure theological precision and orthodoxy.  Accordingly, recent Popes have reaffirmed the importance of Latin for the Church, particularly for those in ecclesiastical studies.

[[Mate (drink)]]

CATEGORIES: Drinks, Argentine food, Chilean food

Mate is a traditional drink in some countries in South America, especially in Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, Chile, Bolivia and Brazil. The drink, which contains mateine (an analog of caffeine), is made by an infusion of dried leaves of yerba mate (Ilex paraguariensis). It is usually drunk with friends and served in a hollow calabash gourd with a "Bombilla", a special metallic drinking straw. The straw is also called a bomba in Portuguese, and a bombija in Arabic. It is traditionally made of  silver. The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa. In Brazil it called a cuia. Even if the water comes in a very modern thermos, the drink is traditionally drunk from mates or cuias. There are now modern "tea-bag" type infusions of mate called mate cocido which have been sold in Argentina for many years. They are drunk from a cup. They are sold under such trade names as "Cruz de Malta" (Maltese Cross) and in Brazil under the name "Mate Leão" (Lion Mate).

Like other brewed herbs, yerba mate leaves are dried, chopped, and ground into a powder called yerba. The bombilla is both a straw and a sieve. The end which is placed in the drink is wider, with small holes or slots that let the brewed liquid in, but block the chunky matter that makes up much of the mixture. A modern bombilla uses a straight tube with holes, or spring sleeve to act as a sieve. Bombilla means "light bulb" in Spanish, but locally it is "little pump" or "straw".

In some areas of the Middle Eastern countries of Syria and Lebanon it is also common to drink mate. The custom of drinking mate came from Arab emigrants from South America.  Syria is the world's biggest importer of yerba mate in the world, importing 15,000 tons of yerba mate a year.

[[Bear (disambiguation)]]

Bears are a group of large mammals. They form the family Ursidae, in the order Carnivora.

The word bear could also mean:

[[Yerba mate]]

CATEGORIES: Asterids

Yerba mate, Ilex paraguariensis, is a species of holly (family Aquifoliaceae) native to subtropical South America. It grows in Argentina, southern Paraguay, western Uruguay and southern Brazil.

The yerba mate plant is a shrub or small tree. It can grow up to 15 meters tall. The leaves are evergreen, 7–11 cm long and 3–5.5 cm wide. They have a serrated margin. The flowers are small, greenish-white, with four petals. The fruit is a red berry 4–6 mm diameter.

[[Guarana]]

CATEGORIES: Sapindaceae, Fruits

Guarana or Guaraná (gu̯a.ra.'na, gu̯a.ɾa.'na or gu̯a.ɹa.'na), Paullinia cupana (syn. P. crysan, P. sorbilis), is a shrub or small tree in the Sapindaceae family. It is native to Venezuela and northern Brazil. The seed of the Guaraná fruit is a stimulant with thermogenic and diuretic properties.

The guaraná fruit's color ranges from orange to red and contain black seeds which are partly covered by white arils. The color contrast when the fruit has been split open has been likened to eyeballs; this has formed the basis of a myth (see below).

Guaraná plays an important role in Tupi and Guaraní Brazilian culture. The name 'guaraná' is derived from the Tupi-Guarani word wara'ná. These tribes believed, it was magical, a cure for bowel complaints and a way to regain strength. They also tell the myth of a 'Divine Child' that was killed by a serpent and whose eyes gave birth to this plant.

[[Broken English]]

CATEGORIES: English language, Pidgins and creoles, English-based pidgins

Broken English, or Engrish is a variant of the English language by people who do not speak English very well.

The term may refer to spoken English, and it can also describe written English. In Japan, it is common to add English text to items for decorative and fashion purposes.

The term Engrish first appears as an Asian mispronunciation of the word English in the 1940s.  It was not until the 1980s that it began to be used to as a byname for defective Asian English. The related term "wasei-eigo" means made-up English words that have entered into everyday Japanese.

Broken English can be found in East Asian countries, and also many places in other places where a lot of East Asians live. Broken English has been found on many things from poorly translated signs, menus, and manuals to strangely worded advertisements, food items, and strange t-shirt slogans. Broken English also sometimes happens when a word or sentence is badly translated on the Internet.

[[Sacred cow]]

CATEGORIES: Figures of speech, Hinduism

Sacred cow is an idiom. It is an expression or phrase that is used without the literal meaning of being about a cow or religion. When spoken or written it means a person or a belief that has been respected for a long time. It has become sacred and people are then afraid or unwilling to criticise or question it. 

The idiom is based on the honor shown to cows in Hinduism. It is thought to have started in America in the early 20th century. Similar idioms are used in many other languages. Saying "holy cow!" when surprised may be another example.

An actual 'sacred cow' or 'sacred bull'  is a real animal that is treated with sincere respect in specific religions and their celebrations. They cannot eat the meat of cows because they are sacred.

[[Murti]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism, Religious objects

In Hinduism, a murti (also spelled murthi or murthy) usually means an image in which the Divine Spirit is expressed ('murta'). Hindus call the presence of God into the image so that they can communicate with him and receive his blessings.Hindus don't worship the murti or statue itself but the god who is present in their minds and souls. It can also be set up any where

[[Virtual memory]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Virtual Memory is a way of managing memory which is a recent trend of technology used in computers. Hardware (the physical part of the computer, such as the CPU or graphics card) runs software. This software will need computer memory to run, and do what it needs to do. Most computers in use today can do more than one thing at a time, they run more than one application. This is known as multiprocessing. 

In this case, all the programs or applications that are running on the computer at a time share its resources. A computer does not have more processors or main memory (RAM) just because more programs run on it.

Virtual memory is the idea that the application sees a block of memory of a given size. The application can use this memory as it sees fit. This block of memory is virtual in the sense that it comes from different parts. Some of it may be in the main memory of the computer, but some may also be on disk. The CPU has a special part, called Arithmetic Logic Unit which does some of the translations between application memory and system resources. Modern operating systems also do a part of this work.

When a program tries to access a block of memory that is not in system memory, that program is stopped, and the block is loaded into system memory. What was in that part of the system memory is written to disk. This is usually called paging.

Certain computer systems, such as  embedded systems, do not use virtual memory, because they need a very fast response time, or one that always stays the same. One of the problems is that with virtual memory it is difficult to predict the response time. An application that uses a part of memory which needs to be loaded from disk will have a different response time from one that does not. Therefore, virtual memory concept is not used in embedded systems. 

[[Bolshoi Theatre]]

CATEGORIES: Opera houses, Buildings and structures in Moscow

The Bolshoi Theatre (Russian: Большой театр, Bol'shoy Teatr, Large Theater) is a world-famous theatre and opera company in Moscow, Russia, which gives performances of ballet and opera. It is in the centre of Moscow, near the Kremlin.

[[Guild]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Ages

A guild is an association of craftspeople or merchants who control the practice of their craft in a town. 

Many groups of people started as guilds, including scholars, and religious guilds. Many modern organisations, like universities, started as guilds. However, the basic idea of a guild was to control the training and practice of a trade or business. In Europe, guilds were given authority by the monarch. New young members had to serve as apprentices to a master for a certain length of time (such as seven years). At the end they became full members of the guild, and could set up on their own, and take apprentices of their own. That is the way the European world worked up to and including the first part of the 20th century.

There were guilds of weavers and dyers in the wool trade, of masons and architects in the building trade. There were guilds of painters,  blacksmiths, bakers, butchers, and so on. The Corporation of the City of London includes the "livery companies". These companies were originally guilds. The senior members of the livery companies choose the Lord Mayor of London, the sheriffs and certain other officers.

Guilds were common in the cities of the Middle Ages. After that, around 1700 to 1800 their influence lessened somewhat. Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Adam Smith were much opposed to the idea of guilds. They believed that guilds hindered economic development and free trade.

[[Delara Darabi]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, 2009 deaths, Human rights, Iranian people, Murderers, People executed by hanging

Delara Darabi (دلارا دارابى; September 29, 1986 - May 1, 2009) was a Iranian girl, who was sentenced to death at age of 17. She was convicted of murder, despite her highly probably innocence and was executed by hanging.

[[Freestyle football]]

CATEGORIES: Football

Freestyle football is a sport played by one person by kicking a football. Freestyle football is a new sport, which has become more popular in recent years. 

To play freestyle football, one needs skill to keep the ball off the ground. This is done by juggling the ball with one's feet. Many people can do this well. At the same time, they can add in more difficult tricks. The most famous trick is called 'around the world'.  There are five or more different ways of doing 'around the world'. Freestyle football can be played anywhere, such as in the street or a park.

[[Croydon]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Croydon, Towns in London

Croydon is a large town in Greater London, southern England in the United Kingdom. It is south of London and is part of the London Borough of Croydon.

[[Addington]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Croydon, Villages in England

Addington is a village in the London Borough of Croydon in south London. Addington is home to many historical sites in Croydon, like Croydon Palace and the Addington Palace. St Mary's Church is also in Addington and is known for the cross commemorating five archbishops in the foreground. Before the tram system was introduced in 2000 connections to the town were very short with only a few buses to Croydon. 

New Addington is a town close by to Addington. Once there was only one school in the village and all the children went to it, now that school has been demolished.

[[Flag of India]]

CATEGORIES: India, National flags

The modern Flag of The Republic of India has three colours, which are placed horizontally. At the top is saffron, which signifies sacrifice and patriotism. In the middle is white, which stands for truth in word and actions and purity in our thoughts. At the bottom is green, which stands for life and prosperity. In the middle of the white is a blue wheel, which is called the Ashoka Chakra. It has 24 spokes and it stands for progress.The Chakra or the wheel also symbolizes the Power of the State governed by Dharma. It is also called the tiranga or tricolour. The flag was discovered by Venkayya Pingali.

Gandhi first in 1921, Congress spoke of their flag. The flag Pingali Venkayya, who had designed. There were two colours, red for the Hindus, and green for Muslims. Was in the middle of a cycle. For the other religions in the white paint was added. A few days before Independence, the Constituent Assembly national modified. The spinning wheel replaced by the Ashok Chakra Lee. The new flag of the country's second President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan explained again.

The national flag of India the top band of Saffron color, indicating the strength and courage of the country. The strip between the white is a symbol of peace and truth with Dharma Chakra. The lower green stripe fertility, growth and auspiciousness of the land exhibits. Built on the white strip cycle menstrual cycle says. Wheel of Dharma wheel of the law that says the third century BC Mauryan Emperor Ashoka built the Sarnath Temple was taken from. The Chakra intends to show that this is life in movement and death in stagnation.

Are estimated using the following transfer in Indian flag colors. In flag saffron, white, green and blue colors that HTML Arljilbi and Web colors in the (hexadecimal notation); CMYK equivalent; Dye color and Penton equal number.

[[Coat of arms of India]]

CATEGORIES: India, National coats of arms, National symbols of India

The Indian Emblem of India  is the symbol of the Republic of India, formally called 'National emblem'. It has four lions. The idea for this coat of arms was taken from the Sarnath Lion Capital that was built by Indian emperor Ashoka. It's a pillar in the city of Sarnath. Ashoka built it around 250 BC using a single piece of polished sandstone. The symbol is invariably used on all types of currency notes, passports and coins of India. In the two dimensional view of this symbol, one can see 3 heads (the fourth being hidden from view). It was adopted on 26 January 1950, the day that India became a republic.

The lions represent royalty and pride.

The wheel beneath the lions is called the Ashoka Chakra or Dharmachakra comes from Buddhism, representing Truth and Honesty. The horse and the bull probably stand for the Strength (Mental) of the people of India. There are four Ashoka Chakras in total around the emblem and two horses and bulls each.

The verse written below, Satyamev Jayate is a very popular and revered saying in the ancient language Sanskrit. It can be divided phonetically into three words - Satyam, which means truth, Ev or aev, that is, only and Jayate which means wins or won. The whole verse can be translated as, 'Only (the one who speaks) the truth will win or wins.' This verse describes the power of honesty and truth in society and religion. You can lie to your friends, family, but you cannot lie to God and yourself. Your conscience will forever be stained.

The verse can also be translated as 'The truth alone triumphs'. Meaning that even after all the lies and deceptions with which we have been fooled, the truth will finally emerge victorious.

[[Spanish Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias, Spanish language

The Spanish Wikipedia (In Spanish: Wikipedia en Español) is a Spanish-language edition of Wikipedia. Started in May 2001, it is the 9th-largest Wikipedia by article count. The Spanish Wikipedia has about  articles. 

[[Crystal Palace]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in London

Crystal Palace is a place and former site of a landmark in London, England. The town is between the London Boroughs of Croydon, Bromley, Lambeth, Southwark and Lewisham. 

The town is home of the Crystal Palace television mast, a large aerial which receives television and radio signals so that people in London can hear or see the channels. The Croydon Transmitter was also put in Crystal Palace, so if something went wrong with the Crystal Palace Ariel this one could take over.

The space used to hold The Crystal Palace, a large building made mostly out of glass. It was called The Great Exhibition of 1851 and used to be in Hyde Park, but the palace was moved to Crystal Palace in 1854. People went to it for over seven decades. Sydenham Hill, where the Crystal Palace was, is one of the highest locations in London and the size of the palace made it easy to see from Central London. This led to the area around the building becoming known as Crystal Palace instead of Sydenham Hill. The palace was destroyed by fire on the 30th November 1936 and the site of the building and its grounds are now known as Crystal Palace Park and include an olympic sized swimming pool.

Crystal Palace Park is a large park in Crystal Palace, which is known across South London, mainly for the statues of the dinosaurs. There is also a stadium used for national athletics and a large sports centre. 

There is no town centre in Crystal Palace, as most of the area is covered by homes, although many people confuse Upper Norwood town centre (which has a Sainsbury's in it) as Crystal Palace. Anerley is also close by. There is a bus station on Crystal Palace Parade and there is a train station in Crystal Palace for Central London and Croydon.

[[Al-Askari mosque]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Iraq

Al-`Askarī or the `Askariyya Mosque/Shrine (Arabic: مرقد الامامين علي الهادي والحسن العسكري; transliterated: Marqad al-Imāmayn `Alī l-Hādī wa l-Ħassan al-`Askarī) is a Shī`a Muslim holy site. It is in the Iraqi city of Samarra. Samara is 60 miles from Baghdad. It is one of the most important Shīite mosques in the world. It was built in 944. Its dome was destroyed in February 2006 (see al-`Askarī Mosque Bombing).

The remains of the tenth and eleventh Shī`a Imāms, `Alī l-Hādī and his son Hassan al-`Askarī, known as "the two `Askarīs" (al-`Askariyyān), rest at the shrine. It stands next to a shrine to the Twelfth or "Hidden" Imām, Muħammad al-Mahdī. The `Askariyya Shrine is also known as the "Tomb or Mausoleum of the Two Imāms", "the Tomb of Imāms `Alī l-Hādī and Hassan al-`Askarī" and al-Hadhratu l-`Askariyya.

Also buried inside the Mosque are the remains of Hakimah Khatun, sister of `Alī l-Hādī, and of Narjis Khatun, mother of Muħammad al-Mahdi.

Time magazine reported at the time of the 2006 al-Askari mosque bombing that “al-Askari is one of Shi'ite Islam's holiest sites. Only the shrines of Najaf and Karbala are more important. Even Samarra's Sunnis hold al-Askari in high esteem. The expression 'to swear by the shrine' is routinely used by both communities".

[[Hathor]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Hathor was an Egyptian goddess. She was a cow goddess and was associated with the Milky Way. Hathor was the daughter of Ra.

[[Santorini]]

CATEGORIES: Wine regions, Calderas, Volcanoes of Europe, Islands of Greece

Santorini is a Greek island. The capital is Thira. Santorini is 63 miles from the island of Crete. The total population is 13,600. 

Santorini is considered an active volcano. 

[[Samarra]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iraq

Sāmarrā (سامراء) is a town in Iraq. It is on the east bank of the Tigris in the Salah ad Din Governorate, 125 km north of Baghdad. In 2003, the town had an estimated population of 348,700 people. 

Samarra is a city of culture and heritage. Samarra is home to the Malwiya Mosque Minerat. People from Samarra are known for looking different in physical appearance to other Iraqis. They tend to have lighter skin, hair, eyes and have more caucasian looking characteristics. 

[[Holy See]]

CATEGORIES: Popes

The Holy See (Latin: Sancta Sedes, "holy seat") is the office of the Bishop of Rome, that is, the Pope. 

The term Holy See also means the Pope and the Roman Curia, the central government of the Roman Catholic Church.

Every episcopal see is seen as holy and the Eastern Orthodox Church constantly applies the adjective "holy" or "sacred" (ἱερά) to all its sees, but "the Holy See" (definite singular) normally means the see of Rome, which is also called "the Apostolic See". While "Apostolic See" can refer to any see founded by any of the Apostles, the term is in this case used to refer to the see of the bishop seen as successor of the chief of the Apostles, Saint Peter.

Aside from Rome, the archiepiscopal See of Mainz, which was also of electoral and primatial rank, is the only other Western see that bears the title of "Holy See", although this usage is less common.

[[Tigris]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Iraq, Rivers of Turkey, Rivers of Syria, Mesopotamia

The Tigris is a river in the Middle East. It is the eastern of two rivers that define Mesopotamia. Mesopotamia literally means (the land) between the rivers. The other river is called Euphrates. The source of the river is in the Taurus mountains in Turkey. From there, it flows through Northern Kurdistan in Turkey and forms part of the border between Turkey and Syria. The remainder is in Iraq. 

The river is 1,900 kilometres (1,181 miles) long. It comes together with the Euphrates in the Shatt-al-Arab (which is called Arvand Rud in Persian). The Shatt-al-Arab flows into the Persian Gulf. The river had an important role in the development of civilization, as early farmers used water from the river to water their crops and produce more food.

[[Tawaret]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

In ancient Egyptian mythology, Tawaret (also Taweret) was the demon-wife of Apep, the first god of evil. She was often shown as a hippopotamus. Because female hippos are aggressive to protect their young, pregnant women wore amulets of Tawaret to protect their pregnancies.

Tawaret was a very popular goddess in the first Dynasty. She was, overall, the goddess who protected women during childbirth and pregnancy. In ancient Egypt, it was believed that if you wanted to live through childbirth it was necessary to pray to Tawaret.

[[Seshat]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Seshat was the ancient Egyptian idea of knowledge, shown as a goddess. She became the goddess of writing, astronomy/astrology, architecture, and mathematics. When Thoth became the god of wisdom, Seshat was seen as his daughter, or sometimes, as his wife. In art, she was shown as a woman with a stylised papyrus plant above her head. This symbolised writing since the Egyptians wrote on a material that came from papyrus.

[[Apep]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Apep (also spelled Apepi, and Aapep, or Apophis in Greek) in Egyptian mythology was an evil demon. He was associated with darkness and chaos. He was often shown as a snake.

Apep's name was often incorrectly defined as he who was spat out. It was said that he had been formed by Neith, who had been the goddess of the ancient waters in the Ennead, from a length of spit she had spat at Nu, the god of the ancient waters in the Ogdoad. Some subsequent commentators speculated that Apep must have been an earlier creator, and chief god, thus explaining why he had so much anger towards Ra.

It was believed that Ra (the sun) each night passed into Duat and then battled with Apep, always winning except for certain days in which Ra is momentarily devoured, what the Egyptians saw as an eclipse.

Instead of being worshipped he was done the exact opposite and spat upon. Models would be made of wax and clay and then burnt, spat upon, and defaced.

[[Ville Valo]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Finnish singers, Songwriters, Baritones, People from Helsinki

Ville Valo (born November 22, 1976) is a Finnish baritone singer and songwriter. He is the lead singer in the Finnish rock band HIM. He lives in Helsinki, Finland.

[[Prefix notation]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematical notation

Prefix notation is a mathematical notation. It is a way to write down equations and other mathematical formulae. Prefix notation is also known as Polish notation. The notation was invented by Jan Łukasiewicz in 1920. He wanted to simplify writing logic equations.

When prefix notation is used, no grouping elements (like parenthesis) are needed.

With prefix notation, the function is noted before the arguments it operates on. 

Some CASIO calculators use prefix notation. Some programming languages that were influenced by lambda calculus, like LISP, use prefix notation.

[[Nephthys]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Nephthys was a goddess with wide power and capacity, and she was often referred to as "The Excellent Goddess." 

She could also be dangerous, able to kill the enemies of the king with her fiery breath. In this capacity, she was considered a protector of the king.  Nephthys was not only a goddess of death, decay, and darkness but also a magician with great healing powers. 

Nephthys has a central role in the popular myths of Osiris; it is her magical powers that helps to resurrect his body, as well as to protect and nurture Horus while he is a child.

She is in some contexts presented as a protector of the dead, in other as protecting the baboon-headed Hapi, one of the 4 canopic jars.

In the Late Period, she became linked with the goddess, Anuket.

[[Anuket]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Anuket was the first ancient Egyptian goddess of the Nile river in areas like Elephantine Island, at the start of the Nile's journey through Egypt, and in nearby parts of Nubia. Her temple was built at the Island of Seheil. 

Since the god Khnum and goddess Satis were thought to be the gods of the source of the Nile, Anuket was believed to be their daughter. The Egyptians believed that the two tributaries in her area of the Nile were her arms. Because tributaries move quickly, she became associated with fast-moving things, like arrows, and the gazelle. 

In art, she was usually shown as a gazelle, or with a gazelle's head, and sometimes had a headdress of feathers.

When the Nile started its annual flood, the Festival of Anuket began. People threw coins, gold, jewelry, and precious gifts into the river, thanking Anuket for the life-giving water. The taboo that was held in several parts of Egypt of not eating fish, which were considered sacred, was lifted during this time. 

[[Proto-Indo-European language]]

CATEGORIES: Indo-European languages

The Proto-Indo-European language (PIE) is the ancestor of the Indo-European languages.

It is the best-understood of all proto-languages. It was put together by the methods of historical linguistics.

[[Ptah]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Ptah was the ancient Egyptian god of craftsmen and architects. Ptah is named in the Turin King List as the first of the eight legendary god-kings of Egypt.

In art, he is shown as a hairless, bearded mummified man, often wearing a skull cap, holding a djed or other large tool (which he is sometimes shown using during mummification ceremonies). He was believed to be married to Sekhmet.

Ptah was the local god of Memphis, one of the ancient capitals of Egypt. He is the parson of craftsmen, since it is believed that he invented the arts.

[[Kurt Waldheim]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2007 deaths, Austrian people of World War II, Autobiographers, Deaths from heart failure, Government ministers of Austria, Military personnel of World War II, Writers from Vienna, Politicians from Vienna, Presidents of Austria, Recipients of the Decoration for Services to the Republic of Austria

[[Mop]]

CATEGORIES: Cleaning tools

A mop is a tool used for cleaning. It is usually pieces of cloth or a sponge attached to the end of a long stick.

A dry mop is typically used to clean the floor, while a wet mop'' is used to remove dust.

The mop was invented by Eddy Key, a well known inventor, on June 13, 1893.

[[Pan (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

Pan was the Ancient Greek god of pastures, flocks, the mountain wilds and rustic music. In Rome, he was called Faunus. He had the body of a satyr (legs of a goat and body of a human). He was also known to produce a sound called a "panic" that caused extreme pain to any who heard it, this sound is the origin of the English word panic. He was the lord of the wild and as such, all forest dwelling creatures answer to him, including (but not exclusively) satyrs, nymphs, and forest creatures.

Pan was commonly believed to be dead, as a passing sailor heard a call as he passed an island proclaiming "Tell them the great lord Pan is dead." The sailor spread the news, leading to the belief that he is dead, however some still believe that he lives on today, slowly dying as the wilds of the world are destroyed.

[[Hypothesis]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy of science, Words

A hypothesis is a proposed explanation for some event or problem. For a scientific hypothesis, the scientific method requires that one can test it.

In the early 17th century, Cardinal Bellarmine gave a well known example of the older sense of the word in his warning to Galileo: that he must not treat the motion of the Earth as a reality, but merely as a hypothesis.

Today, a hypothesis refers to an idea that needs to be tested. A hypothesis needs more work by the researcher in order to check it. A tested hypothesis that works may become part of a theory—or become a theory itself. The testing should be an attempt to prove that the hypothesis is wrong. That is, there should be a way to falsify the hypothesis, at least in principle if not in practice.

People often call a hypothesis an "educated guess".

Experimenters may test and reject several hypotheses, before solving the problem or reaching a satisfactory theory.

A 'working hypothesis' is just a rough kind of hypothesis that is provisionally accepted as a basis for further research. The hope is that a theory will be produced, even if the hypothesis ultimately fails.

Hypotheses are especially important in science. Several philosophers have said that without hypotheses, there could be no science. In recent years, philosophers of science have tried to integrate the various approaches to testing hypotheses (and the scientific method in general), to form a more complete system. The point is that hypotheses are suggested ideas, which are then tested by experiments or observations.

[[Observation]]

CATEGORIES: Science, Philosophy of science, Basic English 850 words

Observation is an activity of an intelligent living being (e.g. human), which senses and assimilates the knowledge of a phenomenon in its framework of previous knowledge and ideas. 

Observation is more than the bare act of observing: Observation requires observing and seeking knowledge, often through experiment.

Observations that come from self-defining instruments are often unreliable. Such observations are hard to reproduce because they may vary even with respect to the same stimuli. Thus they are not of much use in exact sciences like physics which require instruments which do not define themselves. It is thus often necessary to use various engineered instruments like: spectrometers, oscilloscopes, cameras, telescopes, interferometers, tape recorders, thermometers etc. and tools like clocks, scale that help in improving the accuracy, quality and utility of the information obtained from an observation. 

The accuracy and tremendous success of science is primarily attributed to the accuracy and objectivity (i.e. repeatability) of observation of the reality that science explores.

[[East Sutton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent

East Sutton is a parish (town) about 6 southeast of Maidstone in Kent, England. It is small by number of houses but it is in a large area. East Sutton is home to a women's prison, a council estate of 16 houses and the church of St Peter's and Saint Paul's.

[[City and town halls]]

CATEGORIES: Local government, Administrative buildings

A city hall or town hall is the headquarters of a city or town's administration and usually houses the city or town council, its associated departments and their employees. It is also usually the base of the city, town, borough or county mayor. 

In North America, a hall is labeled a "city" or "town" hall depending on the size of the municipality it serves. City halls are usually found in larger cities and town halls in smaller urban areas.

In the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong and many Commonwealth countries, "town hall" is the more common term. During the 1960s many of the older town halls were replaced by "Civic centres". The civic centre was a functional building, offices of the council only, without the art gallery or hall for cultural activities which were a feature of many of the older town halls.

"County hall" is used for the headquarters of County council administrations.

[[Spectrometer]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Laboratory equipment

A spectrometer is an optical instrument used to measure properties of light over a specific portion of the electromagnetic spectrum.

The independent variable is usually the wavelength of the light. 

The variable measured is most often the light's intensity but could also, for instance, be the polarization state. A spectrometer is used in spectroscopy for producing spectral lines and measuring their wavelengths and intensities.  Spectrometer is a term that is applied to instruments that operate over a very wide range of wavelengths, from gamma rays and X-rays into the far infrared.

In general, any particular instrument will operate over a small portion of this total range because of the different techniques used to measure different portions of the spectrum. Below optical frequencies (that is, at microwave, radio, and audio frequencies), the spectrum analyzer is a closely related electronic device.

[[Province of Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: 1660s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, History of North Carolina, 18th century in South Carolina, 1663 establishments, 18th-century disestablishments in the United States, History of Georgia (U.S. state), History of Florida, 1729 disestablishments, 1660s establishments in England, 18th century disestablishments in Europe

The Province of Carolina was a British colony in North America from 1663 to 1729. It covered the present states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and a part of Florida. An argument over how the it would be governed led to its becoming the Province of North Carolina and the Province of South Carolina. Officially, these two provinces did not become separate colonies until 1729.

[[Adenosine diphosphate]]

CATEGORIES: Cellular respiration

Adenosine diphosphate (or ADP) is the chemical that plants make ATP from, during photosynthesis.

A chemical compound that can be converted to ATP with the addition of one phosphate group.

[[Tefnut]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Tefnut was the ancient Egyptian goddess of water and fertility. She and her brother and husband, Shu, were created by Atum, Ra or Amun. Tefnut was the mother of Nut and Geb also she is associated with the lion. In art she is represent as a woman with head of the lion with Sun disc.

[[Sobek]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Sobek was the ancient Egyptian god of the Nile. In art, he was shown with the head of a crocodile. In temples to Sobek, live crocodiles were kept in pools to honor him.

[[Lucky Town]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums

Lucky Town is an album by Bruce Springsteen. It was produced by Bruce Springsteen with Jon Landau and Chuck Plotkin. The album was recorded by Toby Scott and mixed by Bob Clearmountain. It was released in 1992 under the copyright of Bruce Springsteen and was distributed by Sony Music.

[[Juli]]

CATEGORIES: German rock bands

Juli is a German rock/pop band from Gießen, Hesse. Its singer is Eva Briegel, guitarists Jonas Pfetzing and Simon Triebel, bassist Andreas "Dedi" Herde and drummer Marcel Römer. The band was made out of Sunnyglade in 2001.

[[Member]]

A member is a person who belongs to a group of people.

Member may also mean:

[[Dar es Salaam]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tanzania

April 2020

Dar es Salaam (Arabic: دار السلام  Dār as-Salām) is the largest city in East Africa. It has a population of about 4,360,000 people. The city is also Tanzania's richest city. It is an important economic centre. 

Dar es Salaam was the capital city of Tanzania until 1996. Even though the capital was moved to Dodoma, Dar Salaam is still the location of much of the country's government. It is also the capital of the Dar es Salaam Region. The city's name in Arabic means "Abode of Peace". Dar es Salaam was at one time called Mzizima. April 2020 

[[National Hurricane Center]]

CATEGORIES: Tropical cyclones, Miami, Florida

The U.S. National Hurricane Center (NHC) is a department of the National Weather Service, and a component of the National Centers For Environmental Protection. It is responsible for tracking and forecasting the likely behaviour of tropical and subtropical cyclones, potential tropical cyclones, and disturbances. The NHC headquarters is in Miami, Florida.

When tropical storm or hurricane conditions are predicted within 48 hours on land, the center issues the proper watches through the news media and NOAA Weather Radio. When those conditions are expected within 36 hours, a warning will be issued. Although it is an organisation of the United States, the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) has designated the NHC as Regional Specialised Meteorological Center for the North Atlantic and eastern and central Pacific Ocean. In other words, the NHC is the central source of information for all tropical cyclone forecasts and observations happening in these areas, whatever their effect on the US. The NHC does not come up with their own names, but the WMO comes up with the names instead.

[[Gaborone]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Botswana, Capital cities in Africa

Gaborone is the capital city of Botswana. It has a population of 231,626 people. Gaborone is one of the fastest-growing cities in Africa. Gaborone is on the Notwane River in the southeastern corner of Botswana. It is 15 from the South African border.

The main campus of the University of Botswana is in the city. Gaborone's airport, Sir Seretse Khama International Airport, is Botswana's main international airport.

[[Libreville]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Gabon

Libreville is the capital city of Gabon. It is the largest city in that country. The city has a population of 578,156 people. Libreville is a port on the Gabon River, near the Gulf of Guinea. It is a trade center for a timber region.

The Libreville International Airport, the headquarters for Air Gabon, is about 11 north of the city.

[[Brahmaputra River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Bangladesh, Rivers of China, Tibet, Rivers of Assam, Rivers of India

The Brahmaputra, also called Tsangpo in Tibet, is one of the main rivers in Asia. It has its origin in the Himalayas of Tibet. It flows through Tibet, India and Bangladesh. It is 2900 long. Massive flooding occurs when the ice melts in the Spring.

The Brahmaputra’s source is the Chemayungdung Glacier, which covers the slopes of the Himalayas.

It joins with the Ganges river and empties into the Bay of Bengal and also forms the Gangetic delta, which is the largest delta in India. 

[[Lilongwe]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Malawi, Capital cities in Africa

Lilongwe is the capital city of African country of Malawi. It lies in the center of the country on the Lilongwe river. It is near the border of Malawi, Mozambique, and Zambia. The city has a population of 597,619 peopleAugust 2018. Lilongwe is the second largest city in Malawi.

[[Shu (god)]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Shu was the ancient Egyptian god of dry air, and so was a calming and cooling influence. He was also like Atlas from Greek mythology—his job was to separate Nut and Geb

[[Malabo]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Equatorial Guinea

Malabo is the capital city of Equatorial Guinea. It is on the northern coast of Bioko Island. The number of people living there has grown quickly over the past ten years to about 100,000.

Notable buildings in Malabo include Malabo Cathedral and the Malabo Court Building.  The city is served by Malabo International Airport, while ferries sail from its port to Douala and Bata.

[[Multimedia]]

CATEGORIES: Communication

Multimedia is communication that uses more than one type of information content (e.g. text, audio, graphics, animation, video) to inform or entertain the audience (user). Multimedia also means the use of electronic media to store and experience multimedia content.

Multimedia means that computer info can be represented through audio, graphics, image, video and animation in addition to traditional media (text and graphics).

[[Shield volcano]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes

A shield volcano is a large volcano with shallowly-sloping sides. The name derives from a translation of "Skjaldbreiður", an Icelandic shield volcano whose name means "broad shield," from its resemblance to a warrior's shield. 

Shield volcanoes are usually formed by lava that flows easily. Consequently, a volcanic mountain having a broad profile is built up over time by flow after flow of relatively fluid basaltic lava issuing from vents or fissures on the surface of the volcano. Many of the largest volcanoes on Earth are shield volcanoes. 

The largest is Mauna Loa on the Big Island of Hawaii. Shield volcanoes can be so large they are sometimes considered a mountain range, such as the Ilgachuz Range and the Rainbow Range, both of which are in Canada. These shield volcanoes formed when the North American Plate moved over a hotspot similar to the one feeding the Hawaiian Islands, called the Anahim hotspot. There are also shield volcanoes, for example, in Washington, Oregon, and the Galapagos Islands. The Piton de la Fournaise, on Réunion Island, is one of the more active shield volcanoes on earth, with one eruption per year on average.

Shield volcanoes are known to form on other planets. The largest known mountain in the solar system, Olympus Mons on Mars, is a shield volcano. Shield volcanoes on Mars are higher and much more massive than those on Earth. 

On Earth, because of plate tectonics, hotspot volcanoes eventually move away from the source of their magma and the volcanoes are individually less massive than might otherwise be the case. Shield volcanoes usually occur along constructive boundaries or above hotspots. However, the many large shield volcanoes of the Cascade Range of northern California and Oregon are over a more complex environment.

[[Caldera]]

CATEGORIES: Calderas

A caldera is a volcanic feature formed by the collapse of land surface after a gigantic volcanic eruption. In such an eruption the volcano's magma chamber is empty enough for the ground above it to drop.

A caldera may look like a volcanic crater except that a crater is made by blasting outward, not by collapsing inward. The word caldera comes from the Portuguese language, meaning "cauldron". Some complex features are made by both processes.

When Yellowstone Caldera last erupted some 650,000 years ago, it released about 1,000 km3 of material, covering much of North America in debris up to two metres thick. By comparison, when Mount St. Helens erupted in 1980, it released 1000 times less material.

The ecological effects of the eruption of a large caldera can be seen in the record of the Lake Toba eruption in Indonesia.

About 75,000 years ago, the Toba catastrophe released about 2,800 km3 of ejecta. This was the largest known explosive eruption within the last 25 million years.  In the late 1990s, anthropologist Stanley Ambrose suggested that a volcanic winter induced by this eruption reduced the human population to about 2,000  20,000, resulting in a population bottleneck. Others suggested that the human race was reduced to about five to ten thousand people. 

However, there is no direct evidence that the theory is correct  and some evidence that it is not.

[[Addiscombe]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Croydon

Addiscombe is a area in Croydon, in the London Borough of Croydon, England. Three hundred years ago, Addiscombe was a rural area. The area was mainly used for farming and brick-making. There used to be a railway that went through Addiscombe, but in 2000, it was changed to tramlink tracks and a new stop was built.

[[South Norwood]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Croydon

South Norwood is an area in south-east London in the London Borough of Croydon, England. It is one of four places in London called Norwood, Norwood New Town, West Norwood and Upper Norwood are the others. There are around 14,590 people living in South Norwood alone. SE25 is the postcode for the area.

Norwood Junction train station is the station which serves most of South Norwood, to Central London. There are two secondary schools in South Norwood called, Harris Academy South Norwood (was Stanley Technical High School) and the other being Harris Academy Crystal Palace. There are also a lot of primary schools in the area. 

The writer of the Sherlock Holmes stories lived in South Norwood on Tennison Road from 1891 to 1894. One of his stories was about the area. In 1966, a dog called Pickles discovered the World Cup Jules Rimet Trophy under a bush farther up in Beulah Hill.

South Norwood Country Park is a large green space and nature reserve in South Norwood, it was the site of a former sewage farm which was made for the growing population of London. Croydon Sports Arena which holds games for Kent League team Croydon Football Club (Croydon F.C.). Crystal Palace F.C. play at Selhurst Park in Norwood. The team, for the 2007-08 season are in the Championship.

[[Software bug]]

CATEGORIES: Software

A software bug is a problem with the code in a computer program which makes it not work properly. They can cause inconvenience to the user and may make their computer crash or freeze. Most computer programs have bugs. A program that has a large number of bugs (or possibly a single or a few serious bugs) is said to be buggy.

Most bugs are caused by bad programming by the developer, but sometimes they can be caused by compiler problems. When bugs are found, people send bug reports to the developer to tell them about the bug and let them fix it.

Sometimes, people say that their computer has a bug when something is wrong with it. The problem is usually caused by a computer virus which has infected their computer and is making it slow or do different things.

Some bugs are harmless, for example, many video games incorrectly allow objects to move through walls. Other bugs are more severe, for example, a bug in a navigation system that causes an airplane to explode.

[[Telephone tapping]]

CATEGORIES: Telephone, Criminal investigation

Telephone tapping or wire tapping/wiretapping is when somebody listens to another person's telephone calls. They usually use a listening device called a bug to listen to and record the conversation so that another person can then listen to it later.

This is illegal in many countries, including the UK and US because it means that telephone calls are not private. Sometimes, the police need to 'tap' into telephone calls to catch terrorists or other criminals. Evidence from illegal tops may be used in criminal trials in some countries. 

[[Sara Paxton]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, Jewish American actors, Jewish American musicians, Singers from Los Angeles, California

Sara Paxton (born April 25, 1988, California) is an American actress and singer. She is best known for her role as Mari Collingwood in The Last House on the Left. She is also known for acting in the movies, Aquamarine, Halloweentown 3. She has starred in her own television show called Darcy's Wildlife. Her, mother is a Mexican Jew and her father, is an American who converted to Judaism when marrying her mother.

[[Lipstick]]

CATEGORIES: Cosmetics

Lipstick is a type of cosmetic used on the lips. It is used to make the lips shiny or to color them.

[[Lip gloss]]

CATEGORIES: Cosmetics

Lip gloss is a cosmetic. It makes lips shiny. Lip gloss can also have shimmer, tints, glitter and flavor.

[[Mbabane]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Eswatini, Capital cities in Africa

Mbabane is the capital city of the African country of Eswatini.  It is on the Mbabane River and the Polinjane River in the Mdimba Mountains. The city is in the district of Hhohho and is also the district capital. The city has an estimated population of 70,000 people.

The town grew after the country's administrative centre moved there from Manzini in 1902.  It is also the commercial center for the surrounding region. Tin and iron are mined nearby.

siSwati is the main language of the city but many people also speak English. The economy of Mbabane, like the country as a whole, is based on tourism and sugar exports.

[[Pentecostalism]]

CATEGORIES: Pentecostalism, Christian movements and denominational families

Pentecostalism is a faith within Evangelical Christianity. It believes in a personal experience with God through the baptism of the Holy Spirit (); the same as in the Biblical account on the Day of Pentecost. Pentecostalism is similar to the Charismatic groups, but it came about earlier and separated from the main church branches. Charismatic Christians, at least in the beginning, tended to stay in their denominations and did not divide away.

[[Pentecost]]

CATEGORIES: Christian holidays

Pentecost (πεντηκοστή ‘ημέρα, pentekostē hēmera) meaning "the 50th day" in Greek), also called Whitsun, Whitsunday, or Whit Sunday in the United Kingdom and other English-speaking areas, is a holiday and season in the Christian liturgical year. It is the 50th day after Easter (and the 10th day after Ascension Thursday). It is Historically and symbolically related to the Jewish harvest festival of Shavuot. It is to remember the coming of the Holy Spirit to the Apostles and other followers of Jesus as described in the book of Acts in the Bible, as Jesus had promised after he rose from the dead. About 3,000 people were baptized that day, which to many, making it the real start of the Christian Church.

The date of the Day of Pentecost for 2019 is June 9 (Western)/June 16 (Eastern)

[[Trust]]

Some people lie and lie. While others risk the chance to be angrier at them to have trust. Trust is a trait this is earned. It can be powerful. But you can lose it easily.

Trust may refer to:

In personal relations (social sciences):

[[Niamey]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Cities in Niger

Niamey is the capital city of the African country of Niger. It is Niger's largest city. The city is on the Niger River. Naimey is the administrative, cultural and economic center of the country. The city has 674,950 people.

The city is in a pearl millet growing region. Manufacturing industries in the city include bricks, ceramic goods, cement and weaving.

[[Basic Roman]]

CATEGORIES: English language, Pronunciation

The Basic Roman spelling of English is a 2002 proposal for regular English spelling. It is based on five principles:

The Basic Roman system serves no particular standard of English pronunciation. Instead, it gives one way to spell the different varieties of English. The system uses 22 Roman letters to represent the set of English phonemes considered by J.C. Wells. The letters ‘j’, ‘q’, ‘w’ and ‘x’ are not used (letters ‘j’ and ‘w’ are used in an extended version of the Basic Roman spelling, see below).

By way of illustration, the following reference text by V. Yule is given in traditional spelling and in Basic Roman (shown is the non-rhotic version; in the rhotic one, relevant words like ‘daughter’, ‘heart’, ‘pictures’ etc. are spelled ‘dootar’, ‘haart’, ‘pikcharz’ etc.):

A more elaborate version of the system is the Extended Basic Roman spelling of English, which uses also the letters ‘j’ and ‘w’, and has two specific two-letter combinations for the English voiced and voiceless dental fricatives. The above sample text would appear in Extended Basic Roman (non-rhotic version) as follows:

Apart from respelling of English, the Basic Roman could also be used as the target spelling of a universal algorithm for the designing of superior, user-friendly Romanization systems transliterating and transcribing a variety of languages. This ‘streamlined approach’ has been successfully tested in the case of Bulgarian language, with the 1995 Streamlined System for the Romanization of Bulgarian becoming established in Bulgaria (eventually codified in a 2009 law), and adopted also by UN in 2012, and for official US and UK use by BGN and PCGN in 2013. Recently this approach has been used to design the 2017 Streamlined System for the Romanization of Russian aimed at replacing the plethora of systems currently occurring in the non-academic practice of transliteration of Russian Cyrillic.

The Extended Basic Roman is close to one-to-one phoneme-grapheme correspondence, paving the way to a pronunciation respelling for English by means of the closely related Roman Phonetic Alphabet for English.

[[Wadjet]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Wadjet is a goddess in Egyptian mythology. She was often shown in art as a cobra and was the protector of lower Egypt. Later, she became the protector of kings. Her worship was already established by the Predynastic Period, but did change somewhat as time progressed. She began as the local goddess of Per-Wadjet (Buto) but soon became a patron goddess of Lower Egypt.

[[Buto]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Egypt

Buto or Butos or Butosos, was the later, Greek name for an ancient Egyptian city  95 km east of Alexandria in the Nile Delta of Egypt. It is the modern Kem Kasir.

[[Scribe]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Egypt, Occupations, Writing systems

A scribe is an ancient occupation. A scribe's job involved reading and writing, especially during the Renaissance.  Being a scribe meant writing letters, and historical records for  kings, nobility, and temples.  It was an important job when few people could read and write. Later, it changed into being secretaries, clerks: public servants, journalists, accountants and lawyers. Today, there are no scribes, but there are still authors and writers.

[[Ascension]]

CATEGORIES: Christian holidays

Ascension is a Christian holiday. The word "ascension" means "going up".  According to the story told in the Bible, Jesus ascended (went up) to heaven. This was seen by his apostles. The holiday is celebrated forty days after his resurrection. The story tells that Jesus' body went to heaven, and that in heaven he sits at the right-hand side of God the Father.

Ascension Day is officially celebrated on a Thursday.  However, not all countries hold the feast on this day. It is one of the ecumenical feasts. All Christians celebrate this feast, much like Easter and Pentecost. It is a very important feast in the calendar of the Christian Church.

In some countries (at least in Austria, Belgium, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany (since the 1930s), Haiti, Iceland, Indonesia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Namibia, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Vanuatu) it is a public holiday; Germany also holds its Father's day on the same date. Gospel Jesus

[[Need for Speed]]

CATEGORIES: Need for Speed games, Video game series

Need for Speed, also known by its initials NFS, is a racing video game franchise, made by Electronic Arts and developed by several studios including EA Black Box, Criterion Games and Ghost Games.

These are the games of the series:

[[Jeanne Calment]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 births, 1997 deaths, French centenarians, People from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, Supercentenarians

Jeanne Louise Calment (21 February 1875 – 4 August 1997) was a French supercentenarian and at the time of her death at age 122 years, 164 days the verified oldest person in history as well as the only person who has surpassed 120 years of age, although her claimed age is possibly disputed. She was active during her life, lived on her own until she was almost 110, and talked a lot until months before her death.

Calment still rode her bike at the age of 100 in 1975. Once, she fell off and developed a brief period of amnesia. She recovered sometime later. In 1888, when she was 13, Calment met Vincent van Gogh while he visited her uncle's shop to buy canvas. 

During her later years in the 1990s, she could not hear very well. In 1995 at the age of 120 years, she became the subject of her own documentary, 120 Years with Jeanne Calment. She died in Arles.

[[François Truffaut]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Paris, Cancer deaths in France, Deaths from brain cancer, French movie actors, French screenwriters, French voice actors, French movie critics, Movie directors from Paris, Movie producers from Paris, Writers from Paris, 1932 births, 1984 deaths

François Roland Truffaut (6 February 1932 – 21 October 1984) was a French movie director, producer, writer, actor and critic. He was very popular in the 1960s for such noted movies as The 400 Blows, Jules and Jim, Stolen Kisses, The Wild Child and others.

Truffaut was born in Paris and died of brain cancer in Neuilly-sur-Seine, Hauts-de-Seine.

[[Leif Erikson]]

CATEGORIES: 970 births, 1020 deaths, Icelandic people, Explorers

Leif Eriksson or Ericsson, Erickson, and Ericksson (c. 970 – c. 1020) was a Norse explorer. He was the first known European to travel to North America. 

[[Thomas More]]

CATEGORIES: 1478 births, 1535 deaths, British lawyers, Christian saints, English Roman Catholics, English writers, Executed English people, Legislative speakers, Lord Chancellors, People executed by decapitation, Politicians from London

Sir Thomas More or Saint Thomas More (7 February 1478 – 6 July 1535), was an English writer, lawyer, and statesman. He held many important jobs including Speaker of the House of Commons, Lord Chancellor and advisor to the King Henry VIII. He also invented the word "utopia", which means: "an ideal place to live". This is described in the book he wrote called Utopia. 

When King Henry left the Roman Catholic Church because the Pope would not give him a divorce from his first wife, he started The Church of England. More was a devout Catholic, so he did not accept the King as head of the Church. Because of this, he was arrested and executed for treason. He was thought of as a martyr and made a saint by the Roman Catholic Church in 1935. His feast day is on 22 June and he is the patron of lawyers and politicians. A play and movie called A Man For All Seasons is based on his life.

[[Juan Perón]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1974 deaths, Argentine generals, Former dictators, Presidents of Argentina, Vice Presidents of Argentina

Juan Domingo Perón (October 8, 1895 – July 1, 1974) was an Argentine general and politician. He was born in Buenos Aires. He served as President of Argentina from 1946 to 1955, ruling with Eva and again from 1973 to 1974 with his wife Isabel, who was his vice president. In Argentina, he and his second wife Eva or Evita are considered icons by many people, especially members of Peronist party, which he started and is still popular today. He was elected in 1946. In 1955 he was overthrown and force to leave the country. In 1973, he returned and ran for President again with his third wife Isabel as Vice-President and was elected. He died in Buenos Aires less than a year after being elected. His widow, Isabel took his place, which made the first woman to be the head of a country's government in the Western hemisphere.

He was very popular among the working class because he was the first politician in a long time to care about the Argentine people. He required businesses to pay decent wages and safe conditions. He also did other social reforms, but also was pretty controlling. He controlled what could be said over the radio and sent people opposing him to jail. He also controlled unions and businesses, so although they had power, the government had last word.

[[Kosher]]

CATEGORIES: Food and drink, Judaism

Kosher  is the name that Jews give to the laws about the kind of food that they may eat. Their holy books specify certain kinds of food that are all right to eat, and that other kinds should not be eaten. 

The Kosher laws say that products classified as meat must not be eaten in the same meal with dairy products. Fish, fruit, and vegetables are considered neutral, called pareve (pronounced "PAR-veh"), and may be eaten with either meat or dairy meals. Jews who "keep kosher" have separate utensils for meat and dairy foods, and wait a number of hours after eating one type of food before eating the other type.

The meat of some animals may not be eaten at all. Animals whose meat may be eaten must be killed in a special, careful way by a religiously trained slaughterer. Meat that is not fit to eat is called treif (pronounced TRAYf).

[[Cartagena, Colombia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colombia, Geography of Colombia, 1533 establishments, 1530s establishments in the Spanish Empire

Cartagena (pronounced /kartaˈçena/ in Spanish; the usual English pronunciation is /ˌkaːtəˈheɪnə/ or /ˌkaɹɾəˈheɪnə/), also known as Cartagena de Indias (Cartagena of the West Indies), is a large city seaport on the northern coast of Colombia. It is the  capital of the Bolívar Department. As of 2005, it has a population of roughly 895,400. It was founded in 1533 by Don Pedro de Heredia, and named after the port of Cartagena in Spain's Murcia region. It  was a major centre of early Spanish settlement in the Americas, and continues to be an economic hub as well as a popular tourist destination.

[[Greta Garbo]]

CATEGORIES: American child actors, American movie actors, Breast cancer survivors, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from renal failure, Infectious disease deaths in New York City, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Actors from Stockholm, Silent movie actors, Swedish movie actors, 1905 births, 1990 deaths

Greta Garbo (September 18, 1905 – April 15, 1990) was a Swedish-American actress. 

[[Anita Ekberg]]

CATEGORIES: Disease-related deaths in Italy, People from Malmo, Swedish models, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, 1931 births, 2015 deaths

Kerstin Anita Marianne Ekberg (29 September 1931  11 January 2015) was a Swedish actress. She was born in Malmö, Skåne. She was best known for her role in the movie La Dolce Vita (1960), which was directed by Federico Fellini. 

Ekberg died from a long-illness in Castelli Romani, Italy, aged 83.

[[World Championship Wrestling]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 establishments in the United States, 2001 disestablishments in the United States, Companies based in Atlanta, Georgia, Sports in Atlanta, Georgia, Time Warner subsidiaries, World Championship Wrestling

World Championship Wrestling (WCW) was a professional wrestling company and also the name of a 2-hour wrestling show on TBS created by Ted Turner in 1982. 

[[The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 American television series debuts, 1996 American television series endings, 1990s American comedy television series, American sitcoms, NBC network shows, Television series about families, Television series set in Los Angeles, California, English-language television programs

The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air is an American television series. It is a sitcom that aired on NBC from September 10, 1990, to May 20, 1996 for six seasons. It is set in Bel Air, Los Angeles, and stars Will Smith as the "Fresh Prince". At the beginning he lives with his mother in poverty in Philadelphia. In the first episode he moves to Bel Air to live with his rich aunt, uncle and cousins. It was nominated for two Golden Globe Awards. The show was also successful outside of the United States, and was on the UK channel BBC2 from 1991 to 2004.

[[The Nation of Domination]]

CATEGORIES: WWE teams and stables

The Nation of Domination (NoD) was a professional wrestling stable (a group of wrestlers who work together) in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). The group was based on the Nation of Islam. It was created in the WWF by Faarooq. There were usually no more than four or five members of the NoD at any one time but as members left or became injured, other wrestlers would replace them. Members of the NoD included Rocky Maivia (The Rock), Crush, Savio Vega, D'Lo Brown, Ahmed Johnson, Kama Mustafa, Mark Henry and Owen Hart. The NoD separated in October of 1998.

The NoD fought mainly against Degeneration X, led by Triple H.

[[Potomac River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Maryland, Rivers of West Virginia, Washington, D.C., Rivers of Virginia

The Potomac River is a river in the eastern United States. It is 665 kilometers long. It forms part of the borders between Maryland, West Virginia, Washington, D.C., and Virginia. The Potomac flows to the Chesapeake Bay. It has two sources. The North Branch starts at Fairfax Stone in West Virginia, and the South Branch starts in Highland County, Virginia. The North Branch and the South Branch meet in Hampshire County, West Virginia, and make the Potomac River.

[[Greenbrier County, West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: West Virginia counties, 1782 establishments in North America, 1780s establishments in the United States

Greenbrier County is a county in the state of West Virginia, in the United States.  About 34,400 people were living in Greenbrier County as of 2000.  As of 2000, Greenbrier County had an area of 1,024 square miles.

[[Emperor Go-Sanjō]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Go-Sanjō  was the 71st emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign started in 1068 and ended in 1073.

This 11th century sovereign was named after Emperor Sanjō and go- (後), translates literally as "later." He is sometimes called the "Later Emperor Sanjō". The Japanese word "go" has also been translated to mean the "second one;" and in some older sources, this emperor may be identified as "Sanjō, the second," or as "Sanjo II."

[[Emperor Jimmu]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan, Japanese mythology

Emperor Jimmu was the 1st emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.   Jimmu is known as the  founder of the Imperial dynasty.

There are no certain dates for this emperor's life or reign.  The names and sequence of the early emperors were not confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[585 BC]]

CATEGORIES: 580s BC

[[Posthumous name]]

CATEGORIES: Names

A posthumous name is an honorary name given to someone after their death. This type of name was common with naming royalty in the countries of Japan and China. They were also sometimes used in Vietnam and Korea.

[[You Can't Do That on Television]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 television series debuts, 1990 television series endings, 1970s comedy television series, 1980s Nickelodeon shows, 1980s Canadian television series, 1980s comedy television series, 1990s Canadian television series, 1990s comedy television series, Canadian children's television series, Television sketch shows, 1979 establishments in Canada, 1990s disestablishments in Canada, English-language television programs

You Can't Do That on Television (YCDTOTV) is a Canadian children's television program. It was created by Roger Price and produced from 1979 until 1990. It mostly featured child actors in a sketch comedy format, acting out short scenes based on a theme that served as the topic for the episode. Connecting scenes based on the theme would often serve to create a story arc that lasted the length of the episode. Nickelodeon became known for its iconic green slime that was originally used in this show. The series is known also because future pop recording artist Alanis Morissette was in it as a cast member at some time.

In 2002, and again in 2004, YCDTOTV cast members reunited alongside fans of the show at SlimeCon, a fan-produced convention in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. YCDTOTV was a children's comedy show. Some people see it as a nostalgic cult classic. During the 2004 event, a Top Secret reunion special had its premiere.

[[Medellín]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colombia, 1616 establishments, 17th-century establishments in the Spanish Empire

Medellín (pronounced mɛdəˈjiːn or mɛdəˈliːn, Spanish: með̞eˈʝin or með̞eˈʎin) is the capital city in the Metropolitan Area of Medellín of the Antioquia Department, Colombia. It was founded in 1616 by Francisco Herrera Campuzano. As of 2014, the municipality of Medellín had a population of about 2.45 million inhabitants. This makes it the second most populated city in Colombia after Bogotá, which is the capital city of Colombia. Medellín also is the core of the Valle de Aburrá (Aburrá Valley) metropolitan area. This is the second largest metropolitan area in Colombia, with more than 3.8 million inhabitants, and a leading and productive industrial and urban center.

The city's major problem is unemployment. Many other Colombian cities also have this problem. People from Antioquia and especially from Medellín are called Paisas although the Paisas are people from the departments of Antioquia, Risaralda, Caldas and Quindío.

[[Nouakchott]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Mauritania

Nouakchott (نواكشوط or انواكشوط) is the capital city of the African county of Mauritania. It is the largest city in that country and one of the largest cities on the Sahara Desert. The city is the administrative and economic centre of Mauritania. The Arabic name is said to mean "The place of winds" in the language of the Berber people.

The city is often a place where the urban Mauritanians and the nomadic people of the area can interact.

The population of Nouakchott is about 881,000 people. It is hard to know exactly how many people live in the city because many of them are nomadic. They find a good place to live, set up their tent for a short time and then move to somewhere else.

Although Islam is the state religion in Mauritania, Nouakchott includes the Cathedral of St. Joseph, a Catholic cathedral.

Nouakchott has a deep-sea port. It was opened in 1986. The port is mainly used for imports. The city also features an international airport. The city is home to the Université de Nouakchott. It is the only university in Mauritania. Things to see in Nouakchott include Nouakchott Museum, several markets including Nouakchott Silver Market, and the beaches.

[[Saint Nicholas]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, 270 births, 343 deaths

Saint Nicholas (Greek: Άγιος Νικόλαος, ayios nicholaos) (270–6 December 343), or Nikolaos of Myra, was the Bishop of Myra. 

He was born in the Greek colony of Patara, in Asia Minor. Myra is near Antalya, in modern-day Turkey.

In the 11th century, his remains were taken to Bari, Italy, to save them from Turkish (Muslim) invaders. 

He is the patron saint of very many groups, including thieves and murderers. So far as is known, what he did in that respect was to protect the falsely accused.

He is venerated in both Eastern Orthodox and Catholic Churches.

[[HBO]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 establishments in New York (state), HBO

The Home Box Office (HBO) is an American cable television network. HBO show movies made for theaters as well as television. The also show many original television programs, including  The Sopranos,  Six Feet Under, and Big Love. Other popular series include Oz, True Blood, Carnivàle, Curb Your Enthusiasm, Game of Thrones, Boardwalk Empire, The Wire, Entourage, and Deadwood. HBO is owned by WarnerMedia (formerly TimeWarner).''

[[The Electric Company]]

CATEGORIES: PBS Kids shows, 1971 establishments in the United States, 1977 disestablishments in the United States, English-language television programs, 1971 television series debuts, 1977 television series endings

The Electric Company was an educational American children's television series. It was produced by the Children's Television Workshop (1971-1977)/Sesame Workshop (2006 and 2009-2011) for PBS in the United States. PBS broadcast 930 episodes over nine seasons from 1971 to 1977, 2006, and 2009 to 2011. CTW (1971-1977)/Sesame Workshop (2006/2009-2011) produced the show at Reeves Teletape Studios (1971-1977)/Kaufman Astoria Studios (2006/2009-2011) Second Stage in Manhattan.

The Electric Company used sketch comedy and other devices to create an entertaining program to help children of elementary-school age get better at reading skills. It was meant for children who had "graduated" from CTW's main program, Sesame Street.

Season 1 is released in October 25, 1971 - April 21, 1972;  season 2 is released in October 23, 1972 - April 20, 1973; season 3 is released in October 22, 1973 - April 19, 1974, season 4 is released in October 21, 1974 - April 18, 1975, season 5 is released in October 20, 1975 - April 16, 1976, season 6 is released in October 18, 1976 - April 15, 1977, season 7 is released in 2006 and January 19 - October 1,  2009, season 8 is released in January 25 - May 7, 2010, and season 9 is released in February 7 - March 28, 2011. June Angela as Julie (1971-1977 and 2009) was a long-running cast member of the 1971-1977 rock band named The Short Circus. In 2006, the 1977 departed 1975-1977 cast were or was replaced by the 2009-2011 cast playing the Ruiz family and their friends in their gang. In the comic book, season 10 is released in 2012.

[[Model (person)]]

CATEGORIES: Art, Models

A model is a person who has the job of using their body to pose for art, or to show fashion items, such as clothes or jewellery. Models often appear in advertising on television and in print media, for example newspapers and magazines, or on the web.

[[Jacques Rougeau]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Canadian professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Quebec

Jacques Rougeau Jr. (born June 13, 1960 in Saint-Sulpice, Quebec) is a French-Canadian retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his time working with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) in the 1980s and 1990s. He first teamed with his brother Raymond Rougeau as The Fabulous Rougeaus. He would later have a singles career and wrestled under the ring name The Mountie. He later formed The Quebecers with Pierre. Rougeau also wrestled for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) from 1996 until 1998 where he teamed with Carl Ouellet as The Amazing French Canadians.

During his career, Rougeau was a one-time WWF Intercontinental Champion and a three-time WWF Tag Team Championship with Quebecer Pierre.

[[Ezzard Charles]]

CATEGORIES: American boxers, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), 1921 births, 1975 deaths

Ezzard Mack Charles (July 7, 1921 – May 28, 1975) was an African-American professional boxer. He was the heavyweight boxing champion from September 27, 1950, when he outpointed Joe Louis in 15 rounds in New York City, to July 18, 1951, when he was knocked out by Jersey Joe Walcott in 7 rounds in Pittsburgh. 

As an amateur, Charles was undefeated and in 1939 won the national AAU Middleweight Championship. Charles turned professional in 1940, but his career was interrupted while he served in the United States military during World War II. Charles won the World Heavyweight Championship in 1950 and retired from boxing in 1959 with a record of 96 wins, 25 losses, and 1 draw. Ring Magazine named Charles Fighter of the Year in 1949 and 1950. In 1976, Cincinnati honored Charles by renaming a street Ezzard Charles Drive and in 1990 he was posthumously inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame. In 2009, Boxing Magazine designated Charles the greatest light heavyweight boxer of all time.

[[Religion of Ancient Egypt]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian mythology

The religion of ancient Egypt lasted throughout their civilization. After about three thousand years, the Egyptian people turned to Coptic Christianity and Islam. These religions were brought by influences from outside. Christianity spread across Egypt in the third and fourth centuries AD. After the Muslim conquest of Egypt in the 7th century, most Egyptians were converted to Islam by the 10th century.

[[Kyle Broflovski]]

CATEGORIES: Comedy movie characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1992, South Park characters

Kyle Broflovski (sometimes called Brovlofski or Broflofski) is a fictional character in the animated television series South Park. He is voiced by and influenced by Matt Stone, one of the people who made the show. Kyle is one of the four main characters.  The other three main characters are Stan Marsh, Kenny McCormick, and Eric Cartman. He is friends with Stan and Kenny. They are all in fourth grade. They all hang out with Eric Cartman. They do not like him because he can be mean and offensive. Kyle usually acts as the protagonist to Cartman's antagonist. Because Kyle is one of the few Jewish children on the show, he sometimes feels like an outcast between the main group of characters.

[[Eric Cartman]]

CATEGORIES: Comedy movie characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1997, South Park characters

Eric Theodore Cartman is a fictional character in the animated television series South Park. He is voiced by co-creator Trey Parker.

Cartman is one of four main characters in the series. He is often the main reason for their adventures because of his over-enthusiasm and selfishness. Cartman often reacts violently to things that he hates.  He hates any race or group of which he is not a member, particularly the Jews.  This comes from his rivalry with Kyle Broflovski.  Eric idolizes Adolf Hitler, Henry Ford, and Mel Gibson.  He is also a fan of T.S. Elliot. He often tricks others, at which he is good at, to meet his own ends, no matter the consequences to other people, even if it can result in deaths.

[[Psyche]]

Psyche can refer to two different concepts:

[[...And Justice for All (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Metallica albums

...And Justice For All is Metallica's fourth album and was released on August 25, 1988. It was Metallica's first album since the death of Cliff Burton, who was replaced by Jason Newsted as their bass player. It shall be said though, that they recorded and released The $5.98 E.P.: Garage Days Re-Revisited, which only include five songs covered by Metallica, but it is often not counted as a Metallica album, as it only contain five cover songs.

[[Armenian Apostolic Church]]

CATEGORIES: Oriental Orthodoxy, 3rd-century establishments

The Armenian Apostolic Church (Armenian: Հայ Առաքելական Եկեղեցի), also called the Armenian Orthodox Church or the Gregorian Church, is the world's oldest national church and one of the most ancient Christian communities.

[[National church]]

CATEGORIES: Church organization

The term national church is usually a reference to a church organization in Christianity that claims pastoral jurisdiction over a nation. The term should not be confused with established church (state church): a national church differs from a state church such that a national church does not necessarily need to be officially endorsed by the state, and even may be persecuted by the government (as Orthodox churches were persecuted under communist regimes).

The term national church (or independent church) is used a lot within, but is not shortened to, the Anglican Communion and Orthodox Christianity. For example, the Episcopal Church in the United States of America considers itself to be the national church of the United States.

In Catholicism, the term national church might mean to a parish catering to immigrants from another nation.

[[List of football clubs in Armenia]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian football clubs, Lists of football teams

This is a list of Armenian football (soccer) clubs.

[[FC Zvartnots]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian football clubs

FC Zvartnots is an Armenian football club from Yerevan. 

The club made their first notable result in the 1998 Armenian First League, where they became the league's champions and win promotion to the Armenian Premier League.

For a few years Zvartnots would become one of the main contenders in the Premier League. In their first Premier League season they reached the fourth spot, while in 2001 they became second after FC Pyunik. In the 2003 season they would still be among the Premier League clubs, however they withdrew before the season and did not return in professional football since.

[[Armenian Premier League]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian football clubs

The Armenian Premier League is the top football competition in Armenia. 

[[Football Federation of Armenia]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA, 1992 establishments, 20th century establishments in Armenia, Sport in Armenia

The Football Federation of Armenia (FFA) is the governing body of football in Armenia. It organizes the football league, Armenian Premier League, and the Armenian national football team. It is based in Yerevan.

[[Orhan Pamuk]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Writers from Istanbul, Turkish Nobel Prize winners

Ferit Orhan Pamuk (born June 7, 1952) a famous Nobel Prize-winning Turkish author. Pamuk is a post-modernist writer. He has won many writing awards around the world. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature on October 12 2006, which made him the first Turkish person to win the Nobel Prize.

In 2005, he faced criminal charges because of comments he made in an interview. In the interview, Pamuk said about Armenian Genocide, "Thirty thousand Kurds, and a million Armenians were killed in these lands and nobody dares to talk about it." Pamuk faced a hate campaign and he had to flee the country. The charges were dropped in early 2006 under an influence of international movement of Amnesty International and European Parliament.

[[Corpse (disambiguation)]]

Corpse could mean:

[[Urartu]]

CATEGORIES: Urartu

Urartu (Assyrian Urarṭu, Urartian Biainili) was an ancient Armenian kingdom. It was in the mountainous plateau between Asia Minor, Mesopotamia, and Caucasus mountains, later known as the Armenian Highland, and it centered around Lake Van (present-day eastern Turkey). The kingdom existed from ca. 860 BC, emerging from Late Bronze Age Nairi polities, until 585 BC. The name corresponds to the Biblical Ararat. Urartians are the earliest ancestors of the Armenians.

Urartu extended from Lake Van southeastward to Mannai, and sometimes even included that land as one of its provinces.

[[Lake Van]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Asia, Geography of Turkey

Lake Van (Van Gölü, Վանա լիճ) is the largest lake in Turkey, in the far east of the country.

Akdamar Island is in this lake. Although Lake Van is situated at an altitude of 1640 with harsh winters, it does not freeze due to its high salinity except occasionally the shallow northern section.

[[Kurdish language]]

CATEGORIES: Iranian languages

The Kurdish language  (Kurdish: kurdî) is a language spoken by the Kurdish people  in an area called Kurdistan, including by Kurdish people in parts of the countries Iran, Iraq, Syria and Turkey. Kurdish has two main dialects: Kurmanji and Sorani. It belongs to the same language group as the Iranian languages. Another well-known Iranian language is Persian. It is considered an Indo-European language.

[[Annual plant]]

CATEGORIES: Botany

In Botany, an annual plant is a plant that usually germinates, flowers and dies in one year. True annuals will only live longer than a year if they are prevented from setting seed. Some seedless plants can also be considered annuals even though they do not flower.

In gardening, annual often refers to a plant grown outdoors in the spring and summer and surviving just for one growing season. 

Many food plants are, or are grown as, annuals, including most domesticated grains. Some perennials and biennials are grown in gardens as annuals for convenience, particularly if they are not considered cold hardy for the local climate. Carrot, celery and parsley are true biennials that are usually grown as annual crops for their edible roots, petioles and leaves, respectively. Tomato, sweet potato and bell pepper are tender perennials usually grown as annuals.

Ornamental annuals are often called bedding plants. Annuals are often used in gardens to provide splashes of color, as they tend to have a longer season of bloom than hardy herbaceous perennials.

Examples of true annuals include corn, lettuce, pea, cauliflower, watermelon, bean, zinnia and marigold.

[[Pea]]

CATEGORIES: Faboideae, Model organisms

A pea, although treated as a vegetable in cooking, is botanically a fruit; the term is most commonly used to describe the small spherical seeds or the pods of the legume Pisum sativum. This was the original model organism used by Gregor Mendel in his early work on genetics.

The name is also used to describe other edible seeds from the Fabaceae like the pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan), the chickpea, the cowpea (Vigna unguiculata)and the seeds from several species of Lathyrus.

P. sativum is an annual plant. It is a cool season crop, planted in winter. The average pea weighs between 0.1 and 0.36 grams. The species is as a fresh vegetable, but is also grown to produce dry peas like the split pea. These varieties are typically called field peas.

P. sativum has been cultivated for thousands of years, the sites  of cultivation have been described in southern Syria and southeastern Turkey, and some argue that the cultivation of peas with wheat and barley seems to be associated with the spread of Neolithic agriculture into Europe.

[[Biennial]]

CATEGORIES: Types of plants

A biennial plant is a flowering plant that takes two years to complete its lifecycle. In the first year the plant grows leaves, stems, and roots (vegetative structures); then it enters a period of dormancy over the colder months. Usually, the stem remains very short and the leaves are low to the ground, forming a rosette. Many biennials require a cold treatment, before they will flower. The next spring/summer the stem of the biennial plant becomes much longer. The plant then flowers, produces fruits and seeds before it finally dies. There are far fewer biennials than either perennials or annuals.

Under extreme climatic conditions, a biennial plant may complete its lifecycle in a very short period of time (e.g. 3 or 4 months instead of 2 years). This is quite common in vegetable or flower seedlings that were exposed to cold conditions, before they were planted in the ground. This behaviour leads to many normally biennial plants being treated as annuals in some areas.

Flowering can be induced in some biennials by application of the plant hormone gibberellin, but this is rarely done commercially.

From a gardener's perspective, a plant's status as annual, biennial, or perennial often varies based on location or purpose. Biennials grown for flowers, fruits, or seeds need to be grown for two years. Biennials that are grown for edible leaves or roots are grown as annuals, e.g. beets, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, carrots, celery, parsley, and Swiss chard. If a normally biennial plant is grown in extremely harsh conditions, it is likely to be treated as an annual because it will not survive the winter cold. Conversely, an annual grown under extremely favourable conditions may have highly successful seed propagation, giving it the appearance of being biennial or perennial. Some short-lived perennials may appear to be biennial rather than perennial. True biennials flower only once, while many perennials will flower every year once mature.

Examples of biennial plants are parsley, Lunaria, silverbeet, sweet William, colic weed, and carrot. The pansy is a biennial often grown as an annual. Plant breeders have produced annual cultivars of several biennials that will flower the first year from seed, e.g. foxglove, stock, and hollyhock.

Biennials may be kept alive longer than two years under environmental conditions that prevent them from flowering. Biennial sugar beet was prevented from flowering by not giving it the cold treatment required for flowering. It was kept alive in a greenhouse for 41 months.

==References==	

[[The WB]]

CATEGORIES: American television networks, 1995 establishments in the United States, 2006 disestablishments in the United States, The WB

The Warner Bros. Television Network, commonly called The WB, was a television network in the United States. It was founded by the Warner Bros. film studio and Tribune Company on January 11, 1995. The network was sometimes called "The Frog" because the network's mascot was an animated frog named Michigan J. Frog.

[[Port Louis]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Mauritius, Capital cities in Africa

Port Louis is the capital city of the African country of Mauritius. The city is a port on the Indian Ocean. It is the largest city and main port of the country. Port Louis is located in the Port Louis District. The  city has a population of 147,688 people.

[[Freetown]]

CATEGORIES: Sierra Leone, Capital cities in Africa, 1792 establishments, Establishments in Africa

Freetown is the capital city of the African country of Sierra Leone. With a population of  951,000 people, it is the largest city in that country. The city is a port on the Freetown Peninsula on the Atlantic coast. The port is a very important part of the economy of Freetown. It handles the main exports of the country. Industries include fish, rice, petroleum, and making cigarettes.

[[Michelle Obama]]

CATEGORIES: African-American people, African American lawyers, First Ladies of the United States, Barack Obama, American autobiographers, Writers from Chicago, Obama family, 1964 births, Living people

Michelle LaVaughn Robinson Obama (born January 17, 1964) is a former First Lady of the United States and the wife of the 44th president of the U.S., Barack Obama. She is also a lawyer and an author. She is the first African American First Lady of the United States. Like many other First Ladies, Mrs. Obama has worked as a spokesperson for a cause. The cause she supports is better nutrition and exercise for children. She has done work with the Disney Channel and Nickelodeon to support this cause. 

[[Fame (musical)]]

CATEGORIES: Musicals based on movies, West End musicals, 1980s musicals

Fame – The Musical is a musical. Jose Fernandez wrote the book. Jacques Levy wrote the lyrics. Steve Margoshes wrote the music. The musical is based on Fame, a 1980 movie.

The musical premiered in 1980 in Miami, Florida. It opened on the West End in 1995. It played Off-Broadway between 2003 and 2004. The story tells of students in a high school for the performing arts.

[[Prime Minister of Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Japan

The prime minister of Japan is the head of the government of Japan as well as the director and chief of the executive branch of the central government. The prime minister appoints the cabinet and wields the power to dismiss any cabinet minister.

The current prime minister is Yoshihide Suga since 16 September 2020.

[[Emperor Suizei]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Suizei was the 2nd emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.    Historians consider Emperor Suizei to be a legendary person,  and the name Suizei-tennō was created for him after his death by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

The Gukanshō records that Suizei ruled from the palace of Takaoka-no-miya at Katsuragi in what will come to be known as Yamato province.

[[Emperor Annei]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Annei was the 3rd emperor of Japan,  according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider Emperor Annei to be a legendary person,  and the name Annei-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

The Gukanshō records that he ruled from the palace of Ukena-no-miya at Katashiro in Kawachi in what will come to be known as Yamato province.

[[Emperor Itoku]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Itoku was the 4th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider Emperor Itoku to be a legendary person, and the name Itoku-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

The Gukanshō records that he ruled from the palace of Migario-no-miya at Karu in what will come to be known as Yamato province.

[[Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria]]

CATEGORIES: Oriental Orthodoxy, Religion in Egypt

The Coptic Orthodox Church (Ti.eklyseya en.remenkimi en.orthodoxos; al-Kanīsa al-Qibṭiyya al-ʾUrṯūḏuksiyya) or Coptic Orthodox Patriarchate of Alexandria is the name for the largest Christian church in Egypt. The Coptic Orthodox Church is an Oriental Orthodox Christian church. Its churches can be found worldwide, where it serves Coptic believers who have emigrated to other countries.

On the 18th November 2012, the Coptic Orthodox Church enthroned His Holiness Pope Tawadros II as the 118th Pope of Alexandria and Patriarch of the See of St. Mark. His Holiness is the successor to H.H. Pope Shenouda III who died in March 2012 after over forty years as the shepherd of all Copts. 

The Church belongs to the Oriental Orthodox family of churches. It has been a separate church body since the disagreement at the Council of Chalcedon in 451 AD. The Church rejected the new definitions about what Christ is like, introduced at the Council. 

The Church has daughter churches in Ethiopia and Eritrea, which now elect their own Popes.

The Copts believe that their church was founded in Egypt by Saint Mark the Evangelist. According to official Egyptian sources, and the CIA World factbook, between five an ten percent of Egyptians are Christians. Over 90% of these are Copts. According to Coptic sources, 12 to 15% of Egyptians are Copts. 

[[Pretoria]]

CATEGORIES: Pretoria, 1855 establishments, 19th-century establishments in South Africa, 1850s establishments in Africa

Pretoria is one of the three capital cities of the African country of South Africa. It is the executive (administrative) and de facto capital of the country. The other two capitals are Cape Town (legislative) and Bloemfontein (judicial). The city is in the northern part of Gauteng Province, South Africa.

[[Reza Alinejad]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Human rights, Iranian people

Reza Alinejad (رضا علی نژاد, born September 21, 1985) is an Iranian at risk of execution for accidentally killing a man in self-defense when he was 17 years old.

He is subject of several human rights campaigns, who protesting against his sentence, because of evidence that his act was a self-defense and he was under age if 18 - his death sentence is a violation of international law, Tehran had signed.

Recently, his case was transferred to Tehran for Head of Judiciary Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi review.

[[Bigotry]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology

A bigot is a person who is intolerant of opinions, lifestyles, or identities that are different from their own. Mostly, the person's opinions are based on prejudice. For example, an outspoken member of a political party who blocks those with opposing views, would be a prime example of a ‘’bigot’’.

The origin of the word bigot in English dates back to at least 1598, via French. It started with the sense of "religious hypocrite", especially a woman.

The word bigot is often used as a pejorative term against a person who is obstinately devoted to negative prejudices, even when those prejudices are proven to be false.

Forms of bigotry may have a related ideology.

[[Bukkake]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality

Bukkake is when multiple people ejaculate with their penises on a person's face or body at the same time. It comes from the Japanese verb bukkakeru which means "to flood".

[[Melleruds IF]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, 1908 establishments in Sweden

Melleruds IF is an association football club in Mellerud in Sweden, established on 29 July 1908. They are in the Swedish 2nd Division: Västra Götaland. They have had some players who have moved into England, most notably Wigan Athletic F.C. player Andreas Johansson. Johansson played for Melleruds between 1993 and 1995.

[[Lisa Lampanelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Comedians from Connecticut

Lisa Lampanelli (born Lisa Lampugnale, July 19, 1961) is an American comedian.

[[Detroit Tigers]]

CATEGORIES: Detroit Tigers

The Detroit Tigers are a Major League Baseball team in Detroit, Michigan. The team plays at Comerica Park. Their manager is Ron Gardenhire, and they are owned by Christopher Ilitch.

The Tigers began as a minor league baseball team in the 1890s. The league was reorganized as the American League, and became a major league in 1901. The Tigers were one of the first teams to have an "official" nickname. They obtained permission from a military group called the Detroit Light Guard, which was known as the "Tigers". That group had fought in the Civil War and the Spanish-American War.

The Tigers have often lived up to their nickname, having great success from time to time. Their most famous player was Ty Cobb, usually regarded as among the very greatest players of all time. The Tigers have frequently played in baseball's post-season games. They have won several World Series, in 1935, 1945, 1968 and 1984. They also played in the World Series in 2006 and 2012, where the lost to the St. Louis Cardinals and the San Francisco Giants, respectively.

[[Oscilloscope]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment, Electronics, Measuring tools, Machines

[[Girl Scout cookie]]

CATEGORIES: Cookies

Girl Scout cookies are cookies that the Girl Scouts of the USA sell. They come in many different flavors. Buying Girl Scout Cookies helps the Girl Scouts out because it gives them money as well as helps teach them important lessons in life.

[[Nancy Drew]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in written fiction, Series of books, Fiction books

Nancy Drew is a fictional character. She is the main character in a series of chapter books called Nancy Drew Mystery Stories. Her books were written in the 1930s by Edward Stratemeyer, founder of the Stratemeyer Syndicate. The first writings in The Nancy Drew Mystery Stories were written by Mildred A. Wirt Benson, and changed by Harriet Adams, Edward's daughter. Nancy Drew's birth year is 1914 and she is 18 years old in the books. 

Nancy Drew lives in the fictional River Heights with her father, Carson Drew. Their housekeeper, Hannah Gruen, has acted like a mother to Nancy, ever since Nancy's mother died when she was three years old. Nancy has a few close friends that appear in the book series and some of them in the computer games. When the book series first begins, Nancy's best friend is Helen Corning, who is a few years older than Nancy. A few books later, some new friends are introduced. Nancy's two best friends in the later books are Bess Marvin and George Fayne, the latter two being cousins. Ned Nickerson, Nancy's boyfriend, first appears in the book, The Clue in the Diary. Bess, George, and Ned all appear in the computer games and Helen Corning is never mentioned.

[[Arthur Abraham]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian boxers, People from Yerevan, Living people, 1980 births

Arthur Abraham (born Avetik Abrahamyan on 20 February 1980 in Yerevan, Armenia) is a professional boxer.  He was the IBF middleweight champion from 2005 to 2009.  He won the vacant title on December 10, 2005, in Leipzig, Germany, beating Kingsley Ikeke, by a fifth-round knockout.

Arthur changed his weight class to compete at super middleweight.

Abraham trains under Ulli Wegner in Berlin, Germany and is managed by Wilfried Sauerland.

[[International Boxing Federation]]

CATEGORIES: Sports organizations, Boxing

The International Boxing Federation, or IBF, is one of many organizations which sanction world championship boxing bouts, alongside the WBA, WBC, WBO, and a dozen or so others.

[[Vic Darchinyan]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian boxers, Living people, 1976 births, Australian boxers

Vic Darchinyan (Վախթանգ Դարչինյան, born January 7, 1976, in Vanadzor, Armenia) is the former IBF flyweight champion. He is a left-handed boxer who currently trains under Billy Hussein, brother of boxers Nedal and Hussein Hussein. He was previously trained by former three-division world champion Jeff Fenech in Sydney, Australia.

[[Atenism]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian mythology

Atenism was one of the earliest monotheistic religions. It was the worship of the light emanating from the sun god (or rather sun disk), Aten. It was started by the 18 dynasty pharaoh Amenhotep IV, better known as Akhenaten. It lasted 20 years, until Akhenaten's death. Tutankhamun, Akhenaten's son, restored the traditional Egyptian religion. Today modern day groups have attempted to revive Atenism as a worldwide religion, most notably Akhetaten Fellowship.

[[Religion in ancient Armenia]]

CATEGORIES: Paganism, Armenian culture, Ancient Armenia

The early religions in Armenia are not that well known. According to De Morgan there are signs which indicate that the Armenians, as their other Aryan relatives, were initially nature worshipers and that this faith in time was transformed to the worship of national gods, of which many were the equivalents of the gods in the Roman, Greek and Persian cultures.

[[Steak]]

CATEGORIES: Meat dishes

Steak is a slice off a larger piece of meat, usually beef. In North America, steaks are usually grilled. They are also often pan fried or baked. The most tender (softest) cuts of the animal are usually used for steak. This also means that steaks have a high price. The pieces of meat used for steaks are usually cut across the muscle fiber, not along it. This makes them look more tender.

A restaurant that mainly makes steaks is known as a steakhouse. A well-known side dish to steak is prawns or a cooked lobster tail. This combination is often called surf and turf or reef and beef (the words "surf" and "reef" refer to the seafood and "turf" and "beef" refer to the steak). Special steak knives are used to cut steak. A steak knife is sharper than most table knives and is usually serrated.

Fish is not the only side dish for steak. Other common side dishes are baked potatoes, dinner rolls, salad, and corn on the cob. In France, steaks are often served with french fries. This combination is known as steak fries or steak-frites. They do not come with vegetables, but sometimes a salad is served with them.

[[Jet engine]]

CATEGORIES: Motors

A jet engine is any engine that creates force by releasing a high speed jet of a liquid or a gas.

An example of a jet engine is a full balloon that is not held closed. It will release the air and push the balloon forward.

Turbojet engines are used on airplanes. Turbojet engines have a gas compressor, a kind of fan, at the front that takes in air. The engine burns fuel to make the air expand, and it blows a big wind out the back. On the way out, the hot air turns another fan (a gas turbine) which turns the rod that turns the fan at the front to make it go.

Another kind of a jet engine is a rocket engine. Ramjet and pulse jet engines are rarer kinds of jet engine.

[[Dawn Fraser]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Australian of the Year Award winners, Australian Olympic gold medalists, Australian Olympic silver medalists, Australian swimmers, Commonwealth Games medallists, Independent politicians in Australia, Medalists at the 1952 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1956 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1960 Summer Olympics, Members of the Order of the British Empire, Order of Australia, Politicians from Sydney, Sportspeople from Sydney

Dawn Fraser AC MBE (born 4 September 1937) is an Australian champion swimmer. She is one of only two swimmers to win the same Olympic event three different times. She was born in Balmain, New South Wales.

[[NBC News]]

CATEGORIES: NBC, NBC network shows

NBC News is the news division of American television network NBC. NBC News makes MSNBC channel, Today Show and news programmes.

[[CBS News]]

CATEGORIES: Columbia Broadcasting System

CBS News is the news division of American television network CBS.

[[The Masters Tournament]]

CATEGORIES: Golf tournaments, Sports in the United States, Augusta, Georgia

The Masters Tournament is one of four major championships in men's professional golf and the first of the four to be played each year. The final round of the Masters is always scheduled for the second Sunday in April. Unlike the other major championships, the Masters is held every year at the same location, Augusta National Golf Club, a private golf club in the city of Augusta, Georgia, USA.

[[NFL Europa]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League

The NFL Europa was a European American football league that ran from 1991 to 2007 under the control of the National Football League. It started off as the World League of American Football and had 3 teams in Europe, 6 in the USA and one in Canada. After 2 years the league was put on hold, so there were no 1993 or 1994 seasons. The league came back in 1995 with the 3 original European teams plus 3 new ones. In 1998 the name of the league was changed to NFL Europe and then in 2007 it became NFL Europa. After the 2007 season it was decided to stop the league. This was a developmental league of the NFL.  The |Berlin Thunder were the leagues best team, winning 42 games and 3 World Bowls

[[Ennead]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian mythology

The Ennead was the grouping of nine deities, most often appearing in Egyptian mythology. As a three of threes, the number nine became associated with great power. The ancient peoples thought that groupings of nine gods were very important.

[[Heliopolis (ancient)]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Egypt

Heliopolis was one of the oldest cities of Egypt. Its name also refers (in European languages) to a modern suburb of Cairo. The ancient city stood five miles east of the Nile north of the apex of the river delta. The modern city of Heliopolis is in a different place. In ancient times it was the main city of sun-worship.

This was also where the Heliopolitan version of Egyptian mythology was created. 

[[Akhenaten]]

CATEGORIES: Pharaohs, Religious leaders

Akhenaten (first known as Amenhotep IV) was a pharaoh of the Eighteenth dynasty of Egypt. His reign is dated as 1353–1336 BC or 1351–1334 BC.

Akhenaten is one of Egypt's most well-known pharaohs.

In the fifth year of his reign, he changed his name from Amenhotep IV, meaning "Amun is satisfied". He did this because he left Egypt's traditional polytheism. He founded a monotheistic worship of the Egyptian sun god, Aten. He destroyed the temples of Amun. His new religion was called Atenism. It was the first known attempt at monotheism in the world. Naturally, this made enemies of the many priests of the old religion. 

This culture shift away from traditional religion was not widely accepted. This helps to explain why after his death, his monuments were dismantled, his statues were destroyed, and his name excluded from lists of rulers compiled by later pharaohs. Traditional religious practice was gradually restored, notably under his close successor Tutankhamun, who changed his name from Tutankhaten early in his reign. However, it was Horemheb who destroyed all the works of Akhenaten.

Akhenaten was all but lost to history until the late 19th century discovery of Amarna, the new capital city he built for the worship of Aten. 

Its rediscovery and Flinders Petrie's early excavations sparked great public interest in the pharaoh and his queen Nefertiti. The interest comes from his connection with Tutankhamun, the unique style and high quality of the pictorial arts he patronized, and interest in the religion he attempted to establish.

[[Bartonella rochalimae]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Bartonella rochalimae is a recently discovered strain of gram-negative bacteria. It is a member of the Bartonella genus. The bacteria was found by researchers at the University of California, San Francisco. Scientists at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also helped with the discovery.

The bacterium was first found in a 43-year-old American woman. She was in Peru when she became very sick. She had a high fever, anemia and insomnia.  The illness was thought to be Bartonella bacilliformis, a similar bacteria that causes Oroya fever. The scientists later discovered that a new species of bacteria had caused the illness. They gave the patient some antibiotics. Her condition later improved. 

The findings were published in the New England Journal of Medicine on June 7, 2007.

[[Tipi]]

CATEGORIES: Tipis, Native American

A tipi (also called tepee or teepee) is a kind of tent. It is cone-shaped. They were made by Native Americans of the Great Plains who frequently moved from place to place, following buffalo or other animals Native Americans hunted.

Tepees are made from long poles, and are covered with material. Long ago the material was animal skin or tree bark. Today, they are made from cloth.

Tepees were put up in as a circle, which symbolized the life.

Tepees are no longer usually used for a full-time home, but they are still used for special occasions.

Tepees were used by the Lakota.

The Plains Indians would sometimes paint and mark their tepees, and put signs to mark off evil.

They usually made the cover from buffalo skin (tanned hide).

Tipis had a flap that could be open and closed as necessary during the summer and winter months

They generally had an 'ears' flap

The doorway would face towards the rising sun

Tipis would contain paintings

[[Karen Carpenter]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 1983 deaths, American pop musicians, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from anorexia, American pop singers, Musicians from New Haven, Connecticut, Singers from Connecticut, People from Downey, California, Singers from California

Karen Carpenter (March 2, 1950 – February 4, 1983) was an American singer and drummer who was most popular in the 70s. She is known as the singer of the group the Carpenters.

Karen had anorexia nervosa, an eating disorder of extreme weight loss dieting. This was a little-known illness at the time. Although she had begun recovery with a doctor-supervised program and regained 30 lbs (14 kg), permanent damage to her body had been sustained from the years of extreme weight-loss dieting and she died at the age of 32. The cause of her death was heart failure, from complications related to her illness which caused her to believe mistakenly that she needed to lose weight.

[[Luke the Evangelist]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament people

Luke the Evangelist is said to be the man who wrote the Gospel of Luke and Acts of the Apostles in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. Irenaeus, Eusebius of Caesarea and Jerome say that he was a friend of Saint Paul and a doctor, and that he accompanied Paul on some of his travels. These people also say that he was of Greek origin, from Antioch in Syria.

Modern-day scholars think that the person that wrote the two books was not the same that accompanied Paul. Paul had a theology that was special, and slightly different from that of other writers of the New Testament. The two books written by Luke never refer to this theology. Also, the name of Paul's companion is never linked to writing the two books. The Acts of the Apostles often tell things about Paul which Paul does not tell himself in his letters. 

Luke wrote about the Three Wise Men who visited Jesus in the Bible.  Luke never said there were 3 wise men, only wise men from the east.

[[Walid Eido]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2007 deaths, Assassinated people, Lebanese Muslims, Lebanese politicians, People from Beirut

Walid Eido (in Arabic: وليد عيدو) (Beirut, 1942 - Beirut, June 13, 2007) was a Lebanese man who worked for the Lebanese Parliament, a government building in Beirut. He died with his son on June 13, 2007, with eight other people, when a bomb blew up just outside a famous amusement park. This was at the waterside of north Beirut.

[[Toyama Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Toyama Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Toyama Prefecture is a prefecture in the Chūbu region of Japan on the island of Honshū. The capital is Toyama. 

[[Fouad Siniora]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Lebanese Muslims, Government ministers, Presidents of Lebanon, Prime Ministers of Lebanon

Fouad Siniora (in Arabic: فؤاد السنيورة, Fu'ād As-Sanyūrah) was the Prime Minister of Lebanon. He served as Prime Minister since July 19, 2005, after Najib Mikati left office. His term ended on November 9, 2009. He was succeed by Saad Hariri. He was also acting President from November 2007 to May 2008.

[[Hassan Nasrallah]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Lebanese Muslims, Lebanese nationalists, Lebanese politicians, Lebanese terrorists, Muslim terrorists

Hassan Nasrallah (in حسن نصرالله; born 30 August 1960) is the leader of the Islamist party in Lebanon called Hezbollah. He is also a Shi'a Muslim cleric. Some countries, like the United States and Britain, consider him to be a terrorist due to his attacks on Israel.

[[Sidon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lebanon, Phoenicia

Sidon, or Saida (صيدا, Saydā; Σιδώνα, צִידוֹן, Zaydo'wn), is the third biggest city in Lebanon. It is in the southern part of Lebanon at the waterside of the Mediterranean Sea. The name "Sidon" means a fishery.

[[Chisel]]

CATEGORIES: Cutting tools, Woodworking tools

A chisel is a sharp and straight tool often used with a hammer to shape wood or other surfaces.  Chisels are used by artists to make statues and figures out of stone, marble, or wood.  Construction workers use chisels to change the shape of wood and stone so that they can build with them.  Sometimes chisels are used to break things so that they can be moved more easily.

[[Parallel]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Parallel could mean:

In music:

Other:

[[Oak Park, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois

Oak Park, Illinois is a suburb of Chicago. It is west of the city in the same county. About 52,000 people live there.  

Ernest Hemingway was born there. Betty White was born there too.  Frank Lloyd Wright lived and worked there for a while.  Some of his most famous houses and buildings were built there.

[[Ring Lardner]]

CATEGORIES: American columnists, Deaths from tuberculosis, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, Writers from Michigan, 1885 births, 1933 deaths

Ringgold Wilmer Lardner (March 6, 1885 – September 25, 1933) was an American sports columnist and short story writer best known for his satirical takes on the sports world, marriage, and the theatre.

Lardner was born in Niles, Michigan. He died of tuberculosis in East Hampton, New York.

His son Ring Lardner Jr was a screenwriter who was banned from Hollywood in the 1950s for his Communist beliefs. He later won an Academy Award for writing the film MASH.

[[Björk]]

CATEGORIES: Björk, Brit Award winners, Icelandic movie actors, Rock musicians, Singers, Songwriters, 1965 births, Living people, People from Reykjavík, Trip hop musicians

Björk was born Björk Guðmundsdóttir on 21 November 1965 in Reykjavík, Iceland. She is an Icelandic singer, songwriter, composer, actress, record producer and DJ.

Her career started with singing Tina Charles' 1976 hit song "I Love to Love" in a school recital, and a recording of her singing the song was sent to the RÚV radio station. The recording was nationally broadcast, after that, Björk was offered a recording contract. Her self-titled début album, Björk, was recorded and released in Iceland in December 1977. Before embarking on a solo career in 1993, Björk was the lead singer of alternative rock band The Sugarcubes, which is called as "Iceland's biggest rock band". Since then, she has received consistent critical praise for her innovative vocal and compositional approaches, musical experimentation, and art direction, and is recognized as one of the best singer-songwriters of her generation. Her albums reached the top 20 in the Billboard 200 chart.

Björk has won five BRIT Awards, four MTV Video Music Awards, one MOJO Award, three UK Music Video Awards, 21 Icelandic Music Awards and, in 2010, the Polar Music Prize from the Royal Swedish Academy of Music in recognition of her "deeply personal music and lyrics, her precise arrangements and her unique voice". She has also been nominated for 14 Grammy Awards, one Academy Award, and two Golden Globe Awards. She was included in Time Magazine's list of the 100 most influential people in the world. She won the Best Actress Award at the 2000 Cannes Film Festival for her performance in the movie Dancer in the Dark.

She has a son and a daughter, Sindri and Isadòra. She lives in New York City, but also owns a home in Reykjavík.

Björk was in the 2013 television documentary When Björk Met Attenborough with Sir David Attenborough.

[[List of years]]

CATEGORIES: Year lists

This page indexes the individual years pages.

[[Volumetric flask]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment

A volumetric flask (vol flask for short) is a type of laboratory glassware. It is used to hold and measure accurate amounts of liquid.  It is shaped like a Florence flask, but has a flatter bottom.  A volumetric flask has a tall, narrow neck with a stopper that can be used to close the opening at the top.  There is a line on the neck to show how much to fill the flask.  Volumetric flasks are made in many sizes, from a few milliliters to liters.  They are often used to make liquid solutions. The neck is narrow to make measurements more exact when making a solution.  

[[Florence flask]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment

A Florence flask (also known as a boiling flask) is a type of flask. It is a piece of laboratory glassware. It can hold chemical solutions. The flask has a round body with a long neck. The flask usually come in volumes of 1 liter.

[[Motion Picture Association of America]]

CATEGORIES: Movie organizations, Non-profit organizations of the United States, 1922 establishments in the United States

The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), originally called the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors Association of America, is a non-profit group based in the United States. Its members are the "big six" major Hollywood studios: Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures (The Walt Disney Company), Sony Pictures (Sony), Paramount Pictures (Viacom -- which bought DreamWorks in February 2006), Universal Studios (Comcast), and Warner Bros. (WarnerMedia). It also represents Netflix streaming platform movies. The organization produces the well-known voluntary film rating system. On January 22, 2019, Netflix became the first streaming service to become a member of the MPAA.

[[Long Beach, California]]

CATEGORIES: Long Beach, California

Long Beach is a city in southern Los Angeles County, California, USA, on the Pacific coast. It borders Orange County on its southeast edge. It is about 20 miles (30 km) south of downtown Los Angeles. It is a part of the Greater Los Angeles Area.

[[São Carlos]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in São Paulo (state)

São Carlos is a Brazilian city in the state of São Paulo. In 2017, it had 246,088 people living in it. It is about 230 km (143 miles) away from the city of São Paulo and has an area of 1,137 km² (441 mi²).

[[51st state]]

CATEGORIES: States of the United States

51st state refers to a place or territory that is not one of the 50 states of the United States, but people think about making it the 51st state. It is sometimes a joke term in American politics, and sometimes a realistic one. It is usually said about the possibility of Puerto Rico or other U.S. territories becoming part of the United States. When used to refer to other countries, it is a joke, usually about Canada. There have been attempts by people in the United States to get Canada to join them (like in the Articles of Confederation), but Canada has never taken up these offers. It is also sometimes used to refer to countries that seem to be controlled by the United States. Before the year 1959 when Alaska and Hawaii became states, the sentence "the 49th state" was used.

Places in the United States that are not states right now that might become the 51st state are the District of Columbia,  Puerto Rico, Guam, the US Virgin Islands, American Samoa, or the Northern Mariana Islands. Besides admitting a new state, another type of proposal has been to form a 51st (or even 52nd) state by dividing a current state, such as the most-populous state (and third-largest state, geographically) of California into two or even three states, or Texas (the second-most populous) into four or five states. , 

Some regions of the U.S. that include land that is now in two different states and might become a new state include the "State of Jefferson" (Northmost California plus the southern counties of Oregon) and the "State of Lincoln" (Eastmost Washington State plus the northern panhandle of Idaho. A move has also been proposed to separate the westmost one-fourth of Nebraska from that state, but to add that to Wyoming (the least-populous state), rather than to create an entirely new state. This region is actually much closer to Cheyenne, Wyoming, the capital city, than it is to its current capital of Lincoln, Nebraska. 

In 2012 and more recently in 2017, the people of Puerto Rico voted strongly in favor of becoming the 51st state, but the approval of the United States Congress is also needed.

Guyana has also seen political movement favoring and advocating for it to become an American associated territory with eventual statehood as its goal.

Several Canadian Provinces as well as the whole of Canada have had political party’s and movements advocating American statehood making their North American location a natural candidate and ideal prospect.  

[[Mogadishu]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Africa, Cities in Somalia

Mogadishu (Muqdisho) is the capital city of the African country of Somalia. It is also the largest city in that country. It is located in the coastal Banadir region on the Somali Sea. The city has been an important port for the region for many centuries. Estimates of the city's population are between 1.5 and 3 million people.

Mogadishu has had many years of fighting between militias. This is because the government of Somalia fell in 1991.

[[J1 League]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Football in Japan, 1993 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in Japan

The J1 League, in the past known as J. League Division 1, is part of the Japanese football club system.

J1 League is the top grouping of the Japan Professional Football League.

It is one of the three major titles in Japan, along with J. League Cup and Emperor's Cup.

The second tier is represented by the J2 League.

[[Philippine Revolution]]

CATEGORIES: History of the Philippines, Wars of independence, Rebellions in Asia, 19th century rebellions

The Philippine Revolution (1896–1898) was an armed conflict between the Spanish colonial regime and the Katipunan. The goal of the revolution was for the Philippines to gain independence from Spain.

[[Victoria, Seychelles]]

CATEGORIES: Seychelles, Capital cities in Africa

Victoria (sometimes called Port Victoria) is the capital city of the Republic of Seychelles. It is on the north-eastern side of Mahé island, which the main island of the archipelago.  The city was first created as the capital of the British colonial government. Victoria has a population of 24,970 people (2002). About one third of the population of the Seychelles lives in the city. Victoria is served by the Seychelles International Airport

The main exports of Victoria are vanilla, coconuts, coconut oil, corn, tortoise shell, soap, and guano. The harbour is a short distance east of the town. Tuna fishing and canning are a major local industry.

[[Roe]]

CATEGORIES: Seafood

Roe is the ripe eggs of fish and certain marine animals, for example sea urchins, shrimp and scallop.  It is a type of seafood. Roe is used in many different foods. It can be used cooked or raw.

Caviar is a name for sturgeon roe which is eaten as a delicacy. 

Soft roe or white roe is not roe. It is the seminal fluid of fish.

[[Television licence]]

CATEGORIES: Television

The television licence (sometimes called the TV licence or the television tax) is a small tax that people pay to watch television. It is used to pay, or part-pay, for the local public broadcaster, such as the BBC in the United Kingdom. It mainly exists in Europe, East Asia and parts of Africa. The licence fee varies in size from a few euros to around 350 euros per year in Iceland. In return for paying the licence, the broadcaster does have few or no adverts. 

In the past, before television was well known, people used to have a radio licence, which is a roughly the same as television licence, but for radio. Some countries still have the radio licence together with the television licence.

[[Nicosia]]

CATEGORIES: Nicosia

Nicosia, also known as Lefkosia (Λευκωσία; Lefkoşa) is the capital city and largest city  of the island country of Cyprus. Niscosia is on the Pedieos (Kanlidere) river in the centre of the island. The city is the seat of government as well as the main business centre for Cyprus. Nicosia is capital of the administrative district (Nicosia District).

[[Gob]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian punk bands, Musical groups established in 1994, 1994 establishments in Canada

Gob are a Canadian punk band from Burnaby, British Columbia . The band was formed in 1994.  The band's sound is based on distorted guitars. They have had many songs used on Electronic Arts's sports video games. The band has appeared on several outdoor music festivals, the most well-known being Vans Warped Tour.

[[Auckland Grammar School]]

CATEGORIES: Auckland, Schools in New Zealand, 1868 establishments, 1860s establishments in New Zealand

Auckland Grammar School is a public school in Auckland New Zealand. It teaches boys from age thirteen to eighteen. The school also has some places near the school where students who come from distant places can live. It is one of the biggest schools in New Zealand. The school has more than two thousand students. The School's motto is "Per Angusta Ad Augusta". It means "Through difficulties to greatness".  This motto is most often reiterated within the school. The current Headmaster is Tim O'Connor. 

[[Virginia Beach, Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Beaches of the United States, Virginia Beach, Virginia

Virginia Beach is an American city in the Commonwealth of Virginia. The city is in the South Hampton Roads area on the shores of the Chesapeake Bay and the Atlantic Ocean.  It is the largest city in Virginia. It is the 42nd largest city in the United States. There are people living there.

Virginia Beach is a part of the Virginia Beach-Norfolk-Newport News metropolitan area. The area also includes the cities of Chesapeake, Hampton, Newport News, Norfolk, Portsmouth, and Suffolk, as well as other smaller cities, counties and towns of Hampton Roads. The area is known as "America's First Region."

Virginia Beach is best known as a resort town. It has miles of beaches and hundreds of hotels, motels, and restaurants along the Atlantic Ocean and Chesapeake Bay. It is also home to several state parks, three military bases, a number of large corporations, and two universities. It was the site of the first landing of English colonists going to Jamestown.

The city is listed in the Guinness Book of Records as having the longest pleasure beach in the world and. It is also at the southern end of the Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel, the longest bridge-tunnel in the world.

[[Rose Tattoo]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s Australian music groups, 1980s Australian music groups, 1990s Australian music groups, 2000s Australian music groups, 2010s Australian music groups, Australian hard rock bands, Musical groups established in 1976, Musical groups from Sydney

Rose Tattoo is a hard rock band from Sydney, Australia. The band was formed in 1976. The band is led by singer Angry Anderson. Among their best known songs are "We Can't Be Beaten", "Scarred for Life", "Rock 'n' Roll Outlaw" and "Bad Boy for Love". Their first 4 albums were produced by Harry Vanda and George Young who also worked with AC/DC. 

Other bands have played Rose Tattoo songs including Guns N' Roses (Nice Boys), L.A. Guns (Rock'N'Roll Outlaw), Nashville Pussy (Rock'N'Roll Outlaw and Nice Boys), Brass Tacks (Nice Boys), Public Toys (Nice Boys), Lower Class Brats (We Can't Be Beaten) and Canadian punk rock band Youth Youth Youth (We can't be beaten).

[[Patriots' Day]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, Massachusetts

Patriots' Day (sometimes spelled Patriot's Day or Patriots Day) is a legal holiday in Massachusetts. The holiday remembers the American men and women who fought during the Revolutionary War.

In the past, Patriots' Day was on April 19.  This was done in honor of Lexington and Concord.  These were the first battles of the American Revolutionary War that were fought on that date in 1775.  Since 1969, however, the holiday has been on the third Monday in April.

The Boston Marathon is run on this day every year. The Boston Marathon bombings happened on this day in 2013. The Boston Red Sox have played a home game at Fenway Park on this day every year since 1960.

[[Woodside, London]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Croydon

Woodside is a neighbourhood in Croydon, in the London Borough of Croydon, England. Woodside Racecourse opened in 1866 on a park called Stroud Green Farm, it has now closed and is now the site of Ashburton Learning Village, closing in 1890. Woodside station opened to serve visitors to the racecourse, but not a lot of people used it when the course closed so it was replaced to make way for a tram line.

Woodside is close to South Norwood and Addiscombe.

[[Sofia]]

CATEGORIES: Sofia, Provinces of Bulgaria

Sofia is the capital and the largest city of Republic of Bulgaria. It has 1.3 million people. It is the 15th largest city of the European Union. Sofia is in the west of Bulgaria. It has a humid continental climate (Dfb in the Köppen climate classification).

Sofia is one of the oldest capital cities in Europe; the history of Sofia dates back to the 8th century BC. 

Many of the major universities, cultural institutions, and businesses of Bulgaria are concentrated in Sofia.

[[Burette]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment

A burette is a vertical tube-like instrument, used to measure and separate known amounts of liquids in laboratories. Burettes are very precise and one can measure the volume of a fluid with the precision of ±0.05 mL with them.

[[Maghen Abraham Synagogue]]

CATEGORIES: Synagogues, Beirut, Buildings and structures in Lebanon, 1925 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in Lebanon

The Maghen Abraham Synagogue  is the oldest synagogue in Beirut, capital of Lebanon. A synagogue is where Jews go to pray. But, this synagogue is old, and no one used it for long. But, people in Beirut can still see it in Wadi Abu Jamil, the place where Lebanese Jews used to live. Today, some Lebanese Jews are trying to repair the synagogue, so that they can use it again.

[[Georg Danzer]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian musicians, Songwriters, 1946 births, 2007 deaths

Georg Franz Danzer (born October 7, 1946 in Vienna, died June 21, 2007, in Asperhofen) was an Austrian musician. He wrote and sang many songs. Many people think of him as the father of Austropop. This is because he usually sang his songs in the local dialect. He died of lung cancer at age 60.

[[Bentheuphausia amblyops]]

CATEGORIES: Krill

Bentheuphausia amblyops is a species of krill. Krill are small shrimp-like crustaceans living in the ocean.

B. amblyops is the only species within its genus, which in turn is the only genus within the family Bentheuphausiidae. All the 85 other species of krill known are classified in the family Euphausiidae.

B. amblyops can be found in the northern Atlantic Ocean. It occurs in latitudes south of 40° N, and also in the southern seas of the Atlantic, in the Indian Ocean and in the Pacific. It is a bathypelagic krill that lives in deep waters below 1,000 m. It is distinguished from the Euphausiidae by several morphological features. The features most easily used to tell it apart are  that the animals  are not bioluminescent and that their first pair of pleopods is not modified as copulatory tool organs. Also, their eyes are smaller than those of the Euphausiidae. Adults reach a length of 4 to 5 cm.

[[Grosse Ile Township, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in Michigan

Grosse Ile Township is a town in Wayne County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The township is coterminous with the island in the Detroit River called Grosse Ile. The name comes from French, meaning "Big Island". The population was 10,894 at the 2000 census. It is part of the collection of communities known as Downriver.

[[Malacostraca]]

CATEGORIES: Malacostraca

The Malacostraca (Greek: "soft shell") are the largest subgroup of crustaceans. They include decapods (such as crabs,  lobsters and shrimp), stomatopods (mantis shrimp) and krill. There are 22,000 members in this group. It represents two thirds of all crustacean species. The first malacostracans appeared in the Cambrian period.April 2009

The classification of crustaceans is currently being debated. Some think Malacostraca is a class and others think it is a subclass.

[[Decapod]]

CATEGORIES: Decapods

Decapoda is an order of crustaceans in the class Malacostraca. Many familiar groups, such as crayfish, crabs, lobsters, prawns and shrimp are in this order. Many decapods are scavengers - they eat dead plants and animals. Crabs are mixed feeders, taking algae and  shellfish such as molluscs. Lobsters eat mostly live prey.

[[Rafik Hariri]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2005 deaths, Assassinated people, Billionaires, Business people, Lebanese Muslims, Prime Ministers of Lebanon

Rafik Baha ad-Din Hariri (رفيق بهاءالدين الحريري; November 1, 1944 – February 14, 2005) was a Lebanese billionaire and businessman. He was Prime Minister of Lebanon from 1992 to 1998, and he became Prime Minister again in 2000. But in October 20, 2004, he quit his job. He helped a lot in rebuilding Beirut, which was damaged from the fighting during the civil war.

Hariri was killed along with 21 other people on February 14, 2005. A thousand kilograms of TNT exploded in a van near his car. His car was passing through St. George Hotel in the Lebanese capital, Beirut. People are still trying to learn who did it, and the United Nations have helped to investigate. Serge Brammertz is leading this investigation. Many people in Lebanon said that the government of Syria and its allies did it. So far, Brammertz said that DNA evidence collected from the exploded area shows that the killing was done by a young man who blew himself up at the time.

[[Antenna (biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Crustaceans, Insects

An antenna (plural antennae) is one of a pair of feelers (appendages) connected to the front segments of crustaceans and insects. They are found on the first two segments of the head. The smaller pair are known as antennules.  

Antennae are jointed and extend forward from the head. They are sensory organs. The organ may sense touch, air motion, heat, vibration (sound), and especially smell or gustation (taste).

[[Sepp Dietrich]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1966 deaths, German prisoners, German war criminals, People from Bavaria, SS officers, Waffen-SS generals

Josef "Sepp" Dietrich (May 28, 1892 in Hawangen - April 21, 1966 in Ludwigsburg) was a German Waffen-SS general, and one of the closest men to Adolf Hitler. For his wartime services, he was one of only 27 men to be awarded the Knight's Cross with Oak leaves, Swords and Diamonds. Dietrich and other members of the Waffen-SS were tried for war crimes after WW2.

[[Hue]]

CATEGORIES: Color

Hue is one of the main properties of a color. 

It is defined as “the degree to which a stimulus is similar to, or different from, stimuli that are red, green, blue, and yellow” (the unique hues). 

The other main aspects of color appearance are colorfulness, chroma, saturation, lightness, and brightness.

Usually, colors with the same hue are distinguished with adjectives referring to their lightness and/or chroma, such as with "light blue", "pastel blue", "vivid blue".

[[Freeview (New Zealand)]]

CATEGORIES: Television, New Zealand culture, 2007 establishments, 2000s establishments in New Zealand

Freeview is free television service in the New Zealand, It is sent to people's home using a digital signal by either over the air or by satellite. It is planning to have more channels than analogue television provides. The service was put on air on 2 May 2007. The service was created as a local copy of the British digital television service, also known as Freeview.

Some TVs can receive Freeview automatically, but most people have to buy a special box to connect to their old TV or replace their satellite box, if they want to get by satellite.

[[Burqa]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic dress

A Burqa is a piece of clothing. It is worn by Muslim women. They can wear it as an outer garment. It only leaves a semi-transparent mesh in front of the woman's eyes, so she can see. The rest of the body is covered by it. 

Other garments for Muslim women that cover less of their body are the hijab and the niqab. People often confuse the hijab and the niqab and call it burqa instead.

[[Motion Picture Association of America film rating system]]

CATEGORIES: Movie ratings

The Motion Picture Association of America film rating system is a system used by the MPAA. It is meant to help parents and movie-goers which movie is suitable for their families and children.

[[The Satanic Verses]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 books, English novels, English-language novels

The Satanic Verses is a novel by Salman Rushdie.

Part of it was inspired by the life of Muhammad. The title refers to Satanic verses. This is one of the interpretations of the Koran. This interpretation is what Ibn Ishaq did in the oldest surviving text of the work. Some Islamic and most non-Muslim Western historians and commentators on the Qur'an have accepted this story of Muhammad's momentary acceptance of the verses although there are no known sources confirming the presence of these verses in reality in Qur'an in olden times. A common Muslim viewpoint is that the existence of the verses is just a fabrication created by non-Muslims.

The novel caused much controversy when it was published. Many Muslims felt that it contained blasphemous references. Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the Supreme Leader of Iran, a Shi'a Muslim scholar, issued a fatwa that called for the death of Rushdie and claimed that it was the duty of every Muslim to obey. As a result, Hitoshi Igarashi, the Japanese language translator of the book was stabbed to death on 11 July 1991; Ettore Capriolo, the Italian language translator, was seriously injured in a stabbing the same month. William Nygaard, the publisher in Norway, survived an attempted assassination in Oslo in October 1993. On 14 February 2006, the Iranian state news agency reported that the fatwa will remain in place permanently.

In the United Kingdom, however, the book was praised by a lot of critics. It was a 1988 Booker Prize Finalist, eventually losing to Peter Carey's Oscar and Lucinda.

[[Satanic verses]]

CATEGORIES: Islam, Quran

Satanic verses is a name given to a number of verses of the Qur'an. These verses became famous because they were introduced into a version of the book. In a later version, they were taken out again. Different groups of people have different views about these verses.

[[National Democrats (Sweden)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in Sweden, Nationalist organizations in Europe, Political parties in Sweden

National Democrats (Nationaldemokraterna) is a minor political party in Sweden. It was formed in October 2001. The chairman of the party is Marc Abramsson.

[[Broad Green]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Croydon, Villages in England

Broad Green is a small area with a lot of houses at the centre of West Croydon in the London Borough of Croydon, England. The area is mostly filled with a triangular green space which includes shops and large houses. The green was built at the end of the 19th century. Most of West Croydon is in an electoral ward called "Broad Green", hence Broad Green library is some distance from the traditional Broad Green area. Parts of West Thornton and Selhurst wards are also in West Croydon.

[[West Croydon]]

West Croydon might refer to:

[[Kanji]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems, Japanese language

Kanji (漢字) is one of the three forms of Japanese writing. A kanji is an ideogram: that is, a type of simple picture. These are made to show a word's meaning. It is a symbol of an idea such as an object, thing or quality.

Kanji ideograms (or “characters”) were taken from Chinese characters, and many changed over time. The word “kanji” means “Han characters” (i.e. “Chinese characters”).

[[Chris Moyles]]

CATEGORIES: BBC radio presenters, British autobiographers, English radio personalities, English television presenters, People from Leeds, Television personalities from Yorkshire, 1974 births, Living people

Chris Moyles (born 22 February 1974 in Leeds) is a British radio and television presenter. He presents a breakfast radio show on BBC Radio 1. His career in radio started at age 14, when he worked on a hospital radio. He worked at lots of different stations until he got a job at BBC Radio 1 in 1997. When he took over the Breakfast show from fellow DJ Sara Cox he quickly brought more listeners to the show. He won awards for his show.

Moyles wrote an autobiography called The Gospel According to Chris Moyles: The Story of One Man and his Mouth.

[[Libretto]]

CATEGORIES: Opera terminology

A libretto is the text (the words) which are set to music to make an opera.  A libretto can also be the words for an oratorio, cantata, mass or a musical.  The person who writes the libretto is called a librettist.  The word “libretto” (plural: “libretti” or “librettos”) is an Italian word which means “little book”.

Sometimes a composer writes his own libretti, but usually a composer likes to have a librettist who can write the words for him so that he can set them to music.

Some libretti are original stories by the librettist, but very often they are based on a book by another writer.

In the 18th century Metastasio was a very famous librettist.  Many of his libretti were set several times by different composers. Another 18th century librettist was Lorenzo da Ponte, who wrote the libretti for three of Mozart's greatest operas, as well as for many other composers. In the 19th century Eugène Scribe wrote a very large number of libretti that were set to music by composers such as Meyerbeer, Auber, Bellini, Donizetti, Rossini and Verdi. Two French writers called Henri Meilhac and Ludovic Halévy wrote many opera and operetta libretti for the composers Jacques Offenbach, Jules Massenet and Georges Bizet. Arrigo Boito, who wrote libretti for, among others, Giuseppe Verdi and Amilcare Ponchielli, composed two operas of his own.  Hugo von Hoffmansthal wrote libretti for Richard Strauss.

Wagner and Tippett are two composers who wrote their own libretti.

Usually a libretto is written before the music, but sometimes composers wrote some of the music first and then looked for words to go with it. Composers, such as Mikhail Glinka, Alexander Serov, Rimsky-Korsakov, Puccini, and Mascagni all did this sometimes.

Musicals usually have lyrics (the words for the songs), and a separate "book" ( the spoken dialogue and the stage directions).  Sometimes these two are by different authors, e.g. the musical Fiddler on the Roof has a composer (Jerry Bock), a lyricist (Sheldon Harnick), and the writer of the "book" (Joseph Stein).

[[Hmong people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Asia, Thai people, Laos, Vietnamese people

The words Hmong and Mong refer to an Asian ethnic group. Their homeland is in China, especially along the Yangtze and Yellow river. In the 18th century, Hmong people started moving to other Southeast Asian countries. Today, they live in all of China, northern Vietnam, Laos, Thailand, and Myanmar. In 1975, communists took over Laos. After they took over, many Hmong people moved to the United States, Australia, France, French Guiana, and Canada. Hmong people divide themselves into the White Hmong, the Green Hmong, and other smaller groups.

[[Toplessness]]

CATEGORIES: Nudity

Toplessness (or being topless) is a state of not wearing any clothing above the waist, meaning the breasts are visible.

Because the female breast is often associated with sexuality, some countries consider it alright for men to be topless in public, but not women. However many countries consider it usual for women to be topless, even due to the natural heat.

[[Westminster Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in England, Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Buildings and structures in the City of Westminster, Westminster

Westminster Cathedral in London, England, is a Roman Catholic cathedral.  It is the mother church of the Roman Catholic community in England and Wales and the Metropolitan Church and Cathedral for the Archbishop of Westminster. 

The cathedral is near Victoria in the City of Westminster. It is the largest Roman Catholic church in England and Wales. It should not be confused with Westminster Abbey.

The cathedral was opened in 1903.  It was designed by John Francis Bentley and is in the style of  Byzantine church architecture.  The nave is the widest of any church in England.  The sanctuary is higher than the nave, so that the altar can be seen from any part of the nave.  A very large crucifix hangs from the chancel arch.  The Archiepiscopal Throne or cathedra, of marble and mosaic, is modelled on the Papal Throne at the Basilica of St. John Lateran in Rome. There are beautiful marble pillars which are all carved differently.  In the crypt there are monuments to famous people.

Westminster Cathedral has a famous choir.  The first Master of Music (choirmaster) was Sir Richard Runciman Terry. Since 2000, the Master of Music has been Martin Baker.  Mass is sung every day.

The choir are famous for singing Gregorian chant and polyphony of the Renaissance.  Composers such as Benjamin Britten and Ralph Vaughan Williams have written music for the choir.

All the boys of the Choir are boarders at the nearby Westminster Cathedral Choir School.

The organ is very large.  It is in the west gallery (above the entrance).  It was built by the organ builder Henry Willis III from 1922 to 1932.  One of Louis Vierne's best-known organ pieces, "Carillon de Westminster,"  was composed for it and dedicated to the builder.

On 28 May 1982, the first day of his six-day visit to the United Kingdom, Pope John Paul II celebrated Mass in the Cathedral.

In 1995, Cardinal Basil Hume invited HM The Queen.  This was the first visit of a reigning monarch of the United Kingdom to a Catholic liturgy since 1688 when James II & VII was king.

[[Cachoeira do Sul]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Rio Grande do Sul

Cachoeira do Sul is a Brazilian city of the state of Rio Grande do Sul. Its population is 89,669 and has an area of 3.765 km².

[[Median]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

Alternatively, the median of an even-sized list is sometimes defined as either of the two middle elements; the choice being either (a) always the smallest one, (b) always the largest one, or (c) randomly choose between the two. This alternative definition has two important advantages: it guarantees that the median is always a list element (for example. a list of integers will never have a fractional median), and it guarantees that the median exists for any ordinal-valued data. On the other hand, when one of the choices (a) or (b) is taken, the median of a sample will be biased, which is an unwanted property of a statistical estimator. Definition (c) does not have that disadvantage, but it is more difficult to do. It also has the disadvantage that the same list of values does not have a well-defined, deterministic median.

[[Mode (statistics)]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

In statistics, the mode of a set of data is the one that occurs most.  Very often, samples of data are collected. These might be measurements of some kind. In this context, the mode is the value that occurs most often. Unlike the median and the mean, the mode is not necessarily unique. There might be several different values that occur the same number of times. 

[[S.S.C. Napoli]]

CATEGORIES: Italian football clubs, Naples, 1926 establishments in Italy

S.S.C. Napoli (Società Sportiva Calcio Napoli) is an Italian football club.  The club plays in Serie A. Its home stadium is the Stadio San Paolo in Naples, Italy.  They team plays in light blue shirts, white shorts and light blue socks as uniforms.

[[At War with Satan]]

CATEGORIES: Venom (band), 1983 albums, Heavy metal albums

At War with Satan is the third album by English black metal band Venom. It was released on 16 April 1984.

[[Antichrist]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament, Christian eschatology

In Christian beliefs, the Antichrist or Anti-christ (anti means opposite; christ means messiah) is used to speak about a person or image that implies evil, and more than one person. It is also said that antichrist is the devil himself.

The Biblical Book of Revelation refers to two "Beasts". One of them is often identified as the Antichrist, the counter-messiah of the devil.

[[Baker]]

CATEGORIES: Baking

A baker is somebody who makes mainly bread. Some bakers also make cakes and desserts, but a traditional baker only makes bread. The place where a baker works is called a bakehouse or a bakery.

The first bread was made by the Egyptians in 8000 BC and in the Middle Ages most landlords had a bakery. They had a public oven and housewives brought the dough to the baker to cook.

Bread is now much sweeter than it was in the Middle Ages because a lot of corn syrup or honey is used.

[[Statistical hypothesis test]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

A statistical hypothesis test is a method used in statistics. It helps you describe the results you get from an experiment. The hypothesis test tells you the likelihood that a specific result would happen by chance. 

Statistical hypothesis tests answer the question: Assuming that the null hypothesis is true, what is the probability of getting a value which is at least as extreme as the value that was actually observed?. 

So, for example, if the result would only happen by chance 5% of the time, then the experimental hypothesis is supported to the 95% level. 

[[Luxembourg City]]

CATEGORIES: Luxembourg City, World Heritage Sites in Europe

The city of Luxembourg (Lëtzebuerg, Luxembourg, German: Luxemburg), also known as Luxembourg City (Stad Lëtzebuerg, Ville de Luxembourg, German: Stadt Luxemburg), is a commune with city status, and the capital of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.

The city is at the confluence of the Alzette and Pétrusse rivers in southern Luxembourg. In the city is found the Luxembourg Castle, built by the Franks in the Early Middle Ages, around which a settlement developed.

[[Vacuum cleaner]]

CATEGORIES: Home appliances

A vacuum cleaner is a device that cleans dust and dirt from floors. Sometimes it is just called a vacuum because it uses the force of a vacuum to suck dirt into a large chamber from which it can be dumped into the garbage.

There are several types of vacuum cleaners:

[[TV Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese television networks

TV Tokyo is a television station in Tokyo, Japan. It is also known as "Teleto," a portmanteau of "terebi," the Japanese word for "television," and "Tokyo." Its main owner is Nihon Keizai Shimbun. TV Tokyo is the smallest of the major Tokyo TV networks.

[[Drawer]]

CATEGORIES: Furniture

A drawer is a piece of furniture for storage. They are usually very short and wide and are part of a chest of drawers, where lots of drawers are stacked. Most have handles or knobs so they can be pulled out.

[[Chest of drawers]]

CATEGORIES: Furniture

A chest of drawers (also called a dresser) is a piece of furniture. It is made of lots of horizontal drawers. Chests of drawers are usually used for storing clothing, such as underwear and socks.

[[Puzzle]]

CATEGORIES: Puzzles

A puzzle is a problem to make the user think. They are often used for entertainment and can help logic skills. The user may need to recognise patterns to solve it, so those who have good logic are usually good with puzzles.

Puzzles, such as wordsearches, crosswords and Sudoku grids, are printed in newspapers and magazines, but puzzles can be with objects or even on a computer screen.

[[On-Line Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Science websites

The On-Line Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences (OEIS), also known as Sloane's, is a large searchable database. It is on the Web, and it contains number sequences, like the Fibonacci numbers or the powers of two.

It contains over 270,000 sequences. This makes it the largest database of its kind. Each entry contains the leading terms of the sequence, keywords, mathematical motivations, literature links. It also includes the option to generate a graph or play a musical representation of the sequence. The database can be searched by keyword and by subsequence. For instance, it is possible to search for all sequences with both 15 and 118.

[[Ramanujan prime]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory

In mathematics, a Ramanujan prime is a prime number that satisfies a result proven by Srinivasa Ramanujan. It relates to the prime counting function.

[[Prime counting function]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory

[[Bertrand's postulate]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory

Bertrand's postulate states that if n > 3 is an integer, then there always exists at least one prime number p with n < p < 2n − 2. 

This statement was first made in 1845 by Joseph Bertrand. Bertrand verified his statement for all numbers in the interval 3 × 106.

His statement was completely proven by Pafnuty Chebyshev in 1850. For this reason, the postulate is also called the Bertrand-Chebyshev theorem or Chebyshev's theorem. Srinivasa Ramanujan gave a simpler proof. Ramanujan later used that proof when he discovered Ramanujan primes. In 1932, Paul Erdős published a simpler proof using the Chebyshev function θ(x).

[[Paul Erdős]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1996 deaths, Hungarian scientists, Mathematicians, Wolf Prize winners

Paul Erdős, also Pál Erdős, in English Paul Erdos or Paul Erdös (March 26, 1913 – September 20, 1996), was a famous  Hungarian-born mathematician. He worked with hundreds of mathematicians on problems in combinatorics, graph theory, number theory, classical analysis, approximation theory, set theory, and probability theory.

[[Erdős number]]

CATEGORIES: Numbers

The Erdős number (ɛrdøːʃ) honors the Hungarian mathematician Paul Erdős. Erdős was one of the most prolific mathematical writers. He worked with many mathematicians. 

Paul Erdős's number is 0. Anyone who directly worked with Paul Erdős has an Erdős number of 1. Anyone who works with those collaborators who have an Erdős number of 1, has an Erdős number of 2. The chain continues like that.

[[John Morrison (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, American Roman Catholics

John Randall Hennigan (born October 3, 1979) is an American professional wrestler. He is currently working on the independent circuit. He is best known for working for World Wrestling Entertainment under the ring names John Morrison and Johnny Nitro.

[[Candice Michelle]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Female professional wrestlers, American models, Actors from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Sportspeople from Wisconsin

Candice Michelle Beckman-Ehrlich (born September 30, 1978 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin) is an American professional wrestler, actress, and model. She is better known as Candice Michelle or just Candice. Beckman is best known for wrestling for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE).

[[Star of David]]

CATEGORIES: Judaism, Religious symbols

 in  Modern Hebrew) is a Jewish symbol. It is named after King David of Israel and it is very famous. The star consists of a triangle, overlapped by another, "upside-down" triangle. It is unknown how this came to be a symbol of Judaism, but it was first used in the Middle Ages. It is used on the flag of Israel, and was used by German National Socialists to identify Jews.

[[Takao]]

Takao may mean:

[[Belz Beis HaMedrash HaGadol]]

CATEGORIES: Synagogues, Judaism in Israel, Buildings and structures in Jerusalem

The Belz Beis HaMedrash HaGadol (in Yiddish: בעלזא בית המדרש הגדול - "The Belz Grand Synagogue) is the largest synagogue in Jerusalem. It was built by the Belz Hasidic Jews, with help from their supporters and admirers around the world. In the 1980s, Rabbi Yissachar Dov Rokeach (II) of Belz made plans for the huge synagogue to be built in the Kiryat Belz part of Jerusalem.

[[Samson (band)]]

CATEGORIES: British heavy metal bands, 1977 establishments in the United Kingdom, Musical groups established in 1977, Musical groups disestablished in 2002, 2002 disestablishments in the United Kingdom

Samson was a British heavy metal band between 1977 and 2002. It was considered a part of the New Wave of British Heavy Metal. Its first album, Survivors, received good reviews. This made the band more popular. Iron Maiden lead singer Bruce Dickinson was in the band before he joined Iron Maiden. Dickinson went by the name "Bruce Bruce" while he was in Samson. The band kept making music until 2002, when guitarist Paul Samson, who started the band, died of cancer.

[[Thornton Heath]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in London, London Borough of Croydon

Thornton Heath is a town in the London Borough of Croydon, south London. There is a new leisure centre in Thornton Heath and there is a train station and a lot of bus routes. There are a lot of shops like Sainsbury's and Tesco.

[[Stamford Bridge (stadium)]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in London

Stamford Bridge is the home of Premier League club Chelsea F.C.. It is located in Fulham in southwest London. 

It was built for Fulham Football Club, who turned it down for money reasons, so Chelsea was created and decided to play at the ground. It currently holds a capacity of 41,631 seats. It is one of the oldest football stadiums in the world, being opened in 1877. It was renovated in 1998

[[Freeganism]]

CATEGORIES: Lifestyles, Recycling

The word "freeganism" (person: freegan; related: freecycling) means to get things for free rather than buy those items. A freegan is a person who does not like to pay for things, but does not steal either. Freegans like to find things that other people throw away that are still useful.  People often throw things away that are not used up or broken.  Sometimes they throw things away because they are bored of them and like to shop for new things.  Freegans look through other people's rubbish bins and take what they can use, to the point of dumpster diving. This can be good for the environment, because no energy is used to make new things, in those cases. However, some cities have rules about taking things out of the rubbish, and freegans can get in trouble for this.

The name "freegan" rhymes with "vegan".  It combines the words "free" and "vegan".  Freegans are not necessarily vegans.

[[British Board of Film Classification]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 establishments in the United Kingdom, Movie organizations, Video game ratings, Organisations based in London

The British Board of Film Classification is the organisation responsible for movie and some video game classification in the United Kingdom. The rating system can help parents decide which movies their children should not watch and what video games they should not play. It is based in London. It was formed in 1912 as the British Board of Film Censors; its name was changed in 1985.

[[Electrology]]

CATEGORIES: Hair, Medical procedures

Electrology is an electrical process to remove human hair so that it does not grow back. An electrologist is sometimes called an electrolysist in the United Kingdom. The process of removing the hair is referred to as electrolysis. The electrolysist slides a thin metal probe into each hair follicle. This, if done the right way, does not hurt the skin. Electricity flows to the follicle through the probe. This causes damage to the areas that grow hair so that it does not grow back.

[[Film rating systems]]

CATEGORIES: Movie ratings

Many countries have a film rating system to help parents determine which movies their children can watch. The systems usually use age to rate the movies.

[[Eve Ensler]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American activists, American feminists, American playwrights, People with cancer, Writers from New York City

Eve Ensler (born May 25, 1953) is an American playwright and feminist activist. She is best known for the play The Vagina Monologues.

Ensler was born in New York City to a Christian mother and Jewish father. She graduated from Middlebury College in 1975. She married Richard McDermott in 1978 and divorced in 1988. She is the adoptive mother of actor Dylan McDermott. She adopted him when he was 18 and she was 26.

In 2010, she said that she was being treated for uterine cancer.

[[Brat]]

The word Brat has several meanings:

It can be an acronym for:

[[Roger Pearson]]

CATEGORIES: British writers, British anthropologists, 1927 births, Living people

Roger Pearson (born 1927) is a British writer and publisher. He is also the editor of some journals published by The Institute for the Study of Man.

[[Colorado Springs, Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Colorado Springs, Colorado, County seats in Colorado, 1886 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Colorado

Colorado Springs is a city in Colorado, United States. With 369,815 people, it is the second largest city in Colorado and the 49th largest in the United States. It is also the county seat of El Paso County.  It is the headquarters of Focus on the Family, which is a Christian group, and the United States Air Force Academy. Tourist attractions like Pikes Peak, Garden of the Gods  the Cheyenne Mountain Zoo, Seven Falls, Manitou Springs, the Broadmoor Hotel and the Air Force Academy are also in the city and its surrounding area.

[[Janice Raymond]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, American academics, American LGBT people, American radical feminists, Lesbian feminists, LGBT scientists, Prostitution

Janice G. Raymond (born January 24, 1943) is an American feminist activist. She is known for her work against violence, sexual exploitation and the "medical abuse" of women.  She is also known for her writings and activism against transsexualism. She is retired professor of women's studies and medical ethics at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst. She has published many articles on prostitution and sex trafficking. She lectures around the world on many of these topics through Coalition Against Trafficking in Women.

[[Energy efficiency]]

CATEGORIES: Energy

Energy efficiency is using less energy to provide the same level of energy service.  An example would be insulating a home to use less heating and cooling energy to achieve the same temperature.  Another example would be installing fluorescent lights and/or skylights instead of incandescent bulbs to attain the same level of illumination.  So efficient energy use is achieved primarily by means of a more efficient technology rather than by changes in individual behaviour.

Energy conservation is using less energy to achieve a lesser energy service, and usually involves a change in behavior.  Examples would be heating a room less in winter, or driving less, or working in a less brightly lit room.  

As with other definitions, the boundary between efficient energy use and energy conservation can be fuzzy, but both are important in environmental and economic terms.  This is especially the case when actions are directed at the saving of fossil fuels.

[[Tulsa, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Tulsa, Oklahoma, County seats in Oklahoma

Tulsa is the second largest city in Oklahoma, United States. There are 387,807 people living in Tulsa. It is the 47th largest city in the United States. It is the county seat of Tulsa County; and the most densely populated county in Oklahoma. Tulsa has 563,299 people living in it.

[[Anchorage, Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: Anchorage, Alaska, 1914 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Alaska

Anchorage is the largest city in Alaska, United States. With a population of 285,634 residents, it makes up more than two-fifths of the state's population.

[[Boundary Peak]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Nevada, Mountains of the United States

Boundary Peak is a mountain, (or peak), in the southwestern U.S. State of Nevada. The county is Esmeralda. It is the highest point in Nevada. It is less than two miles from the Cal/Nev state line, which is why it is called Boundary Peak. Boundary Peak is 13,141 feet tall, and the closest town is Dyer, a famous ghost town.

[[Skopje]]

CATEGORIES: Skopje

Skopje (Macedonian: Скопје; transcribed Skopje) is the capital and the largest city of North Macedonia. The city is the administrative, cultural, economic and academic centre of the country. In the past, the city has been known by various names such as: Üsküp (Turkish) or Skoplje (Serbo-Croatian). The city has been build upon the ancient city of Scupi. In 2002, the city had population of 506,926 citizens.

[[Norwegian Dawn]]

CATEGORIES: Cruise ships

The Norwegian Dawn is a cruise ship that began sailing in 2002 and is currently in operation with Norwegian Cruise Line.

[[Lea Fastow]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, American Jews, American criminals, People from Houston, Texas

Lea Weingarten Fastow (born December 1961) is the wife of former Enron executive and felon Andrew Fastow, and is the second former Enron executive to go to prison after Enron collapsed due to fraud in December 2001.

Fastow was born in Houston, Texas, born to a Jewish family. Her family had grocery store chain and Weingarten Realty Investors WRI. She graduated from Tufts University, where she met her husband. She earned an MBA at Northwestern University. She was married in 1984. Together Andrew and Lea have two children.

[[Lawrence Higby]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, Businesspeople from Washington, D.C., American political activists

Lawrence M. Higby is an American businessman and political activist. Higby is the former assistant of the White House Chief of Staff H. R. Haldeman during the Nixon Administration. He later went on to become CEO of home medical equipment company Apria. Up until 2005, Higby led a group of rich Republicans called the New Majority PAC.

[[Endorsement test]]

CATEGORIES: Government, United States law, Religion in the United States

The endorsement test was proposed by Sandra Day O'Connor, a member of the United States Supreme Court. She suggested it in her judgment in a lawsuit called Lynch v. Donnelly in 1984.

The endorsement test is a question that you can ask if you think that the government is doing something in favor of religion. According to the United States Constitution, the government cannot endorse any particular religion, and cannot endorse religion in general. The test asks: is the government doing something that makes people think that the government endorses religion? If so, that government act may not be allowed under the Constitution.

[[Terry Rakolta]]

CATEGORIES: American activists, 1943 births, Living people

Terry Rakolta (born September 18, 1943) is an American homemaker and activist who led an unsuccessful boycott against the Fox Broadcasting Company sitcom Married... with Children Rakolta currently lives in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. Rakolta later founded Americans for Responsible Television to fight against other shows deemed offensive by the organization, including shows by Phil Donahue and Howard Stern.

[[Snake River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Washington (U.S. state), Rivers of Oregon, Rivers of Wyoming, Rivers of Idaho

The Snake River is a river in the U.S. states of Wyoming, Idaho, Washington and Oregon. It is a tributary of the Columbia River. The river rises in western Wyoming, and flows through the Snake River Plain in Idaho. It turns north, forming the border with Oregon and Idaho, and the border with Washington and Idaho. At Lewiston it turns west and flows through Washington to the Columbia River.

The Shoshone and Nez Perce Indians lived on the Snake River. The Lewis and Clark Expedition was the first American expedition to sight the Snake River. The river later was part of the Oregon Trail. Many pioneers traveled down the river to settle in the fertile Willamette Valley in Oregon. 

There are fifteen dams on the Snake River. Some are for hydropower, some for irrigation, and some for navigation.

[[Mount Hood]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Oregon, Mountains of the United States

Mount Hood is a dormant volcano, called Wy'east by the Multnomah tribe. It is in the U.S. state of Oregon, about 50 miles (80 kilometers) southeast of Portland. It is described as a "potentially active" stratovolcano.

The volcano is 11,249 feet high.http://www.ngs.noaa.gov/cgi-bin/ds_mark.prl?PidBox=RC2244

It is the highest point in Oregon. There are several ski resorts on Mount Hood. There are 12 glaciers.

Each year, runners race on foot between Mount Hood and the Pacific Ocean in the "Hood to Coast Relay."

[[Crater Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Oregon, Lakes of the United States, Volcanoes of the United States, Calderas

Crater Lake is a caldera lake in the U.S. state of Oregon. It is the main attraction of Crater Lake National Park. It is famous for its blue color and clear water. The lake partly fills a nearly 2,148 deep caldera. The volcanic crater was formed by the collapse of the volcano, Mount Mazama, about 7,500 years ago.  There are no rivers flowing into or out of the lake. The evaporation is compensated for by rain and snowfall at a rate such that the total amount of water is replaced every 250 years.

In 1853, miner John Wesley Hillman made the first recorded visit to the lake. He named the lake "Deep Blue Lake". The lake was renamed at least three times, as Blue Lake, Lake Majesty, and finally Crater Lake.

Crater Lake is known for its famous piece of driftwood, named the Old Man of the Lake. It is a tree that has been moving up and down in the water for more than 100 years. The lake water is cold, so the tree is well preserved.  Originally, fish did not live in the lake. However, people stocked the lake with different kinds of fish between 1888 and 1941. Several species of fish still live in the lake.

[[Driftwood]]

CATEGORIES: Wood

Driftwood is wood that has been washed onto the shore of a sea, river, or lake by winds, tides, waves or man.

In some waterfront areas, driftwood is a major nuisance. However, the driftwood provides shelter and food for birds, fish and other aquatic species as it floats in the ocean. Gribbles, shipworms and bacteria decompose the wood and gradually turn it into nutrients that are reintroduced to the food web. Sometimes, the partially decomposed wood washes ashore, where it also shelters birds, plants, and other species. Driftwood can become the foundation for sand dunes.

Driftwood can be:

[[List of United States cities by population]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities in the United States

The following is a list of incorporated places with the most people living in them in the United States. The United States Census Bureau says an "incorporated place" can have many names, such as city, town, village, borough, and municipality. A few big census-designated places (CDPs) are also in the Census Bureau's list of incorporated places. Consolidated city-counties are a type of place that includes all of a county, or something like it with a different name. Some consolidated city-counties, however, include more than one incorporated places. This list presents only that part (or "balance") of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place.

[[What Not to Wear]]

CATEGORIES: British reality television series, BBC Television programmes

What Not to Wear is a makeover reality show that is aired on the BBC. The reality show is now presented by Mica Paris and Lisa Butcher, but before them, it was presented by the fashion experts Trinny Woodall and Susannah Constantine.

On every episode of the show, there is a makeover of a man or woman who is very unfashionable. The person who is having the makeover is given £2000/$5000 to go shopping and buy new fashionable clothes with the two hosts who give them advice. The makeover helps the person to have a better appearance and be more fashionable.

[[Public figure]]

CATEGORIES: Law

A public figure is a legal term applied in the context of defamation actions (libel and slander), as well as invasion of privacy. A public figure (such as a politician, musician, celebrity, or business leader) cannot base a lawsuit on incorrect harmful statements unless there is proof that the writer or publisher acted with malice (knowledge or reckless disregard for the truth). The burden of proof is higher in the case of a public figure.

[[Elm]]

CATEGORIES: Trees, Ulmaceae

Elms are  deciduous and semi-deciduous trees, found throughout the Northern Hemisphere from Siberia to Indonesia, Mexico to Japan. They have alternate, simple, single- or doubly-serrate leaves, usually asymmetric at the base and sharply pointed at the tip.

Elms are hermaphroditic, having perfect flowers, and which, being wind-pollinated, are without petals. The fruit is a round samara.

Elms take many decades to grow to maturity.

[[Elm (disambiguation)]]

Elm could mean:

To people:

[[Governor of Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Massachusetts, Lists of politicians from the United States, Politicians from Massachusetts

Just like the other 49 American states, Massachusetts has its own governor. The current governor is Charlie Baker. He is a member of the Republican Party. The first governor of Massachusetts was John Hancock.

[[Produce]]

CATEGORIES: Fruits, Vegetables

Produce means fruits and vegetables. At a grocery store, the area selling fruits and vegetables is usually called the produce section. Also, people use a produce scale to weigh their fruits and vegetables.

[[Highway]]

CATEGORIES: Roads

Highway is a word used to describe roads made for travel by the public between important places, such as cities, towns and landmarks. The word highway can also be different between countries, and can mean a road, freeway, superhighway, autoroute, autobahn, parkway, expressway, autostrasse, autostrada, byway, or motorway.

Highways come in many different designs. They can include many lanes of traffic, a median (strip of lane or barrier) between lanes of opposing traffic, and access control (ramps and bridges). Highways can also be as simple as a two-lane road.

In many countries, these roads are numbered to easily tell them apart. These numbered highways are usually called routes. The United States includes a system called the Interstate Highway system, controlled by AASHTO, where major north/south routes are odd numbered and east/west are even numbered. In Canada, routes that are in the 400s are freeways. In China, types of routes are separated by the first letter of the route; "G" for national road, "S" for provincial road and "Y" for rural roads.

Highways are sometimes criticised because of the pollution cars make when driving highways. When too many cars travel along a highway, traffic slows down; this is known as a traffic jam. Public transportation (such as buses) and special lanes for those who have a given number of people in a car are used to help stop these problems.

[[Beverly Cleary]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2021 deaths, American centenarians, American children's writers, American autobiographers, Writers from Oregon

Beverly Atlee Cleary (née Bunn; April 12, 1916spndMarch 25, 2021) was an American children's writer. She was the author of over 80 books for young adults and children. Her characters are normal children facing challenges of growing up, and her stories are filled with humour. Some of her best known and loved characters are Ramona Quimby and her sister Beatrice ("Beezus"), Henry Huggins, Ralph S. Mouse, and Ribsy. 

[[London, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ontario

London, Ontario is a large city exactly halfway between Detroit, Michigan and Toronto, Ontario. It is also the home of the University of Western Ontario. With a population of 457,720 it is the seat of Middlesex County. It is an hour and a half drive from Sarnia, Ontario and an hour drive from Forest, Ontario.

[[Amy Winehouse]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, 2011 deaths, Brit Award winners, British jazz musicians, British R&B musicians, British soul musicians, Contraltos, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United Kingdom, Grammy Award winners, Singers from London

Amy Jade Winehouse (14 September 1983 – 23 July 2011) was an English jazz, soul and R&B singer and songwriter. She debuted with the well-received album Frank in 2003.  Winehouse won five Grammy Awards for her 2006 album Back to Black. This made her the first British female to win five Grammys.  

Winehouse had many uncles who were jazz musicians, and she was interested in jazz from a young age. She named her first album after Frank Sinatra. Her music was also influenced by girl groups of the 1960s.

[[Canuck]]

CATEGORIES: Canada, Slang

"Canuck" is a slang term for Canadian people.

[[Charles Kirk Clarke]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 births, 1924 deaths, People from Ontario, Psychiatrists, Medical researchers

Charles Kirk Clarke (c. 1857 - January 20 1924) was a psychiatrist who had a big role in Canadian politics. He was born in Elora, Ontario, to a former parliamentarian. He went to college at the University of Toronto in 1879. He later went on to found the Canadian National Committee for Mental Hygiene. Clarke first practised psychiatry at the 999 Queen Street institution in Toronto. In 1880, then took a post at the Hamilton asylum.

Clarke was a student and brother-in-law of Joseph Workman, Superintendent of the Toronto Asylum. By 1905, Clarke had abandoned the movement, and many of the other leading psychiatrists would follow suit by the end of World War I, when it was clear that eugenic measures were not having the desired effects.

[[The Internationale]]

CATEGORIES: Songs, Communism, Socialism

"The Internationale" (L'Internationale, lɛ̃.'tɛʀ.nas.jɔ.'nal(ə); 

Die Internationale,

Интернационал, ru, 國際歌, zh) is a very well known communist, socialist, and social democratic/democratic socialist song. While it was originally written in French, it was translated into many other languages, including English. The most famous versions, however, are those in Russian and Chinese.

The French words, written by Eugene Pottier, were originally supposed to be sung to the tune of "La Marseillaise", but a separate tune was created for it by a Belgian named Pierre Degeyter.

The Russian version, written by Arkady Yakolevich Kots (Аркадий Яковлевич Коц) in 1902, was adopted as the national anthem of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (Russian SFSR) in 1918 and as that of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (the Soviet Union) in 1922. It stayed like this until 1944, when it was replaced by the State Anthem of the Soviet Union written by Alexander Alexandrov.

The Chinese lyrics were written by Qu Qiubai (瞿秋白).

The song is known by its tune, and its chorus, which in French begins with "C'est la lutte finale" (meaning "It's the final battle").

[[Hartley, Kent]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Kent

Hartley is a village in Kent, England. It is 6 miles south of Gravesend and Dartford. The old church is called All Saints.

Hartley has many new buildings and some old houses, it now joins Longfield, the place in the north.  In 2001 there were 5,395 persons living here.  There are also woods and a farm near the houses.  Most of the 2,145 houses in Hartley are owned by the persons who live in them.

The name Hartley means "place in the wood where the deer are".   It was a very small place, but now is like a town.  No great events happened here, and not many famous persons lived in Hartley.

[[Stephanie McMahon]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, WWE people, American screenwriters, Writers from Connecticut

Stephanie Marie McMahon-Levesque (born September 24, 1976), better known as Stephanie McMahon, is the "Executive Vice President of Talent and Creative Writing" for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). She is married to Paul "Triple H" Levesque. They have three daughters together. She is the daughter of WWE founder, Vince McMahon. She is the sister of Shane McMahon and daughter of Linda Mcmahon.

[[Cienfuegos]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Cuba, 1819 establishments in North America, 19th-century establishments in Cuba

Cienfuegos is the capital city of the Cienfuegos province, Cuba. It has a population of about 150,000.

[[Hartley]]

Hartley could mean

[[Gribble]]

CATEGORIES: Isopods

A gribble is any species of marine isopod from the family Limnoriidae. They are mostly pale white and small (1-4  mm long) crustaceans. 

The term gribble was originally used for the wood-boring species, especially the first species described from Norway by Rathke in 1799, Limnoria lignorum. The Limnoriidae have species which bore into seaweed and sea grass, as well as wood borers. 

There are three genera, Paralimnoria, Limnoria and Lynseia. Limnoria has species in most seas. Those gribbles able to bore into living marine plants are thought to have evolved from a wood (dead plant) boring species. 

Gribbles bore into wood and plant material for food. The cellulose of wood is digested. The most destructive species are Limnoria lignorum, L. tripunctata and L. quadripunctata. According to an expert, they are the only animals able to make a cellulase to dissolve plant cell walls. Other animals that eat plant fibres make use of bacteria in their gut to produce the enzyme. Gribbles do not. This has led some biologists to think of biofuels.

[[Veronica]]

Veronica is a Latin name for females.

[[Tuatara]]

CATEGORIES: Scaled reptiles, Living fossils, Animals of New Zealand

The Tuatara are reptiles which look like lizards. However, they are the only surviving member of an order of reptiles which flourished 200 million years ago.

There is now only the genus Sphenodon, with two species of Tuatara. Both are endemic to (only live in) New Zealand. Lizards and snakes are the closest living relatives of the tuatara.

Tuatara are green-brown, and measure up to 80 cm from head to the end of their tail. They have a spiny crest along the back: the Maori word tuatara refers to this.

The crest is more pronounced in males. Tuatara are special in many ways. One of these is the pattern of their teeth. They have two rows of teeth in the upper jaw overlap one row on the lower jaw. This is unique among living species.

[[Dinosaur Jr]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 establishments in the United States, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, Musical groups established in 1984, Musical groups from Massachusetts

Dinosaur Jr is an American rock band. The band was formed in 1984 in Massachusetts. The band stopped playing in 1997 but came back together in 2007. The people in the band right now are J Mascis, Lou Barlow and Murph.  The band has recorded many albums over the years that were very important to rock music. Some of these albums are You're Living All Over Me, Green Mind and Beyond.

The band is famous for J Mascis' good guitar sounds and his powerful guitar solos.

[[Band Aid (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 establishments in the United Kingdom, Musical groups established in 1984

Band Aid was a British and Irish charity music supergroup. It was started in 1984 by Bob Geldof and Midge Ure. The purpose was to raise money for famine relief in Ethiopia by making the record "Do They Know It's Christmas?" The single was very successful. It was Number One on the music charts during Christmas. Two re-recordings of the song were done. They raised more money and also finished Number One on the charts.

Band Aid II re-recorded the song in 1989, and Band Aid 20 did the same in 2004.

[[Hüsker Dü]]

CATEGORIES: American punk bands, Musical groups from Minnesota, Musicians from Saint Paul, Minnesota, Musical groups established in 1979, 1979 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Minnesota, Musical groups disestablished in 1988, 1988 disestablishments in the United States, 20th-century disestablishments in Minnesota

Hüsker Dü was an American hardcore punk and later alternative rock band from the 1980s. The band formed in 1979 in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The people in the band were Bob Mould who sang and played electric guitar, Greg Norton (later replaced by Enrique Peña Nieto) who played bass guitar and Grant Hart who sang and played drums. The band stopped playing together in 1987.

The band's sound changed very much over the years they were together, but it was always very loud and powerful. The band began as a hardcore band. They played extremely loud and very fast and often screamed their vocals instead of singing. As time went on, the songs began to get slower and more melodic. By the time the band had stopped playing together, their music was no longer punk rock and had changed to alternative rock.

Hüsker Dü always had more than one singer. This is because the band decided early in their time together that whoever wrote the lyrics of a song would sing that song. This meant that many of the songs were be very different from each other, but it also caused fights within the band. In 1987, the band stopped playing together because of these fights.

[[Deir el Qamar Synagogue]]

CATEGORIES: Synagogues, Buildings and structures in Lebanon, 17th century establishments in Asia, Establishments in Lebanon

The Deir el Qamar Synagogue is a synagogue in Deir el Qamar, Lebanon; it is the oldest synagogue in Mount Lebanon. The synagogue was built in the 17th century to serve the local Jewish Lebanese population. Some of them were under the rule of Emir Fakhreddine II. 

[[Interstate 75]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways

Interstate 75 (often shortened to 75) is an Interstate Highway in the midwest and southeastern United States that runs north and south. It travels from State Road 826 (Palmetto Expressway) and State Road 924 (Gratigny Parkway) in Hialeah, Florida (just west of Miami) to Sault St. Marie, Michigan, at the Ontario, Canada, border. The route is 1786.47 long.

[[Kumho Tire Co. v. Carmichael]]

CATEGORIES: United States law, Politics

Kumho Tire Co. v. Carmichael applied the Daubert standard to expert testimony from non-scientists.

[[Deodorant]]

CATEGORIES: Hygiene

Deodorant is anything that takes away an odor, or bad smell. Often, it means something people put on their bodies so their sweat does not smell as bad. The most commonly used deodorants are for use on the armpits. These are also anti-perspirants because they reduce the production of sweat. There are deodorants for other places on the body as well. Deodorant can be sold in the form of sprays, bottles, or sticks that are rolled onto the body.

[[Silesia]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the Czech Republic, Geography of Poland, Geography of Saxony, Regions of Germany

Silesia (Śląsk; Schlesien; Silesia; Silesian: Ślůnsk) is a historical region of Poland. Between 1742 – 1945, it was the eastern part of Germany and was a Prussian province. In 1945, all of Poland was occupied by the Soviet Red Army. In the following years, the communist occupant enacted laws that in effect chased away the remaining all owners. 

[[Josh Holloway]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from Santa Clara County, California, People from San Jose, California

Josh Holloway (born July 20, 1969 in San Jose, California) is an American actor most known for his role as James "Sawyer" Ford on ABC's Emmy award-winning show Lost.

[[Levon Mkrtchyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Armenian movie directors

Levon Mkrtchyan, (Լևոն Մկրտչյան, Мкртчян Левон Гайкович; born 25 February 1953, in Gyumri) is an Armenian movie director known for his documentaries The Muses, Paruyr Sevag, Hovhannes Shiraz, Mashtoc,  And There Was Light, A Transcript for Independence, and many more. 

He studied in the Directing Department of the Yerevan Fine Arts and Theater Institute.

In 1978, he released his debut short movie The Muses. In 1984, he graduated from the Directing Department of VGIK in Moscow. Since 1978, he has shot thirty-three documentaries. He filmed and has an incredible archive about well known Armenians, including the only film footage on Hovhannes Shiraz, incredible footage on Charles Aznavour visiting Armenia after the 1988 earthquake, the funeral of William Saroyan. Levon Mkrtchyan continues his contribution to the Armenian people by making more documentaries about the well known Armenians.1993 The Armenian Kingdom of Kilikia Footage includes the President of France - Francois Mitterand The President of Armenia - Levon Ter-Petrosyan. 

“Hayk” Studio of Documental movies is currently working on a documentary about William Saroyan, dedicated to the renowned Armenian American writer’s 100th Anniversary. 

The director of the movie is Levon Mkrtchyan, an accomplished and famous Armenian movie director who is known for his biographical documentaries about people who have had a great impact in the history of the Armenian nation (Jansem, Hovhannes Shiraz, Davit Anhaght, My Komitas). The filming will take place in the United States where William Saroyan was born and has lived most of his life. Additional filming will take place in France, Turkey, Russia and Armenia. Mr. Mkrtchyan already has an original footage from William Saroyan’s funeral ceremony which has taken place in Armenia. The narration of the movie is going to be offered to Al Pacino. “Hayk” Studio of Documental movies will collaborate with producers in the United States, to bring this exceptional project to life.

==Filmography==  

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_uMokKYvkNE

[[Manuel Fraga Iribarne]]

CATEGORIES: Galician people, Spanish politicians, 1922 births, 2012 deaths

Manuel Fraga Iribarne (November 23, 1922 in Vilalba – January 15, 2012 in Madrid) was a Spanish and Galician politician. Fraga was a politician in Spain under Francisco Franco's dictatorial regime and in the democracy after Franco's death. He was the President of Galicia from 1990 to 2005 and governed the region strictly with a hard hand. He was loved by those who supported him, and loathed by his opponents.

[[Galicia (Spain)]]

CATEGORIES: Galicia

Galicia or Galiza is a nationality in Spain that became a Spanish autonomous community in 1978. It is in the northwest of the Iberian Peninsula. It shares borders with Portugal to the South and the communities of Castile and León and Asturias to the east.

[[Bilirubin]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry, Physiology

Bilirubin is a product that comes from the breakdown of haemoglobin. Its levels are higher in certain diseases and it causes the yellow color of bruises and the brown color of faeces. Its level usually measured to monitor liver or gallbladder problems.

[[Nelly Furtado]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Canadian pop singers, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from British Columbia, Nelly Furtado, People from Victoria, British Columbia, Portuguese singers, R&B musicians, Latin Grammy Award winners

Nelly Kim Furtado ComIH (born December 2, 1978) is a Canadian singer-songwriter.

She can also play many musical instruments. She learned to play the trombone and the ukulele at the age of four. In later years, she learned to play the guitar and keyboard. She has released five albums. The first album was released in 2000 and was called Whoa! Nelly. She become famous worldwide because the album was very popular. The first single released was "I'm Like a Bird" which earned her a Grammy Award. Her second album was Folklore released in 2003. It was not as popular as the previous album. Her third album in 2006 was Loose which spawned many hit songs including "Promiscuous", "Maneater", "Say It Right" and "All Good Things (Come to an End)".  She then released a Spanish language album in 2009 titled Mi Plan and in 2010 released a greatest hits album. Her next English language album The Spirit Indestructible was released in 2012. Furtado's parents are Portuguese immigrants. She sings in English, Spanish and Portuguese.

On September 20, 2003, she gave birth to a daughter, Nevis.

[[Anna Jurkiewicz]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Polish sportspeople, Figure skaters

Anna Jurkiewicz (born February 9, 1984 in Oświęcim, Poland) is a Polish figure skater.

As a young girl, she was one of the best young skaters in the world. Then she had some health problems and was not able to skate. She returned in 2006 and has been competing internationally since autumn 2006.

[[Exmoor]]

CATEGORIES: Devon, Somerset, National parks in the United Kingdom

Exmoor is a national park in England. The border of two counties, Devon and Somerset, runs through it. It is an area of sandstone hills which form tall cliffs on its north coast. The high ground of Exmoor is mostly rough grassland, but there are small woodlands on its lower slopes.

In Exmoor is an important water reservoir, Wimbleball Lake.

It is also famous for the Exmoor Pony.

[[Barnstaple]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Devon

Barnstaple is a town in Devon, a county in South West England. 20,724 people live there. It is found 68 west southwest of Bristol, 50 north of Plymouth and 34 northwest of the county town of Exeter.

[[Bideford]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Devon

Bideford is a town in north Devon, a county in South West England. It is on the River Torridge. 14,407 people live there. It is a port, and its main export is clay.

[[Tiverton]]

CATEGORIES: Mid Devon, Towns in Devon

Tiverton is a town in Mid Devon, Devon, England. In 2001, it had a population of 18,621. It was once a centre of lace making, but this industry has now declined.

People have lived around the area since the Stone Age. There is a hillfort on a hill above the town. Roman fortifications have been found nearby. 

[[Persian]]

Persian might mean:

[[Torbay]]

CATEGORIES: Unitary authorities in Devon

Torbay is a Unitary authority in England. 120,000 people live there. It is on the south coast and has over 20 beaches. Tourism is very important to the local economy.

Torbay is not a town. Rather, it contains three towns (Torquay, Paignton and Brixham) and a few villages, the largest of which is Galmpton.

Torbay was first created as a county borough in 1967, uniting the urban districts of its three towns. In 1974 it became a borough of Devon, its surrounding county. Then in 1993 It was given unitary authority status, having the powers of both a borough and a county. In 2007 a referendum led to the adoption of a directly elected Mayor.

[[1215]]

CATEGORIES: 1215

[[391]]

CATEGORIES: 391

[[Beyond (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums

Beyond is an album by the American alternative rock band Dinosaur Jr.  It was released in April 2007. It was the band's first album since 1997's Hand it Over. It was the first album since 1988's Bug to have all of the band's original members.  The album is in the usual Dinosaur Jr style of very loud guitars with many skillful guitar solos.  The album has been successful. It is generally well thought of by music critics.February 2015

[[Mitt Romney]]

CATEGORIES: Businesspeople from Massachusetts, United States senators from Utah, American chief executives, Governors of Massachusetts, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan, Businesspeople from Detroit, Michigan, Businesspeople from Utah, 2008 United States presidential candidates, 2012 United States presidential candidates, US Republican Party politicians, 1947 births, Living people, 21st-century American politicians, Massachusetts Republicans

Willard Mitt Romney (born March 12, 1947), usually called Mitt Romney, is an American businessman. Romney is the junior United States senator from Utah since January 3, 2019. He was the 70th Governor of Massachusetts serving from 2003 to 2007. He ran for the Republican Party nomination in the 2008 election, but lost the nomination to United States senator John McCain of Arizona.

Romney would run again for the nomination only this time winning the nomination beating former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum and former Speaker Newt Gingrich. His running mate was U.S. Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin. He ran against the incumbent President Barack Obama. He lost the election winning 206 of the electoral college to Obama's 332.

In the aftermath of the election, Romney remained low in politics and in the 2016 presidential election, Romney was a critic of Donald Trump and would endorse former Governor Gary Johnson of the Libertarian Party. After the election of Trump, it was thought that Trump would pick Romney as Secretary of State, but the position went to businessman Rex Tillerson.

After Utah Senator Orrin Hatch retired on February 16, 2018, Romney became a candidate for the United States senate in the 2018 United States Senate election in Utah. In June 2018, Romney won the Republican nomination for the Senate seat. He won the general election in a landslide victory replacing retiring Senator Orrin Hatch.

[[Laboratory glassware]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment

Laboratory glassware refers to various items which are usually made of glass and used for scientific work in chemistry and biology laboratories. Some of these items are now made of plastic which is less expensive and more convenient.

Pipettes, petri dishes, and test tubes are examples of laboratory glassware. These items are used to store materials, to measure their volume, to mix and prepare solutions, or to contain a chemical reaction.

[[Volta (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Björk albums, Pop albums

Volta is a 2007 album by Icelandic rock singer Björk. She has claimed the album is about "returning to her roots". The style of the album is electronic pop. Five singles were released from it. The first single "Earth Intruders" was released April 2007. It was produced by Timbaland.

[[Mulatto]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups, Spanish language

Mulatto is a word referring to a person who is born to one black parent and one white parent. The term may be considered offensive or rude to some, because of its origin. The term is also used to refer to a light brown color, because of a mulatto's skin color.  Many people prefer terms such as "biracial" and "of mixed race" over "mulatto".

In some cultures, such as in Cuba, there are a number of terms describing skin colour, and none of them is taken as evaluative. There are simply descriptive terms. And in the Spanish language the term mulata would be used for females of mixed race.

There are other descriptive terms which are used in the Caribbean and Latin America, without their being regarded as racial in the pejorative sense.

== References ==	

[[Water polo]]

CATEGORIES: Water polo, Summer Olympic sports

Water polo is a sport played in water with a ball. It has similarities to basketball and soccer, although players are in the pool. Players try to get the ball into the goal more times than the opposing team, without using goggles.

[[Fishstick]]

CATEGORIES: Seafood, Fast food

Fishsticks or fish fingers are a type of food probably invented in the United Kingdom.  They are made of a whitefish like cod that is battered and breaded.  They are often eaten with tartar sauce, cocktail sauce, or ketchup. Fishsticks are popular with children and their parents as an easy-to-prepare finger food that is somewhat healthy for kids.

[[Nelly]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American rap musicians from Texas, Grammy Award winners, Singers from Missouri, Singers from Austin, Texas, Nelly, Musicians from Austin, Texas

 

Cornell Iral Haynes Jr. (born November 2, 1974) is an American rapper, and singer. He is better known as his stage name Nelly. He won three Grammy Awards in 2003.

[[Boy band]]

CATEGORIES: Boy bands

A boy band is a type of musical group with three or more young male singers. Usually, the singers are able to perform as dancers as well. Most singers in boy bands do not play musical instruments. Boy bands usually perform pop or R&B music.

[[Solo (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Music

In musical performance, a solo is a piece or a section of a piece that is played or sung by a single performer. This performer is called a soloist. A soloist can be a singer or an instrumentalist.

Solos are common in classical music and jazz. In popular music, a solo is an improvised melody played by a single performer, such as a guitar solo. In the country music genre a solo is known as a ride.

[[Antarctic krill]]

CATEGORIES: Krill

Antarctic krill (Euphausia superba) is a species of krill that lives in the Antarctic waters of the Southern Ocean. They are shrimp-like and belong to the invertebrates. 

They live in large groups, called swarms. Sometimes these swarms have a density of 10,000–30,000 individual animals per cubic meter. 

They feed directly on very small phytoplankton, so they can use the energy that the phytoplankton originally got from the sun in order to sustain their life in the open ocean. They grow to a length of 6 cm, weigh up to 2 g, and can live for up to six years. They are a key species in the Antarctic ecosystem and are, in terms of biomass, probably the most successful animal species on the planet (approximately 500 million tonnes).

In aquaria, krill have been observed to eat each other. 

[[Cubic metre]]

CATEGORIES: Units of volume

The cubic metre (symbol m³) is the SI unit of volume. It is a cube with a length, height, and width of one metre, with 1,000 litres of space.

In the many places it is spelled "cubic meter". Other names are stère and kilolitre or kiloliter.

[[Food and Agriculture Organization]]

CATEGORIES: United Nations, Green politics

The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) is a specialized agency of the United Nations that leads international efforts to defeat hunger established on 16 October 1945.

It serves both developed and developing countries and acts as a neutral forum where all nations meet as equals. FAO is also a source of knowledge and information, and helps developing countries and countries in transition modernize and improve agriculture, forestry and fisheries practices, ensuring good nutrition and food security for all. 

[[Colorimeter]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment

A colorimeter is a device used for measuring colours, or colorimetry. It measures the absorbance of different wavelengths of light in a solution. It can be used to measure the concentration of a known solute.

Different chemical substances absorb different wavelengths of light. When the concentration of the solute is higher, it absorbs more light in a specific wavelength. This is known as the Beer-Lambert law.

[[Valletta]]

CATEGORIES: National capitals in Europe, Cities in Malta

Valletta is the capital city of Malta. It was founded by Jean Parisot de la Valette, the Grandmaster of the Order of Saint John on March 28, 1566. The city's population is 6,315 (in 2005) and it is currently decreasing as people move to the UK, Italy, or the newer areas of Malta.

[[Basketball Bundesliga]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball leagues, Sport in Germany, 1939 establishments, 1930s establishments in Germany

The Basketball Bundesliga (BBL) is the highest level of basketball competition in Germany. The BBL determines the national champion.

[[Butterfield, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Butterfield, Missouri is a village in Missouri, United States.

According to the United States Census Bureau, the village has a total area of 1.1 km² (0.4 mi²), all land.

[[Andorra la Vella]]

CATEGORIES: National capitals in Europe, Parishes of Andorra

Andorra la Vella is the capital city of the principality of Andorra and is one of the seven parishes of Andorra. It is in the southwestern part of the country.

[[Woodland]]

CATEGORIES: Forests

Woodland is a low-density forest with plenty of sunlight and limited shade. It forms an open habitat. 

Woodlands have an understory of shrubs and herbaceous plants including grasses. Woodlands grade into shrubland in drier conditions or in early stages of plant succession. Higher densities and areas of trees, with largely closed canopy, and nearly continuous shade and are often called forests. 

Woodland in British forestry means any smaller area covered in trees, however dense. Forest in the British Isles means extensive wooded areas, regardless of density. Royal forests may not be wooded at all. The term ancient woodland is used in British conservation to mean any wooded land that has existed for a very long time (equivalent to the American term old growth forest).

Conservationist work hard to preserve woodlands. The woodlands in Northwest Indiana have been preserved as part of the Indiana Dunes.

[[Limburg (Netherlands)]]

CATEGORIES: Limburg (Netherlands)

Limburg is the southernmost province of the Netherlands. Its capital is Maastricht. It is the only province in the Netherlands which has hills. It is a very old province; the capital city, Maastricht, is over 2000 years old. The Limburgish people do speak Dutch, but they also speak their own dialects called Limburgish. These dialects - especially the ones in the South of Limburg, the normal Dutch people find difficult to understand. These dialects have many influences from German and French. The Limburgish are renowned for their famous vlaai. 

Limburger cheese comes from this region.

[[Mount Cayley]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of British Columbia, Mountains of British Columbia

Mount Cayley is an eroded stratovolcano. It is 11 km southeast of Callaghan Lake and 24 west of Whistler, British Columbia, Canada. It is part of the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt which is a segment of the Cascade Volcanic Arc.

A scenario of an eruption of Mount Cayley shows how western Canada is vulnerable to an eruption. The scenario is based on past activity in the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt and involves both effusive and explosive eruptions. The scenario impact is largely a result of the concentration of vulnerable infrastructure in valleys.

In 2003, Catherine Hickson, a scientist with the Geological Survey of Canada, was one of the three scientists to report on the hypothetical eruption at Mount Cayley. The first signs of activity at the volcano would probably be enlarged seismic activity in and close to the mountain. Flooding would turn out to be a huge issue for the community of Squamish and could eventually overrun parts of Highway 99.

The Mount Cayley volcanic field is named after Mount Cayley.

[[Limburg]]

Limburg might mean:

[[Limburg (Belgium)]]

CATEGORIES: Limburg (Belgium)

Limburg is the easternmost of the five provinces of modern Flanders, which is one of the three main political and cultural sub-divisions of modern Belgium. Its capital is Hasselt.

[[Limbourg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Liège

Limbourg or Limburg is a medieval city in the Belgian province of Liège. It was founded in the 11th century.

In 2007 its population was 5644.

It is located at 50° 37 North, 05° 56 East.

[[Limburg an der Lahn]]

Limburg an der Lahn (Limburg on the Lahn river) is a German town and the capital of the Kreis Limburg-Weilburg in the west of Hesse.

[[Stinky]]

Stinky could mean:

[[Illusion]]

CATEGORIES: Illusions

An illusion is a distortion  of perception. The brain arranges, sorts, and organises data from the senses. Normally the system works well. Sometimes it does not, and we see illusions. In general, they are shared by most people in the same situation.

Illusions can happen with all five senses (taste, touch, sight, smell, and hearing), and some involve the way information from two senses is put together. Some illusions happen because of disorders, but generally, all normal people can sense the same illusion. An illusion is different from a hallucination; a halucination is sensing something which is not real, but an illusion is interpreting what we sense wrongly.

[[Charcoal]]

CATEGORIES: Fuel, Biofuels

Charcoal is a carbon-containing substance made from wood, naturally black and powdery. Charcoal is made from wood by heating it in an airless space at a high temperature. The wood will not burn, but instead turn into charcoal. The by-product of making charcoal is tar and turpentine.

People use it for different things such as cooking on a barbecue grill, and in painting.

[[Brose Baskets]]

CATEGORIES: Bamberg, Basketball teams, Sports clubs, Sport in Bavaria

Brose Baskets Bamberg (also Brose Baskets) is a basketball club in Bamberg, Germany. In 2005 (as GHP Bamberg), 2007, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 it won the BBL. In 1992, 2010, 2011, and 2012 it won the German Cup.

[[Armenian Revolutionary Federation]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Armenia, Socialist International, Political parties in Europe, Nationalist organizations in Europe, Tbilisi, 1890 establishments

The Armenian Revolutionary Federation (ARF or ՀՅԴ) (Armenian: Հայ Յեղափոխական Դաշնակցութիւն – Hay Heghapokhakan Dashnaktsutiun, Dashnaktsutiun, Դաշնակ – Dashnak or Tashnag) is an Armenian political party founded in Tiflis (Tbilisi in modern-day Georgia) in 1890 by Christapor Mikaelian, Stepan Zorian, and Simon Zavarian. The party works in Armenia and in countries where the Armenian diaspora is active, notably in Lebanon and the ethnically Armenian-dominated de facto Republic of Nagorno-Karabakh.

[[Christapor Mikaelian]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian politicians, 1859 births, 1905 deaths

Christapor Mikaelian (Armenian: Քրիստափոր Միքայէլեան) also known by his noms de guerre Hellen (Էլլէն), Topal (Թոփալ), and Edward (Էդուարդ), (1859-1905) was one of the three founders of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation along Stepan Zorian and Simon Zavarian, also part of Armenian national liberation movement.

[[Varazdat]]

CATEGORIES: Monarchs of Armenia

Varasdates or Varazdat (Վարազդատ, Varazdat) was an Armenian prince who succeeded his uncle King Papes as King of Armenia in 374.

Following the murder of King Papes, Valens sent Varazdat, a nephew of Pap, a young man highly reputed for his mental and physical gifts, to hold the Armenian throne.  Shapur II, having failed on the battlefield, now proposed to Valens in 375 that Armenia be divided between the two powers. The Emperor rejected the proposal, but sent Victor Magistrianus to the Persian King to discuss the question. This emissary was cozened into exceeding the bounds of his authority and agreeing to the Persian proposal. In the meantime, the internal condition of Armenia was imperiled through friction between King Varazdat and the nakharars, culminating in the assassination of Musel Mamikonian, the leader of the latters' party. Manuel, the son of Musel, took up arms against the King and compelled him to flee from Armenia in 378, after four years of reign.  Varazdat's life was saved, but the country was thrown into confusion. The Persians took advantage of the turmoil and invaded Armenia; but their occupation was a short-lived one. Shapur II died in 379, and the Persians evacuated in haste. Manuel, the dynamic Mamikonian, had rallied a formidable national force for action. 

[[Adana massacre]]

CATEGORIES: Adana massacre, Anti-Armenianism, Massacres in Turkey, Armenian Genocide, April events, 1909, 20th century in Turkey

The Adana massacre happened in Adana Province, in the Ottoman Empire, in April 1909. A religious-ethnic clash in the city of Adana amidst governmental upheaval resulted in a series of anti-Armenian pogroms throughout the district.  Reports estimated that the massacres in Adana Province resulted in 20,000 to 30,000 deaths.

[[Adana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Adana (Greek Άδανα) (the ancient Antioch in Cilicia or Antioch on the Sarus) is the capital of Adana Province in Turkey. According to the 2000 census, with 1,130,710 inhabitants, it is the fifth most populous city of Turkey (after İstanbul, Ankara, İzmir and Bursa). The 2006 estimate of Adana's population is 1,271,894. 

For most Turkish people, the word 'Adana' associates with Kebab, şalgam, cotton, oranges and very hot weather, in the awareness that Adana also embodies more than just these. 

Adana is also named among the 25 European Regions of the Future for 2006/2007 by Foreign Direct Investment Magazine. Chosen alongside Kocaeli for Turkey, Adana scored the most points for cost effectiveness against Kocaeli's points for infrastructure development, while Adana and Kocaeli tied on points for the categories of human resources and quality of life. 

Adana has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Koeppen climate classification).

[[Parsley Massacre]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in the Dominican Republic, Massacres, 20th centuy in Haiti, 1937 in North America

In October 1937, Dominican dictator Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molina ordered the execution of the Haitian population living within the borderlands with Haiti. The violence resulted in the killing of 17,000 to 35,000 Haitian civilians over a span of approximately five days. This would later become known as the Parsley Massacre.

[[Heat pump]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A heat pump is a machine that moves heat from a cold place to a hot place.

[[Second law of thermodynamics]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics, Laws of physics

The second law of thermodynamics says that when energy changes from one form to another form, or matter moves freely, entropy (disorder) in a closed system increases.

Differences in temperature, pressure, and density tend to even out horizontally after a while. Due to the force of gravity, density and pressure do not even out vertically. Density and pressure on the bottom will be more than at the top.

Entropy is a measure of spread of matter and energy to everywhere they have access.

The most common wording for the second law of thermodynamics is essentially due to Rudolf Clausius:

In other words, everything tries to maintain the same temperature over time.

There are many statements of the second law which use different terms, but all mean the same thing.   Another statement by Clausius is:

An equivalent statement by Lord Kelvin is:

The second law only applies to large systems. The second law is about the likely behavior of a system where no energy or matter gets in or out. The bigger the system is, the more likely the second law will be true.

[[Air conditioner]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

An air conditioner is a system or a machine that treats air in a defined, usually enclosed area via a refrigeration cycle in which warm air is removed and replaced with cooler air. 

In construction, a complete system of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning is referred to as HVAC. Whether in homes, offices or vehicles, its purpose is to provide comfort by altering the properties of the air, usually by cooling the air inside.The main function of air conditioner is to change adverse temperature.

[[Branch (disambiguation)]]

A branch is a part of a tree.

Branch or branching could also mean:

[[First law of thermodynamics]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics, Laws of physics

The first law of thermodynamics states that energy can neither be created nor destroyed; it can changed only from one form to another. The law forms the basis of the principle of conservation of energy. This means that anything that uses energy is changing the energy from one kind of energy to another. For example, exercising changes energy from food into kinetic (motion) energy.  Another example:  In the Sun (or any star), Nuclear Fusion changes mass into heat and light (Electromagnetic Radiation), which travels to Earth and is used by plants to create food (chemical energy) via photosynthesis, which can be eaten by animals allowing them to move (kinetic energy).  Energy only ever changes its form; it is neither created nor destroyed. This is why Perpetual motion machines do not exist and could never exist; it would break a fundamental law of physics. 

People can use the changes to do work that is useful. Examples of forms of energy in classical mechanics include heat, light, kinetic (movement) or potential energy. However, in modern physics it is considered that there are only two types of energy - mass and kinetic energy, although this may not be helpful to those not familiar with more complex physics.

The law means that the total energy of the universe (or any Closed system) is a constant. However, energy can be transferred from one part of the universe to another.

The most common wording of the first law of thermodynamics used by scientists is:

[[Conservation of energy]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics, Laws of physics

In physics, the conservation of energy is that energy can not be created or destroyed, it can only be changed from one form to another, such as when electrical energy is changed into heat energy. Formally, it says that the total amount of energy in an isolated system remains constant, although it may change forms, e.g. friction turns kinetic energy into thermal energy.  In thermodynamics, the first law of thermodynamics is a statement of the conservation of energy for thermodynamic systems.

From a mathematical point of view, the energy conservation law is a consequence of the shift symmetry of time; energy conservation is a result of the empirical fact that the laws of physics do not change with time itself. Philosophically, this can be stated as "nothing depends on time per se (time itself)".

[[Differences between butterflies and moths]]

CATEGORIES: Lepidoptera

The Lepidoptera are the butterflies and moths. However, though the butterflies are a natural monophyletic group, moths are not. Butterflies are often put in the suborder  Rhopalocera, which includes Papilionoidea (true butterflies), the Hesperiidae (skippers), and the Hedylidae (butterfly moths). 

In Linnaean taxonomy, moths are usually put in the suborder Heterocera. This tends to cover up the fact that they are not a true natural monophyletic group. However, moths do look and behave rather different from butterflies, which explains why people came to call them by a different name.

Other taxonomic schemes have been proposed, but none of them is perfect. Both taxonomists and amateurs make use of the obvious differences between butterflies and moths.

[[Monophyly]]

CATEGORIES: Cladistics

Monophyly means common descent from a single ancestor.

Biologists have introduced  a kind of taxonomy called cladistics. The aim of this is to make biological classification fit what we know about the way organisms evolved.

If there is a group made of a common ancestor, and all its descendants, that group is monophyletic.  (Greek: "of one race").

A group which contains organisms, without their common ancestor, is called polyphyletic. Convergent evolution is a usual cause of such groups. If a group contains the common ancestor, but leaves out some of its descendants, it is called paraphyletic. All living things on this planet are thought, on the basis of DNA analysis, to be monophyletic, that is, to have one origin, not many.

Example: all species in the genus Homo have come from the same ancestral form in the family Hominidae, and no other descendants are known. Thus the genus Homo is monophyletic.

If, on the other hand, it were discovered that Homo habilis had developed from a different ancestor from Homo sapiens, and this ancestor were not included in the genus, then the genus would be polyphyletic. Since biologists by and large tend to prefer monophyletic groups, in this case, they would likely either split the genus or broaden it to include the additional forms.

Example of polyphyletic group: Sea slugs.

[[Lepidoptera]]

CATEGORIES: Lepidoptera

The order Lepidoptera is the second biggest order of  insects. It includes the moths and butterflies including the  skippers. There is no common word for the group: ordinary people talk of "butterflies and moths". 

The order has more than 180,000 species in 128 families and 47 superfamilies. They are 10% of all the described species of living organisms. The Coleoptera (the beetles) is the only order that has more species.

The name, Lepidoptera, comes from the Ancient Greek words λεπίδος (scale) and πτερόν (wing).

The earliest discovered fossils date to 200 mya or earlier. This early origin was long before flowering plants evolved. Earlier butterflies must have been adapted to a habitat of cycads and conifers, something which had not previously been suspected. 

[[Diurnal]]

CATEGORIES: Zoology

Animals that are active during the day are called diurnal. They hunt or feed during the day and sleep during the night. Nocturnal animals do it the other way round.

Scientists sometimes use the word crepuscular to describe nocturnal  animals that are not active when it is very dark at night; they are mostly active near dawn, dusk, and sometimes when the moon makes a lot of light.

[[Skipper (butterfly)]]

CATEGORIES: Hesperiidae

The skippers are a family of butterflies, the Hesperiidae. They are named after their quick, darting flight. 

Skippers used to be classified in their own superfamily, Hesperioidea, because they have their antennae clubs hooked backward like a crochet while the other butterflies have club-like tips to their antennae. Skippers also have generally stockier bodies than regular butterflies, with stronger wing muscles. 

[[Energy conservation]]

CATEGORIES: Energy, Engineering, Environment

Energy conservation is reducing the amount of energy used for different purposes. This may result in an increase of financial capital, environmental value, national and personal security, and human comfort.

Individuals and organizations that consume energy may conserve energy to reduce costs and promote economic, political and environmental sustainability.  Industrial and commercial users may want to increase efficiency and thus maximize profit.

On a larger scale, energy conservation is an energy policy.  In general, energy conservation  reduces the energy consumption and energy demand per capita.  This reduces the rise in energy costs, and can reduce the need for new power plants, and energy imports.  The reduced energy demand can provide more flexibility in choosing the methods of energy production.

By reducing emissions, energy conservation helps to prevent climate change.  Energy conservation makes it easier to replace non-renewable resources with renewable energy.  Energy conservation is often the most economical solution to energy shortages.

[[Cogeneration]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Cogeneration (also combined heat and power, CHP) is the use of a heat engine or a power station to make both electricity and useful heat at the same time.

Conventional power plants emit the heat created as a byproduct of electricity generation into the environment through cooling towers, as flue gas, or by other means. Combined heat and power captures the byproduct heat for domestic or industrial heating purposes, either very close to the plant, or - especially in Scandinavia and eastern Europe - for distribution through pipes to heat local housing. 

Byproduct heat at moderate temperatures (100 to 180°C) can also be used in absorption chillers for cooling. A plant producing electricity, heat and cold is sometimes called regeneration or more generally: polygene ration plant. 

Cogeneration is a thermodynamically efficient use of fuel. In separate production of electricity some energy is lost as waste heat, but in cogeneration this energy performs useful work (see energy).

[[Quakenbrück]]

Quakenbrück is a small town in Lower Saxony. It has about 13,000 inhabitants.

[[Dew point]]

CATEGORIES: Weather, Weather measurements

The dew point is the temperature where water vapor condenses into liquid water.

All air holds different amounts of water vapor. The dew point shows the amount of moisture in the air. The higher the dew point is, the higher the level of moisture in the air at a given temperature. The dew point of humid air will be higher than the dew point of dry air.

Condensation of water vapor starts when the temperature of air is lowered to its dew point and beyond. The dew point, like other measures of humidity, can be found from measurement taken by a hygrometer.

[[Podgorica]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Montenegro, Municipalities of Montenegro, National capitals in Europe

Podgorica (Подгорица) is the capital of Montenegro. In 2011, the population was 185,937.

[[Región Autónoma del Atlántico Sur]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Nicaragua

The Región Autónoma del Atlántico Sur is an independent part of Nicaragua. It is often simply known as RAAS. Its capital is Bluefields. It was made when new regions were formed in Nicaragua in 1989. The old region was turned into Atlántico Sur and Atlántico Norte. The capital of Atlántico Norte is Puerto Cabezas. There is also a popular tourist place called Corn Island, which is about 45 km from the capital Bluefields

[[Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Nicaragua

Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte is an autonomous region of Nicaragua. It was created in 1989. Its capital is Puerto Cabezas. Often the name is shotened to RAAN.

[[Compressor]]

Compressor could mean:

==Related pages== 

[[Gas compressor]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A gas compressor is a mechanical device that increases the pressure of a gas by reducing its volume. Compression of a gas naturally increases its temperature. When the gas is air, the machine is called an air compressor.

Compressors are similar to pumps: both increase the pressure on a fluid and both can transport the fluid through a pipe. As gases are compressible, the compressor also reduces the volume of a gas. Liquids are relatively incompressible, so the main action of a pump is to transport liquids.

[[Cash]]

CATEGORIES: Currency

 Cash is a form of currency, such as banknotes or coins. There is usually different sorts in every country.

[[Hemer]]

CATEGORIES: Märkischer Rural District

Hemer is a city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 35,000 people live there.

[[Heating]]

Heating is making something warm. It could mean:

HVACR "R" stand for Refrigeration

Heating devices, or systems:

[[Heat engine]]

CATEGORIES: Basic physics ideas, Heat, Thermodynamics

In engineering and thermodynamics, a heat engine converts heat energy to mechanical work by using the temperature difference between a hot "source" and a cold "sink".  Heat is transferred from the source, through the "working body" of the engine, to the "sink", and in this process some of the heat changes into work by using the qualities of the gas or liquid inside the engine.

There are many kinds of heat engines. Each has a thermodynamic cycle. Heat engines are often named after the thermodynamic cycle they use, like the Carnot cycle. They often pick up everyday names, such as gasoline/petrol, turbine, or steam engines.

Internal combustion engines generate heat inside the engine itself. Other heat engines may absorb heat from an external source. Heat engines can be open to the air or sealed and closed off to the outside (This is called an Open or Closed cycle).

[[Thermodynamic cycle]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics

A thermodynamic cycle is a series of thermodynamic processes which returns a system to its initial state. Properties depend only on the thermodynamic state and thus do not change over a cycle. Variables such as heat and work are not zero over a cycle, but rather depend on the process. The first law of thermodynamics dictates that the net heat input is equal to the net work output over any cycle. The repeating nature of the process path allows for continuous operation, making the cycle an important concept in thermodynamics. 

If the cyclic process moves clockwise around the loop, then it represents a heat engine, and W will be positive.  If it moves counterclockwise then it represents a heat pump, and W will be negative.

[[Christoph Metzelder]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Christoph Metzelder (born 5 November 1980 in Haltern, Germany) is a German football player. He plays for Real Madrid In the Germany national team he has played in 47 matches and scored no goal.

[[Thermodynamic system]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics, Systems, Systems theory

In thermodynamics, a thermodynamic system, originally called a working substance, is defined as that part of the universe that is under consideration. A real or imaginary boundary separates the system from the rest of the universe, which is referred to as the environment or surroundings (sometimes called a reservoir.) A useful classification of thermodynamic systems is based on the nature of the boundary and the quantities flowing through it, such as matter, energy, work, heat, and entropy. A system can be anything, for example a cylinder, a solution in a test tube, a living organism, or a planet, etc. 

[[Treat]]

Treat could mean:

[[Piston]]

CATEGORIES: Auto parts

In general, a piston is a lubricated sliding shaft that fits tightly inside the opening of a cylinder. Its purpose is to change the volume enclosed by the cylinder, to exert a force on a fluid inside the cylinder, to cover and uncover ports, or some combination of these.  A rubber seal is sometimes used to keep the lubricate within the shaft. Due to the constant motion of the machine this seal wears quickly and should be replaced with every servicing. If the seal should break during usage there can be disastrous long lasting consequences for the machine. 

[[Pinyin]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese language

Pinyin is the Mandarin word for "spelling", writing letters showing the sound of a word in place of a Chinese character. Today, it almost always has the sense of Hanyu Pinyin, the way of writing Mandarin sounds which has been used by the People's Republic of China from the 1950s. Other countries like the United States and Taiwan used other ways of spelling Chinese (such as the Wade-Giles way) for a long time, but in the late 20th century started to use Hanyu Pinyin as well. It is the standard of China as well as the United Nations. It is the most common romanization system for Chinese.

Pinyin uses Roman letters in a special way for certain Chinese sounds. For example, the pinyin letter C is pronounced as /ts/ as in the English word "cats" or the Japanese word "tsunami", and does not sound at all like /k/ or /s/ by itself. Pinyin uses special marks to show the four Chinese tones, which are very important to using Mandarin clearly.

[[Susianna Kentikian]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Armenian boxers

Susianna "Susi" Kentikian (born September 11, 1987) is a woman boxer from Germany.  She was born in Yerevan, Armenian SSR, but she left the country together with her family when she was five years old, because of the Nagorno-Karabakh War. Kentikian has lived in Hamburg since 1996 and has signed a contract with the Hamburg boxing promoter Spotlight Boxing. Kentikian is the current world champion with the boxing organizations WBA and WIBF in the flyweight weight class.

[[Banknote]]

CATEGORIES: Currency

A banknote (more commonly known as a bill in the United States and Canada) is a paper by which a bank promises to pay to the bearer on demand. Together with coins, banknotes make up the cash forms of all modern money. 

Coins are generally used for lower valued monetary units, and banknotes for higher values.

Originally, the value of money was determined by the value of the material the money was made of, such as silver or gold. However, carrying around a lot of precious metal was cumbersome and often dangerous. As an alternative, banknotes would be issued. In financial terms, a note is a promise to pay someone money.  Banknotes were originally a promise to give an amount of precious metal to anyone who presented the paper.  People could pay for things by giving the banknote, and thus the stored value (usually in gold or silver coins kept in the bank's vault) that the banknote promised. 

[[Common cold]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by viruses

The common cold is caused by viruses. It spreads easily, so it is very infectious.  The symptoms are mostly in the upper respiratory system. Its damage is mostly felt in the nose and throat. The symptoms include coughs, painful throat, runny nose and fever. These symptoms usually last seven to ten days, but sometimes up to three weeks. Over two hundred different viruses can cause the common cold: that is why the details vary so much. Rhinoviruses are the most common cause.

The common cold mostly hurts the nose, pharynx, throat, and the sinuses (sinusitis). The symptoms come from the immune system's response to the infection, not from direct destruction by the viruses themselves. Hand washing is good, but the viruses also spread through moist air. Close contact with infected people is common in many cities. Wearing face masks might help, especially on any mass transit system (railways, underground, buses...).

There is no cure for the common cold, but the symptoms can be treated. It is the most frequent infectious disease in humans. The average person gets two to three colds every year. The average child gets between 6 and 12 colds every year. These colds have been with humans for as long as we have a history.

[[Qajar dynasty]]

CATEGORIES: History of Iran, History of Azerbaijan, Azerbaijani dynasties, Royal dynasties, 1781 establishments, 1925 disestablishments, 18th century establishments in Iran, 1920s disestablishments in Asia, 1780s establishments in Asia

The Qajar dynasty (Qajar.ogg, سلسله قاجاریه - or دودمان قاجار - Qâjâr) was a ruling Azerbaijani dynasty of Iran from 1781 to 1925.

Soltan Ahmad Shah Qajar (1909-1925) was the last ruling Shah.  Among many other members of the Qajar family are

[[Zenwalk Linux]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions

Zenwalk (formerly Minislack), or Zenwalk Linux, is a Linux distribution started by Jean-Philippe Guillemin. It was at first based on Slackware. Since its creation, the distribution has become very different from Slackware while still still being able to use its binary packages. Zenwalk aims to be a Linux distribution with many uses by focusing on Internet applications, multimedia and programming tools.

[[Thermodynamic equilibrium]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics

In thermodynamics, a thermodynamic system is said to be in thermodynamic equilibrium when it is in thermal equilibrium, mechanical equilibrium, radiative equilibrium, and chemical equilibrium. The local state of a system at thermodynamic equilibrium is determined by the values of its intensive parameters, as pressure, temperature, etc.  Specifically, thermodynamic equilibrium is characterized by the minimum of a thermodynamic potential.

[[Thermodynamic potential]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics

In thermodynamics, thermodynamic potentials are parameters associated with a thermodynamic system and have the dimensions of energy. They are called "potentials" because in a sense, they describe the amount of potential energy in a thermodynamic system when it is subjected to certain constraints. The different potentials correspond to different constraints to which the system may be subjected. The four most common thermodynamic potentials are:

[[Thermal efficiency]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics, Engineering

From the first and second law of thermodynamics, the output can not exceed what is input, so

When expressed as a percentage, the thermal efficiency must be between 0% and 100%. Due to inefficiencies such as friction, heat loss, and other factors, thermal efficiencies are typically much less than 100%. For example, a typical gasoline automobile engine operates at around 25% thermal efficiency, and a large coal-fueled electrical generating plant peaks at about 36%. In a combined cycle plant thermal efficiencies are approaching 60%.

[[Thermodynamic state]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics

A thermodynamic state is the macroscopic condition of a thermodynamic system as described by its particular thermodynamic parameters. The state of any thermodynamic system can be described by a set of thermodynamic parameters, such as temperature, pressure, density, composition,  independently of its surroundings or history.

The parameters required to specify the state depend on the characteristics of the system. There is an optimal ensemble of parameters that uniquely specify the state, and all other parameters can be derived from these.  The state postulate says that the state of a simple compressible system is completely specified by two independent, intensive properties.

[[Thermal physics]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics

Thermal physics is the combined study of thermodynamics, statistical mechanics, and kinetic theory.  This umbrella-subject is typically designed for physics students and functions to provide a general introduction to each of three core heat-related subjects.  Other authors, however, define thermal physics loosely as a summation of only thermodynamics and statistical mechanics.

[[Statistical mechanics]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics, Thermodynamics

Statistical mechanics is the application of probability theory, which includes mathematical tools for dealing with large populations, to the field of mechanics, which is concerned with the motion of particles or objects when subjected to a force.

It provides a framework for relating the microscopic properties of individual atoms and molecules to the macroscopic or bulk properties of materials that can be observed in everyday life, therefore explaining thermodynamics as a natural result of statistics and mechanics (classical and quantum) at the microscopic level.  In particular, it can be used to calculate the thermodynamic properties of bulk materials from the spectroscopic data of individual molecules.

This ability to make macroscopic predictions based on microscopic properties is the main asset of statistical mechanics over thermodynamics. Both theories are governed by the second law of thermodynamics through the medium of entropy. However, entropy in thermodynamics can only be known empirically, whereas in statistical mechanics, it is a function of the distribution of the system on its micro-states.

[[Kinetic theory]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics

Kinetic theory or kinetic theory of gases attempts to explain overall properties of gases, such as pressure, temperature, or volume, by considering their molecular composition and motion. The theory basically states that pressure is not caused by molecules pushing each other away, like earlier scientists thought. Instead, pressure is caused by the molecules colliding with each other and their container. Kinetic theory is also known as kinetic-molecular theory or collision theory.

There are three main components to kinetic theory:

[[Frik]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian poets, 13th century births, 14th century deaths

Frik was an Armenian poet who lived in the 13th and 14th centuries, at the time of Mongolian control over Armenia.

[[Mongolian]]

Mongolian might mean:

[[Yeghishe Charents]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, 1937 deaths, Armenian poets

Yeghishe Charents (born Yeghishe Soghomonian, Եղիշե Չարենց) (13 March 1897, Kars - 29 November 1937, Yerevan) was an Armenian poet killed in Stalin's purges.

From 1904 to 1912 Yeghishe Soghomonian he was at school in Kars. Amid the upheavals of the First World War and the Armenian Genocide in the Ottoman Empire, he volunteered in 1915 for the Caucasian Front. In 1917-1918 he was in Karin Erzurum during the bitter fighting. Some of his experiences would later appear in his poetry.

Yeghishe Charents (Soghomonian), one of the nation's favourite poets - a famous philanderer who apparently sought the USSR Kremlin's favours - produced a now famous poem called "The Message". Its praise of Uncle Joe might grind the average set of teeth down to the gum; it included the following: "A new light shone on the world... It is only this sunlight/Which for centuries will stay alive." And more of the same.

Undiscovered by the USSR Kremlin's censors for many months, however, Charents (1897 - 1937) had used the first letter of each line to frame a quite different "message", which read: "O Armenian people, your only salvation is in the power of your unity." Whoops! Like the distant Mount Ararat, it was a brave, hopeless symbol, as doomed as it was impressive. Yeghishe Charents was "disappeared" by the NKVD (KGB) in 1937 after being denounced by the architect Alexsandr Tamanyan - now hard at work building Yerevan's new Stalinist opera house - the moment Yeghishe Charents' schoolboy prank was spotted. Then Alexsandr Tamanyan fell from the roof of his still unfinished opera house, and even today Armenians - with their Arab-like desire to believe in "заговор" the plot - ask the obvious questions.

[[Kars]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Kars (Ղարս or Կարս, Qars) is a city in northeast Turkey and is the capital of the Kars Province, before at the head of a sanjak in the Turkish vilayet of Erzurum. Population: 8,672 (1878); 20,891 (1897); 54,000 (1970); 142,145 (1990);  130,361 (2000).

[[Kars Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Turkey

Kars is a province of Turkey. It is in the northeastern part of the country. It shares part of its border with the Republic of Armenia. 

From 1878 until 1917 most of the present-day Turkish province of Kars was part of the Russian oblast of Kars. 

In 1919 and 1920 the province came under the control of the Democratic Republic of Armenia as the Vanand province (with the city of Kars as its capital). Its territory was ceded to Turkey by the Soviet Union in the Treaty of Kars. 

[[Manny Gamburyan]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian sportspeople, Living people, 1981 births, Martial artists

Manvel Gamburyan (was born in 1981) is a mixed martial artist with a history in judo. Manvel was chosen as a participant on the reality show The Ultimate Fighter 5. He fights on Jens Pulver's team. Manny defeated Noah Thomas in the preliminary round.

[[The Mickey Mouse Club]]

CATEGORIES: Television series by Disney, Children's television series, English-language television programs

The Mickey Mouse Club was an American variety television series that began in 1955, ran intermittently, and left the air in 1996. It was directed by Walt Disney Productions.

Over the years, the series featured many stellar teenage performers including Annette Funicello, Britney Spears, and Justin Timberlake. The original series ran newsreels, cartoons, talent segments, and Disney produced serials such as The Hardy Boys with Tommy Kirk and Tim Considine.

Mickey Mouse Club was hosted by Jimmie Dodd, a songwriter and the Head Mouseketeer. He provided leadership both on and off screen. In addition to his other contributions, he often provided short segments encouraging young viewers to make the right moral choices. These little sermons became known as "Doddisms".

[[Fanta]]

CATEGORIES: Soft drinks

Fanta is an orange soda drink. It was created in Germany in 1940. Fanta was created during World War II in Nazi Germany by the German Coca Cola (GmbH) bottling company. Because of the war, there was no shipping between Nazi Germany and the United States. Therefore, the German bottling plant could no longer get Coca-Cola syrup. The manager of the plant, Max Keith, needed to do something to keep the plant going. He came up with a fruit-flavored drink made from whatever he could find. Using apple fiber leftover from lollipops and whey, from cheesemakers, Fanta was created and became quite popular. The original German Fanta had a yellow color and tasted different from today's Fanta Orange; the flavor would change during the war, depending on what ingredients could be found.

Back in America, the Coca-Cola Company—led by Robert Woodruff—did not discourage this. The company sponsored the 1936 Berlin Olympics, which Woodruff attended, and made banners featuring the Coca-Cola logo alongside the swastika. Keith used a 10th anniversary party for Coca-Cola GmbH to order a mass Sieg-Heil (Nazi salute) in honor of the dictator’s 50th birthday. He declared that this was “to commemorate our deepest admiration for our Fuhrer.”

The name 'Fanta' came during an employee contest to name the new beverage. Keith told them to let their Fantasie (German for imagination) run wild. On hearing that, salesman Joe Knipp thought of the name Fanta.

After the war, Fanta was brought to the United States by Coca-Cola, and in 1960 they bought the trademark. Fanta Orange is the most popular Fanta flavor. It is available in 180 countries. In terms of volume, Brazil is the largest consumer of Fanta in the world. Fanta is more popular in Europe and South America than in the United States.

There are over 90 different flavors worldwide. Most of them are only available by region in some countries. For example, in Romania (and some other countries), there is "Fanta Shokata" based on the traditional Romanian drink "Socată". This drink is made from Elderflower. In Switzerland and the Netherlands the local fruit, blackcurrant is used to make Fanta as well. Some identical flavors have different names in different markets. The classic orange, for example, was renamed "Fanta Funky Orange" in 2003 for the Nordic countries and Belgium, while other countries have kept the older "Fanta Orange" brand name. As of the year 2005, the Fanta brand has been connected with the word Bambaacha (or Bamboocha), which is often seen in the Fanta commercials. TaB diet Cola was originally produced by the Fanta division of Coca-Cola.  It was available in different non-cola flavors as well. Later in 2005, Fanta branched out into new Fanta Zero (diet versions) varieties in Great Britain and in other countries as well.

[[Parameter]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In some non-technical contexts or in jargon, parameter may simply be a synonym for criterion.

In mathematics, statistics, and the mathematical sciences, parameters (L: auxiliary measure) are quantities that define certain relatively constant characteristics of systems or functions.

Most commonly represented θ in general form, other symbols carry standard, specific meanings.  When evaluating the function over a domain or determining the response of the system over a period of time, the independent variables are modulated, while the parameters are held constant.  The function or system may then be reevaluated or reprocessed with different parameters, to give a function or system with different behavior.

Loosely speaking, the term parameter is used for an argument which is intermediate in status between a variable and a constant.

[[Agavaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Agavaceae, Plant families

Agavaceae is a family of plants. Many of these plants grow in dry, hot climates. Some grow in the desert. Well-known plants of this family are the agave, yucca, and Joshua tree.  The family includes about 550-600 species in around 18 genera. It is widespread in the tropical, subtropical and warm temperate regions of the world.

It is not quite clear how large the family really is. There are genera which some biologists leave out of the family. This includes for example Cordyline and Dracaena, which are sometimes separated off into a separate family, Dracaenaceae. Recent research has tended to incorporate these into a larger family Ruscaceae, though.  Nolina, Beaucarnea, and Dasylirion are sometimes recognized as Nolinaceae or placed in Ruscaceae. Conversely, data from molecular systematics now suggest that Agavaceae should be broadened to include a number of genera previously classified elsewhere. Among them  are Chlorogalum, Camassia and the family Anthericaceae. This would enlarge the family with anything up to 22 genera.  The Angiosperm Phylogeny Group's APG II classification places Agavaceae, along with a number of other families (including Ruscaceae) in an expanded family Asparagaceae.  However, APG II allows the alternative of keeping some of these families, including Agavaceae, separate. In this case, it recommends expanding the family to include the genera currently classified in Anemarrhenaceae, Anthericaceae (with Anthericum and Paradisea), Behniaceae and Herreriaceae. Most references have retained Agavaceae (in varying circumscriptions) as a family distinct from Asparagaceae. Hesperocallis, sometimes placed in its own family, Hesperocallideaceae, has recently been shown to be closely related and its inclusion in Agavaceae has been recommended (Pires et al. 2004).

Some species are succulent. In general, Agavaceae leaves occur as rosettes at the end of a woody stem, which may range from extremely short to tree-like heights, as in the Joshua tree.  The leaves are parallel-veined, and usually appear long and pointed, often with a hardened spine on the end, and sometimes with additional spines along the margins.

Agave species are used to make pulque and mezcal, while others are valued for their fibres.  They are quite popular for xeriscaping, many types having showy flowers.

[[Succulent plant]]

CATEGORIES: Types of plants

Succulent plants are plants that have adapted to very dry climates. They have adapted in such a way that they can store water, either in their leaves, stems or roots. Very often, they look different than plants that do not do this. Their leaves may look more fleshy.  A very good example of succulents are the cacti. Almost all cacti are succulents. Not all succulents are cacti though. Other plant families with this property are the agavaceae (Agave family), Azioaceae and Crassulaceae. Other well-known succulents are the Aloe and the Bottle tree.

[[Lu Xun (Three Kingdoms)]]

CATEGORIES: 183 births, 254 deaths, Three Kingdoms generals

Lu Xun (183-254) was a general in Eastern Wu during the Three Kingdoms period in ancient China.

He showed his skills by helping defeat Guan Yu with the Wei army. Sun Quan saw his potential and promoted him to main strategist in the Wu army after the death of Lu Meng. He showed his talents  at Yiling where his tactics and fire attack lead Wu to victory. He soon developed a name for himself when at Hefei castle his tactics crushed Wei and Cao Pi leaving only Shu and Liu Bei's son Liu Chan alive, who retreated and Wu gained full control of the land.

[[List of Jupiter's moons]]

CATEGORIES: Jupiter's moons, Astronomy lists

There are 79 known moons of Jupiter. Jupiter has the second largest number of moons with reasonably stable orbits of any planet in the Solar System. 

The most massive of the moons are the four Galilean moons, which were independently discovered in 1610 by Galileo Galilei and Simon Marius. They were the first objects found to orbit a body that was neither Earth nor the Sun. The Galilean moons are by far the largest and most massive objects to orbit Jupiter. The other 75 known moons and the rings together make up just 0.003% of the total orbiting mass. The four are Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto. They are roughly the same size as Earth's moon, some are a bit bigger, some are smaller.

From the end of the 19th century, dozens of much smaller Jovian moons have been discovered. All these are less than 250 in diameter, with most barely exceeding 5. Their orbital shapes range from nearly perfectly circular to highly eccentric and inclined. Many revolve in the direction opposite to Jupiter's spin (retrograde motion). Orbital periods range from seven hours (taking less time than Jupiter does to spin around its axis), to some three thousand times more (almost three Earth years). 

[[Moons of Saturn]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons, Astronomy lists

The planet Saturn has 53 named moons, and another 29 which are still being studied. Many of the moons are very small: 33 are less than 10 in diameter and thirteen moons are less than 50. Many of the moons are named after Titans, Giants, or minor Greek or Roman gods. Some of Saturn's moons are very large; the moon Titan is bigger than the planet Mercury.

[[Vande Mataram]]

CATEGORIES: Indian culture, National symbols of India

Vande Mataram is the national slogan and national marching song of India. It is not to be confused with the national anthem of India. The lyrics were written by Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, in a mix of Sanskrit and Bengali. The song was written in 1876, but published in 1882. The title means "Long live the Motherland". The first version of the Flag of India had "वन्दे मातरम्" (Vande Mataram) written on it.

[[List of Uranus' moons]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy lists, Uranus' moons

This is a list of the 27 moons of Uranus. They are listed by how long they take to orbit (go around once) Uranus. They are all named after characters created by William Shakespeare and Alexander Pope.

[[List of Neptune's moons]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy lists, Neptune's moons

Neptune has a total of 14 known moons.   The largest moon is Triton which was discovered by William Lassell just seventeen days after Neptune was found.  One hundred years later the second moon, Nereid was found.  The Hubble Telescope found the 14th moon in 2013.

Most of Neptune's moons are named after sea nymphs.

[[King (chess)]]

CATEGORIES: Chess pieces

The king is the most valuable chess piece in a game of chess. It can move left, right, up, down or diagonally. It can only move one square at a time. When recording chess games, king is shortened to K.

The object of the game is to checkmate (capture the king). If a player's king is attacked by an opponent's piece, it is called check. The player with the attacked king must move so that the king is no longer in check. If the king cannot do this, it is in checkmate, and that side loses the game.

[[Work (thermodynamics)]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics

In thermodynamics, work transfer is an energy transfer in which temperature is not considered during energy transfer. Unit is always in Joules. It is also a result of force acting through the distance. W=FxD

[[Internal energy]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics, Mechanics, Energy

In thermodynamics, the internal energy of a thermodynamic system, or a body with well-defined boundaries, denoted by U, or sometimes E, is the total of the kinetic energy due to the motion of molecules (translational, rotational, vibrational) and the potential energy associated with the vibrational and electric energy of atoms within molecules or crystals. It includes the energy in all the chemical bonds, and the energy of the free, conduction electrons in metals. 

The internal energy is a thermodynamic potential and for a closed thermodynamic system held at constant entropy, it will be minimized.

One can also calculate the internal energy of electromagnetic or blackbody radiation. It is a state function of a system, an extensive quantity. The SI unit of energy is the joule although other historical, conventional units are still in use, such as the (small and large) calorie for heat. (Calories that are on classic food labels are actually kilo-calories.)

[[Physical law]]

CATEGORIES: Science

A physical law, scientific law, or a law of nature is a scientific generalization based on empirical observations of physical behavior.  Empirical laws are typically conclusions based on repeated scientific experiments over many years, and which have become accepted universally within the scientific community.  The production of a summary description of nature in the form of such laws is a fundamental aim of science.

Laws of nature are distinct from the law, either religious or civil, and should not be confused with the concept of natural law. 

Nor should 'physical law' be confused with 'law of physics' - the term 'physical law' usually covers laws in other sciences (e.g. biology) as well.

[[Pipe (material)]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A pipe is a tube or hollow cylinder for the transport of fluid. The terms 'pipe' and 'tube' can be used for the same objects. 'Pipe' is generally specified by the internal diameter (ID) whereas 'tube' is usually defined by the outside diameter (OD) but may be specified by any combination of dimensions (OD, ID, wall thickness). 'Tube' is often made to custom sizes and may often have more specific sizes and tolerances than pipe. The terms 'tube' and 'tubing' are more widely used in the USA and 'pipe' elsewhere in the world.

Both "pipe" and "tube" imply a level of rigidity and permanence, whereas a 'hose' is usually portable and flexible. 

[[Cameron Diaz]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from San Diego, California, Models from San Diego, California, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, 1972 births, Living people

Cameron Michelle Diaz (born August 30, 1972) is an American retired actress and former fashion model. She was nominated for four Golden Globe Awards in 1999, 2000, 2002 and 2003.

[[Bacon number]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment, Games

The Bacon number of an actor or actress is the number of degrees of separation (see Six degrees of separation) they have from actor Kevin Bacon, as defined by the game known as Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon. It applies the Erdős number concept to the movie industry. The higher the Bacon number, the farther away from Kevin Bacon the actor is.

For example, Kevin Bacon's Bacon number is 0. If an actor works in a movie with Kevin Bacon, the actor's Bacon number is 1. If an actor works with an actor who worked with Kevin Bacon in a movie, the first actor's Bacon number is 2, and so forth.

[[Pondicherry]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in India, Settlements in Puducherry

Pondicherry is the capital of the Indian union territory of Puducherry. It is also known as Puducherry since 2006.

[[Zanzibar]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Tanzania

Zanzibar is the name of an archipelago in the Indian Ocean 25–50 km off the coast of East Africa. There are many small islands and two large ones: Unguja (the main island, sometimes informally referred to as 'Zanzibar') and Pemba Island.

The archipelago was once the separate state of Zanzibar, which united with Tanganyika to form Tanzania (derived from the two names). Zanzibar is a semi-autonomous within the union, with its own government.

The capital of Zanzibar is Zanzibar City. It is on the island of Unguja.  The city's old quarter, known as Stone Town, is a World Heritage Site.

The people are mostly African Bantu, with some Asians of Indian origin.

[[Enya]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Grammy Award winners, Irish singers, Mezzo-sopranos, New Age music, People from County Donegal

Enya (born Eithne Patricia Ní Bhraonáin on 17 May 1961 in Gweedore, County Donegal, Ireland) is an Irish singer. She is famous for hits such as Orinoco Flow (1988) and Anywhere Is (1995).

She has also won four Grammy Awards and has become one of the world's most successful female singers. Her vocal range is mezzo-soprano.

She grew up speaking the Irish language, and did not speak English until she attended primary school.

Her first works were soundtracks for The Frog Prince movie by David Puttman and The Celts documentary by BBC.

Enya is very popular and has sold more than 75 million albums worldwide. Her best selling album is A Day Without Rain (2000).

[[Downing Street]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in London, 1680s establishments in Europe, 17th century establishments in England

Downing Street is a street in London. It is close to Whitehall and Buckingham Palace. The official residences of the two most senior Government ministers are here. These are the Prime Minister, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer. 

Downing Street is a few minutes' walk from the Houses of Parliament. The street was built in the 1680s by Sir George Downing, 1st Baronet (1632–1689) on the site of a mansion called Hampden House. The Prime Minister, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the Chief Whip all have official residences in buildings along one side of the street. The houses on the other side were all replaced by the Foreign Office in the nineteenth century.

[[Armenian illuminated manuscript]]

CATEGORIES: Illuminated manuscripts, Armenian culture

Armenian illuminated manuscripts make a different tradition, related to other forms of Medieval Armenian art, but also to the Byzantine tradition. The earliest surviving examples date from the Golden Age of Armenian art and literature in the 5th century. The Library at Yerevan, has the largest collection of Armenian manuscripts, including the Mugni Gospels and Echmiadzin Gospel.

[[Alcatraz Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of the United States, Landmarks in San Francisco, Prisons, Museums in California, 1963 establishments in California

Alcatraz Island (sometimes just called Alcatraz or The Rock) is a small island in San Francisco Bay in California. It was first a lighthouse, then a military fort, then a military prison, and finally a federal prison. In 1963, it became a museum.

The name Alcatraz comes from the original Spanish name of the island, Isla de los alcatraces (Island of the pelicans).  It was given that name when a Spanish explorer, Juan Manuel de Ayala, noticed the great amount of pelicans roosting on the island. 

The famous Alcatraz prison opened in August 1934 and closed on 21 March 1963. At first, the island served as a war prison for confederate soldiers during the Civil War. At the turn of the century, it would become the most famous and posthumously, most infamous prison in American history. Some of the most famous inmates at Alcatraz are Al Capone and George 'Machine Gun' Kelly.  The prison was eventually shut down in 1963 after the State of California and the US Congress agreed that it costs too much to run. Soon after, Native American Indians used the prison and the island for a huge protest in favor for Native American rights.  After being kicked out from the grounds, the prison was vacated and was never used again.

People still love to go see the prison. It draws in millions into the San Francisco area. People enjoy the tales of possible ghost encounters on the prison grounds. It has been a huge haunting site because spirits are said to have left behind wandering the prison. 

Alcatraz Island is one of many islands in the San Francisco Bay area.

[[Illuminated manuscript]]

CATEGORIES: Illuminated manuscripts

An illuminated manuscript is a manuscript where text is supplemented by the addition of decoration, like decorated initials, borders and miniature illustrations. Most are from the Middle Ages of Europe; some are from the Renaissance.

[[Manuscript]]

CATEGORIES: Manuscripts

A manuscript is any document that is written by hand, not printed or made in some other way. The early history of writing is intimately connected with the history of writing materials, of which the manuscript is one. Early printing made use of many ideas which developed in the era of manuscripts.

[[Matenadaran]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian culture, Yerevan, Manuscripts

Mesrop Mashtots' Matenadaran Institute of Ancient Manuscripts in Yerevan, Armenia, is one of the richest depositories of manuscripts and books in the world.

[[Blue Mosque, Yerevan]]

CATEGORIES: Yerevan, Buildings and structures in Armenia, Mosques, 1766 establishments

The Blue Mosque (Կապույտ մզկիթ) is a mosque in Yerevan, Armenia. It was built in 1766 during the reign of Huseyn Ali.

[[Plainview]]

Plainview is the name of several places in the United States of America:

[[235 BC]]

CATEGORIES: 235 BC

Year 235 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar.

[[302 BC]]

CATEGORIES: 302 BC

[[San Marino City]]

CATEGORIES: National capitals in Europe, Municipalities of San Marino

San Marino is the capital of the tiny nation of San Marino. It is the third largest city in the country, after Dogana and Borgo Maggiore.

[[Fort Worth, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Fort Worth, Texas, 1873 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Texas, County seats in Texas

Fort Worth is the fifth largest city in Texas. It is the 16th largest city in the United States. It has gotten so big that it has overlapped the next biggest city next to it, Dallas, Texas. Because of this, the area is often referred to as Dallas/Ft. Worth, or DFW. 

Fort Worth is the county seat of Tarrant County. Texas Motor Speedway is also in Fort Worth.

There are a few interesting landmarks in Fort Worth. One is Sundance Square, a popular place to enjoy in downtown. Another is West 7th, an entertainment destination. At last, there is the Fort Worth Stockyards, where rodeos are held.

[[Akdamar Island]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian Apostolic Churches

Akdamar Island (also known as Aghtamar, Ahktamar, and Aght'amar; Armenian: Աղթամար, Kurdish: Axtamar) is a small island in Lake Van in Eastern Anatolia region of Turkey.

[[Gandzasar monastery]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Armenia, Armenian Apostolic Churches

The Gandzasar monastery (Armenian: Գանձասար) is an Armenian monastery in Nagorno-Karabakh, in the Mardakert region, near the village of Vank. Gandzasar means treasure mountain in Armenian.

[[Deportation]]

CATEGORIES: Forced migration, Law

Deportation, means the removal of someone from a country. People may be deported from a country for many reasons. For example, one may be deported from a country if he has got into the country illegally, or without a visa (permission).

Deportation can also happen inside a country. A person or a group of people may be forced to move to a different part of the country, as a punishment.

[[912]]

CATEGORIES: 912

912 (CMXII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday of the Julian calendar.

[[Vahe]]

CATEGORIES: Monarchs of Armenia

Vahe was a legendary king of Armenia (351 BC–331 BC). He was the last offspring of the Hyke dynasty. He revolted against Alexander the Great and fought a war for Darius the Great of Persia.

[[Rhadamistus]]

CATEGORIES: Monarchs of Armenia

Rhadamistus (other names Ghadam or Radamisto) was an Iberian prince who reigned in Armenia from 51 to 53 and 54 to 55 CE. 

[[Construction]]

CATEGORIES: Construction

Construction is the process of erection or assembly of any building or infrastructure on a site. In general, there are three types of construction:thumb|220px|Construction of a pre-fabricated house.

Building construction is the process of adding structure to real property. Industrial construction, though a relatively small part of the entire construction industry, is a very important component.

[[Infrastructure]]

CATEGORIES: Civil engineering, Infrastructure, Architecture, Planning

Infrastructure is the term used to describe the facilities which support modern human life.

These are the main items: water supply, sewage plants, housing, roads, cable networks, food supply facilities, schools, hospitals, airports, community meeting places, business and government buildings, bridges, railways. In fact, everything that modern life needs in the way of built facilities.

Infrastructure is closely connected with standard of living and overpopulation.  More people will want more roads, water pipes and other infrastructure. Poor countries tend to have fast population growth and cannot provide the needed infrastructure. Standard of living drops and this may lead to other problems like worsening health, exposure to plague and difficult access of emergency units to those that need it.

[[Ceremony]]

CATEGORIES: Ceremonies

A ceremony is an activity performed at a special time usually with according seriousness. Ceremonies may be done to celebrate an event or rite of passage.  Other important ceremonies include  the tea ceremony in Asian cultures, 

A ceremony may mark a rite of passage in a person's job or life, showing how important it is. Examples:

Other ceremonies may mark yearly events like:

[[Kirk Kerkorian]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2015 deaths, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California

Kerkor "Kirk" Kerkorian (June 6, 1917 – June 15, 2015) was an Armenian-American 

billionaire, and president/CEO of Tracinda Corporation, his private holding company based in Beverly Hills, California.

Kerkorian is known as one of the important figures in shaping the city of Las Vegas, Nevada.

[[Chemical property]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

In chemistry, a property is any aspect of a substance which is only seen by means of a chemical reaction. Simply speaking, chemical properties cannot be determined just by viewing or touching the substance. This is different from a physical property, which can be discovered without changing the substance's chemical structure. 

Usually a chemical property is discovered by changing the substance's internal structure. When a substance goes under a chemical reaction, the properties will change drastically, resulting in chemical change. However, a catalytic property would also be a chemical property.

Chemical properties can be used for building chemical classifications. They can be used to identify an unknown substance or to separate or purify it from other substances. 

[[Bass drum]]

CATEGORIES: Drums

A bass drum is a type of musical instrument called a drum. It is a large drum, makes low sounds, and is frequently used in the common drum kit.

[[Drum kit]]

CATEGORIES: Drums

A drum kit (or drum set or trap set) is a collection of drums, cymbals, and other percussion instruments that is used by a drummer in a musical group.

[[Drum stick]]

CATEGORIES: Drums

A drum stick or drumstick is a wooden stick that is used to hit percussion instruments to make sound. 

There are many kinds of drumsticks. Some sticks are made for certain instruments. For instance, a drum kit stick may look very different from a snare drum stick. Weight, length, and tip size are all altering factors in a stick. 

Some drums, such as bongo drums, use no drumstick.

[[Khachkar]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian culture, Monuments and memorials

A Khachkar or Khatchkar ("Խաչքար" in Armenian, meaning "cross-stone", pronounced as χɑtʃkɑɹ) is a carved memorial stone found in Armenia.

It has a crucifix or cross, with a rosette or sun circle below it. Other parts can be filled with patterns of leaves, grapes or knots. Sometimes it has a ledge at the top with saints' or characters from the bible.

Much of the time a khachkar is put up for religious reasons such as the salvation of the soul of a living or a dead person. They have also been removed for other reasons, such as to show a military win, building of a new church, or as a protection from natural disasters.

Most Khachkars are in graveyards. But Armenian gravestones take many other forms, and only a small are khatchkars.

[[Back Dorm Boys]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese people, Comedy, Musical groups

Back Dorm Boys (後舍男生) are two Chinese people who have made several well known spoof music videos in 2006. Their name comes from their lip sync video of the Backstreet Boys' song "As Long As You Love Me". They are often called the "Back Dormitory Boys". Their spoof music videos have been selected by Motorola China to promote mobile phones. The two members of the Back Dorm Boys are 韦炜 (Wei Wei) and 黄艺馨 (Huang Yi Xin). They were university students at Guangzhou Arts Institute (广州美术学院) majoring in sculpture. Their videos were very famous in China. The became very famous around the world after the videos were shown on YouTube.

[[Nattō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

Natto (なっとう (hiragana), 納豆 (kanji); nattō or nattou) is a traditional Japanese food made by fermenting soybeans. Natto is known for its strong musty smell and unusual slimy texture, which yields mucous-like (or sticky) strings when stirred and eaten. In order to mediate some of the strong flavors, it is usually eaten on top of rice with mentsuyu, a soy sauce-based condiment, or Japanese mustard to their liking. Eating Natto as a custom is not so popular in Kansai area. Whether it is popular or not depends on regions in Japan.

[[Kichijōji]]

CATEGORIES: Tokyo Prefecture

Kichijōji is a neighborhood in the city of Musashino in Tokyo, Japan. It has an important commercial activity, with many shops, restaurant and cultural activities, mostly north of its railway station.

Kichijōji also has some famous landmarks. Inokashira Park, for example, is in the south part of the district, and is a favorite place for springtime hanami, or to see cherry-blossoms. The Kanda River (神田川) begins to flow from this park. The Seikei University (成蹊大学), one of Tokyo's biggest private universities, is in the northwestern area of the neighborhood.

[[Udon]]

CATEGORIES: Noodles, Japanese food

Udon is a type of thick, wheat-based noodle popular in Japanese cuisine.

Udon is most often served hot as a noodle soup in a mild, salty broth. Its simplest form is called kake udon. This consists only of dashi stock, soy sauce (shōyu), mirin, and udon noodles. Different things can be put on top of the soup as toppings. Often thinly cut scallions are used, along with other common toppings such as kamaboko, prawn or vegetable tempura, some spices, and wakame.

The flavor of the broth and toppings, as well as even noodle texture and thickness, is different from region to region. Usually, dark brown broth made from dark soy sauce (koikuchi shōyu) is common in eastern Japan. Light brown broth made from light soy sauce (usukuchi shōyu) is common in western Japan. However, many other regional types exist outside of just broth color and mainly vary in toppings used.

Kagawa Prefecture is famous for using udon as a staple food.

[[Hachiōji, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture

Hachiōji is a Japanese city in Tokyo Metropolis on the island of Honshu.   It is about 40 kilometers west of the center of the 23 special wards of Tokyo. The city is the 8th biggest city around the Tokyo metropolitan area. It is the 24th largest city in Japan.

[[Nerima, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture, 1947 establishments in Japan

Nerima is one of the 23 special wards in Tokyo, Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Nerima City" in English.

Nerima is called "the town of animation" because the earliest  anime businesses started up in the area.

[[Suginami, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture

Suginami is one of the 23 special wards of Tokyo, Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Suginami City" in English.

[[Higashi-Nagasaki Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Tokyo

Higashi-Nagasaki Station is the railway station of the Seibu-Ikebukuro line in Toshima Ward, Tokyo, Japan.

The station is near the "Ikebukuro" station that is center of Tokyo. Only local train stops this station. Limited express, rapid express, semi express and rapid train pass this station. The next station of this station to east is "Shinamachi". The next station of this station to west is "Ekoda".

The area near the Higashi-nagasaki station is named "Nagasaki", but Nagasaki and Nagasaki Prefecture in Kyushu are not related. "Nagasaki" in Toshima Ward is located in east Japan. So this station's name have "Higashi"(means "east") to distinguish between this station and Nagasaki station in Kyushu.

[[Sagamihara, Kanagawa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kanagawa Prefecture

Sagamihara (相模原市, Sagamihara-shi?) is a city in Japan. It is in north central Kanagawa Prefecture, bordering Tokyo, Japan. It is the third most populous city in the prefecture, after Yokohama and Kawasaki. 

The main areas of commercial activity in Sagamihara are around Hashimoto Station on the JR Yokohama Line and Keio Sagamihara Line, Sagamihara Station on the JR Yokohama Line, and Sagami-Ōno Station on the Odakyu Odawara Line.

[[Aomori, Aomori]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Aomori Prefecture

Aomori (青森市, Aomori-shi) is the capital city of Aomori Prefecture. It is southwest of the town of Hiranai. It is a coastal city, and is near the Mutsu-wan (陸奥湾). It has been recognized as a core city since 2006.

[[HM Land Registry]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of the United Kingdom Government, Government agencies of the United Kingdom, 1862 establishments in the United Kingdom

Land Registry or Her Majesty's Land Registry is a United Kingdom government office which started in 1862.  It publicly records interests in land in England and Wales.  It answers to the Ministry of Justice.

[[Yamuna]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of India

The Yamuna (यमुना), sometimes called Jamuna (যমুনা, जमुना, جمنا) or Jumna, is a major river in North India. It is the largest branch of a bigger river called the Ganges. It is 1370 km long. It begins at the Yamunotri, which is in the Himalayas. It goes through the Indian states of Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. At the end, it flows into the Ganges. Rivers that come out of the Yamuna include the Tons (the largest of the ones that come out of it), Chambal, Betwa, and Ken.

[[Ahmedabad]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Settlements in Gujarat

Ahmedabad is the largest city in the Gujarat state, in Western India. The city is the administrative centre of Ahmedabad district, and was the capital of Gujarat from 1960 to 1970. The city is located on the banks of the Sabarmati River, and it shares proximity with the Gandhinagar, the newly built state capital.

The city's area is approximately 8,087 sq.k.m and it's total population of District is 7,486,573 (2014).

[[Dachau, Bavaria]]

CATEGORIES: Dachau (district)

Dachau (German pronunciation: ˈdaxaʊ; Bavarian: Dochau) is a city in the south of Germany, about 20 north-west of Munich. It has about 40,000 inhabitants. The town contains a historic town centre with an 18th century castle.

Dachau was founded in the 8th century. In 1933, a concentration camp was built in Dachau. It was the first camp of the Nazis and became the prototype for all other camps. More than 30,000 prisoners died, or were killed.

[[Odonata]]

CATEGORIES: Odonata

The Odonata are an order of flying insects, the dragonflies and damselflies.

Like most of the flying insects (flies, beetles, Lepidoptera and Hymenoptera), they evolved in the early Mesozoic era. Their prototypes, the  giant dragonflies of the Carboniferous, 325 mya, are no longer put in the Odonata. These are now called Protodonata or Meganisoptera.

The two suborders are easily distinguished:

All Odonata have aquatic larvae called 'nymphs', and all of them, larvae and adults, are carnivorous. The adults can land, but rarely walk. Their legs are specialised for catching prey. They are almost entirely insectivorous.

[[Chordophone]]

CATEGORIES: String instruments

A chordophone is any musical instrument which produces sound commonly by vibrating a string or strings stretched between two points.

What most westerners would call string instruments are classified as chordophones (for example, violins, guitars and harps).

[[Will Ferrell]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American voice actors, American movie actors, American television actors, People from Irvine, California, Actors from Orange County, California, Comedians from California, Mark Twain Prize recipients

Jonathan William "Will" Ferrell (ˈ; born July 16, 1967) is an American Comedian, Impressionist, Actor, Producer, and Writer. He began his successful career as a cast member of Saturday Night Live. He has since appeared in many different movies, such as Blades of Glory, Elf, Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy, Talledega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby, and Old School.

[[Tritium]]

CATEGORIES: Hydrogen, Isotopes

Tritium is an isotope of hydrogen, the lightest element. Tritium has one proton and two neutrons. It heavier than ordinary hydrogen or its isotope deuterium. Hydrogen does not have any neutrons, only a proton. The chemical symbol for Tritium is 3H or T.

In nature, tritium is made when cosmic rays hit nitrogen in the Earth's atmosphere. Tritium has a half-life of a little more than eight years, so there is not much in the atmosphere. People make much more tritium in nuclear reactors, so that they can make things from it.

[[Wood fibre]]

CATEGORIES: Fibers, Wood

Wood fibres are made of cellulose got from the xylem vessels in plants, especially trees. Other plants providing fibres include straw, bamboo, cotton, hemp, and sugar cane.

Products made from processed plant fibres include paper and textiles.

[[Christian theology]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

Christian theology is the study of Christian belief. Christian theologians use analysis and argument to understand, explain, test, critique, defend, or promote Christianity.

Christian theology starts with the New Testament. Saint Paul, in his letters, and his speeches  (Acts of the Apostles), draws upon his training as a rabbi and on his experience of Christ. He started outside Damascus to explain to Jews and Gentiles the meaning of the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus.  In the History of Christianity, later writers such as Luther and John Calvin have stressed the Bible as the basis of theology. The bible as a source is not without controversy. Catholic and Orthodox theologians have also stressed the importance of Church tradition for the faith. Thomas Aquinas and Saint Augustine are among the most important writers within the Roman Catholic Church.

Differences in theology have led to the many denominations within Christianity. This started with the separation of Jesus' followers from Judaism. Later came the Great Schism and  the Reformation. After Luther's quarrel with the Pope, Reformed churches like the Lutherans and Baptists are established. Calvinism is very important within Protestantism, although the followers of Jacob Arminius do not accept it. Attempts at compromise in England between the Catholics and Puritans lead to the establishment of the Church of England.

Later movements include Methodism, Liberal Christianity,  Pentecostalism, and Liberation theology.

[[Professional wrestling]]

CATEGORIES: Professional wrestling

Professional wrestling, pro wrestling is wrestling done as performance art.  It is different from other sports because it is a fixed sport.  It is sometimes known as sports entertainment.

Like other athletes, most wrestlers train each day to maintain their physical condition. They practice for years to learn to execute moves safely while still making them look dangerous. They suffer many injuries, sometimes severe. 

Professional wrestling is done as a show, like a play. Many wrestlers will wrestle in many fights, called matches. They wrestle inside a 'wrestling ring', which is a place with ropes around it. The best wrestlers can win belts, called 'championship titles', to show that they are the best.

Famous stars of the ring include "Gorgeous George" Wagner, Ric Flair, Hulk Hogan, André the Giant, Sting, "Macho Man" Randy Savage, Bret "The Hitman" Hart, Shawn Michaels, The Undertaker, Triple H, Brock Lesnar, Goldberg, Mick Foley, Stone Cold Steve Austin and John Cena.

The United States, Canada, Mexico, and Japan and the United Kingdom are countries that have a lot of professional wrestling events.  The biggest company of professional wrestling is WWE (World Wrestling Entertainment).  Once a year, they have a big wrestling event called WrestleMania.  Professional wrestling can be seen both in the audience of an arena or on television. 

[[Monaco-Ville]]

CATEGORIES: Monaco

Monaco-Ville is the original fortified town of Monaco.

[[Hıdırlık Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Fortification, Towers in Asia, Buildings and structures in Turkey

Hıdırlık Tower is a landmark tower of tawny stone in Antalya, Turkey, where Kaleiçi meets Karaalioglu Park.

The tower is at the south side of the place, where the land walls of the city join the sea walls. The 14m high tower consists a circular tower rising on a quadratic pedestal. The tower's gate at the eastern side goes to a small room, from where a narrow staircase goes up. There are some restoration work on the upper part done in the Seljuk and Ottoman eras.

Around the Hıdırlık Tower is many cafés and restaurants also a view of the Gulf of Antalya.

[[Mesa, Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Mesa, Arizona, 1878 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Arizona Territory

Mesa is a city in Maricopa County, Arizona and part of the Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale Metropolitan Area. It is the 38th largest city in the United States of America. It was settled by members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in January 1878.

[[Tucson, Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Tucson, Arizona, County seats in Arizona

Tucson is a city in Arizona, United States. It is the seat of Pima County. It is 118 miles (188 km) southeast of Phoenix and 60 miles (98 km) north of the Mexican border. It is where the shooting of senator Gabrielle Giffords took place. Arizona has many deserts. It is visited by many people to escape cold weather. Tucson has a population of 531,641 as of 2015 and is the second populated city in Arizona behind Phoenix. The city has a mean elevation of 2,400 feet. The climate of Tucson is a arid desert climate with very hot summers and mild winters. The monsoon occurs in mid June and ends around late September in the Tucson area.

[[Arlington, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Arlington, Texas

District 2: Raul H. Gonzalez

District 3: Nikkie Hunter

District 4: Andrew Piel

District 5: Rebecca Boxall

District 6: Ruby Faye Woolridge

District 7: Dr. Victoria Farrar-Myers

District 8: Dr. Barbara Odom-Wesley

Arlington is a city in Tarrant County, Texas, United States. It is in the Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington metropolitan area.

Arlington has AT&T Stadium,   Globe Life Field, Texas Live, Six Flags, the United States Bowling Congress Nuclear Regulatory Commission Region IV and American Mensa.

[[Tarrant County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties, Tarrant County, Texas

Tarrant County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 1,809,034 people lived there. The county seat is Fort Worth, and in 2012, 777,992 people lived there, making it the largest city in the county. The second largest city in the county is Arlington, where 375,600 people live.

[[Spectrophotometer]]

CATEGORIES: Spectroscopy

A spectrophotometer measures either the amount of light reflected from a sample object or the amount of light that is absorbed by the sample object. Spectrophotometry is the quantity based study of electromagnetic spectra.

[[Russian Orthodox Church]]

CATEGORIES: Russian Orthodox Church, 988 establishments, Establishments in Russia

The Russian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate are Christians who are united under the Patriarch of Moscow, who in turn is in communion with the other patriarchs and primates of the Eastern Orthodox Church.

[[Form]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry

Form (Lat. forma Eng. mould), refers to the external three-dimensional outline, appearance or configuration of some thing - in contrast to the matter or content or substance of which it is mainly composed (compare with shape).

[[Martiros Saryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 births, 1972 deaths, Russian painters, Armenian artists, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Martiros Saryan (Մարտիրոս Սարյան, February 28, 1880 – 5 May 1972 ) was a Russian-born Armenian painter.

He was born into an Armenian family in Nor Nakhijevan (now part of Russia). In 1895, he was 15, he finished the Nakhichevan school and from 1897 to 1904 learned at the Moscow School of Arts, also in the workshops of Valentin Serov and Konstantin Korovin. He was heavily influenced by the work of Paul Gauguin and Henri Matisse. He showed his works in various shows.

[[Library of Congress]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Washington, D.C., Libraries in the United States, National libraries, 1800 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Washington, D.C.

The Library of Congress is the de facto national library of the United States and the research arm of the United States Congress.

The head of the Library is the Librarian of Congress Carla Hayden.

[[Forest, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Ontario

Forest, Ontario is a town in Lambton County, Ontario, Canada. About 3,000 people live in the town. It the biggest town in Lambton Shores. The town was an important lumber town. It even had its own train stop. Forest is now a tourist attraction. It has trails and camp facilities.

[[Soul music]]

CATEGORIES: Music genres

Soul music is a kind of music that mixes rhythm and blues, gospel music and pop music. It started in the 1960s in the United States. Features of Soul Music are call and response, hand claps, body movement and a tense vocal sound.

Ray Charles is said to be inventor of Soul with his song "I Got a Woman".

Soul is energetic music with main subjects of lyrics being love, dance and life.

Rock and Roll Hall of Fame states that soul is "music that arose out of the black experience in America through the transmutation of gospel and rhythm & blues into a form of funky, secular testifying."

Recently, singers like Christina Aguilera, Amy Winehouse and Adele are known as Blue Eyed Soul singers.

In some variations of soul brass and saxophones are used a lot.

[[Garni]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Armenia

Garni ("Գառնի" in Armenian) is a village in the Armenian province of Kotayk'. 

[[Greater Armenia]]

Greater Armenia could mean:

[[Irredentism]]

CATEGORIES: International relations, Territorial disputes, Nationalism

Irredentism is the desire of a state or some of its people in a state for the annexation of land of another state. Those who want the land say that it really belongs to them because the other state stole it, or they wish to liberate the people who live there who have the same ethnicity or some other connection.

The term was invented in the 1870s, when the unification of Italy left out Italians who lived in Austria-Hungary.

[[Greater Armenia (political concept)]]

CATEGORIES: Middle East, Nationalism

Greater Armenia or United Armenia is an Armenian irredentist political goal aimed at uniting all territories perceived as "historically or ethnically Armenian" to the Republic of Armenia.

[[Fume hood]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment

A fume hood or fume cupboard is a large piece of scientific equipment common to chemistry laboratories. Fume hoods stop a person coming into contact with hazardous fumes. They contain an air pump that sucks fumes away from the person using them.

Fume hoods have a large glass window that is opened when a scientist needs to get inside. The window protects the scientist from splashes of chemicals or explosions that could harm them. Most chemical reactions are done inside a fume hood.   

[[Ghevont Alishan]]

CATEGORIES: 1820 births, 1901 deaths, Armenian poets, Armenian historians, Christian clergy, Eastern Catholics

Father Ghevont Alishan (Ղեվոնդ Ալիշան) (1820–1901; also spelled Ghevond Alishan) was an ordained Armenian Catholic priest, historian and a poet. In 1885, Alishan created the first modern Armenian flag.

[[Armenian Catholic Church]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Catholicism

The Armenian Catholic Church is an Eastern Catholic church sui juris within the Catholic Church. Its headquarters are in Bzoummar, Lebanon. The union was established in the Council of Florence, in 1439. During the Armenian Genocide, 1915-1918, its followers were scattered, mainly to Syria and Lebanon. Many Armenians also fled to Georgia and Ukraine. In 1991, after the fall of the Iron Curtain, Pope John Paul II merged  the churches in Georgia and Ukraine with those in Armenia. He created a new eparchy of Armenia and Eastern Europe. There is a seminary in Gyumri, the largest city in Armenia. At the same time Catholic Armenians in Georgia de facto entered this newly formed diocese.The city of Gymuri was chosen because most Catholic Armenians live in the north of the country.

Many Armenians emigrated to the United States and Canada, mainly in the 1970s. For this reason, Pope Benedict XVI created a diocese for these people. It is responsible for about 35.000 people in the US, and about 10.000 in Canada. 

The church uses the Armenian Rite and the Armenian language for its services. 

The current Patriarch of the church is Nerses Bedros XIX Tarmouni.

[[Armin T. Wegner]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1978 deaths, Armenian Genocide, German journalists, German people of World War II, German political activists, German writers, Holocaust survivors, Humanitarians

Armin T. Wegner (October 16 1886 – May 17 1978) was a soldier in World War I, a writer and a co-creator of German Expressionism, a political activist for Armenian and Jewish human rights, and a victim of Nazi persecution.

He was a war reporter for several German newspapers at the same time. While staying in Turkey, he saw the genocide of Armenians with his own eyes.

After Hitler came to power, Wegner was against the fascists, and spoke against the treatment of Jews. After writing a letter to Hitler, he was arrested and tortured. Wegner survived and escaped and was based in England, and in Italy after the end of World War II.

[[Activism]]

CATEGORIES: Activism

Activism is an action to make a change, or stop a change, in society. It can be trying to make a government change its laws, or trying to make people change what they do. There are many forms of activism. Activism is most associated with protests.

When activism is linked to art, the action, in street art is called artivism. Chinese artist and activist Ai Weiwei is a typical example.

[[Assyrian people]]

CATEGORIES: Assyrian people

[[Uncertainty principle]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

The Uncertainty principle is also called the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Werner Heisenberg stumbled on a secret of the universe: Nothing has a definite position, a definite trajectory, or a definite momentum. Trying to pin a thing down to one definite position will make its momentum less well pinned down, and vice-versa. In everyday life we can successfully measure the position of an automobile at a definite time and then measure its direction and speed (assuming it is coasting along at a steady rate) in the next few moments. That is because the uncertainties in position and velocity are so small that we could not detect them. We assume, quite correctly, that the trajectory of the automobile will not be noticeably changed when we drop a marker on the ground and click a stopwatch at the same time to note the car's position in time and space. 

We may bring that experience to the world of atomic-sized phenomena and incorrectly assume that if we measure the position of something like an electron as it moves along its trajectory it will continue to move along that same trajectory, which we imagine we can then accurately detect in the next few moments. We need to learn that the electron did not have a definite position before we located it, and that it also did not have a definite momentum before we measured the trajectory. Moreover, we may justifiably assume that a photon produced by a laser aimed at a detection screen will hit very near to its target on that screen, and confirm this prediction by any number of experiments. Next we will discover that the more closely we try to pin down some location for the electron on its way toward the detection screen, the more it and all others like it will be likely to miss that target. So pinning down a location for an electron makes the trajectory more indefinite, indeterminate, or uncertain. If the trajectory were made more clear and then we were to try to locate that electron along an extension of the trajectory we just staked out, then we would find that the more precise we made our knowledge of the trajectory, the less likely we would be to find the electron where ordinary expectations would lead us to believe it to be. If pitchers threw electrons instead of baseballs, and an overhead camera and side-facing camera were placed somewhere between the pitcher's mound and home plate so that the exact position of the electron could be determined in mid flight, then without the cameras being turned on, the pitcher would throw straight balls, and with the cameras turned on his pitches would start out straight but gyrate wildly after their pictures were taken. The more clearly we know where the ball was halfway toward home place, the more trouble the batter will have in getting ready to hit it with his bat.

Unexpected consequences of the uncertainty feature of nature support our understanding of such things as nuclear fission, the control of which gave humans a new and very powerful source of energy, and quantum tunneling, which is an operating principle of the semiconductors that are so important to modern computer and other technologies.

In technical discussions one almost always talks about position and momentum. Momentum is the product of velocity and mass, and in physics the idea of velocity is the speed that something is going in a certain direction. So sometimes one can also talk about the velocity of the thing in question and ignore its mass, and sometimes it is easier to understand things if we talk about the trajectory or path that something follows. That idea also includes the ideas of speed and direction.  In the following diagrams we will show the main features of uncertainty in concrete terms, in the world of real things. Later we will use a little math to be able to give a clear idea of how much wiggle room there is between position and momentum.

[[Assyria]]

CATEGORIES: Assyria, Former countries in the Middle East

In the Middle Bronze Age,Assyria was a city state on the Upper Tigris river, named after its capital, the ancient city of Assur.  

The Assyrians were just to the north of their rivals, the Babylonians. All the kingdoms of ancient Mesopotamia used the cuneiform writing system invented by the Sumerians.

[[Forum]]

Forum (plural forums or fora) may mean:

[[Yuri Andropov]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1984 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Directors of intelligence agencies, Former dictators, Russian communists, Russian politicians, Soviet politicians, Time People of the Year, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Yuri Vladimirovich Andropov (1914-1984) was a Soviet politician. He was born in Nagutskoye, Russian SFSR. 

Andropov was Director of the KGB for an unusually long time:  19671982 (Jan-May). He was General Secretary of the CPSU from November 12, 1982 until his death fifteen months later. He had diabetes mellitus and died of renal failure in Moscow, Russian SFSR.

[[Van (disambiguation)]]

A van is a road vehicle used for transporting goods or groups of people.

Van or may also refer to:

[[Van, Turkey]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Van (Armenian Վան) is a city in eastern Turkey and the seat of Van Province, and is on the eastern shore of Lake Van. The city's population in 2005 was 284,464. According to the Encyclopedia of the Orient, Kurds form the majority though no census based on ethnicity was ever held in Turkey.April 2009

[[Van Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Turkey, Kurdistan

Van (Van ili) is a province in eastern Turkey, between Lake Van and the Iranian border. It is 19,069 km2 in area and has a population of 1,035,418 at the end of 2010. Kurds form the majority.

[[Urartian language]]

CATEGORIES: Urartu

Urartian is the name for the language spoken by the people of the ancient kingdom of Urartu in northeast Anatolia (present-day Turkey), in the region of Lake Van.

Urartian was a language isolate, which was neither Semitic nor Indo-European, but a member of the Hurro-Urartian family.

There is a hypothesis that suggests that besides the cuneiform inscriptions of the Urartian language, Urartu had a native hieroglyphic writing system. Armenian scientist Artak Movsisyan published a partial attempt deciphering of Urartian hieroglyphs, saying that they were written in an early form of Armenian.

[[Yamaha Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 establishments, Companies of Japan, Musical instrument makers, 1880s establishments in Japan

Yamaha is a Japanese multinational company that makes different products, including musical instruments such as keyboards.

Yamaha was founded in 1887 by Torakusu Yamaha. Yamaha started when the founder Torasku Yamaha when he successfully completed the first reed organ It was named Nippon Gakki Company, Limited and produced pianos and reed organs at that time. In October 1987, on the 100th anniversary, its name was changed to The Yamaha Corporation. Yamaha produces several musical instruments including keyboards, flutes, guitars and things in a band. Yamaha also produces motorbikes, as well as the voice synthesizer Vocaloid. Yamaha is a big corporation and was founded 125 years ago.

In 1989, Yamaha shipped the world's first CD recorder. 

[[Grease (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 comedy movies, 1970s musical movies, 1970s romance movies, 1970s teen movies, American high school movies, American musical comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American teen comedy movies, American teen romance movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies set in the 1950s, United States National Film Registry movies, Movies directed by Randal Kleiser

Grease is a 1978 American romantic comedy musical movie directed by Randal Kleiser and produced by Robert Stigwood. The movie tells the story of high-schoolers Rizzo (Stockard Channing), Kenickie (Jeff Conaway), Danny (John Travolta), Frenchy (Didi Conn) and Sandy (Olivia Newton-John).

[[Eastern Time Zone]]

CATEGORIES: Time zones

Eastern Time Zone (ET) is the time zone for the eastern part of the Americas including the United States, Canada and parts of South America and the Caribbean. ET is five hours behind UTC in winter, which is called Eastern Standard Time (EST). It is four hours behind UTC during summer Daylight saving time, when it is called Eastern Daylight Time (EDT).

The largest city in the Eastern Time Zone is New York City, which is the largest city in the United States. The New York metropolitan area is the largest in the zone.

[[Armenian Legion]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Armenia, Nazi Germany, History of Armenia, 1944

The Armenian Legion (Հայկական լեգիոն) or Armenische Legion was the name given to the 812th Armenian Battalion which was a foreign unit comprised of several thousand men.

Leaders Kanayan and Garegin Njdeh counted the support of over 18,000 Armenians.

In addition to this exclusively Armenian unit, Nazi Armenians also served in the thirty eight other SS divisions, including the elite Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler.

[[Garegin Njdeh]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian politicians, 1886 births, 1955 deaths

Garegin Njdeh (Գարեգին Նժդեհ, real name: Garegin Ter-Harutiunian, 1 January 1886 - late 1955) was an Armenian statesman, military, and political thinker. He was a native of Nakhchivan.

[[Wehrmacht]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Germany, Nazi Germany

Wehrmacht was the name of the unified armed forces of Nazi Germany from 1935 to 1945. The Wehrmacht consisted of the Heer (army), the Kriegsmarine (navy) and the Luftwaffe (air force).

The Waffen-SS, an initially small armed section of Heinrich Himmler's Allgemeine SS that grew to nearly a million strong during World War II, was not part of the Wehrmacht, but subject to its Supreme Command.

[[Drastamat Kanayan]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian politicians, 1884 births, 1956 deaths, Armenian Genocide, Armenian military people, Assassins, Disease-related deaths in Massachusetts, German people of World War II, Terrorists

General Drastamat Kanayan (May 31, 1884 – March 8, 1956) was an Armenian  politician, revolutionary, and general. He was the commander of the Armenian Legion of the Wehrmacht, the armed forces of Nazi Germany and part of Armenian national liberation movement.

Drastamat Kanayan was born in Iğdır, Surmalu, Russian Empire (present-day Turkey) in 1884.

[[Jack White]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, American guitarists, American songwriters, American composers, American movie actors, Actors from Detroit, Michigan, Singers from Detroit, Michigan

Jack White (born John Anthony Gillis, July 9, 1975 in Detroit, Michigan) is an American singer, guitarist, composer and actor. He is best known as one half of The White Stripes with his ex-wife Meg White.

Because of his successful career with The White Stripes, he has gotten the chance to work many other famous musicians, including Bob Dylan and Loretta Lynn. He has performed many different genres of music, including blues music, folk music, alternative rock, garage rock, and indie music, among other music, in his songs. 

He married model Karen Elson in 2005. They currently have two children, Scarlett Teresa White and Henry Lee White. As of today, they live in Nashville, Tennessee.

[[Meg White]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Singers from Michigan, American drummers, Musicians from Michigan, American rock musicians, American blues musicians

Meg White was born on December 10, 1974 in Grosse Pointe Farms, Michigan. She is an American drummer and vocalist. She is one half of The White Stripes with her ex-husband Jack White.

Meg's playful yet simple style of drumming has drawn so much debate about her ability that is referenced in the movie School of Rock. In reference to her simple approach to drumming, Meg said "That is my strength. A lot of drummers would feel weird about being that simplistic."

[[Adriatic Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Seas of the Atlantic Ocean

The Adriatic Sea is a body of water and is a part of the Mediterranean Sea. The Italian Peninsula from the Balkan Peninsula was sepatated by the sea. Countries that have a coastline in the Adriatic Sea are Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Albania.

The average width of the sea is about 160 km. The Strait of Otranto joins the Adriatic Sea and the Ionian Sea and is only 85 to 100 km wide. The sea is very shallow. Its average depth is 240 m (133 fathoms). The sea is deepest east of Monte Gargano and south of Dubrovnik where it dips below 1,460 m (800 fathoms).

[[Time in Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Time zones, Time by country

Mainland Australia has three official time zones. The full names of the time zones are usually shortened by dropping the Australian.  Most Australian external territories are in different time zones.  Many parts of Australia have daylight saving time.

[[Human sacrifice]]

CATEGORIES: Superstitions

Human sacrifice is the act of killing a human being as an offering to a deity or other, normally supernatural, power.

It was practiced in many ancient cultures. The practice was different in different cultures.

Some like the Mayans and Aztecs are notorious for their ritual killings, others have looked down on the practice as primitive.

Victims were ritually killed in a manner that was supposed to please or appease gods or spirits. Victims ranged from prisoners to infants to Vestal Virgins whose stomach's were cut open, with a dull,stone knife and their hearts were burned.

Over time human sacrifice has become less common around the world, and sacrifices are now very rare. Most religions condemn the practice and present-day laws generally treat it as a criminal matter. Nonetheless it is still occasionally seen today, especially in the least developed areas of the world where traditional beliefs persist.

[[Tomomi Kahala]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Singers from Tokyo

Tomomi Kahala, sometimes spelled Kahara (華原 朋美 Kahara Tomomi born August 17, 1974 in Tokyo) is a Japanese female singer. Her nickname is "Tomochan", and special skill is Horse riding. Her most famous song is "I'm Proud", "I Believe".

[[Observer effect]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

The observer effect, or observer bias, means several things in different situations, although there are similarities.

[[Canton Township, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in Michigan, 1834 establishments in Michigan Territory

Canton, Michigan is a township in Wayne County in the U.S. state of Michigan. About 93,704 people live in it according to an educated guess of the U.S. Census Bureau.when The FBI decided that it is the 20th safest city in the United States.The average household in Canton earns $84,000 dollars.

[[Probability theory]]

CATEGORIES: Probability theory

Probability theory is the part of mathematics that studies random situations. Probability theory usually studies random events, random variables, stochastic processes, and non-deterministic events (events that do not follow a simple pattern).   

Tossing a coin, winning the lottery, or rolling a die are random events. However, random events have certain patterns, which can be studied and predicted, using probability theory. 

Scientists can use probability theory to obtain information about things that would be too complex to deal with, like statistical mechanics. Also, scientists discovered (in the 20th century) that atoms, and everything that we know, obeys something called quantum mechanics, which uses lots of probability theory.

[[The Raven]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American poems, Poems by Edgar Allan Poe

"The Raven" is a narrative poem by American writer Edgar Allan Poe, first published in January 1845. It tells the story of a mysterious talking raven who visits a lover; it shows how the lover is slowly going insane. It is often called Poe's most famous poem, its publication made him famous in his day, and today it is still one of the most recognized and respected poems in American literature. 

[[Mayan civilization]]

CATEGORIES: Maya civilization

The Maya civilization  and Maya religion. They lived there for a long time and some of the Maya people live there even today.

The Maya lived there 4,000 years ago (about 2000 BC). At that date  complex societies were living in the Maya region. The staple foods of the Maya diet were cultivated. Their food included maize, beans, squashes, and chili peppers. The first Maya cities developed around 750 BC.

The Maya people used a written language and a numeral system. They were good at art, building, and  Their priests studied stars and planets, which helped them make calendars.

The Maya civilization was biggest between the years of 420 AD and 900 AD. The Maya civilization spread all the way from central Mexico to Honduras, Guatemala, and northern El Salvador. It is estimated that at its maximum, the civilization had at least ten million people. The Maya people traded with other people in the Americas. Their art and buildings have many different styles. This shows they traded a lot. They made changes to their buildings to make them even better. The Maya civilization started getting smaller after 900 AD.

The Conquistadors arrived in the 15th century and took over Mexico and later Central America, even in the Mayan areas. However, the Maya people still live there today. They live in the same areas the Mayan civilization used to live in. They keep the old Mayan traditions and beliefs.

There are many Mayan languages still spoken today, including one called the Achi language. A play called Rabinal Achi is considered important.

[[Mesoamerican chronology]]

CATEGORIES: History of Mesoamerica

Looking at the history of pre-Columbian Mesoamerica one can see some rather different periods  between the first humans and the early Colonial period (which followed the Spanish colonization of the Americas) in the end.

[[Beck]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American rock guitarists, American songwriters, American composers, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Singers from Los Angeles, California, Electronic musicians, Multi-instrumentalists

Beck Hansen (better known as simply Beck) (born Bek David Campbell, July 8, 1970 in Los Angeles, California) is an American singer, musician, and multi-instrumentalist. He is known for folky rock music, unusual lyrics, and post-modern arrangements, which has made him one of the most outstanding in 1990s alternative rock.

He became extremely popular with his hit song "Loser" in 1994. Beck is known for including various styles of music into his songs, including folk music, electronica, indie music, techno, rock music, and alternative music, among others.

Hansen married actress Marissa Ribisi in 2004. They currently have two children: a son, Cosimo Henri, and a daughter, Tuesday.

[[Prime Meridian]]

CATEGORIES: Lines of longitude

The Prime Meridian is the meridian (line of longitude) that goes through the Royal Observatory, Greenwich in London it is also known as the International Meridian or Greenwich Meridian. Other longitudes are given as east or west of the Prime Meridian.

Lines like this are not actually lines on the ground, but are ways of saying where a place is on the globe. The ones that run horizontal (east to west) are called latitude. They tell us how far a location is from the equator. The other lines are vertical and are known as longitudes. 

Such is the Meridian's fame that each year, hundreds of thousands of visitors from all around the world make their way to the Observatory to stand astride the Line. But its position is marked in hundreds of other places too. On its path from pole to pole, the Meridian passes through England, France, Spain, Algeria, Mali, Burkina Faso, Togo, Ghana and Antarctica.

[[Retirement]]

CATEGORIES: Society, Leisure

Retirement is when people stop working. People may retire when they reach a certain age, or if they get sick or have an accident, or even for their own choice. Some people may semi-retire and keep some sort of job. People typically do this after working for so many years and growing tired of it. 

[[Sophia]]

Sophia and sofia may mean:

[[Trdat the Architect]]

CATEGORIES: Byzantine Empire

Trdat the Architect (c. 950-1020) (Armenian: Տրդատ ճարտարապետ), known in Latin as Tiridates, was chief architect of the Bagratuni Dynasty of Armenia.

After a great earthquake in 989 destroyed the dome of Hagia Sophia, the Byzantine officials sent Trdat to Byzantium to organize repairs. The restored dome was completed by 994.

[[Byzantium]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece

Byzantium (Βυζάντιον) was an ancient Greek city. The name "Byzantium" is a Latinization of the original name Byzantion.

The city became the center of the Byzantine Empire, (the Greek-speaking Roman Empire of late Antiquity and the Middle Ages), but at that time it was already called Constantinople.

[[Coat of arms of Armenia]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian culture, National coats of arms

The national coat of arms of Armenia consists of an eagle and a lion supporting a shield. The coat of arms combines new and old symbols. The eagle and lion are ancient Armenian symbols dating from the first Armenian kingdoms that existed prior to Christ.

The current coat of arms was adopted on 19 April 1992 by the Armenian Supreme Council decision. On 15 June 2006, the law on the state coat of arms of Armenia was passed by the Armenian Parliament.

[[Arsacid Dynasty of Armenia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Armenia, Royal dynasties, 1st-century establishments, 5th-century disestablishments

The Arsacid Dynasty or (sometimes called the Arshakuni Dynasty) ruled the Kingdom of Armenia from 54 to 428. They started as a branch of the Parthian Arsacids but became a distinctly Armenian dynasty later on. Armenia was between the Parthian and Roman Empires and both were trying to control it. Arsacid Kings reigned intermittently throughout the chaotic years after the fall of the Artaxiad Dynasty until 62 when Tiridates I of Armenia secured Arsacid rule in Armenia.

An independent line of Kings was established by Vologases II of Armenia (Valarses/Vagharshak) in 180. Two of the most notable events under Arsacid rule in Armenian history were the conversion of Armenia to Christianity by St. Gregory the Illuminator in 301 and the creation of the Armenian alphabet by Mesrop Mashtots in 405.

[[Hakob Kojoyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 births, 1959 deaths, Armenian artists

Hakob Karapetovich Kojoyan (1883 - 1959) was an Armenian artist. He worked in genres of painting, landscapes, and applied art. Hakob Kojoyan was awarded the designation of "People's Artist of the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic." He helped Armenian architect Alexander Tamanian to create the coat of arms for the Democratic Republic of Armenia.

[[Alexander Tamanian]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian people, 1878 births, 1936 deaths

Alexander Tamanian (Ալեքսանդր Թամանյան, March 4, 1878, Yekaterinodar - February 20, 1936, Yerevan) was an Armenian neoclassical architect, who is remembered today for his work in the city of Yerevan.

[[Ani]]

CATEGORIES: History of Armenia, Ruins, Buildings and structures in Armenia, 5th century establishments in Asia, Establishments in Armenia

This article is about the city in Turkey. For the Etruscan god, see Ani

Ani (Անի, Latin: Abnicum) is a ruined and uninhabited medieval city-site in Turkey. It is in the province of Kars, beside the border with Armenia. It was once the capital of a medieval Armenian kingdom that covered much of present-day Armenia and eastern Turkey.

At the height of its great times, Ani had a population of 100,000 - 200,000 people and was the rival of Constantinople, Baghdad and Cairo. Long ago renowned for its splendor and magnificence, Ani has been abandoned and largely forgotten for centuries.

[[Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Armenia, Republics of the Soviet Union, 1920 establishments in the Soviet Union, 1920 disestablishments, Disestablishments in the Soviet Union

The Armenian SSR  or Soviet Socialist Republic of Armenia, came into being on 29 November 1920. On 1 December 1920, the Prime Minister Simon Vratsian handed over control of the country to the Communist Party of Armenia. The name was later changed to the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic.

The modern Republic of Armenia became independent in 1991 during the dissolution of the Soviet Union.

[[Extinct language]]

CATEGORIES: Extinct languages

An extinct language is a language that no longer is the first language or the second language of anyone.  The opposite of a modern language, an extinct language is not spoken anymore and so no longer develops or changes. The first recorded example in human history is Sumerian.

It is not to be confused with a dead language, such as Latin, which is still spoken as a second language.

[[Armenian Americans]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the United States

An Armenian American is an American whose ancestry is from Armenia. During the 2009 Census in the United States, 1,270,000 Americans indicated either full or partial Armenian ancestry.

[[Thomas Cavendish]]

CATEGORIES: 1560 births, 1592 deaths, English explorers

Sir Thomas Cavendish (or Candish) (1560-1592) was an English sea explorer. He was known as "the Navigator" because he led the third expedition to travel around (circumnavigate) the globe. Cavendish was the first who set sail to do this. Magellan and Francis Drake were the first two to circumnavigate the globe, but they did not intend to do so. Cavendish died at sea on his second voyage around the world.

[[William Saroyan]]

CATEGORIES: People from Fresno, California, 1908 births, 1981 deaths, American writers

William Saroyan (Վիլյամ Սարոյան) (August 31, 1908 - May 18, 1981) was an American author who wrote many plays and short stories about growing up impoverished as the son of Armenian immigrants. These stories were popular during the Great Depression. Saroyan grew up in Fresno, the center of Armenian-Americans in California, where many of his works are set (although he sometimes gave the city a fictional name).

Asked how to say his name, he told The Literary Digest "In Armenian it is sor-row'yan, accent on row.  In America it is mispronounced with... 'roy.'" 

[[Raphael Lemkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1959 deaths, Belarusian Jews, Genocide, Polish lawyers, Polish Jews, Refugees from Nazism, Jewish lawyers

Raphael Lemkin, Rafał Lemkin (June 24, 1900 in Belarus – August 28, 1959 in New York City) was a lawyer of Polish-Jewish descent. Before World War II, Lemkin was interested in the Armenian Genocide and campaigned in the League of Nations to ban what he called "barbarity" and "vandalism". He is best known for his work against genocide, a word he coined in 1943 from the root words genos (Greek for family, tribe or race) and -cide (Latin for killing).

[[Vakıflı]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Vakıflı Köyü (Վաքիֆ — Vakif) is the only ethnic Armenian village in Turkey. It is on the slopes of Musa Dagh in the Samandağ district of Hatay Province. It has a view of the Mediterranean Sea. From the village, people can see the Syrian border. There are about 130 Turkish-Armenians.

[[Spanish colonization of the Americas]]

CATEGORIES: History of Native Americans, History of Spain

The Spanish colonization of the Americas began with the arrival in America of Christopher Columbus (Cristóbal Colón) in 1492. This was the first part of the European colonization of the Americas. 

The Spanish expanded their territories in America over the years until they included Central America, most of South America, Mexico, the South of what today is Southern United States, the Western part of what today is the United States, the Southwestern part of what today is British Columbia in Canada, and even reaching Alaska. At the beginning of the nineteenth century, the Spanish possessions in America began a series of independence movements, which led to the complete separation from Spain by the mid 1820's of Mexico, and the colonies in Central and South America. The remaining Spanish colonies, Cuba and Puerto Rico, were lost in 1898 as a consequence of the Spanish-American War

[[Conquistador]]

CATEGORIES: History of Spain

A Conquistador (English: Conqueror; : Conquistadores, or Conquistadors) was a Spanish soldier, explorer and adventurer. The Conquistadors invaded and conquered much of the Americas and the Philippines Islands and other islands in Asia Pacific. Many of them were hidalgos (noblemen of low category).

Their conquests brought these lands under Spanish colonial rule between the 15th and 17th centuries, starting with the 1492 settlement by Christopher Columbus in what is now the Bahamas. They created what is now called Latin America.

The first immensely successful conquistador was Hernán Cortés. Between 1520 and 1521, Cortés, along with native enemies of the Aztecs, conquered the mighty Aztec Empire. Present day Mexico came under the dominion of the Spanish Empire, as New Spain. Francisco Pizarro later found and conquered the similarly large Inca Empire.

[[Shushanik Kurghinian]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian poets, Autobiographers, 1876 births, 1927 deaths

Shushanik Kurghinian (Popoljian) (1876-1927) was an Armenian poet. Kurghinian received little or no recognition for her outstanding poems. Although a socialist with some stirring poems of labour's rebellion to her name, she remained a dim star even in the Soviet era. Today she is almost unknown, away from the literary canon in Armenia and the Diaspora.

[[Gyumri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Armenia

Gyumri (Armenian:Գյումրի) is the capital and largest city of the Shirak province in northwest Armenia. It is located about 75 miles from the capital Yerevan, and, with a population of 150,917 (2001 census), is the second-largest city in Armenia.

[[Arminianism]]

CATEGORIES: Protestant theology, Christian movements and denominational families, Protestant Reformation

Arminianism is a school of soteriological thought in Protestant Christian theology founded by the Dutch theologian Jacobus Arminius.

[[Ruben Sevak]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian poets, 1885 births, 1915 deaths

Sevak Ruben or Ruben Sevak (February 15, 1885 - August 26, 1915) was an Armenian poet a prose-writer, and a doctor.

Among many others, he was arrested on April 24, 1915 and killed on August 26, 1915 during the Armenian Genocide.

[[National Gallery of Armenia]]

National Gallery of Armenia at Yerevan, Armenia.

The old Armenian subdivision owns works of famous Armenian artists of early medieval and succeeding periods.

Today its collection is over 19,000 specimens shown in the Russian, Armenian and West-European divisions of paintings, sculptures, graphic and applied arts.

The National Art Gallery of Armenia has a lot of branches in Yerevan and other towns of the republic. The memorial-houses of the artist Hakop Kojoyan and the sculptor Ara Sarkissian are in the capital. They exhibit the best works of the two far-famed men of arts.

In 1935 the art section was changed into Art Museum, in 1947 it was called State Museum of Armenia and from 1991 it was renamed as National Gallery of Armenia. In 1978 a new 8 storey building was put into exploitation. Now the collection of the NGA includes about 26.000 museum exhibits and the building has 56 exposition halls in which there are presented the museums treasures by temporary and permanent exhibitions.

Armenian art presents the considerable part of the exposition. It begins with ancient and Medieval Art: Urartu frescoes, with valuable documental copies of Garni temple’s mosaics and Medieval wall-paintings and miniatures, also Clerical paintings of XVII-XIX centuries, silver book-covers of manuscripts, crosses, etc.

The exposition is continued by the works of Armenian classics /H.Hovnatanian, H.Ayvazovski, G.Bashinjaghian, P.Terlemezian, V.Sureniants, V.Mahokian / by works of XX century artists /M.Saryan, H.Kojoyan, H.Gurdjian, E.Chahin, G.Khanjian, M.Avetisian and by works of other remarkable artists /.

Russian art is representative in the collection of NGA. Here you can see sacred images of XVI-XVII centuries and works of XVIII-XX centuries well known artists F. Rokotov, I.Argunov, F.Shubin, I.Repin,V.Serov,M.Goncharova,I.Mashkov,S.Konenkov,W.Kandinski,M.Chagal, etc.

In the halls of foreign art the exposition begins with the culture of Ancient World Egypt and Greece. Here there are presented works by well-known artists of Italian, Holland, Flemish and French art schools /F. Guerchino, Jan Van Goyen, P. Claesz, E. M. Falconet, J. B.Greuze, T.Rousseau, A. Monticelli/.

In 2008 there was opened pavilion of Hakob Gurjian’s works, also reopened and enlarged the permanent exposition of XVII-XIX centuries Armenian Clerical art.

The restoration and conservation studios operate in the gallery. There is a library, an archive, cafeteria, souvenir and book store, also operates film and lecturing hall.

The National Gallery of Armenia participates to international exhibitions with separate art works from his collection, organizes exhibitions of Armenian art in different countries greatly facilitating the recognition of national art.

The National Gallery has branch museums in Yerevan/ H.Kojoyan and A.Sargsian home-museum, Jotto /G. Grigorian studio/,in Echmiadzin/The Echmiadzin gallery,Mher Abeghian museum/in Hrazdan/Hrazdan gallery/,in Jermuk/The Jermuk gallery/,in Sisian/The Sisian gallery/, in Alaverdi/The Alaverdi gallery/in Eghegnadzor /The Eghjegnadzor gallery/, in Gavar/the Academician H.Buniatian Gavar gallery/, in Martuni/the Martuni gallery/and in Jajur the M. Avetissian museum/.

In different years the gallery directed R. Drambian /1925-1951/, R.Parsamian /1952-1962/, A.Chilingarian/1962-1967/, E.Isabekian/ 1967-1986/, A.TerGabrielian/ 1986-1990/, Sh.Khatchatrian/ 1991-2002/ and P.Mirzoyan/2002/ noted artists who has great contribution to the enlargement of the collection in the field of popularization and scientific research.

[[Armenian Evangelical Church]]

CATEGORIES: Protestantism

The Armenian Evangelical Church (Armenian: Հայաստանեայց Աւետարանական Եկեղեցի) was established on July 1, 1846 by thirty-seven men and three women in Constantinople.

[[Armenian alphabet]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian language

The Armenian alphabet is an alphabet that has been used to write the Armenian language since the 5th century.

The Armenian word for "alphabet" is այբուբեն (CA, EA: aɪbubɛn, or WA: aɪpʰupʰɛn), named after the first two letters of the Armenian alphabet.

[[Orontid Dynasty]]

CATEGORIES: Monarchs of Armenia, Royal dynasties

The Orontid Dynasty (in Armenian: Երվանդունիների թագավորություն) was the first Armenian dynasty.  The Orontids established their supremacy over Armenia around the time of the invasions by the Scythians and Medes in the 6th century BC.

[[Armenian Highland]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Armenia, Mountains of Asia, Mountains of Europe

The Armenian Highland (also known as the Armenian Upland or Armenian Plateau) is part of the Transcaucasian Highland and constitutes the continuation of the Caucasus mountains, also referred as eastern Armenia.

The apricot is native to China and spread to Europe through the Armenia Highlands. It came to be known throughout the ancient world as the Armenian fruit. Its botanical name Prunus armeniaca, derives from the Latin vernacular for apricot, armeniacum, which some scholars have linked to its Akkadian name armanu.

Many scholars place the Indo-European homeland in the Armenian Highlands and the plateau of Asia Minor to the southwest.

Others believe that it was in Eastern Europe or southern Russia.

Some scholars believe, for example, that the earliest mention of the Armenians is in the Akkadian inscriptions dating to the 28th-27th centuries BC, in which the Armenians are referred to as the sons of Haya, after the regional god of the Armenian Highlands.

[[Armenian Quarter]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian diaspora, Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem

The Armenian Quarter is one of the four quarters of the Old City of Jerusalem. Although the Armenian people are Christians, the Armenian Quarter is distinct from the Christian Quarter.

[[Paulo César Fonseca do Nascimento]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Porto Alegre

Paulo César Fonseca do Nascimento (born 13 January 1978) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Borussia Dortmund.

[[Lina Hahne]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Beauty pageant winners, Swedish models

Lina Hahne (born January 23, 1984) was crowned Miss Sweden on June 26. She represented the country in Miss Universe 2008.

[[Miss Universe]]

CATEGORIES: Beauty pageants, 1952 establishments

Miss Universe is an international beauty contest. It was started in 1952 and today has over 190 countries taking part. About one billion people watch it on television every year.

The competition was first shown on American national television in 1955. In 1960, the show moved from California to Florida. Until 1971, the competition was held in the United States, and since 1972 - every year in a new country. 

The pageant is owned by WME and IMG, with Fox owning the rights to broadcast the pageant on television. Until 2015, it was owned by NBC and Donald Trump. In 2015, Trump started his campaign for President of the United States and said he wanted to stop illegal immigrants from Mexico from coming into the US. NBC then stopped working with him, and so Trump bought Miss Universe out, and sold it to its current owners a few days later.

[[Frank Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American baseball players, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), Chicago White Sox players, Oakland Athletics players, Toronto Blue Jays players, National Baseball Hall of Fame members, People from Columbus, Georgia

Frank Thomas (born May 27, 1968) is a former American Major League Baseball player who spent most of his career with the Chicago White Sox. Near the end of his career, he also played with the Oakland Athletics and Toronto Blue Jays. He hit his 500th career home run on June 28, 2007. He was the 21st person to hit 500 home runs.

Thomas was elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2014, and will officially enter the Hall on July 27.

[[Northwest]]

CATEGORIES: Compass directions

Northwest or north west is the direction halfway between North and West on a compass. It is the opposite of Southeast.

[[Southeast]]

CATEGORIES: Compass directions

Southeast or south east is the direction halfway between south and east. It the opposite of northwest.

[[Silvia Night]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters

Silvia Night is a fictional (not real) character played by Eva Augusta from Iceland. Silvia Night participated in Eurovision Song Contest 2006 in Greece. She is famous for her larger than life and narcissistic persona.

[[Donald Trump]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Donald Trump, 2016 United States presidential candidates, 2020 United States presidential candidates, 21st-century American politicians, Actors from Florida, Actors from New York City, American billionaires, American conservatives, American game show hosts, American Presbyterians, Businesspeople from Florida, Businesspeople from New York City, People from Queens, Politicians from Florida, Politicians from New York City, Real estate developers, Television personalities from New York City, Time People of the Year, Trump family, US Republican Party politicians, WWE Hall of Fame

Donald John Trump (born 1946) was the 45th president of the United States from 2017 to 2021. Before becoming president, he was a television personality.

Trump was the chairman and president of The Trump Organization. Much of his money was made in real estate in New York City, Las Vegas, and Atlantic City. He used to own the Miss Universe pageant. He was the star in his own reality show The Apprentice. In October 2019, Trump changed his official residency state from New York to Florida.

In June 2015, Trump announced that he would run for President of the United States in the 2016 presidential election, although most people did not expect him to win. Starting mid-July, polls showed that Trump was the front-runner in the Republican field, ahead of Ted Cruz. This was true even after much criticism from his party due to his comments on illegal immigration, Muslims, and ISIS. His campaign gained support from mostly middle-class and rural working class families. It gained opposition from Democrats, some Republicans, business people, some world leaders and the pope.

On May 4, 2016, Trump became the presumptive nominee after his remaining challengers, Texas United States senator Ted Cruz and Ohio Governor John Kasich, dropped out. He became the president-elect November 9, 2016, after a close race with former Secretary of State, U.S. Senator, and First Lady of the United States Hillary Clinton. Each of them needed 270 electoral votes to win. Trump had 304 while Clinton had 227. He was inaugurated as the 45th president on January 20, 2017. At 70 years old.

On September 24, 2019, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi announced that the House of Representatives would begin an impeachment inquiry into Trump. On October 31, 2019, the House voted 232–196 to establish procedures for public hearings. On December 16, the House Judiciary Committee released a report specifying criminal bribery and wire fraud charges as part of the abuse of power charge. The house voted to impeach Trump in December 2019, making him the third president in American history to be impeached. He was acquitted by the Senate in February 2020. In November 2020, Trump lost his re-election bid to former Vice President Joe Biden following the 2020 election. He became the first president since George H. W. Bush in 1992 to lose his re-election bid. However, he did not recognize his loss and claimed to have won the election by a large amount. He  also sued states that went to Biden. In January 2021, Trump controversially called Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger and was reported as an attempt to reverse the election results. A few days later, his supporters rioted at the United States Capitol which killed five people. This led to the United States House of Representatives to impeach Trump for a second time. This made Trump the only president to be impeached twice. The United States Senate voted to acquit him of all charges.

[[Northeast]]

CATEGORIES: Compass directions

Northeast or north east is the direction halfway between north and east.  It is the opposite of southwest.

[[Mona Sahlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Government ministers of Sweden

Mona Ingeborg Sahlin (born Andersson on March 9, 1957 in Sollefteå, Sweden) is a former leader for the Swedish Social Democratic Party, when she replaced Göran Persson after his ten years as leader, she was the first woman to do so. She was the minister responsible for the handling of the Heart 2 Art Exhibition in Stockholm 2002. Toblerone Scandal or Sahlin Scandal is the name of a Swedish scandal, in which there in October 1995 came to public attention that the Socialist politician Mona Sahlin during her time as Minister for Employment, 1990-1991, on several occasions used its credit cards for private expenses.

[[Swedish Social Democratic Party]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 establishments in Europe, Socialist International, Social democratic parties, Political parties in Sweden, 1880s establishments in Sweden

The Swedish Social Democratic Party (Sveriges socialdemokratiska arbetareparti) was established on 23 April 1889, and is Sweden's biggest political party of social democracy. The party has been in the lead with a Prime Minister for the longest and most amount of time in Sweden. Stefan Löfven is the current leader for the party. The party lost to the Moderate Party in the 2006 elections, but will have a new chance to take over the power again in 2014.

Olof Palme, one of Sweden's most famous politicians, was the party leader from October many years before he was murdered in February 1986.

[[Olof Palme]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1986 deaths, Anti-Communists, Feminists, Government ministers of Sweden, Murders by firearm, Politicians from Stockholm, Prime Ministers of Sweden, Socialists, Unsolved murders

Olof Palme (30 January 1927 – 28 February 1986) was a Swedish politician. He was the leader of the Social Democratic Party from 1969-1986 until his death and Prime Minister of Sweden from 1969-1976 and 1982-1986. 

He was shot to death in Stockholm after going to the cinema on 28 February 1986. The killer has never been identified, and the gun has never been found. His murder is still a mystery for Swedish police, even though people have been arrested in connection with it.

He was a pacifist and against apartheid, The Vietnam War, and nuclear weapons. He made efforts to improve welfare and economic, social and cultural rights for workers. 

[[Elena Paparizou]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Greek singers, Living people, Swedish singers, Eurovision Song Contest winners

Elena Paparizou also known as Helena Paparizou (born 31 January 1982) in Borås, Sweden. She is a Swedish-Greek singer and model who won the Eurovision Song Contest in 2005 for Greece, performing the song My Number One which won the entire contest. 

[[Miss World]]

CATEGORIES: Beauty pageants

Miss World is a international beauty pageant that started in 1951. It is the oldest surviving major international beauty pageant. The contest was created in the United Kingdom by Eric Morley, and run as part of the Mecca Leisure Group. Since his death in 2000, Morley's wife, Julia Morley, co-chairs the pageant.

With its rivals Miss Universe and Miss Earth, this is one of the most publicised beauty contests in the world.

The winner spends a year travelling to represent the Miss World Organization and its various causes. The current Miss World is Toni-Ann Singh of Jamaica who was crowned on December 14, 2019, in London, England, United Kingdom. She is the fourth Jamaican woman to win Miss World. Traditionally, Miss World lives in London during her reign.

[[Gregory the Illuminator]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian Apostolic Churches

Saint Gregory the Illuminator or Saint Gregory the Enlightener (Armenian: Գրիգոր Լուսաւորիչ translit. Grigor Lusavorich, Greek: Γρηγόριος Φωστήρ or Φωτιστής, Gregorios Phoster or Photistes), the founder and patron saint of the Armenian Apostolic Church, he was born about 257.

He belonged to the royal line of the Arsacid Dynasty, being the son of a Parthian named Anak, who assassinated Chosroes I of Armenia, and thus brought ruin on himself and his family.

[[Bow Wow]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Singers from Ohio, American rap musicians from Ohio, American movie actors, Actors from Columbus, Ohio, Musicians from Columbus, Ohio, Singers from Columbus, Ohio

Shad Gregory Moss, better known as Bow Wow or formerly Lil' Bow Wow (born March 9, 1987, Columbus, Ohio) is an African-American rapper, actor, and music producer. He began his rap career when he was 13.

[[John Cage]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1992 deaths, 20th century composers, American composers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, Deaths from stroke, LGBT artists, LGBT composers, LGBT musicians, LGBT people from Los Angeles, California, LGBT writers, Musical entertainers from Los Angeles, California, Writers from Los Angeles, California

John Milton Cage, Jr. usually known as just John Cage, (September 5, 1912 - August 12, 1992) was an American composer, writer, philosopher, and visual artist. He was one of the first composers (or musicians) to introduce different styles of music to popular culture. He made mostly avant-garde music and electronic music, and was very well known for making the piece 4'33", which challenged what music is. He also wrote music for pianos that had been "prepared" by having screws and nails placed in them. He was gay. His life partner from 1943 until his death was choreographer Merce Cunningham (1919-2009). Cage died of a stroke in New York City.

[[4′33″]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions

4′33″ is a musical composition written by avant-garde (non-traditional) musician John Cage. It is his most famous work. It consists of no notes, only 4 minutes and thirty-three seconds of silence. The piece challenges the definition of music. The only thing the sheet music says is "tacet", or "it is silent". It was first played by David Tudor in Woodstock, New York.

[[McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet]]

CATEGORIES: United States Navy aircraft, United States Marine Corps aircraft, Australian military aircraft, Spain

thumb|275px|A U.S. Navy F/A-18 Flying The F/A-18 Hornet (CF-18, F-18) is a fighter jet that is made by Boeing, and was originally manufactured by the McDonnell-Douglas Company. It first flew in 1978 and was introduced in 1983.  Its main user is the United States Navy. It can take off from aircraft carriers because of its special design. The F/A-18 can attack land and air targets. Any aircraft which can do this is called "multi-role". The Hornet is also flown by the Blue Angels.

[[McDonnell Douglas F-15 Eagle]]

CATEGORIES: United States Air Force aircraft, Military of Japan, Israel Defense Forces, Saudi Arabia

The F-15 Eagle is a fighter jet that originally made by McDonnell-Douglas (later Boeing). It is known around the world for its toughness and undefeated record, meaning that it has never been shot down by an enemy plane. It is used primarily by the United States Air Force, but it is also used in Israel, Japan, Saudi Arabia and South Korea. It usually carries missiles and an M61 Vulcan gun to shoot down enemy fighter jet planes. More than a thousand have been made.

[[Dicotyledon]]

CATEGORIES: Flowering plants

The dicotyledons, also known as dicots, were one of the two groups of flowering plants or angiosperms. The name refers to one of the characteristics of the group, namely that the seed has two embryonic leaves or cotyledons. There are around 200,000 species in this group. The other group of flowering plants were called monocotyledons or monocots, with one cotyledon. Historically, these two groups formed the two divisions of the flowering plants.

From the 1990s onwards, molecular phylogeny showed what botanists already suspected: dicotyledons are not a monophyletic group. They are a number of lineages, such as the magnoliids. Groups now known as basal angiosperms diverged earlier than the monocots did. The traditional dicots are a paraphyletic group. The largest clade of the dicotyledons are known as the eudicots. They are definitely monophyletic. They are distinguished from all other flowering plants by the structure of their pollen. Other dicotyledons and monocotyledons have an older type of pollen, whereas eudicots have derived pollen.

[[James Clark Ross]]

CATEGORIES: 1800 births, 1862 deaths, English explorers, British military people, British naturalists, English botanists, Fellows of the Royal Society, Knights Bachelor, Legion of Honour, People from London, Royal Navy officers, Royal Society, Scientists from London

Sir James Clark Ross (April 15, 1800 – April 3, 1862), was a English naval officer and explorer. He explored the Arctic with his uncle Sir John Ross and Sir William Parry. He later led his own journey to Antarctica. He was born on April 15, 1800 in London, England and died on April 3, 1862 in Aylesbury, England.

[[Hrant Dink]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian writers, Turkish journalists, Murder victims, 1954 births, 2007 deaths

Hrant Dink (Հրանդ Տինք, IPA: diːnk) (15 September 1954 – 19 January 2007) was a Turkish-Armenian editor, journalist and columnist.

[[Agos]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Turkey, Istanbul

Agos (Ակօս, "Furrow") established 5 April, 1996 is an Armenian weekly newspaper published in Turkey. It is published in Istanbul and has a circulation of around 5,000. It has both Armenian and Turkish pages as well as an on-line English edition. Hrant Dink was its chief editor from the newspaper's start until his assassination outside of the newspaper's offices in Istanbul in January 2007. 

Hrant Dink's son Arat Dink who worked as the executive editor of the weekly was named as a co-defendant in the dispute brought against Hrant Dink for insulting Turkishness. After Hrant Dink's murder, the editor-in-chief of the weekly became Etyen Mahçupyan and Arat Dink continued to work as the executive editor. The present editor-in-chief is Rober Koptaş.

[[St Kilda Football Club]]

CATEGORIES: Australian Football League

St Kilda Football Club (nicknamed The Saints) is an Australian Rules Football club who play in the Australian Football League. The club first played in 1873. Their home ground is the Marvel Stadium in Melbourne. Their current captain is Jarryn Geary and their current coach is Brett Ratten. They wear a guernsey that is  red, white and black, in a vertical stripes.

The first mention of a football team in St Kilda was made in 1859. The current club was started in 1873, based on the South Yarra Football Club which had closed the year before. The club colours were formed when the red and white of the South Yarra Football Club merged with the black and white of the new St. Kilda Football Club. The first guernsey worn by the club was red and black striped horizontally, with a white neckerchief. The club joined the new Victorian Football League in 1897, and lost its first 48 games. Their home ground was the Junction Oval, in the Melbourne suburb of St. Kilda. In 1964, the team moved from St Kilda to Moorabbin, where they now train.

The team won their first and only premiership in 1966, beating Collingwood.  In recent years they have been more competitive, playing in the 1997 Grand Final, losing to Adelaide.  Between 2004 and 2011, St. Kilda established a period of dominance, playing in all but the 2007 finals series, and playing in the Preliminary Finals in 2004, 2005, 2008, 2009 and 2010. In 2009, St. Kilda went the first 19 games of the season without being beaten, only to lose to Geelong in the Grand Final by 12 points. In 2010 they played in the Grand Final and drew with Collingwood. A moment etched in the memories of St. Kilda supporters was the moment Stephen Milne opted to let the ball bounce through for a behind in the dying minutes, when he had the opportunity to secure St. Kilda's second premiership with a goal. They were defeated convincingly in a replay the next week. They have also placed last on the ladder 26 times since their establishment, the most of any team. 

St. Kilda has featured a number of star players, with 10 Brownlow Medalists, including Ian Stewart and Robert Harvey, who won the award twice. In 1987, Tony Lockett won the Brownlow Medal as well as the Coleman Medal kicking 117 goals.

St Kilda Brownlow Medallists:

St Kilda Coleman Medallists:

[[Ingvar Carlsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Swedish economists, Prime Ministers of Sweden

Ingvar Carlsson (born 9 November 1934 in Borås, Västra Götaland County (then Älvsborg County), Sweden), is a Swedish politician, former Prime Minister of Sweden (March 1986–October 1991; October 1994–March 1996) and leader of the Social Democratic Party (March 1986–March 1996). He became Prime Minister in 1986 when Olof Palme was assassinated.

[[Shilpa Shetty]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Big Brother winners, Celebrity Big Brother contestants, Indian models, Indian movie actors

Shilpa Shetty (Tulu: ಶಿಲ್ಪ ಶೆಟ್ಟಿ) (born 8 June 1975) in Mangalore is a four-time Filmfare Award-nominated Indian movie actress and model. Since making her debut in the movie Baazigar (1993), she has appeared in nearly 50 more movies and made her first lead role in 1994's Aag. She currently resides at the centre of the Hindi-language movie industry in Mumbai, India. Her younger sister Shamita Shetty is also a Bollywood movie actress. 

Shilpa was announced as the winner of Celebrity Big Brother UK on 28 January 2007 with 63% of the final votes, after an international reported racism controversy involving her and fellow contestants Jade Goody, Jo O'Meara and Danielle Lloyd. She is also a yoga practitioner, particularly interested in the Ashtanga vinyasa form of yoga and power yoga.

[[Third party (politics)]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties

In any two-party system of politics, a third party is a party other than the two main ones. While the term should be used only when discussing the third largest party, it is often used to describe any smaller party. For example, in the United Kingdom a third party is a national political party other than the Conservative Party and Labour Party that has a presence in the House of Commons. In the United States, a third party is a political party other than the Democratic Party or Republican Party that has national influence.

The term "third parties" is used in countries with first past the post electoral systems as these systems tend to create a two-party system because successful smaller parties are rare.

Countries using proportional representation have less of a tendency to create a two-party system because successful smaller parties are common. In fact, coalitions between the smaller parties are normal in such a country. A party generally needs to have a certain level of success to be called a third party.  Smaller parties that only win a small percentage of the vote and no seats in the legislature are often called minor parties or fringe parties.

Third parties are not usually likely to win the presidency. Despite this, there are many reasons for third parties to run. In an election, the two main parties listen to the opinions of third parties. The larger parties must respond to these opinions, and sometimes the larger parties copy ideas from third parties.  Some third parties also hope that the party can slowly build its support and eventually become one of the dominant parties, as the Labour Party did in Britain.

[[Paula DeAnda]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Texas, People from Corpus Christi, Texas, 1989 births, Living people

Paula DeAnda (born 1989 in Corpus Christi, Texas) is an American singer. She is best known for her 2007 hit songs "Doing Too Much", "Walk Away (Remember Me)" and "Easy". DeAnda is of Mexican descent.

[[Republican]]

Republican could mean:

[[Third party]]

Third party is often used in the English language to refer to a person or group that has some connection to a relationship between two parties. Here, a "party" is a person or group of people who act together. If two parties share a close relationship, a third party is farther away or more different from them. It could more directly mean:

[[Canton of Fribourg]]

CATEGORIES: Canton of Fribourg

Fribourg is one of the twenty-six cantons of Switzerland.  About 250,000 people live in the canton. Of these, about 100,000 live in the urban area of the capital of this canton: Fribourg City.

[[Fribourg]]

Fribourg can mean one of two areas in Switzerland

[[Compass rose]]

CATEGORIES: Navigation, Cartography

A compass rose is a drawing on a map that shows the cardinal directions.

[[Cardinal direction]]

CATEGORIES: Compass directions

Cardinal directions or cardinal points are the four main directions or points of the compass: north, east, south and west. These direction are also written in short form as N, E, S and W.

North and south are directed towards the north and south poles of the Earth. The Earth's rotation defines east and west. The sun rises in the morning in the east, and sets in the evening in the west.

If a needle is magnetised and allowed to move freely (for example floated on water) it will align itself with the Earth's magnetic field which is almost in the same direction as north. The direction of the needle in this situation is called magnetic north which in some places differs from the direction of the North Pole by a few degrees.

[[Social Democratic Party]]

The name Social Democratic Party has been used by many parties in various countries around the world.

Note: Country names and dates in parentheses are not part of official party names.

[[Knight (chess)]]

CATEGORIES: Chess pieces

A knight is a piece in the game of chess. It is represented by a horse's head and neck. Each player starts the game with two knights. It moves in an L pattern, two squares in one direction then one square in another. It is the only piece in chess to be able to jump over other pieces. It is also the only piece that can be in position to attack a king, queen, bishop, or rook without also being attacked by that piece. Because of this, the knight plays forks well in a game of chess. 

'Knight' is shortened to Kt or N when recording games. In printed game scores it is represented by a figurine.

[[Queen (chess)]]

CATEGORIES: Chess pieces

The queen in chess is piece which stands next to the King at the start of the game. It can move any number of unoccupied squares diagonally, vertically, and horizontally. When recording games it is shortened to Q.

[[Dennis the Menace]]

CATEGORIES: Comic strips

Dennis the Menace is the name of two different comic strips, which both debuted in 1951. One is a British comic strip, that is featured in the UK comic magazine, The Beano. The other is a daily newspaper comic strip from the United States. This daily strip was a single panel, but the Sunday strip was longer. The single panels were sometimes collected into small paperbacks. Dennis also had a comic book.

In Britain, Dennis is usually drawn as wearing a red and black striped jumper, and spikey black hair. He is normally with his black dog called Gnasher. 

In the United States, Dennis the Menace (Dennis Mitchell)  wore a red and white striped tee-shirt and bib overalls. He had blond hair and a large cowlick. His dog was a sheepdog called Ruff. Dennis'  parents are Henry and Alice. His neighbors are George and Martha Wilson. Dennis wants to be helpful but his attempts often end in disaster. Dennis' friends are Tommy Anderson, Joey McDonald, and Margaret Wade. In 1959, the comic strip was developed into a CBS television sitcom called Dennis the Menace. It stars Jay North as Dennis and Joseph Kearns as George Wilson. The series aired for four years and has been released to DVD.

[[5 BC]]

CATEGORIES: 5 BC

Year 5 BC was a common year starting on Monday or Tuesday of the Julian calendar.  At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Sulla.

[[Taner Akçam]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish writers, 1953 births, Living people, Turkish historians, Turkish scientists

Altuğ Taner Akçam (born October 23 1953) is a Turkish historian, sociologist and author. He is one of the first Turkish academics to acknowledge and discuss openly the Armenian Genocide by the Ottoman Turkish government in 1915.

[[International Date Line]]

CATEGORIES: Lines of longitude

The International Date Line (IDL), also known as just the Date Line, is an imaginary line on the surface of the Earth, going from north to south in the Pacific Ocean. The date becomes one day later as one travels across it in western direction, and one day earlier as one travels across it in eastern direction.

The reason for this effect is that the countries on the western side of the International Date Line, (in or outside eastern Asia) have the time zone 10–12 hours more than Greenwich. And the countries on eastern side of it (Alaska/Hawaii and other areas) have the time zone 9–12 hours less than Greenwich. So when travelling across the line, one's watch has to be adjusted 20–24 hours, depending on the time zones. 

For example, New Zealand is twelve hours ahead of Greenwich Mean Time while Hawaii is ten hours behind Greenwich Mean Time. When travelling from New Zealand to Hawaii the clocks must be switched 22 hours backwards, about one day.

[[Boredom]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions

Boredom is an emotional state that comes when a person has nothing to do, and is not interested in anything. To stop boredom, most people do something to occupy or amuse themselves. 

The first known use of the word boredom is in the novel Bleak House by Charles Dickens, written in 1852, but the saying to be a bore had been used to mean "to be tiresome or dull" since 1768.

Psychologically, boredom is a bad state in which the person feels a deep lack of interest in what is going on around them, and where it is hard to focus.

[[Circle of latitude]]

CATEGORIES: Lines of latitude

On the Earth, a circle of latitude is an imaginary east-west circle that connects all locations with a given latitude. A location's position along a circle of latitude is given by its longitude. Circles of latitude are often called parallels because they are parallel to each other. It is measured in absolute location.

The five major circles of latitude are, from north to south:

[[J-pop]]

CATEGORIES: J-pop

J-pop is a popular music in Japan. J-pop is a short name for Japanese pop, which means popular music or songs in Japan. Some people calls "歌謡曲" toward older songs. From around 1940s until recently, J-Pop has been influenced (affected) by Western popular music and culture. But new J-Pop nowadays sounds different than older J-Pop. This kind of music is common in Japan and it is often played by young and old music groups.

[[List of J-pop artists]]

CATEGORIES: J-pop, Music-related lists, Lists of entertainers

A list of Japanese pop musicians and bands.

[[Ara Darzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Armenian diaspora, Iraqi people, British politicians

Ara Darzi (born 7 May 1960) is a British doctor. He was appointed head of Minister of Healthcare of Great Britain.

Ara Darzi was born in Iraq in a family with Armenian descent, which escaped the Genocide of 1915. But most of his life was lived in Ireland.

[[Puffy AmiYumi]]

CATEGORIES: J-pop bands, Pop punk bands

Puffy AmiYumi was the one of the more popular J-pop groups of the 1990s. The band has two members, Ami Onuki and Yumi Yoshimura. It was first formed in 1996.

They had some success when they went to the United States to record and perform. They had a short-lived (April 22, 2003 – June 27, 2006) (118 episodes) cartoon television series on Cartoon Network called Hi Hi Puffy AmiYumi.  It can still be seen occasionally on the Japanese version of Cartoon Network.

[[Mika Nakashima]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Japanese movie actors, Japanese singers, Japanese models, People from Kagoshima Prefecture

[[Yui (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Fukuoka Prefecture, 1987 births, Living people

YUI, is a Japanese musician. She was born 26 March 1987 in Fukuoka, Japan. She is signed to Sony Music Records Japan. She sings, and plays the guitar, keyboard and electric guitar, although she usually performs with only an acoustic guitar. She started in a Japanese movie released on 17 June 2006 titled 'Taiyō no Uta' (A Song to the Sun). She is popular with young girls,but she decided to stop her music activity as YUI in 2012. It means she carry on her music work but not YUI.

[[Zard]]

CATEGORIES: J-pop bands, Japanese rock bands

Zard was a J-pop music group. Zard's member was Izumi Sakai. Her true name is Sachiko Kamachi. She was a vocalist. Zard's other member changed many times. Zard's music did not often appear on television. The group had many famous songs, for example "Makenaide". Izumi Sakai was born in Fukuoka on February 6, 1967. She fought illness in Keiougijyuku University hospital. She had cervical cancer. Izumi Sakai died on May 27, 2007. When she died, she was 40 years old.

[[Wyolica]]

CATEGORIES: J-pop bands, Folk music groups

Wyolica is a two person band from Japan. The members are Azumi (vocals) and So-to (guitar). The group is not well known outside of Japan. Their sound is very similar of many American pop acts but sung in Japanese.

Their first album, "Who Said La La?" was released in 2000. Since then they have released a number of albums and singles, including a six-song EP of acoustic songs.  

[[Crystal Kay]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Singers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Crystal Kay Williams (born 26 February 1986 in Yokohama, Japan) is a J-Pop singer. She is also known as "Kuri" by her fans. She is well known for her songs "Koi ni Ochitara" and "Boyfriend -part II-". She has released ten Japanese studio albums. In 2003 she released an English album called Natural: World Premiere Album. She started singing on television commercials when she was four years old. When she was twelve she was signed to Epic Records. Kay's first album C.L.L Crystal Lover Light was released on March 23, 2000 when Kay was fourteen. 

[[Speed (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese musical groups, People from Okinawa Prefecture

SPEED is a Japanese music group. The group is made up of four female singers. They are from Okinawa, Japan. The members are Hiroko Shimabukuro, Eriko Imai, Takako Uehara and Hitoe Arakaki. Hiroko and Eriko are lead vocal singers. 

When they debuted, Hiroko was 12 years old. They made their debut single “Body & Soul” in 1996. They have many songs which sold million records. 

They broke up in March 31, 2000. From 2000 to 2008, they have broken up and came back together several times. They made their latest come back in 2008.

[[Glay]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands

Glay is a Japanese rock band. There are 4 men in the band. The member's names are Takuro (guitar & piano), Teru (vocals), Hisashi (guitar), and Jiro (bass). They are one of the most popular rock bands in Japan. They are from Hakodate in Hokkaido.  "HOWEVER" is their most famous song. This song made them famous. Many of their CDs and albums have sold millions of copies April 2009.

Since 2007, Teru has been in ads shown on television and in theaters to raise awareness about HIV/AIDS.

[[Aiko (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese singers, 1975 births, Living people, People from Osaka Prefecture

Aiko (born November 22, 1975) is a Japanese singer and guitar player. She has a high popularity among young people. Her most famous song is "Kabutomushi". Aiko has won several Japan Gold Disc Awards.

Aiko debuted in 1998. She sings songs about love and girls' feelings. Her famous songs are "Hanabi", "Boyfriend", "Kabutomushi", "Kirakira", and so on. "milk/Nageki no Kisu", her mukaiawase　double A-side single, was her first single to hit #1 on Oricon since her debut..She do many concerts at everywhere in Japan.

[[Ringo Shiina]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Singers from Fukuoka Prefecture, Songwriters, Japanese guitarists

Ringo Shiina (born November 25, 1978) is a Japanese singer and guitarist. She is a member of Tokyo Jihen. Shiina is from Fukuoka. 

She was the creative supervisor and music director of the Flag Handover Ceremony at the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics / Paralympics.

She stayed in the UK from January to March 1997.

Career 

1998

Debut 

1999

Released the fourth single Honno(instinct). This single has become a million seller

2004-2012

in TOKYO JIHEN(INCIDENTS TOKYO)

2018

Participated in the 69th NHK Red vs. White Song Battle

[[GO!GO!7188]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands

[[Porno Graffitti]]

CATEGORIES: J-pop bands, Japanese rock bands, People from Hiroshima Prefecture, 1990s music groups

Porno Graffitti is a Japanese J-Pop band. The members of the band are Akihito Okano (vocals) and Haruichi Shindo (guitar). The band is from Innoshima in Hiroshima. The band first started playing in 1999 with three members. The third member, Tama, left the band in 2004. The band has become one of the duos leading the music in Japan.

[[Yuki Isoya]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese singers, 1972 births, Living people, People from Hokkaido

Yuki Isoya (born February 17, 1972) is a Japanese singer. Isoya debuted as a singer of the group Judy and Mary in 1993. Judy and Mary broke up in 1999. She began her solo singing career in February, 2002. Isoya has released four albums. 

[[Mr. Children]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese musical groups

Mr. Children, usually called "Misuchiru", is a Japanese rock band made in 1988. They belong to Oorong-sha (烏龍舎). Their record company is Toy's Factory.

[[3B LAB.*]]

CATEGORIES: J-pop bands

3B LAB.* is a Japanese punk band. They are all men. The vocalist also sang in the folk-rock band 19. Their most popular song is "Ichigo Ichi". They're now called 3B Lab.☆S. Tamakoshi Masahiro left this group in 2009.

[[Ellegarden]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands, Punk bands, Emo bands, Japanese musical groups, Musical groups established in 1998, Musical quartets, Pop punk bands

Ellegarden is a Japanese band formed in 1998 by four young men.Their activity pauses now.

[[Def Tech]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese musical groups

Def Tech is a Japanese group. The band has three members: Shen, Micro and Playa T. They have sold more than 2.8 million copies of their albums Def Tech and Lokahi Lani. The band took a break in September 2007 and have since reunited as of June 2010.

[[Ai Otsuka]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese singers, J-pop, 1982 births, Living people, People from Osaka

Ai Otsuka (born September 9, 1982) is a Japanese pop female singer-songwriter and pianist from Osaka, Osaka Prefecture, Japan. Her music is famous because it varies a lot in style but is mainly happy pop. Her first single was called Momo No Hanbira, but it was not until her second single, which was called Sakuranbo, that people really noticed her music.

[[Remioromen]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands, J-pop bands

Remioromen are a three-man band from Japan that started in 2000. 

[[Ayaka]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese singers, 1987 births, Living people, People from Osaka Prefecture

Ayaka Iida (born December 18, 1987 in Moriguchi, Osaka Prefecture, Japan) is a Japanese female singer signed and songwriter. 

Ayaka is married to Hiro Mizushima. Her favorite singer is the Beatles, DREAMS COME TRUE, Mr.Children and so on. She started musical activities when she was 1st high school student.She released "I believe" and she made her debut in 2006. She sufferd from Basedow's disease and she stopped musical activity in 2009 in order to concentrate on getting well. But she started activities again in 2011 and announced that she made her own record company.

[[Kyu Sakamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 1985 deaths, Singers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japanese movie actors

Kyu Sakamoto "坂本九" (real name "Hisasi Osima") was a singer and actor, born on December 10, 1941 in Kanagawa, Japan.

Sakamoto's song "Sukiyaki" became the first Japanese song in the United States to sell a million copies and reached No.1 on a popular chart on June 15, 1963. Its original (Japanese) title is "上を向いて歩こう" which means "I look up as I walk". He died on August 12, 1985 by an airplane accident during a flight on Japan Airlines Flight 123) aboard from Kanagawa in Japan.

[[Orange Range]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands

[[Bump of Chicken]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands

[[Kumi Koda]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Japanese singers, People from Kyoto Prefecture

Kumi Koda is a Japanese pop singer from the city Kyoto who started in the year 2000 with the album  Take Back. Her most well known song is Butterfly, and this song made her well known. She got Japanese record grand prix, an award. Her new album Kingdom was released on January 30, 2008, and her new single was released on January 23, 2008. Her young sister is misono who is J-pop singer.

[[Zeebra]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Musicians from Tokyo, Rap musicians

Zeebra (ジブラ ja, born April 2, 1971 in Tokyo, Japan) is a famous Japanese hip hop artist, who is known as the first rapper in Japan. He was born and raised in Tokyo. He made his first appearance in 1995. Zeebra was a member of the hip-hop group King Giddra, which also included DJ Oasis and K Dub Shine. He became a solo artist in 1997. Because he has been in many TV commercials, started hip-hop television programs, and produced songs for upcoming rappers, Zeebra could be called the father of the Japanese rap scene.

[[Dreams Come True]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese musical groups, J-pop bands, Jazz bands

Dreams Come True is a Japanese J-Pop music group.

The group is made up of a woman and a man. The vocalist is Miwa Yoshida and the bassist is Masato Namamura. They made their debut in 1988. The group tends to use humorous and ambiguous language in their songs.

[[Every Little Thing (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Japanese rock bands, Musical duos, Musical groups established in 1996, Pop rock bands

Every Little Thing is a Japanese rock band. The group is made up of a woman and a man. The woman, Kaori Mochida, is a singer from Tokyo, and the man, Ichiro Ito, is a guitarist from Kanagawa Prefecture. This group made their debut in 1996. And next year they took part in Kohaku (New Year's) Song battle for the first time. When they started the band, there were three members. But Mitsuru Igarashi left the band in 2000, and he started to focus on his production. He made all of Every Little Thing's songs and wrote their lyrics. So since he left, Every little thing sound changed a little. Now they released 35 single CDs, 8 original albums, 2 best albums and 3 ballad best albums. They took part in "Kouhakuutagassen" eight times. They are often called "ELT". 

[[KAT-TUN]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands, J-pop bands, Japanese boy bands

KAT-TUN is a Japanese J-Pop band.

[[BoA]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, South Korean singers, K-pop singers, J-pop singers, C-pop singers

Kwon Bo-ah (born 5 November 1986 in Guri, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea) is a South Korean singer. She is commonly known by her stage name BoA. She has been active in both South Korea and Japan. Aside from Korean, BoA also speaks Japanese and English and has released songs in those languages. She also released some Chinese songs, but she does not know Chinese. BoA succeeded not only in Korea, but in all of East Asia as well.

BoA was born and raised in Gyeonggi-do, South Korea. She was discovered by SM Entertainment talent agents when she accompanied her older brother to a talent search. In 2000, after two years of training, she released ID; Peace B, her debut Korean album. Two years later, she released her debut Japanese album, Listen to My Heart.

On October 21, 2008, BoA debuted in the United States with the single "Eat You Up", and released her debut English-language album, BoA on March 17, 2009.

[[Namie Amuro]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Japanese singers, People from Okinawa Prefecture

Namie Amuro (安室 奈美恵) is a Japanese singer, born September 20, 1977 in Naha, Okinawa. She was the top J-Pop star of the 1990s, with a long string of number-one hits.

When she had a baby in the late 1990s her popularity went down, but her albums became popular again when she released Queen of Hip-Hop. Her next album Play became #1. Her 2008 hit single, 60s 70s 80s, sold about 293,000 copies and came #1. That was her first #1 single since 1999.

In July 2008, Namie released her third greatest hits album BEST FICTION, which sold over 1.500,000 copies. It was the year's the most selling female album in Japan and second most selling album of 2008 in Japan.

[[Saturn (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Roman gods and goddesses

Saturn (Latin: Sāturnus) was a Roman god of agriculture and harvest.  He was the father of Ceres, Jupiter, Veritas and others.  He was associated with wealth, liberation, and time.  He was identified with the Greek titan Kronos, whose reign (often referred to as the Golden Age) was regarded as a time of abundance and peace.  

The Temple of Saturn situated within the Roman Forum housed the state treasury.  In December, the festival of Saturnalia, perhaps the most famous of all the Roman festivals, was held in his honor — it largely consisted of a public banquet, role reversals, private gift-giving and revelry.  The planet Saturn is named after him and the modern English weekday Saturday (Latin diēs Sāturni - "Day of Saturn") bears his name.

[[Comanche]]

CATEGORIES: Native American

Comanche peoples are Native Americans who lived in an area called the Comancheria. This is where Eastern New Mexico, Southern Colorado, Southern Kansas, all of Oklahoma and most of Northern and Southern Texas are today. There once were as many as 20,000 Comanches. Today the Comanche Nation has 10,000 members, most in Oklahoma (centered at Lawton) and the rest in Texas, California, and New Mexico. The Comanche speak a language of their own, the Comanche language that is related to other Native American ones, called Uto-Aztecan language family.

The name Comanche was given by the Mexicans and it was the word the Comanche used to call them, komantsia (enemy, foreigner). But the Comanches' call themselves Numunuu, meaning "human being" or "the People". They were very good warriors and fought the white settlers and army for many years until they gave up in 1875.

The woman in the family made the teepees. They gathered wild potatoes, fruits, nuts and berries. The woman in the family cooked, cleaned and made their clothing. The clothing was made out either bear, deer, bison, buffalo, wolves or coyotes.

[[Cuvette]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment

A cuvette is a kind of laboratory glassware, usually a small tube of circular or square cross shape, closed at one end and open at the other, made of plastic, glass, or optical grade quartz and made to hold samples for spectroscopic experiments.  The best cuvettes are as clear as possible, without impurities that might affect a spectroscopic reading.  Like a test tube, a cuvette may be open to the air on top or have a glass or other material to close it.

[[John Abbot]]

CATEGORIES: 1587 births, 1650 deaths, English poets, English priests, English Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic priests

John Abbot (1587/1588 – c. 1650) was an English Roman Catholic priest and poet. Nobody knows where he was born, he might have been from either London or Leicester. Abbot was from a strongly Protestant family because he was the nephew of George Abbot, the Archbishop of Canterbury, but after being educated at Balliol College, Oxford, he travelled to the  European continent where he was converted to Roman Catholicism. On returning to England he was in Jesuit orders for a while, before working as a priest. In 1635 he was put in jail. He was released within a year, but in 1637 he was again arrested, and spent the rest of his life in prison.

His best known work is his poem Devout Rhapsodies (2 vols., 1647), about the war between Good and Evil and the temptation and fall of man.

[[Lemuel Abbott]]

CATEGORIES: 1730 births, 1776 deaths, English poets

Lemuel Abbott (c. 1730 – April, 1776) was an English priest and poet. Little is known of his background, but he worked as a priest in Ansty, Leicestershire and Thornton. He is known mostly for his collection of poems called Poems on Various Subjects, whereto is Prefixed a Short Essay on the Structure of English Verse, published in 1765. Abbott and his wife Mary were probably the parents of the artist Lemuel Francis Abbott.

[[Thomas Eastoe Abbott]]

CATEGORIES: 1780s births, 1854 deaths, English poets, Writers from Norfolk

Thomas Eastoe Abbott (1786/1787|7 – 18 February 1854) was an English poet. He was born in East Dereham, Norfolk. He lived in Darlington, where he worked at the Royal Free Grammar School. He wrote many books like Peace, a Lyric Poem (1814); Resignation (1817); The Triumph of Christianity (1819); and The Soldier's Friend (1828). Abbott died in Darlington, County Durham in 1854.

[[Division of labour]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology, Anthropology

In ancient history, a division of labour (or specialisation) was when some people in a city stopped growing crops and took other jobs. This usually happened because of a surplus of food. This means that there was more than enough food for everyone, so some people did not have to grow crops anymore.

Xenophon was a philosopher of the 4th century BC. In his book Cryopedia (The Education of Cyrus) he writes about the division of labour: 

"Just as the various trades are most highly developed in large cities, in the same way food at the palace is prepared in a far superior manner. In small towns the same man makes couches, doors, ploughs and tables, and often he even builds houses, and still he is thankful if only he can find enough work to support himself. And it is impossible for a man of many trades to do all of them well. In large cities, however, because many make demands on each trade, one alone is enough to support a man, and often less than one: for instance one man makes shoes for men, another for women, there are places even where one man earns a living just by mending shoes, another by cutting them out, another just by sewing the uppers together, while there is another who performs none of these operations but assembles the parts, Of necessity, he who pursues a very specialised task will do it best."

[[Euphrates]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Iraq, Rivers of Turkey, Rivers of Syria, Mesopotamia

The Euphrates is the western of the two rivers that define the borders of Mesopotamia. The other is the Tigris, which joins the Euphrates to form the Shatt-al-Arab and flow into the Persian Gulf. Several dams have been built since the 1970s. As a result, less water flows down the river into the sea. 

[[JC Chasez]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, American songwriters, Mouseketeers, NSYNC, Singers from Washington, D.C.

JC Chasez (born Joshua Scott Chasez on August 8, 1976 in Washington, D.C.), is an American singer, songwriter, actor, and producer. He is best known as one of the lead singers in the boy band NSYNC. On February 24 2004 Chasez's solo album Schizophrenic was released. Three singles were released from the album. Chasez made a girl group called Girl Radical with Jimmy Harry.

[[Surplus]]

Surplus is when there is more of something  than is needed. Therefore:

[[Herl]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Rhineland-Palatinate, Trier-Saarburg

Herl is a municipality and a part of the Ruwer (municipality) in the Trier-Saarburg district, in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. As of 31 December 2018, 253 people lived there.

[[Ricky Martin]]

CATEGORIES: Ricky Martin, 1973 births, Living people, People from San Juan, Puerto Rico, Puerto Rican actors, Puerto Rican singers, Latin singers, American singers, American dancers, American pop musicians, American movie actors, American television actors, LGBT actors, LGBT musicians, Grammy Award winners

Enrique Martin Morales (born on December 24, 1971), also most commonly or better known by his stage name as Ricky Martin, is a two-time Grammy Award and 4 Latin Grammy Award-winning Puerto Rican-American pop singer, dancer, musician, recording artist and actor. He has since then rose up to fame and super stardom with such an excellent and a prestigious track record, first as an elite member of the Latin boy band Menudo, and then as a prominent solo musical pop artist ever since then from 1991-present, and throughout over his entire singing career, he has annually recorded, released and sold out over 95 million singing albums and groundbreaking records all over around the world, while charting up with nearly and about up to 27 top 10 greatest hits as of on the US Latin Charts, and with over and about 11 breaking records of which have overly reached up with number one and a total of over 40 hit released singles.

Ricky Martin is an international pop icon and is also considered and widely regarded as being hunky and toned and is overly admired by many stunning and gorgeous-looking women and various fans from all over around the world. He is also thus officially tagged and is widely regarded as the King of Latin Pop.

[[Fiefdom]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Ages

In feudalism, a fiefdom (also called a fief, feud, feoff, or fee) was a property or right that an overlord gave a vassal in exchange for military service. This property, of whatever size, could be inherited by the man's heirs.  However, not only land but anything of value could be held in fee, including a political office, hunting or fishing rights or monopolies in trade. A fief included the right of possession of something but with conditions.

[[Nicky Hilton Rothschild]]

CATEGORIES: American fashion designers, Models from New York City, American socialites, 1983 births, Living people, American bloggers

Nicholai "Nicky" Olivia Hilton (born October 5, 1983, in New York City, New York) is an American fashion model, socialite, and fashion designer.  Hilton is also an heiress to a part of the Hilton Hotels chain, as well as to about 5–15% of her father's real estate fortune and investments. She shares her nickname with her grandfather's brother, Conrad "Nicky" Hilton, who died 14 years before she was born. She is the sister of celebrity Paris Hilton.

[[Disappearance of Madeleine McCann]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 crimes, 2007 in Europe, 2000s crimes in Europe, 2000s in Portugal, May events, Missing people

Madeleine McCann (born 12 May 2003) was reported missing on the evening of Thursday, 3 May 2007 from a holiday apartment in Praia da Luz in the Algarve, Portugal. One newspaper said it was "the most heavily reported missing-person case in modern history". It is still not known where she is or what happened to her.

Madeleine was on holiday with her parents, her two-year-old twin brother and sister, and family friends. She and the twins had been left asleep at 20:30 in a ground floor apartment, while the McCanns and friends had dinner in a restaurant 55 away. The parents checked on the children every so often, until it was discovered Madeleine was missing at 22:00. Over the next few weeks, the Portuguese police started to believe that Madeleine had died in an accident in the apartment and the parents had covered it up.

There was a lot of news coverage around the world about the case. Rumours that Madeleine has been taken to countries such as Morocco and Malta have all turned out to be untrue.

Madeleine's parents have started a website in their daughter's name where people can keep up to date on events and write to the family. They have also started Madeleine's Fund to which people can give money.

Robert Murat was the first official suspect. On 8 September 2007, Madeleine's mother, Kate McCann, and her father, Gerry McCann, were declared official suspects as well, after the finding of blood and fluids in their apartment. Murat stopped being an official suspect in July 2008, Kate and Gerry in August 2008.

The case remains unsolved. However, in June 2020 a possible suspect who is yet to be named is being held in custody for question by German authorities. The person being held is known to have committed other sexual asaults on children.

[[Linda Thelenius]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Autobiographers, Big Brother contestants, Political activists, Swedish models

Linda Thelenius (born Linda Maria Elisabeth Gedin later Linda Rosing 21 January 1974 in Västerås, Sweden) is a model and was a participant in the 2003 edition of Big Brother in Sweden. In the Big Brother house, she and another participant, Micke, became involved in a relationship which was followed closely by the producers. During the show, she had sex on live TV, making her an instant tabloid celebrity.

Thelenius released her debut single, "Summer Love", in 2004. In 2006, she released her autobiography, Den nakna sanningen ("The naked truth"), written together with journalist and television host Daniel Nyhlén.

In the summer of 2006, Thelenius became the leader of a new political party, 'Unika Partiet', or 'The Unique Party'. This is a so-called non-registered party, meaning that there is no official record of the party. Thelenius was listed as the only candidate for the party, listed as an author on the party ballot. She received 222 votes out of more than 5.6 million votes cast in the election. Thelenius is also famous for her many plastic surgery operations. She has breast implants, has had a facelift, and uses botox injections.

[[Linda Bengtzing]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Linda Bengtzing (born March 13, 1974 in Gullspang, Sweden) is a singer and television host. She has sung three times in the Swedish Melodifestivalen.

[[Melodifestivalen]]

CATEGORIES: Music competitions, Swedish music, 1958 establishments in Europe, 1950s establishments in Sweden

Melodifestivalen, translated as the "Melody Festival", is an annual music competition organised by Sveriges Television (SVT) and Sveriges Radio (SR) to determine Sweden's representative song and performer at the Eurovision Song Contest.

[[Katie Price]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Big Brother winners, Cancer survivors, Celebrity Big Brother contestants, English models, English television personalities, Entertainers from Brighton, I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here! contestants, Singers from Sussex

Katie Price (Katrina Amy Alexandra Alexis Infield Price, born 22 May 1978) is an English television personality and glamour model. She was born in Brighton, East Sussex, England, and was previously known as "Jordan".

She first became known as a topless female glamour model in a pictorial Page 3 tabloid newspaper The Sun. Later, her life in the public spotlight allowed her to develop a variety of different activities including television, books, fashion and music.

Her singles include "A Whole New World" with Peter Andre. It peaked at number 12. A solo "Free To Love Again" peaked at number 60.

She won the January to February 2015 series of Celebrity Big Brother (UK).

[[Nikki Grahame]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2021 deaths, Big Brother contestants, English models, Television personalities from Hertfordshire, People from Watford, Deaths from anorexia

Nicola Rachele-Beth "Nikki" Grahame (28 April 1982 – 9 April 2021) was a British television personality. 

[[Venus Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, African-American tennis players, American female tennis players, American Olympic gold medalists, American Protestants, Australian Open champions, Competitors at the 2016 Summer Olympics, French Open champions, Jehovah's Witnesses people, Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2016 Summer Olympics, Olympic silver medalists, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Venus Ebony Starr Williams (born July 17, 1980) is an American professional tennis player who is a former World No. 1 and is ranked World No. 37 in singles as of January 17, 2014. She is an Olympic gold medalist who has won 7 Grand Slam titles.  She was ranked World No. 24 as of October 22, 2012 in singles.

Williams is the older sister of fellow former World No. 1 tennis player Serena Williams. The Williams sisters are noted for their power games. Venus holds the record for the fastest serve by a female player in a main draw match (128.8 mph).

Like her sister Serena Williams she is a Jehovah's Witness.

[[Serena Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, African-American tennis players, American autobiographers, American female tennis players, American Olympic gold medalists, American Protestants, Australian Open champions, Competitors at the 2016 Summer Olympics, French Open champions, Jehovah's Witnesses people, People from Saginaw, Michigan, Living people, Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Michigan, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Serena Jameka Williams (born September 26, 1981) is an American professional tennis player. She is the younger sister of another former world no. 1 professional female tennis player, Venus Williams.

[[Miki Ando]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, 2006 Winter Olympics, 2010 Winter Olympics, Japanese figure skaters, People from Aichi Prefecture

Miki Ando is a Japanese athlete.  She is best known as a figure skater.

Ando was born in Nagoya.

[[Kelly Ripa]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American television presenters, Television talk show hosts, Actors from New Jersey, People from Camden, New Jersey, Emmy Award winners

Kelly Maria Ripa (born October 2, 1970) is an American actress, talk show host, and television producer. Ripa, who played Hayley Vaughan on the television soap opera All My Children from 1990–2002, is best known as co-host of the popular syndicated morning talk show Live! with Kelly and Ryan. She is also known for her role as Faith Fairfield on Hope & Faith. Additionally, Ripa and her husband Mark Consuelos own a New York based production company, Milojo.

In 2012, The Hollywood Reporter named her one of the Most Powerful People in Media.

[[Faith Ford]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American movie actors, Actors from Louisiana, American television actors

Faith Alexis Ford (born September 14, 1964, in Alexandria, Louisiana) is an American television and movie actress. She is best known for her role as Corky Sherwood on Murphy Brown and as Hope in the television series, Hope & Faith.

[[Hope & Faith]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, 2003 American television series debuts, 2006 American television series endings, English-language television programs

Hope & Faith was an American television series. It was a sitcom that aired for three seasons on ABC from 2003 to 2006. For its first two seasons the series was part of a revived TGIF comedy block.

The series starred Faith Ford as Hope and Kelly Ripa as Faith. Ford plays a homemaker with a husband (played by Ted McGinley) and three children. Ripa plays her sister, a soap opera star whose character is killed off, leading her to move in with her sister's family. The series is based in part on the life of its creator, Joanna Johnson, a former cast member of The Bold and the Beautiful. The series featured guest stars such as Tony Curtis, Dean Cain, Robert Wagner, Regis Philbin (Ripa's co-host on Live with Regis and Kelly), Kathie Lee Gifford, and Mark Consuelos (Ripa's husband).

The series was primarily filmed at New York City's Silvercup East, a sister studio to Silvercup Studios, to accommodate Ripa's schedule with Live with Regis and Kelly.

All 73 episodes were picked up by the American television network WE: Women's Entertainment, as the total number of produced episodes was short of what was required for American television syndication.

[[Live! with Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: American television talk shows, First run syndicated television programs, English-language television programs

Live! with Kelly and Ryan is a syndicated American television talk show, hosted by Kelly Ripa and Ryan Seacrest.

The show began in 1983 as a local New York City program called The Morning Show, hosted by Regis Philbin and Cyndy Garvey (then the wife of Major League Baseball player Steve Garvey). A year later, Garvey left the show and was replaced by Ann Abernathy. In 1985, after Abernathy married and moved to Los Angeles, Kathie Lee Gifford became Philbin's co-host. The show went into national syndication in 1988 as Live! with Regis and Kathie Lee. Gifford left the show in 2000; the show continued as Live! with Regis while Philbin and the show's producers teamed him with several potential co-hosts.

In 2001, Ripa was named as Philbin's co-host, with the show then being renamed Live! with Regis and Kelly. Philbin and Ripa remained a team until 2011; in January of that year, he announced he was leaving the show, with his last show airing on November 18. The show then became Live! with Kelly, with Ripa appearing with a wide array of guest co-hosts. Former New York Giants star defensive lineman Strahan became the new full-time co-host effective with the 2012–13 season premiere. At that point the show became Live! with Kelly and Michael.

Live!'s mixture of A-list guests and the interaction between co-hosts have made it one of daytime's most popular and venerable talk shows.

In 2016, Strahan announced he was leaving the show to join Good Morning America. Seacrest began hosting in 2017.

[[Sven-Göran Eriksson]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Swedish footballers, Swedish football managers, England national football team managers

Sven-Göran Eriksson (born 5 February 1948) is a Swedish football manager. He was recently the football manager of Manchester City after agreeing a 3-year-deal with the club. He is set to earn £2 million per year plus bonuses. He was sacked by Manchester City.  Eriksson stepped down from his most recent position as the English national team manager following England's exit from the 2006 World Cup; there was, however, considerable speculation that he was forced out by the English football authorities due to his tenure being punctuated by well-documented tabloid reports of his private life. Erikkson currently manages the Côte d'Ivoire national team.

[[Jade Goody]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2009 deaths, Cancer deaths in England, Celebrity Big Brother contestants, Deaths from cervical cancer, English television personalities, Nurses, People from Southwark (London borough), Reality television participants, Television personalities from London

Jade Goody (5 June 1981 – 22 March 2009) was a British television personality. She became famous when she was in the third series of the reality television show Big Brother in 2002. She had been a dental nurse before she went into the Big Brother house. Goody starred in fitness DVDs, got somebody to write a book about her, had her own beauty salon and line of perfume. Goody was a housemate once again in Celebrity Big Brother 2007. People said that she was racist towards her Indian housemate Shilpa Shetty. She had two sons by Jeff Brazier. She married Jack Tweed on 22 February 2009 and died from metastatic cervical cancer a month later (on the 22 of March). She was 27 years old.

[[Sara Rue]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from New York City, 1979 births, Living people

Sara Rue (born January 26, 1979 in New York City, New York) is an American actress.  She played the roles of "Carmen Ferrara" on the drama Popular and "Claudia Casey" on the sitcom Less Than Perfect. 

[[Less Than Perfect]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American sitcoms, 2002 American television series debuts, 2006 American television series endings, ABC network shows, English-language television programs

Less Than Perfect was an American television series. It was a sitcom that began airing on ABC on October 1, 2002 and ended on June 6, 2006. The series is about a young female office employee (played by Sara Rue) and her co-workers  The series was directed by Skip Collector and Ted Wass, among others.

[[Hilary Hahn]]

CATEGORIES: American violinists, Grammy Award winners, 1979 births, Living people

Hilary Hahn (born November 27, 1979) is an American Grammy Award–winning violinist.

[[Larry King]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Actors from Brooklyn, American atheists, American movie actors, American television news anchors, American television talk show hosts, CNN people, Deaths from sepsis, Jewish American actors, Jewish American writers, Jewish atheists, Journalists from New York City, Peabody Award winners, Television personalities from New York City, Writers from Brooklyn

Larry King (November 19, 1933 – January 23, 2021) was an American writer, journalist and broadcaster. 

[[Norfolk, Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Norfolk, Virginia

Norfolk is a large city in Virginia, United States. It is the 78th largest city in the United States. It is home to the Norfolk Admirals of the AHL.

As of the census of 2000, there were 234,403 people, 86,210 households, and 51,898 families residing in the city. The population density was 1,684.4/km² (4,362.8/mi²). There were 94,416 housing units at an average density of 678.5/km² (1,757.3/mi²). The racial makeup of the city was 48.36% White, 44.11% African American, 0.46% Native American, 2.81% Asian, 0.11% Pacific Islander, 1.67% from other races, and 2.48% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 3.80% of the population.

[[Cream Lemon]]

CATEGORIES: Anime, 2001 anime OVAs, 2006 anime OVAs

Cream Lemon is an anime series. It is a collection of short stories. There are many different types of stories in the anime, for example, soap opera (the Ami series), fantasy (Rall series), horror (Cream Lemon Dark) and parody (Pop Chaser). It deals with a lot of heavy perversions including S&M, men being raped by groups of women, bondage, torture, yuri and incest.

The first Cream Lemon OVA was released in August 1984. New Century Cream Lemon was released from July 27, 2001 to August 23, 2002. Cream Lemon New Generation was released from March 23, 2006 to May 31, 2006.

Project A-ko was originally intended to be a part of this series.

[[Vahan Tekeyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1878 births, 1948 deaths, Armenian poets

Vahan Tekeyan (Վահան Թէքէեան, January 21, 1878, Constantinople - April 4, 1948) was an Armenian poet, journalist, and public activist. He was educated in Armenian schools in Constantinople and moved to Egypt in 1914, escaping the Armenian Genocide.

[[Pontic Greeks]]

CATEGORIES: Greece

Pontic Greeks, Pontian Greeks, Pontians or Greeks of Pontus (Πόντιοι, Ποντιακός Ελληνισμός or Έλληνες του Πόντου, Pontus Rumları) can refer to Greeks specifically from the area of Pontus in the region of the former Empire of Trebizond on the Black Sea coast of Eastern Turkey, or in other cases more generally all Greeks from the shores of the Black Sea or the Pontus. Greeks from Trabzon traditionally speak Pontic Greek. The terms Pontic and Pontian can be used interchangeably.

[[Nynorsk]]

CATEGORIES: Germanic languages, Languages of Norway

Nynorsk (New Norwegian) is one of the two official written standards of Norwegian; the other is Bokmål. It is based on Norwegian dialects and was created by Ivar Aasen during the 19th century as a Norwegian alternative to Danish upon which it is based. Danish was then often written in Norway.

[[Austrian Armenian Cultural Society]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Armenia, 1970s establishments in Austria, 1974 establishments in Europe

The Austrian Armenian Cultural Society was founded in 1974 at Vienna, Austria, the Austrian-Armenian Cultural Society is an organization that promotes cultural ties between Armenia and Austria and a lot more. 

Its main goal is to introduce Austrians to the Armenian culture and heritage as well as informing Armenians about the Austrian culture and history. The Austrian-Armenian Cultural Society whose members are Armenians as well as Austrians, e.g. scientists, writers, artists, renowned leaders, and more. The organization is maintaining cultural ties to different organizations in Austria, Armenia and the diaspora. 

Among its many activities, it runs Armenian language lessons, useful programs to Armenia, youth camping events and way more.

[[Laredo, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas, 1755 establishments, 18th-century establishments in Mexico

Laredo is a mid-sized city in southern Texas, United States established in the year 1755. Laredo has a population of 207,787. Hispanics make up 90% of the total population, and the city is largely Catholic. Laredo is a border city which is part of the bi-national metropolitan area of Laredo, Texas - Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, Mexico with a total population of 575,585. The main sources of income for Laredo is international trade, followed by retail sales.

[[German-Armenian Society]]

CATEGORIES: Armenia, Germany, Europe, 1914 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in Germany

The German-Armenian Society was founded in Berlin in 1914. Apart from Johannes Lepsius, its original members included the journalist Paul Rohrbach and the Armenian author Avetik Issahakyan.

The goals of DAG are the promotion and understanding between Germans and Armenians and to safeguard the likings of Armenians living in Germany. Furthermore, the DAG defends the rights and interests of Armenian minorities, including in Turkey and other Middle Eastern countries.

[[Asbarez]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in California, Companies based in Los Angeles, 1908 establishments in California, Fresno, California

''Asbarez'' Newspaper began its publication in August 1908 in Fresno as a weekly. After several successful decades the offices and publishing headquarters moved to Los Angeles in the early 1970s. Today it is still active.

Asbarez is the official publisher of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation Western United States Central Committee, and mainly serves the more than 500,000 strong Armenian-American community in the Western states.

On May 1, 1970 when Asbarez began publishing its English section. Today, that section, which became a daily publication in January 1993, is the voice of the community and a source of information within the halls of Congress, in libraries around the country and newsrooms of major media outlets.

[[Nuevo Laredo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Tamaulipas, 1847 establishments in North America, 19th-century establishments in Mexico

Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas is a mid-sized city in northern Tamaulipas, Mexico established in the year 1847. Nuevo Laredo has a population of 355,827. Nuevo Laredo is a border city which is part of the bi-national metropolitan area of Laredo, Texas, United States - Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, Mexico with a total population of 575,585. The main sources of income for Nuevo Laredo is international trade, followed by retail sales.

[[United States military chocolate]]

CATEGORIES: American food, Military of the United States, 1937 establishments in the United States

Military chocolate has been a part of U.S. armed forces rations since 1937, and is issued to troops as part of basic field rations and sundry packs. Chocolate rations served two purposes: as a morale boost, and as a high-energy, pocket-sized emergency ration. 

[[Marion Bartoli]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Female tennis players, French tennis players, Living people, People from Geneva, Wimbledon champions

Marion Bartoli (born 2 October 1984) is a French retired female professional tennis player.

Her highest ranking was 7th in the world in singles and 15th in doubles. She won seven Women's Tennis Association tournaments in singles and three in doubles. She was known for playing two-handed shots on both forehand and backhand, which is unusual.

In 2007, she played in the Wimbledon final against Venus Williams, after winning against the World Number 1 Justine Henin in the semi-finals. It was considered one of the biggest shocks in Wimbledon history. Bartoli lost against Williams in the final, finishing as runner-up. Bartoli won the Wimbledon singles in 2013.

Bartoli retired in August 2013 due to pain from injuries. She lives in Geneva in Switzerland.

[[Bandana]]

CATEGORIES: Accessories, Headgear

A bandana is a triangular or square piece of cloth tied around the head, face or neck. It can be used for protection or decoration. It was made by Middle eastern and south Asians in the city Kashmir. They were wearing it as a symbol of love between the Middle East and South Asia.

[[Roger Federer]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Australian Open champions, French Open champions, Male tennis players, Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Sportspeople from Basel, Swiss Olympic medalists, Swiss tennis players, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Roger Federer (born 8 August 1981, Basel) is a professional Swiss tennis player. 

Federer has spent 310 weeks at the top spot in the world ranking, the second-most behind Novak Djokovic. He holds the record for most weeks at the top spot in a row, with 237 weeks. Many experts believe that Federer is the greatest tennis player of all time. He has won 20 Grand Slam singles titles: six at the Australian Open (2004, 2006, 2007, 2010, 2017 and 2018), one at the French Open (2009), eight at Wimbledon (2003 to 2007, 2009, 2012 and 2017) and five at the U.S. Open (2004 to 2008). In 2007, he equalled the record for the most titles in a row (five) at Wimbledon set by Björn Borg. He won a gold medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics and a silver medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics.

He was named the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year for a record four years in a row (2005–2008), and again in 2018.

Federer's first language is Swiss-German and he speaks English, German and French very well. He also speaks some Swedish and Italian. His wife is former tennis player Mirka Vavrinec. After Wimbledon 2009, he became a father of twin girls who were named Charlene Riva and Myla Rose.

In May 2014 he became a father again, to twin boys named Leo and Lenny.

[[Martina Hingis]]

CATEGORIES: Australian Open champions, Coaches, Doping cases in sport, Female tennis players, French Open champions, Slovakian sportspeople, Strictly Come Dancing participants, Swiss tennis players, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players, 1980 births, Living people, Medalists at the 2016 Summer Olympics, Olympic silver medalists

Martina Hingis (born 30 September 1980 in Košice, Slovakia, then Czechoslovakia) is a Swiss professional tennis player who spent a total of 209 weeks as World No. 1. She is known as the "Swiss Miss". She has won five Grand Slam singles titles, three at the Australian Open (1997 to 1999), one at Wimbledon (1997) and one at the U.S. Open (1997). She is a dominant player in doubles, winning 10 Grand Slam doubles titles and 3 mixed doubles titles.

Hingis has retired twice from the game. The first time was in 2002, when she was struggling with injuries and was only 22. She returned to tennis in 2005, but retired two years later after sustaining more injuries. A blood test had also proved that she was using cocaine, an illegal drug. In 2013, she returned to playing doubles and became a tennis coach. She won the 2015 Wimbledon doubles title together with Sania Mirza, 19 years after winning her first Wimbledon doubles title in 1996.

She was a contestant in the 2009 series of Strictly Come Dancing.

[[Noisettes]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands, English punk bands, Indie rock bands, Funk bands, Soul bands, Musical groups from London

[[Rafael Nadal]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Agnostics, Australian Open champions, Balearic Islands, French Open champions, Male tennis players, Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2016 Summer Olympics, Olympic gold medalists, Spanish Olympic medalists, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Rafael Nadal Parera (born 3 June 1986 in Manacor, Majorca, Spain) is a Spanish professional tennis player who has won a record 20 Grand Slam singles titles; thirteen at the French Open, four at the US Open, two at Wimbledon and one at the Australian Open. He has been ranked number one in the world for 209 weeks. He plays very well on clay courts, and many people regard Nadal as the greatest clay-court tennis player in history. He plays tennis with his left hand.

Nadal has won 36 ATP Masters Series titles and the 2008 Olympic gold medal in singles. He is a part of the Spain Davis Cup team and has won the cup four times, in 2004, 2008, 2009, and 2011.

Nadal is often known simply as Rafa. He has rivalries against Roger Federer, Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray. Nadal is agnostic.

[[Justine Henin]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Belgian sportspeople, Female tennis players, French Open champions, Living people, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, People from Liège, US Open (tennis) champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Justine Henin (born June 1, 1982 in Liège) is a Belgian former professional tennis player and a World Number 1. She won seven Grand Slam singles titles, including four (and three in a row) at the French Open. She is two-time runner up at Wimbledon but never won the title. Her mental toughness and her one-handed backhand are recognized by great tennis players. One of the greatest tennis player of all time, Billie Jean King has said that Justine is the best player of her generation. She was known as Justine Henin-Hardenne for a while, until she separated from her husband in 2007 and went back to her maiden name of Justine Henin. She retired in 2008 but announced her comeback on 22 September after seeing the success of her compatriot Kim Clijsters.

[[Carla Garapedian]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, American movie directors

Carla Garapedian is an American movie director. She was the anchor of BBC World News. 

Movies directed by Garapedian include:

[[Massacres of Erzurum]]

CATEGORIES: Massacres in Turkey, Armenian Genocide

The Massacres of Erzerum. Turkish soldiers took an active part in the massacres in Erzeroum. The soldiers began a massacre of the Armenians and the Turkish populace joined in the attack. The shops and houses of the Armenians were pillaged.

[[Lake Kari]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Asia, Geography of Armenia

Lake Kari (Կարի լիճ) is a lake in Armenia, in the slopes of Mount Aragats. It is mostly formed by ice and snow.

[[Mount Aragats]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Asia, Geography of Armenia

Mount Aragats (Արագած) is the highest point in Armenia. It is in the province of Aragatsotn, northwest from Yerevan. It is a standalone extinct stratovolcano with four main peaks forming the rim of the crater. It is a popular destination for local alpinists.

[[Crystle Stewart]]

CATEGORIES: Beauty pageant winners, People from Houston, Texas, 1981 births, Living people

Crystle Danae Stewart (born September 20, 1981) is a beauty queen from Houston, Texas. She won the Miss USA beauty contest in 2008.

Stewart graduated from the University of Houston in 2007. She won the Miss Texas USA 2008 title in a state pageant held in Laredo, Texas on July 1, 2007.  She competed against 121 other contestants. She is the second African American to win the crown at Miss Texas USA. Chelsi Smith was crowned Miss Texas USA 1995.  Smith later became Miss USA and Miss Universe.

Stewart became the ninth Texan to win the Miss USA title.

Stewart hosted the Miss Teen USA 2009 competition on July 31, 2009 with Seth Goldman. Goldman and Stewart again hosted the Miss Teen USA pageant on July 24, 2010. Stewart hosted the 2011 Miss Texas USA contest with Jason Feinberg.

[[Victoria Cross for Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Orders, decorations, and medals of Australia, 1856 establishments in Australia

The Victoria Cross for Australia (VC) is the highest military decoration given for bravery "in the face of the enemy" to members of the Australia Armed Forces. The medal was called the Victoria Cross, but the name was changed in 1991. The Victoria Cross was started in 1856 for bravery in the Crimean War. The first medals were made from captured Russian cannons. The Victoria Cross for Australia looks exactly the same as the Victoria Cross.

The first winner of the Victoria Cross for Australia is SAS Trooper Mark Donaldson. Donaldson won the medal for bravery in Afghanistan in September 2008. The medal was given to him in a ceremony on January 16, 2009. He was the first winner of a VC for 40  years.

[[White Pines Forest State Park]]

CATEGORIES: Illinois, State parks in the United States

White Pines Forest State Park, also known as White Pines State Park, is an Illinois state park in Ogle County, Illinois.

[[George Stainforth]]

CATEGORIES: British military people, British aviators, 1899 births, 1942 deaths

Wing Commander George Hedley Stainforth AFC RAF (1899 - 27 September 1942) was a British Royal Air Force pilot. He was the first man in the world to exceed 400 miles per hour in an aircraft.

[[Ion Heliade Rădulescu]]

CATEGORIES: 1802 births, 1872 deaths, Romanian writers, Romanian journalists, Poets, Romanian social scientists, 19th century philosophers, Romanian politicians

Ion Heliade Rădulescu or Ion Heliade (also known as Eliad or Eliade Rădulescu January 6, 1802 – April 27, 1872) was a Wallachian-born Romanian academic, Romantic and Classicist poet, essayist, short story writer, newspaper editor and politician.

[[Chosroid Dynasty]]

CATEGORIES: Georgian people, Royal dynasties

The Chosroids (Khosroviani, Georgian: ხოსროვიანი) were a dynasty of the kings and later of the ruling princes of the early Georgian state of Iberia, natively known as Kartli, from the fourth to the ninth centuries. Presumably of Iranian origin and a branch of the Mihranid House, the family accepted Christianity as their official religion around the year 337, and maneuvered between the Byzantine Empire and Sassanid, Iran to retain a degree of independence. 

[[Guaramid Dynasty]]

CATEGORIES: Georgian people, Royal dynasties

The Guaramid Dynasty was the younger branch of the Chosroid royal house of Iberia (Kartli, eastern Georgia).

[[George II of Imereti]]

CATEGORIES: 1585 deaths, Georgian people, Year of birth unknown, Kings and queens

George II (გიორგი II; died in 1585), of the Bagrationi Dynasty, was a king of Imereti from 1565 to 1585.

[[Bagrat III of Imereti]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and queens, 1495 births, 1565 deaths

Bagrat III (ბაგრატ III) (September 23, 1495 – 1565), of the Bagrationi Dynasty, was a king of Imereti from April 1, 1510 to 1565.

[[1982 Glasgow Hillhead by-election]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 in the United Kingdom, 1982 elections, Elections in the United Kingdom, Politics of Scotland, 1980s in Scotland, March events

A Glasgow Hillhead by-election was held on 25 March 1982. The by-election was caused by the death of the Conservative Party Member of Parliament for Glasgow Hillhead Tam Galbraith on 2 January 1982.

[[Solaris]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems, Unix, Sun Microsystems, Oracle Corporation

Solaris is an operating system created by Sun Microsystems in 1992. It was created to run on their workstations (but it can be used on most modern PCs) and is still developed today. It used to be called SunOS until it was renamed to Solaris in 1992. As of 2010, it is one of the main commercial UNIX variants (The others are HP-UX, AIX, and z/OS). Solaris is ultimately based on UNIX System V. With version 10, released in 2009, most parts of it were made Open Source, and released as OpenSolaris. Solaris 10 runs on SPARC processors, as well as the 32-bit and 64-bit Intel and AMD processors. Oracle Corporation acquired Sun Microsystems in January 2010. Oracle continued developing Solaris, but it stopped developing OpenSolaris. OpenSolaris was later forked into the illumos kernel and the OpenIndiana distribution.

It is mostly used in advanced servers like the ones that run the Internet, on some workstations, and for programming in languages like Java, having advanced features for programmers.

[[Puja Gupta]]

CATEGORIES: Beauty pageant winners, 1984 births, Living people, Indian models

Puja Gupta (born 30 junuary 1984 in Kozhikode, Kerala, India) was the winner of Miss India Universe in 2007. She represented India in Miss Universe 2007 and placed in the top ten. Puja Gupta wants to be a writer and her hobbies are yoga, writing, horse riding and drawing.

[[Charles A. Johns]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 births, 1932 deaths, American lawyers, Politicians from Oregon

Charles A. Johns (June 25, 1857 – January 11, 1932) was an American lawyer, jurist and politician. He served as the 47th Associate Justice of the Oregon Supreme Court.

[[Saved!]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 movies, 2000s LGBT movies, 2000s teen comedy movies, American LGBT movies, American teen comedy movies, Movies set in Maryland

Saved! is a 2004 American teen comedy movie. It is a religious satire. It is set in Maryland. The movie stars Jena Malone, Macaulay Culkin, and Mandy Moore.

[[Gibraltar Chronicle]]

CATEGORIES: English-language newspapers, Gibraltar, 1801 establishments

The Gibraltar Chronicle is a newspaper published daily in Gibraltar since 1801. It is not only the oldest newspaper in Gibraltar, but also the second oldest English newspaper in the world.

[[Alan Johnston]]

CATEGORIES: British journalists, 1962 births, Living people

Alan Graham Johnston (born May 17, 1962) is a British journalist working for the BBC. On March 12, 2007, he was taken by a group of armed men in Gaza. He was kept as a hostage until he was let free on July 4.

[[BBC Television Centre]]

CATEGORIES: BBC

BBC Television Centre (sometimes abbreviated TVC or TC) in White City, London is home to much of the BBC's television output. Since 1998, almost all of the corporation's national TV and radio news by BBC News is made there too.

[[Liberty Bell]]

CATEGORIES: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Bells, Symbols of the United States

The Liberty Bell is an important and famous symbol of American independence (freedom). It used to be in the Pennsylvania State House (now known as Independence Hall). The bell was ordered from the London firm of Lester and Pack (which is known as the Whitechapel Bell Foundry today) in 1752. It had the letters "Proclaim LIBERTY  throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof." Those words are a part of Leviticus 25:10. The bell first cracked when it was first rung when it came to Philadelphia, and was made again twice by John Pass and John Stow, two workmen. When it was first made, the Liberty Bell was used to make lawmakers come to legislative meetings. It was also used to call people to public meetings. 

Bells were rung when the Declaration of Independence was read on July 8, 1776. While there is no record that the Liberty Bell also was rung, most historians believe it was rung with the other bells. In the 1830s, the bell was used as a symbol by abolitionist societies, who called it the "Liberty Bell". The bell got its large, well-known crack in the early 19th century. One story claims it was cracked while ringing after the death of Chief Justice John Marshall in 1835.

The bell became widely famous after a short story in 1847 claimed that an old bell-ringer rang it on July 4, 1776, after hearing the Second Continental Congress's vote for independence. Actually, the bell could not have been rung on that Fourth of July, because no announcement of the Declaration was made that day. However, many people believed this story. Even some historians accepted it as a fact. From 1885, the City of Philadelphia, which owned the bell, allowed it to go to many different patriotic meetings. Many people came to see the bell, and it grew even more cracked. Pieces were broken off by souvenir hunters. The last such journey was in 1915. After that, the city refused any more requests of that kind.

[[Frank Lloyd Wright]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 births, 1959 deaths, Deaths from bowel obstruction, Architects from Chicago, Frank Lloyd Wright, Unitarians, American philosophers, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from Chicago, Businesspeople from Wisconsin, Deaths from surgical complications, People from Richland Center, Wisconsin

Frank Lloyd Wright (born Frank Lincoln Wright; June 8, 1867 – April 9, 1959) was a famous American architect from the early 20th century. He designed all kinds of buildings including banks, holiday resorts, office buildings, churches, a synagogue, a gas station, a beer garden and an art museum.

Wright designed more than 1,000 structures and completed 532 works. Wright believed in designing structures which were in peace with humanity and its environment. He called his belief organic architecture. He used this technique for his design for Fallingwater (1935), which has been called "the best all-time work of American architecture". Wright was a leader of the Prairie School movement of architecture and developed the image of the Usonian home, his one-of-a-kind vision for urban planning in the United States.

He began an American style of building design and is said to be one of the greatest architects of the twentieth century.

Wright was born in Richland Center, Wisconsin on June 8, 1867 to a farming family.

His work includes original and creative examples of many building types. Wright also designed many of the interior elements of his buildings, such as the furniture and stained glass. Wright authored 20 books and many articles and was a popular lecturer in the United States and in Europe.

His colorful personal life often made headlines, most notably for the 1914 fire and murders at his Taliesin studio. Already well-known during his lifetime, Wright was recognized in 1991 by the American Institute of Architects as "the greatest American architect of all time."

Wright died on April 9, 1959 in Phoenix, Arizona from surgical complications. He was 91 years old.

[[Law enforcement in Cuba]]

CATEGORIES: Cuba, Law enforcement by country

Law enforcement in Cuba is the responsibility of the National Revolutionary Police Force (Spanish: Policía Nacional Revolucionaria, PNR) under the administration of the Cuban Ministry of the Interior.

[[Battle of Damascus]]

CATEGORIES: Battles of World War II, Damascus, 1941, 20th century in Syria

The Battle of Damascus (18 June - 21 June 1941) was the final action of the Allied advance on Damascus in Syria during the Syria-Lebanon campaign in World War II.

[[Laurence Mancuso]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2007 deaths, American Eastern Orthodox Christians, Christian religious leaders, Monks, People from New York

Laurence Mancuso (born June 30, 1934 - died June 10, 2007) was the founding abbot of the New Skete Eastern Orthodox monastic community in upstate New York.

[[Joseph Jukes]]

CATEGORIES: 1811 births, 1869 deaths, English geologists, People from Birmingham

Joseph Beete Jukes (1811-1869) was a famous English geologist. He wrote of several geological manuals, and served as a naturalist on the trips of the ship H.M.S Fly. He was  born to John and Sophia Jukes in Birmingham, England

[[Second Severn Crossing]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 establishments in the United Kingdom, Bridges in the United Kingdom, Concrete bridges, Gloucestershire, Monmouthshire, Steel bridges

The Second Severn Crossing (Ail Groesfan Hafren) is a bridge over the River Severn between South Gloucestershire in England and Monmouthshire in Wales. 

The bridge carrie 6 lanes of M4 motorway and is one of the main routes into South Wales. It was opened on 5 June 1996 to allow more traffic than the original Severn Bridge, which opened in 1966. Both bridges are still in use although the newer crossing is more direct and less likely to be closed in strong winds. 

[[Spitz (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands

Spitz is a Japanese rock band that set up in 1987. Masamune Kusano is a vocalist and plays the guitar, too. Tetsuya Miwa plays the guitar. Akihiro Tamura plays the bass. Tatsuo Sakiyama plays the drums. Their songs, especially "Robinson", "Cherry" and "Soramotoberuhazu,"are very popular.

[[Yakima, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state), County seats in Washington, Yakima County, Washington

Yakima is a city in the state of Washington.

[[Sprite]]

CATEGORIES: Soft drinks

Sprite is a lemon-lime soda, similar to 7 UP and Sierra Mist. It is made by the Coca-Cola Company. It has no caffeine. In 2009, its logo was changed.

[[University of Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Colleges and universities in Washington, Pac-12 Conference, Seattle, Washington, 1861 establishments in the United States

The University of Washington (UW) is the main state university of the U.S. state of Washington. There are over 40,000 students. It is in Seattle, Washington. The University of Washington's sports teams (the Huskies) are part of the Pacific-12 Conference of the National Collegiate Athletic Association.

Every year UW has a rivalry game with Washington State University. This game is called the Apple Cup in which the two football teams play each other. As of the year 2010 the University of Washington has won 66 Apple Cups and Washington State University only has 31. The longest consecutive wins of the Apple Cup belongs to U.W. with 8 consecutive wins, with Washington State at 2 consecutive wins.

[[Howl]]

Howl may mean:

[[The Hershey Company]]

CATEGORIES: American food companies, Pennsylvania, 1894 establishments in the United States

The Hershey Company (HSY), until April 2005 Hershey Foods Corporation, commonly called Hershey's, is America's largest chocolate company. Its main office is in Hershey, Pennsylvania, a town that smells strongly of cocoa on some days, and home to Hershey's Chocolate World. The company was founded by Milton S. Hershey in 1894 as the Hershey Chocolate Company. Hershey's candies and other products are sold around the world.

[[Totally Spies!]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series, 2001 television series debuts, 2013 television series endings, Spy television series, English-language television programs

 

  

 

 

 

Totally Spies! is a French/Canadian animated television series produced by Marathon Media and Image Entertainment Corporation. The show was first broadcast on November 3, 2001 on ABC Family in USA. It was also broadcast on TF1 in France and Teletoon in Canada.

Totally Spies! The Movie was released on July 22, 2009 in France. The show had been running since 2001. A sixth season was confirmed by Marathon Media to premiere on September 4, 2013. 156 episodes divided in 6 seasons

[[Screamers (2006 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: American documentary movies, 2006 movies, Multilingual movies

Screamers is a 2006 documentary by director Carla Garapedian. 

[[Ross Bagdasarian]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1972 deaths, American pianists, American songwriters, American voice actors, People from Fresno, California

Ross Bagdasarian (January 27, 1919 – January 16, 1972) was an American pianist, songwriter, actor, and record producer of Armenian descent. He was born in Fresno, California. During his professional life he was better known by the stage name David Seville, which he used on his recordings featuring Alvin and the Chipmunks.

[[Shawn Michaels]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, American Christians, American professional wrestlers, American television actors, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Actors from San Antonio, Texas, Sportspeople from Arizona, Sportspeople from San Antonio, Texas, WWE Hall of Fame

Michael Shawn Hickenbottom (born May 31, 1966), better known by the ring name Shawn Michaels, is an American television presenter, actor, and retired  professional wrestler, he has been given the nickname of "The Heartbreak Kid" (sometimes referred to as HBK). He used to performs on the Raw brand of World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). Michaels retired from wrestling after a loss to The Undertaker. He is a 2011 inductee in to the WWE Hall of Fame.

Michaels is one of the two wrestlers that performed on the very first episode of WWF Monday Night RAW that is still part of the company, the other being The Undertaker.

[[Denali]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of the United States, Geography of Alaska

Denali, also formerly known as Mount McKinley, is the highest mountain peak in both the United States and North America. It is exactly 20,310 feet (6,190.5 m) high. It is in the highest part of the Alaska Range. Denali means "the high one" in the Athabaskan language.

[[Dune]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

In physical geography, a dune is a hill of sand, usually deposited by eolian processes (wind) or sometimes by the flow of water. Dunes occur, for example, in some deserts and beaches. Sand dunes have different forms and sizes based on their interaction with the wind. Sometimes they migrate downwind. A "dune field" is an area covered by many sand dunes.

[[Detective]]

CATEGORIES: Law enforcement occupations, Criminal investigation

A detective is a person who investigates crime. Most detectives are police officers. Some are hired by a private person or company, for example to stop theft. Those are called private investigators. There are many stories about detectives. Some famous fictional (not real) detectives are Sherlock Holmes, Inspector Clouseau, Nancy Drew, The Hardy Boys.

Detectives will search public and private databases, investigate people and examine evidence in order to solve the case.

[[Kieran Richardson]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Kieran Richardson (born 21 October 1984) is an English football player. He plays for Sunderland, a team in the Premier League in England.

[[Juan Pablo Montoya]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, People from Bogotá, Colombian sportspeople, NASCAR drivers, Formula One drivers

Juan Pablo Montoya (born September 20, 1975 in Bogotá, Colombia) is an IndyCar Series racecar driver. He used to race in NASCAR and Formula 1. His wife is Connie and he has a son and a daughter. He was  a CART champion winning the Indianapolis 500., his first win in NASCAR came in 2007 and the second in 2010 for Chip Ganassi's racing team. Before 2007, he was in Formula One from 2000 to 2006 winning at 7 Grand Prix's one of them in Monte Carlo, Monaco.  While in NASCAR, he drove for Earnhardt Ganassi Racing (his old CART Team), and his teammate was Jamie McMurray. He left Ganassi and NASCAR in 2014 to race IndyCars for Penske Racing. In 2014, he won his first race since leaving NASCAR when he won a race at Pocono Raceway.

[[Riyo Mori]]

CATEGORIES: Miss Universe winners, 1986 births, Living people, People from Shizuoka Prefecture

Riyo Mori (born 24 December 1986 in Aoi-ku, Shizuoka, Japan) is a pageant titleholder best known for crowning Dayana Mendoza as Miss Universe 2008. 

She also won the Miss Universe 2007 title in May 2007. She was the second woman from Japan to hold the title. (The first Miss Universe winner from Japan was Akiko Kojima in 1959.) Mori is the eleventh Asian woman to win the pageant.

[[Eolian processes]]

CATEGORIES: Winds, Erosion, Landforms

Eolian (or aeolian or æolian) is an event that occurs in nature. It is related to the winds and its ability to modify the surface of the Earth and other planets.

Winds cause erosion, and move sand and other materials. Wind is powerful in dry regions with sparse vegetation, such as deserts.  Although water is, generally speaking, a much more powerful eroding force than wind, aeolian processes are primary in deserts.

Sand dust from the Sahara gets all over Europe, and even as far as the Amazon basin. Winds and global air movements are what causes this widespread travel of materials from the ground.

[[American Girl]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books, Children's books, Dolls

The American Girl series is a series of books and accompanying dolls about fictional girls who live in different time periods in America's history. The American Girl series was first created by The Pleasant Company in 1986, founded by Pleasant T. Rowland. Today, the dolls and books are made by Mattel, a large toy company. Each doll has her own line of accessories that includes a series of books about her life, furniture, clothing, pets, and things that she would use or play with. For some dolls, a doll of her best friend is included in the collection. Four of the dolls have had movies made about their stories. 

[[Hot spring]]

CATEGORIES: Geology

A hot spring is a spring produced by the emergence of geothermally heated groundwater from the Earth's crust.  Hot springs are in many places, especially in mountains.

[[Sergei Parajanov]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1990 deaths, Movie directors from Georgia (country), Armenian movie directors

Sergei Parajanov (Սարգիս Հովսեփի Փարաջանյան Sargis Hovsepi Parajanyan; Сергей Иосифович Параджанов Sergej Iosifovich Paradzhanov; also spelled Paradzhanov or Paradjanov), (January 9, 1924 – July 20 1990), is considered by many to be one of the most original and critically-acclaimed filmmakers of the 20th century. His work reflected the ethnic diversity of the Caucasus where he was raised.

[[Artavazd Peleshyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Armenian movie directors, Armenian writers

Artavazd Peleshyan (born November 22, 1938) is an Armenian movie director. He makes documentaries.

Peleshyan is also the author of many books, such as his 1988 book Moyo kino (My Cinema).

Peleshyan's work has not been recognized by world cinema until after the fall of the Soviet Union. Since then, he has been able to make two more short films, Life (1993) and The End (1994). He is now living in Moscow and suffering from a severe mental illness.

[[Dress]]

CATEGORIES: Dresses

A dress is one of the basic styles of female clothing. It is a garment of a skirt (bottom half) with an attached bodice (top half). The colouring and style of the dress gives the effect of a one-piece garment. A dress is also known as a frock or a gown. In Europe and the Americas, dresses are worn by females of all ages as an alternative to a separate skirt and blouse or trousers.

There are many types of dresses. A dress is usually worn at formal occasions, such as a wedding or a dance. It is also worn in the summer to keep cool. Younger females tend to prefer shorter skirts than older females.

[[Giza]]

CATEGORIES: Giza

Giza or Gizah (Arabic, الجيزة, transliterated al-Gīzah; pronounced in dialect of Cairo of Egyptian Arabic eg-Gīza; also sometimes spelled in English as Gizeh, Ghizeh, or Geezeh) is a town in Egypt. It is on the west bank of the Nile river. It is about 20 km southwest of central Cairo. Today it is  part of the greater Cairo metropolis. It is the capital of the Al Jizah Governorate, and is  near the northeast border of this governorate in coordinates 29. It is right on the banks of the Nile River. It had 4,779,000 people living in it in 1998.

Giza is known for being the place where the Giza Plateau is. The plateau is the site of some of the most impressive ancient monuments in the world. There are  a complex of ancient Egyptian royal mortuary and sacred structures there. These include the Great Sphinx, the Great Pyramid of Giza, and a number of other large pyramids and temples.

The Great Pyramid of Giza was once advocated (1884) as the location for the Prime Meridian, a reference point used for determining a base longitude.

[[Thorn]]

Thorn has several meanings:

[[Thorns, spines and prickles]]

CATEGORIES: Plant anatomy

Botanists use three different words for sharp things on plants. They are thorns, spines, and prickles. Thorns are the ends of branches that are hard and sharp. Spines are hard structures with sharp ends. There are many different kinds of spines, some on leaves, some grow instead of leaves. Prickles are on the outside of stems. 

Spines, prickles, and thorns protect plants from plant-eating animals (defence against herbivory). Some plants and animals, such as the acacia tree and giraffe have evolved in response to each other. The plants grow very long spines and the animals develop very long tongues to reach past the spines and feed on the leaves.

[[Pope Pius IX]]

CATEGORIES: 1792 births, 1878 deaths, Deaths from epilepsy, Italian popes, Beatified people

Pope Pius IX (Pius PP. IX, Pio IX; May 13, 1792 – February 7, 1878), born Giovanni Maria Mastai-Feretti, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 256th Pope, from 1846 until his death.  Only Saint Peter himself led the church longer than the 32-year reign of Pius IX.

In 2000, he was beatified, which is a step in the process of naming a saint of the Catholic Church.

[[Sickle]]

CATEGORIES: Farming tools, Cutting tools

A sickle is a curved cutting tool used in agriculture for harvesting grain crops. It is a hand tool and was used before machines for harvesting. It has a curved blade with an attached handle. The inside part of the curve is sharp, so the user can swing the blade against the crop's base, catching it in the curve and slicing it. Some sickles have a serrated blade like a saw.

A sickle is sometimes used as a weapon. In Greek mythology, Cronus and Perseus did this.

A sickle and a hammer are the symbols of the Soviet Union.

[[Kilometres per hour]]

CATEGORIES: Units of measurement

Kilometres per hour is a unit of measurement, which measures speed or velocity. The unit symbol is km/h or km·h−1. By definition, an object travelling at a speed of 1 km/h in a straight line for 1 hour moves 1 kilometre. The unit is the most commonly used unit of speed worldwide, more common than the SI unit of speed, metres per second.

[[Amanda Bynes]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Actors from Ventura County, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, People from Ventura County, California, People with bipolar disorder, People with schizophrenia

Amanda Laura Bynes (born April 3, 1986) is an American actress, program host on Nickelodeon and fashion designer. After being in several successful television series on Nickelodeon in the late 1990s and early 2000s, Bynes has moved into a movie career. She starred in several movies aimed at teenage audiences. These included Big Fat Liar, She's the Man, Hairspray, and Easy A. She was on the 2007 Forbes list as the 5th highest paid celebrities under 21 earning $2.5 million.

Bynes has been described by The Boston Globe as having an "everygirl" appeal, embodying "both everything her teen fans dream of being and everything they know they really are, and they love her for it." In 2006, she was named one of Teen People's "25 Hottest Stars Under 25".

On June 19, 2010, Bynes said on her Twitter that she is retiring from acting saying she does not like it as much as she used to. A month later, Bynes changed her mind and returned to acting.

Again in 2012 she said that she is retiring from acting.

In April 2012 Bynes was arrested for side-swiping a police car. In June 2012 she was charged with driving under alcohol or drugs when she was arrested in April.

In May 2013 Bynes was arrested at her house in Manhattan for having marijuana. In July she was arrested after she set fire to a stranger's driveway. The police decided that she should be kept for psychiatric evaluation for her own safety. Since September 2013 Bynes has been in The Canyon rehab in Malibu for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder treatment.

[[Exclamation mark]]

CATEGORIES: Punctuation

An exclamation mark (!) is a punctuation mark. It is used to show strong emotion at the end of a sentence or after an interjection.

Putting a space before an exclamation mark is incorrect.

[[Yupik]]

CATEGORIES: People from Alaska, Ethnic groups in the United States

The Yupik (in the Central Alaskan Yup'ik language, Yup'ik, plural Yupiit) people are a group of native people who mainly live in certain parts of Alaska, somewhere near Fairbanks.  The 1918 influenza pandemic killed many of the indigenous people in Alaska. Many died during famines and the culture suffered when the Soviet government made villagers move. Some of the Yupi'k people's traditions are celebrating the dead. They celebrate by having ceremonies with a shaman, where they connect with the dead. They also name the next child born after the most recent person who has died.

[[Anna Kournikova]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Female tennis players, Living people, Participants in American reality television series, Russian models, Russian tennis players, Sportspeople from Moscow

Aniuyguyna Sergeevna Kournikova (born June 7, 1981, in Moscow, Russia, then USSR) (Russian: Анна Сергеевна Курникова) is a Russian model and retired professional tennis player. She won two Grand Slam doubles tournaments, both with Swiss player Martina Hingis.  In 1999, the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) said she was the best doubles player in the world.   She also played tennis for Russia in an international competition called the Fed Cup.

Kournikova played in her last Grand Slam tournament in 2009.  Since then, she modeled clothes and played in exhibition tennis matches.  Although she was born in Russia, she lives in Miami, Florida, in the United States.  She appeared in several advertisements mainly about tennis.  As of July 2008, her boyfriend is Spanish singer Enrique Iglesias.

[[Sk8er Boi]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 songs, Avril Lavigne songs

Sk8er Boi is a single by pop-punk singer Avril Lavigne. It is one of her most famous songs.

[[Pay]]

Pay may refer to:

[[Talk show]]

CATEGORIES: Television programs, Radio

A talk show is a radio or television program where one or more hosts discuss current issues or other topics with guests. Many talk shows (especially those on radio) allow members of the public to join in, through telephone calls, letters, e-mail and Internet chat. Talk shows are often meant to entertain, and many feature comedy or entertainer performing. Many shows, though, do a public service, by informing the public and discussing issues openly. While some are locally based, and serve only one station's audience, others become syndication and play on many stations, or are broadcast by a regional or national network.

The host of a talk show may already be a celebrity, or may become one as their show becomes popular. Some are professionals or experts in a field of knowledge, such as psychology or business. Others are well-known performers who can converse well with others. Guests on a talk show may also be experts in a field of knowledge or work, longtime professionals, or new and familiar celebrities, performers or athletes. Sometimes guests are members of the public who do something that interests others, such as inventors and authors, or someone who comes to public attention through a disaster or mishap. 

[[Graduated cylinder]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment

A graduated cylinder (also calledmeasuring cylinder) is a piece of laboratory glassware used to measure the volume of liquids. It is used to accurately measure the volume of chemicals for use in reactions. 

Often, the biggest graduated cylinders are made of polyethylene or other stiff plastic, making them lighter and less fragile than glass, but more difficult to sterilize.

[[Edmond Keosayan]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian movie directors, 1936 births, 1994 deaths

Edmond Keosayan (Էդմոնդ Քյոսայան; Leninakan, now Gyumri, October 9, 1936 - Moscow, April 21, 1994) was an Armenian Soviet movie director and musician. From 1954 to 1956 Keosayan studied in Plekhanov Moscow Institute of Economy. From 1956 to 1958 he studied in Yerevan Fine Arts and Theatre Institute. In 1964, he graduated from the Directing Department of VGIK (E.Dzigan's master class). Since 1964 Keosayan has been a director at Mosfilm Studio. He has worked worked a few times for Armenfilm Studio.

He was also a Master of Ceremonies of the Soviet State Variety Orchestra. 

His films are mainly in the Armenian and 

Russian languages.

[[Amerigo Vespucci]]

CATEGORIES: 1454 births, 1512 deaths, Deaths from infectious disease, Italian explorers, People from Florence

Amerigo Vespucci (9 March 1451- 22 February 1512) was an Italian merchant, explorer and cartographer. He was the first person to explain that the New World discovered by Christopher Columbus in 1492 was not the eastern area of Asia, but an unknown continent (the Americas). 

America was named after Amerigo Vespucci. North and South America get this name from a feminized and latinized version of his first name, Americus.

Vespucci died of malaria.

[[Titanic (1997 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 drama movies, 1997 romance movies, 1990s disaster movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, 2012 3D movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American disaster movies, American epic movies, American romantic drama movies, Best Picture Oscar, Movies with underwater settings, Movies based on real life events, Movies composed by James Horner, Movies directed by James Cameron, Movies set in the 1910s, Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award, Movies that won the Best Visual Effects Academy Award, Murder-suicide in movies, RMS Titanic, Survival movies, 3D re-releases

Titanic is a 1997 American epic romantic disaster movie. It was directed, written, and co-produced by James Cameron. The movie is about the 1912 sinking of the RMS Titanic. It stars Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio. The two play characters who are of different social classes. They fall in love after meeting aboard the ship, but it was not good for a rich girl to fall in love with a poor boy in 1912. Titanic ran for 200 days in cinemas. Production of the movie began in 1995. Cameron recorded footage of the real Titanic wreck. The reconstruction of the Titanic was created at Playas de Rosarito in Baja California. To create the sinking of the ship, scale models and computer-generated imagery were used. Paramount Pictures and 20th Century Fox helped with half of the funding for the movie. At the time when the movie was released, it was the most expensive movie ever made. It had a budget of $200 million.

The movie was released on December 19, 1997. It received positive critical reviews. The movie won 11 Academy Awards, and was nominated for fourteen total Academy Awards. It was also a commercial success with a total worldwide gross of $2.196 billion.

[[Rip Slyme]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from Kanagawa Prefecture, Hip hop bands

Rip Slyme is a Japanese hip hop group formed in 1994. It has 5 members - 4 MCs and 1 DJ. 

[[Names for large numbers]]

CATEGORIES: Numbers

Naming very large numbers is relatively easy. There are two main ways of naming a number: scientific notation and naming by grouping. For example, the number 0.01 can be called 5 x 1020 in scientific notation since there are 20 zeros behind the 5. If the number is named by grouping, it is five hundred quintillion (American) or 500 trillion (European).

When large numbers have many different decimals in them, such as 642 500 000 000, naming them with scientific notation is about the same, but with one difference. Still counting the number of numbers after the first number (in this case, after the 6 there are 11 numbers) you need to include the ones that are not zero in the formula, but after a decimal point. So 642 500 000 000 will be 6.425 x 1011. When naming by grouping, each group of the name of the group. With the same number, it would be said to be 642 billion, 500 million (US) or 642 milliard, 500 million (Eur).

[[Acetylene]]

CATEGORIES: Hydrocarbons

Acetylene is a hydrocarbon, belonging to the alkyne group. It is the simplest type of alkyne, as it has only two hydrogen atoms and two carbon atoms. Acetylene is an unsaturated organic compound because its four atoms are triple bonded through a covalent bond. It was discovered in 1836 by Edmund Davy. The chemical symbol is C2H2.

80% of all acetylene produced yearly in the United States is used for chemical synthesis. It is a toxic chemical; breathing the substance causes dizziness, headache and nausea.

[[Ralf Schumacher]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Formula One drivers, German racecar drivers, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Ralf Schumacher (born 30 June 1975) is a retired German Formula one driver. He was born in Huerth, North Rhine-Westphalia and is the younger brother of Michael Schumacher. He drove for Jordan, Williams and Toyota.

[[Auto racing]]

CATEGORIES: Auto racing

Auto racing (also known as automobile racing, autosport or motorsport) is a sport involving racing cars. Auto racing began in France in 1895 and is now one of the world's most popular spectator sports.

[[Lascelles Abercrombie]]

CATEGORIES: English poets, 1881 births, 1938 deaths

Lascelles Abercrombie (January 9, 1881 – October 27, 1938) was a British poet and critic of Literature, and he was a member of a group of famous poets called "Dymock poets".  He was born in Ashton upon Mersey and studied at the University of Manchester.  

Before the First World War, he lived for a time at Dymock in Gloucestershire.  In 1922, they gave him the job of Professor of English at the University of Leeds.  In 1929 he moved on to the University of London, and in 1935 to the University of Oxford.  He wrote many poems, that were  put together in a book called 'Poems' (1930). In the same year he wrote his most important poem, The Sale of Saint Thomas in six Acts.  He was the brother of the architect Patrick Abercrombie, and his son was the scientist Michael Abercrombie.

[[Eliza Acton]]

CATEGORIES: 1799 births, 1859 deaths, British chefs, English poets, Writers from Suffolk, Writers from Sussex

Elizabeth "Eliza" Acton (17 April 1799 – 13 February 1859) was an English poet and cook. She was born in Battle, Sussex and raised in Suffolk. She wrote one the first cookbooks for cooking at home, not for professional cook or chef, Modern Cookery for Private Families. In this book she started the use of listing the ingredients and suggested cooking times with each recipe, like all the world does now. Modern Cookery was sold for a long time after her death, until 1914 and can still be found at many libraries. Her recipes are still very famous.

[[Ralph Fiennes]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Actors from Suffolk, Actors who played M, BAFTA Award winners, Drama Desk Award winners, English movie actors, English movie directors, English movie producers, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, People from Ipswich, Tony Award winning actors

Ralph Fiennes (born 22 December 1962 in Ipswich, Suffolk, England) is an English actor. He won the Tony Award and was nominated for the Academy Award for his work in Steven Spielberg's movie Schindler's List, and the Genie Award. His parents were Jennifer Lash and Mark Fiennes. His brothers and sisters are Joseph Fiennes, Sophie Fiennes, Martha Fiennes, Magnus Fiennes and Jacob Fiennes.

[[Wellington Koo]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese politicians, 1887 births, 1985 deaths

Vi Kyuin Wellington Koo (Chinese: 顾维钧；Pinyin: Gù Wéijūn; Wade-Giles: Ku Wei-chün) (January 29, 1887–November 14, 1985) was a Chinese diplomat. He was a representative at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919. His wife was Chinese-American diplomat Juliana Koo.

Born in Shanghai in 1887, he went to the United States in 1904 and studied Western culture in order to help China with the problem of imperialism. He spoke perfect fluent English, and came to be interested in China's position in international society.

[[Wade-Giles]]

CATEGORIES: Romanization

Wade-Giles (威妥玛拼音 or 韦氏拼音), sometimes abbreviated Wade, is a Romanization system for the Chinese language. It is based on the form of Mandarin used in Beijing. The system was produced by Thomas Wade in the mid-19th century. It was fully developed in Herbert Giles's 1892 Chinese-English dictionary.

Wade-Giles was the main system of transliteration in the English-speaking world for much of the 20th century. It is used in several standard reference books. It is also used in all books about China published before 1979. It replaced the Nanjing-based romanization systems that was common until the late 19th century. Wade-Giles has been replaced by the Pinyin system today. It still remains in use in Taiwan (Republic of China).

One well-known feature of Wade-Giles is that it uses the apostrophe to mark aspirated consonants, or breathy consonants. For example, ping in Pinyin would be written as p'ing in Wade-Giles, but bing in Pinyin would be written as ping. Sounds are written this way because Chinese does not have voiced stop consonants, fricatives, or affricates like in English. Chinese only distinguishes between aspirated and unaspirated sounds. Therefore, an apostrophe is used instead of using a different letter.

However, the apostrophe was not well understood by people who do not know the Wade-Giles spelling, so many people who read the apostrophe ignored the apostrophe when reading or copying Chinese words down. This had lead many non-Chinese to say Chinese words incorrectly, including Tao, tai chi, and kung fu. Wade-Giles spellings where the apostrophe is completely ignored are called bastardized Wade-Giles.

[[Prince (disambiguation)]]

A prince is a member of the highest aristocracy

Prince may refer to:

[[Natalia Oreiro]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Uruguayan entertainers, Latin singers, People from Montevideo

Natalia Oreiro (born May 18, 1977 in Montevideo,Uruguay) is a Latin Grammy-nominated Uruguayan singer and actress.  She has been in both soap operas and movies.  She is best known for her participation in the soap opera, Muñeca Brava (1998-1999), which was an every-afternoon-smash-hit during its run in Argentina. Her most recent soap opera, Sos mi vida (2006), was shown in more than 40 countries. 

[[Democratic Progressive Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Taiwan, Liberal parties, Social democratic parties, Nationalist organizations in Taiwan, 1986 establishments in Asia, 1980s establishments in Taiwan

The Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) (Traditional Chinese: 民主進步黨; Simplified Chinese: 民主进步党; abbreviated to 民進黨 or 民进党; Pinyin: Mínjìndǎng) is a major political party in the Republic of China Republic of China (Taiwan). The party has been linked with the pan-green coalition and de jure Taiwan independence movementy. The DPP is a member of Liberal International and a founding member of the Council of Asian Liberals and Democrats. The DPP represented Taiwan in the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organisation.

[[President of the Republic of China]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of China, Presidents of the Republic of China

The President of the Republic of China is the head of state and Commander-in-Chief of the democratic country known officially as the Republic of China Republic of China. The Republic of China government has controlled Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen, Matsu and other islands after the Nationalist lost the war and moved the government from mainland China in 1949. 

The presidential office was created in 1948 under the 1947 Constitution of the Republic of China.

In the previous Kuomintang administration, the title of "President of the Republic of China" was used (中華民國總統). The current Democratic Progressive Party administration refers to the President as the "President of the Republic of China (Taiwan)" (中華民國(臺灣)總統).

[[Anastas Mikoyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1978 deaths, Armenian people, Communists, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Anastas Hovhannesi Mikoyan (Անաստաս Հովհաննեսի Միկոյան, Anastas Hovhannesi Mikoyan; Анаста́с Ива́нович Микоя́н; 25 November – 21 October 1978) was an Armenian Old Bolshevik and Soviet statesman during the Stalin and Khrushchev years.

It was told that, during Khrushchev time, he was the second most powerful man in the Soviet Union.

[[Mitanni]]

CATEGORIES: Assyria, Mesopotamia

Mitanni was a Hurrian kingdom in northern Mesopotamia from ca. 1500 BC.

Mitanni is often associated with Armenian nobility.

[[Russians in the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the United Kingdom, Russian people

There may be many as 300,000 Russians in the United Kingdom. About half of these were born in Russia. Some of the others are citizens of the Baltic states (Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania). Since they joined the EU in 2004, they are free to live in other EU countries, including the UK. There are many Russian language schools in London and the South East. These schools were founded by immigrants from Russia to the United Kingdom. They send their children to the schools so the children can learn about their parents' culture.

[[Larry Griffin]]

CATEGORIES: American criminals, People from Missouri, 1954 births, 1991 deaths

Larry Griffin (September 23, 1954 - June 21, 1995) -  was a man accused of killing 19-year-old Quintin Moss. The alleged crime happened in Saint Louis, Missouri, on June 26, 1980. On June 21, 1995, the State of Missouri executed Griffin by lethal injection. He is one of the few people who were put to death partly based on the testimony of a witness who had been at the crime scene. There were others including Garay Graham who was executed on June 22 2000 when Texas Governor George Bush & the Texas appeals board refused to give him life in prison instead.http://www.ccadp.org/shakasankofa.htm He maintained his innocence until he was executed for the crime. There are groups to this day trying to reopen his case, prove him innocent.

[[Nassau County, New York]]

CATEGORIES: New York (state) counties, 1899 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in New York (state)

Nassau County is a suburban county in the New York Metropolitan area east of New York City and west of Suffolk County, in the U.S. state of New York. In 2000, 1,334,544 people lived there. It and Suffolk County are together referred to as Long Island. Until 1899 Nassau County was part of Queens County. Along with Suffolk, it was named the safest county in the United States in 2005 by Forbes.

Hamlets in Nassau County include Manhasset, New York.

[[First Nagorno-Karabakh War]]

CATEGORIES: 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, Anti-Armenianism, Anti-Azerbaijani sentiment, 20th century in Armenia, 20th century in Azerbaijan, Nagorno-Karabakh, Nagorno-Karabakh Republic

The First Nagorno-Karabakh War was a war that happened between February 1988 to May 1994, in the small ethnic enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh in southwestern Azerbaijan, between the mostly ethnic Armenians of Nagorno-Karabakh backed by the Republic of Armenia against the Republic of Azerbaijan.

[[Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol]]

CATEGORIES: Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol

Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, also known as Trentino-South Tyrol (Italian: Trentino-Alto Adige, German: Trentino-Südtirol, Southern Bavarian: Trentino-Sidtiroul, 1972. Trentino-Tirouler Etschlond, Ladin: Trentin-Südtirol) is a region of northern Italy. The two main cities are Bolzano (Bozen) and Trento.

[[SMAP]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese boy bands

SMAP is a Japanese boy band. Their music is produced by Johnny's. SMAP was formed in April 1988. Now, the group has five members but at the beginning it had six members. They held their first concert at Nippon Budokan in January 1991. They released their first album Can't Stop!!-LOVING on September 9, 1991.

SMAP is an acronym. It is a short way of writing Sports Music Assemble People.

They officially disbanded on 31 December 2016.

[[Kick the Can Crew]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese musical groups, Hip hop bands, Musical groups established in 1996, 2004 disestablishments, 1996 establishments in Japan, 21st century disestablishments in Japan, 2000s disestablishments in Asia

Kick the Can Crew is a Japanese hip-hop group. The style is 3MC and 1DJ. The group was started by 1996, but it broke up in 2004.

[[Judy and Mary]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands

Judy and Mary is a Japanese rock band. This group began in 1992. The members were YUKI, Yoshihito Onda, Kota Igarashi and TAKUYA. They were very famous, but this group ended in 2001. Their famous songs include "Sobakasu," "Lucky Pool" and "Sanpomichi". Their songs have been sung by many Japanese people at karaoke.

[[Angela Aki]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese singers, Japanese songwriters, 1977 births, Living people, People from Tokushima Prefecture

Angela Aki (born September 15, 1977) is a J-pop singer-songwriter. Her former Japanese name is Aki Kiyomi. 

Aki was born in Itano of Tokushima prefecture. Her father is Japanese and her mother is Italian-American.  She is bilingual in English and Japanese. She was raised in Japan, but she moved to Hawaii when she was fifteen. 

Then she went to university at George Washington University. She released an indie album in the United States in 2000, called "These Words". Now she is signed under Sony Japan.

[[Reduction]]

Reduction in a general sense means to take of a part of a whole thing or to make it smaller. 

Reduction or reducing may may mean in special cases:

In mathematics and computer science:

[[Spanish Empire]]

CATEGORIES: Empires, History of Spain, 1492 establishments, 1975 disestablishments

The Spanish Empire also known as "Spanish Monarchy" was one of the largest empires in history and became one of the first global empires in world history

Soon after the Reconquista, Spain became the first global power in the world. It led European exploration of the new world, building the large Viceroyaties in the New World at the time.  Spain also created the first intercontinental trade routes across the oceans.  The Spanish traded goods across the Atlantic Ocean, between Spain and its viceroyalties in the Americas. They also traded across the Pacific Ocean, between Asian-Pacific countries and Mexico throughout the Spanish treasure fleet and Manila galleons.

Spanish Conquistadores conquered the Aztec, Inca, and Maya Empires together with the help of other native american tribes. They took large territories in North, South America, Asia, Africa, and Oceania.  Spain made these territories into Viceroyalties until the XIX century. Spain, especially the kingdom of Castile, became much more powerful.  Also, through royal marriages, the Spanish monarchs created alliances with other European powers.  This allowed the Spanish Empire to gain control of many territories in Europe.  With all these territories and colonies across the world, the Spanish Empire became the greatest and richest empire in the world.

For a time, the Spanish Empire was a great power in the oceans, with its experienced Navy.  Its infantry known as Tercios, recruited from many countries of the Spanish monarchy, was undefeated for a century a half.  Spain enjoyed a cultural golden age in the 16th and 17th centuries.  Cervantes,who was the creator of the first modern novel Don Quixote, and many others such as Lope de Vega, Calderón de la Barca, and Francisco de Quevedo were prominent in different branches of Literature, Architecture, Theology, Phylosophy and so on.

However, eventually, the French, Portuguese, and British tried to undermine the Spanish monarchy.  Starting in the second half of the 17th century, the Spanish Empire began to suffer bankruptcies, and its military began to lose battles.  In the 19th century, Spain lost its last major territories overseas in the Spanish-American War.

[[Viceroyalty of New Spain]]

CATEGORIES: History of Spain, Viceroys, 1520s establishments in North America, 1820s disestablishments in North America, 1821 disestablishments

The Viceroyalty of New Spain was the name of the viceroy-ruled territories of the Spanish Empire in North America and its peripheries in Asia from 1521 to 1821.  New Spain was the name that the Spanish gave to the area that today is central and southern Mexico, and since the capital city of the Viceroyalty was in Mexico City, the name was also used for the viceroyalty.

The Viceroyalty of New Spain's territory included what is the Bay Islands (until 1643), Cayman Islands (until 1670), Central America (as far as the southern border of Costa Rica until 1821), Cuba, Florida, Hispaniola (including Haiti until 1700), Jamaica (until 1670) Mariana Islands, Mexico, Philippines, Puerto Rico, nearly all of the southwestern United States (including all or parts of the modern-day U.S. states of California, Nevada, Utah, Colorado, Wyoming, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas and Florida).  Spain claimed areas as far north as British Columbia and Alaska, but the northern boundary of New Spain was redefined by the Adams-Onís Treaty of 1819.  New Spain also included Venezuela before it was annexed to the Viceroyalty of New Granada in 1717. 

The territories were separated into provinces. Provinces were led by a governor, who was responsible for the administration of the province and often also led the province's army and militias.  The provinces were grouped together under five high courts, called Audiencias in Spanish, at Santo Domingo, Mexico City, Guatemala, Guadalajara and Manila.  Both the high courts and the governors had autonomy from the viceroy and carried out most duties on their own.  Only on important issues did the viceroy become involved in ruling the provinces directly.

In 1821, Spain lost continental territories when it recognized the independence of Mexico, as well as Santo Domingo when it was invaded by Haiti that same year. However, Cuba, Puerto Rico and Spanish East Indies (including Mariana Islands and the Philippines) remained a part of the Spanish crown until the Spanish–American War (1898).

[[Matt LeBlanc]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Actors from Massachusetts, American movie actors, American television actors, People's Choice Award winners

Matthew Steven LeBlanc  Kember (l; born March 25, 1967)  is an Australian  actor. He has been nominated for an Emmy and a Golden Globe Award. He is famous for his role as Joey Tribbiani on the television sitcoms Friends (1994-2004) and on its spin-off series Joey. In 2000, he won "Editor's Choice" in TV Guide Awards (as Friends). In 2002, he won "TV - Choice Actor - Comedy" at the Teen Choice Awards (as Friends). In 2005, he won "Favorite Male Television Star" at the People's Choice Awards. He stars in Episodes as a fictional version of himself. He has hosted Top Gear since 2016.

[[Tango]]

CATEGORIES: Dance music, Ballroom dances, Latin dances

The Tango is a dance which was created in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The musical style that was created with the dance is also called 'tango'. It is danced today in two versions. Neither version is 'better' than the other; they are rather different in style.

[[Ethane]]

CATEGORIES: Alkanes

544.0 kg/m−3 (liquid at -88,5 °C)

206 kg/m−3 (at critical point 305.322 K)

Ethane is an organic chemical compound with chemical formula C2H6. 

At standard temperature and pressure, ethane is a colourless, odorless gas. It is isolated from natural gas, and as a byproduct of petroleum refining. 

Its main use is in the chemical industry, to make ethylene by steam cracking. 

At room temperature, the gas is flammable, and it explodes when mixed with air. When ethane is liquid, touching it causes a very serious frostbite.

[[Cracking (chemistry)]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical processes, Organic reactions

In chemistry terms, cracking is a process in which complicated organic molecules (such as kerogens or heavy hydrocarbons) are broken down into simpler molecules (e.g. light hydrocarbons) by breaking their carbon-carbon bonds. How fast the cracking process is and how long it takes for the end products to form are very dependent on the temperature and any existing catalysts. Cracking, also referred to as pyrolysis, is the breakdown of a large alkane into smaller, more useful alkanes and an alkene.

Cracking is used in petroleum to form "light" products such as LPG and gasoline.

It usually produces a short chain alkane and a long chain alkene.

Hydrocarbons are compounds that only contain carbon and hydrogen atoms.

[[Christchurch]]

CATEGORIES: 1848 establishments, 1840s establishments in New Zealand, Cities in New Zealand

Christchurch is the largest city in the South Island of New Zealand and the third largest urban area in the country.  Christchurch is located on the South Island’s east coast. The population is approximately 376,700 (2010).

The name ‘Christchurch’ was decided upon at the first meeting of the Canterbury Association (made up of settlers of the surrounding province of Canterbury) on March 27, 1848.  The city’s name came from the Christ Church, Oxford College and was suggested by John Robert Godley, who attended the College.  Earlier, the name of the town was Christ Church.  On July 31, 1856, Christchurch became a city by Royal Charter and is officially the oldest established city in New Zealand.

[[Phosphine]]

CATEGORIES: Phosphorus compounds

Phosphine is a chemical compound. Its chemical name is phosphorus hydride. Its chemical formula is PH3. It is also called phosphane and phosphamine. It contains phosphide and hydrogen ions.

[[Planetary ring]]

CATEGORIES: Planets

A planetary ring is a ring made of dust and other particles orbiting around a planet in a flat-disc shaped region. The gas giants Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune are the only planets known to have rings, with the rings of Saturn being the most spectacular system of rings.

The rings sometimes have "shepherd satellites". These moons orbit either in between ring gaps or the outside edge of a ring. The moons' gravity maintain the rings current shape with a well defined edge. Any material that drifts closer to a Moon's orbit, it can either move back into the body of the ring, deflect out into space, or is added onto the Moon's surface.

The rings can be made of silica or water ice. It is not known how any of the rings were formed. They are usually inside the Roche limit where large satellites cannot form.

[[Castile]]

Castile or Castilia can mean:

[[Kingdom of Castile]]

CATEGORIES: History of Spain

The Kingdom of Castile was one of the medieval kingdoms of the Iberian Peninsula. It began in the 9th century: it was called County of Castile and was a vassalage depending from the Kingdom of León. It was one of the kingdoms that existed before the Kingdom of Spain.

[[Luigi Galvani]]

CATEGORIES: Italian physicians, Italian scientists, 1737 births, 1798 deaths

Luigi Galvani (September 9, 1737 – December 4, 1798) was an Italian physician who lived and died in Bologna (Italy). In 1771, he found out that the muscles of dead frogs twitched when hit by a spark. He was a pioneer in modern obstetrics, and discovered that muscle and nerve cells produce electricity. He is well known as the inventor of chemical cells.

Galvani invented batteries which is probably the most important thing which he has made. He also discovered that nerves and muscles produce electricity, and he was a very intelligent man in many different other ways.

This also links to the story of Frankenstein this story is based on a scientist giving life to a body made from different people's limbs by using the same procedure as Luigi Galvani, by sending an electrical current form lightening.  

[[Lorem ipsum]]

CATEGORIES: Typography, Latin phrases

Lorem ipsum is a dummy text used to replace text in some areas just for the purpose of an example. It can be used in publishing and graphic design. It is used to demonstrate the graphics elements of a document, such as font, typography, and layout. 

[[Planetary core]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, Planets

The planetary core is the innermost layer or layers in a planet. The terrestrial planets (planets with a rocky surface) have a core mainly made of iron and could be a solid or a liquid layer. The Earth's core is partially liquid, while the cores of Mars and Venus are thought to be completely solid, because the cores do not make a magnetic field.

The gas giants also have a core made of iron. Their cores are very small, in proportion to their large size. However, the gas giants are so large that their cores can still be larger than the Earth's core. Jupiter's core is estimated to be 12 times the mass of the Earth's.

A core's size can vary from each planet or other object. The moon's core is 20% of its radius, but Mercury's core is 75% of its radius.

[[Redox]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

Redox (shorthand for reduction/oxidation) describes all chemical reactions in which atoms have an increase or decrease in oxidation number (oxidation state).

An oxidation number is a number assigned to an element in chemical combination that represents the number of electrons lost (or gained, if the number is negative), by an atom of that element in the compound.

The term redox comes from the two concepts of reduction and oxidation. It can be explained in simple terms:

Whether an electron is gained or lost can be easily memorised by the abbreviation OIL RIG, which stands for, "Oxidation Is Loss," or losing electrons, and "Reduction Is Gain," or gaining electrons. Redox reactions can also happen by sharing electrons to form a product by covalent bonding.  

In an oxidation reduction reaction, the cation gives an electron to the anion because both ions will have a different charge to attract each other with. In an oxidation reduction reaction, the oxidizing reagent pulls an electron from the other atom to have a net positive charge. The reducing reagent gives an electron to have a net negative charge. However, there are exceptions. 

[[Van Resistance]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian Genocide

The Siege of Van, Resistance at Van, (Վանի Հերոսամարտ Vani Herosamart, Van Direnişi) or Van Rebellion, Van Revolt (Van İsyanı), Armenian Revolution at Van (Van İhtilâli) was a resistance during the World War I against Ottoman Empire.

[[100 (number)]]

CATEGORIES: Integers, Square numbers

100 (also written as one hundred) is the natural number after 99 and before 101. It is the first three-digit number above zero. The number 100 is an abundant number. The letter C is the old Roman numeral for 100.

[[1021]]

CATEGORIES: 1021

1021 (MXXI) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the twenty-first year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

[[1332]]

CATEGORIES: 1332

[[Wasabi]]

CATEGORIES: Spices, Brassicaceae, Condiments

Wasabi is a spice traditionally prepared from a plant from the cabbage family. Its root is used as a spice and has a very strong flavor. The root is smashed up into paste and used as a condiment. Its hotness is more like hot mustard or horseradish than chili pepper, because it irritates the nose more than the tongue. Eating too much wasabi can cause a very painful feeling in the nose. The plant grows naturally in Japan. It is often eaten with sushi.

Wasabi needs clean water and a cool climate. It is difficult to grow wasabi. There are two ways to grow wasabi. One way is to grow wasabi in water. The other way is to grow wasabi in a field.

Major sources of wasabi are Shizuoka, Nagano, Shimane, Yamanashi, and Iwate prefectures in Japan. Other source of wasabi include China, New Zealand, Taiwan.

Because the wasabi plant is so hard to grow, real wasabi is very rare and expensive, most wasabi is a green paste that is really made from horseradish, mustard and food coloring. 

Wasabi is also known for how spicy, or hot it is.

[[Prion disease]]

CATEGORIES: Infectious diseases, Neurology, Dementia

A prion disease (also called transmissible spongiform encephalopathy) is a disease which is caused by prions. Prions are structurally altered versions of small proteins that are normally expressed in cells.  Unlike diseases that are caused by a mutation of the gene resulting in the expression of a mutant protein, prions are able to replicate and transmit diseases through physical contact with the normal proteins resulting in a structural change from the normal state to the prion state. 

Unlike bacteria, prions are not considered to be alive because they do not have their own metabolism, they do not possess genes and cannot naturally reproduce outside a host cell.  Prion diseases are very rare, and no treatment is available for most of them.

Almost all of the known prion diseases are neurologic diseases. There are two common signs which are seen in typical prion diseases:

[[Help!]]

CATEGORIES: The Beatles albums, 1965 albums, Rock and roll albums, Folk albums

Help! is a 1965 movie starring The Beatles, and also the name of the movie's theme song, and of its soundtrack album. The movie was directed by Richard Lester, the same as their first movie, A Hard Day's Night. While A Hard Day's Night was filmed in black-and-white, Help! was in color. George Martin produced the Beatles's songs for the album, and all their recordings for the movie.

[[Please Please Me]]

CATEGORIES: The Beatles albums, Debut albums, 1963 albums, Rock and roll albums, Pop albums

Please Please Me is a 1963 album by The Beatles. It was their first album. Ten of its songs were recorded all in one day, on 11 February 1963, and was an example of what they played live at the time.

[[Maritime, Fluvial and Harbor Museum of Rouen]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in France, Rouen

The Musée Maritime, Fluvial et Portuaire de Rouen (English: Maritime, Fluvial and Harbor Museum of Rouen) is a museum in France. It is about the history of the port of Rouen, which is one the greatest ports of France. The main themes are:

It is possible to see a 38 meter long barge which can be visited, trawler and barge motors and a whale skeleton.

The museum is in a former hangar of the port, not far from the new bridge.

[[Echternach]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Luxembourg

Echternach (Iechternach) is a commune in eastern Luxembourg, capital of the Echternach canton.  It is the oldest town with city rights in Luxembourg.

[[Breast cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Breast cancer

Breast cancer is cancer in the breast.

Breast cancer is the fifth-most common cause of cancer death in the world. The first four are lung cancer, stomach cancer, liver cancer, and colon cancer. In 2005, breast cancer caused 502,000 deaths (7% of cancer deaths; almost 1% of all deaths) in the world. Among all women in the world, breast cancer is the most common cancer.

In the United States, breast cancer is the most common cancer in women, and the second most common cause of cancer death in women (after lung cancer). In 2007, breast cancer caused about 40,910 deaths (7% of cancer deaths; almost 2% of all deaths) in the U.S. Women in the United States have a 1 in 8 chance of getting breast cancer in their lives. They have a 1 in 33 chance of death from breast cancer.

There are many more people getting breast cancer since the 1970s. This is because of how people in the Western world live. Because the breast is composed of identical tissues in males and females, breast cancer also occurs in males, though it is less common.

When a person gets breast cancer, they can try to cure it in three ways. Doctors can cut out the cancer (mastectomy or lumpectomy). They can give the person drugs (chemotherapy). They can also try to kill the cancer with energy (radiation). If one cure does not work, they may need to try another.

[[Cue sports]]

CATEGORIES: Cue sports

Cue sports are games played with balls on a cloth-covered table that has rubber railings (called "cushions") around it to keep the balls on the table.  Two or more people use sticks (called cues) to make one ball (the cue ball) hit other balls. In the past, all cue sports were called billiards, but that term has various different meanings in different areas. 

There are different kinds of cue sports, including:

[[Cher]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Actors from California, American movie actors, American pop singers, American rock singers, American television actors, Emmy Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Grammy Award winners, Singers from California, 1946 births, Living people, Warner Bros. Records artists

Cherilyn Sarkisian (better known as Cher; born on May 20, 1946) is a American actress, singer, songwriter, author and entertainer. She has won an Academy Award, a Grammy Award, an Emmy Award and three Golden Globe Awards. She is well known for her deep contralto vocal range.

Her mother is singer-songwriter and actress Georgia Holt.

Cher first became well known in 1965 as one half of the pop/rock duo Sonny & Cher. She has also released 25 albums as a solo artist, and has 22 Billboard Top 40 entries over her career. These include twelve Top 10 singles and five number one singles.

She became a successful television star in the 1970s, and a movie actress in the 1980s. In 1987, she won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her role in the romantic comedy Moonstruck.

[[Frunzik Mkrtchyan]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian actors, Soviet actors, 1930 births, 1993 deaths

Frunzik (Mher) Mkrtchyan (July 4, 1930 – December 29, 1993) was a popular Soviet Armenian actor who was named a People's Artist of the Soviet Union in 1984.

[[Pest]]

Pest could mean:

Places with the name Pest:

[[Yuzu (band)]]

CATEGORIES: J-pop bands, Folk music groups

Yuzu (ゆず) is a Japanese popular music duo.  Its members are Kitagawa Yujin (北川悠仁) and Iwasawa Kouji (岩沢厚治). Both of the band members come from Yokohama in the Kanagawa Prefecture. At first, they sung on the street in Yokohama. They have known each other since they were small children.

They are famous for their concerts in front of the department store, Matsuzakaya in Isezakicyo in Yokohama. They officially debuted in 1997. The first CD was Yuzu no Moto.

They are loved among men and women of all ages in Japan.

[[Pestilence]]

CATEGORIES: Infectious diseases

Pestilence is a word that is used for any highly infectious disease that can cause an epidemic or even a pandemic. It is commonly used for parasites too, but only when they cause large scale sickness or death, such as the Guinea worm.

The word meant the disease plague, which is called pestis in Latin.

It was used for the Black Death as well, an epidemic of the 14th century that killed Millions of people in Europe.

[[List of historical plagues]]

CATEGORIES: Infectious diseases, Disease-related lists

This list contains famous or well documented outbreaks of plagues or disease. They are examined in individual entries.

[[List of epidemics]]

This article is a list of major pandemics and epidemics caused by infectious diseases in human history. Events in boldface are ongoing. 

[[Pandemic]]

CATEGORIES: Infectious diseases

A pandemic (from Greek παν pan all + δήμος demos people) is an epidemic (an outbreak of an infectious disease) that spreads across a large region (for example a continent), or even worldwide.

[[Training]]

CATEGORIES: Training, Learning

Training means learning to do something. It includes practicing skills. The term is used for learning to do jobs, or play games.

Examples:

Training means changing behavior through learning new requirements and methods. Its effect is measured by testing to see if the behavior has been successfully changed. Follow-up sessions may be repeated until the desired behavior has been achieved.

Exercise may or may not be part of training. When it is, it is called physical training. It is specific and done to improve one's capability, capacity, and performance; see, e.g., strength training or flexibility training.

[[Demi Moore]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Idaho, Actors from New Mexico, American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors, 1962 births, Living people

Demi Moore (born November 11, 1962 as Demi Gene Guynes) is an American actress. She became well-known after a string of 1980s teen-oriented movies, and was one of the best known actresses of 1990s Hollywood.

She has been married to musician Freddy Moore and actors Bruce Willis and Ashton Kutcher. All her marriages ended in divorce. She has three daughters by Willis: Rumer, Scout and Tallulah. She dated Tobey Maguire in 2002 to 2003.

[[Fergie]]

CATEGORIES: The Black Eyed Peas, Actors from Los Angeles County, California, American movie actors, American R&B singers, American rap musicians from California, Singer-songwriters from California, American television actors, American voice actors, Bisexual Christians, LGBT musicians, 1975 births, Living people, People from Whittier, California, Bisexual people

Fergie Duhamel (born Stacy Ann Ferguson; March 27, 1975) is an American singer, songwriter, fashion designer, television host, and former dancer. She is a former member of the kids' TV series Kids Incorporated, and the girl group Wild Orchid. Ferguson was also a co-host of the TV series Great Pretenders. She was also in the movie Nine. She was a vocalist for the hip hop group The Black Eyed Peas and is a solo artist. She released her debut solo album, The Dutchess, in 2006. Her second solo album, Double Dutchess, was released in 2017 through her own label, Dutchess.

She has achieved three number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100: "London Bridge", "Glamorous", and "Big Girls Don't Cry".

[[Zuleyka Rivera Mendoza]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Puerto Rican people, Miss Universe winners

Zuleyka Jerrís Rivera Mendoza (born October 3, 1987 in Cayey, Puerto Rico, and raised in Salinas, Puerto Rico) is a beauty queen who has held the titles Miss Puerto Rico and Miss Universe 2006. 

[[Amanda Peet]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City, 1972 births, Living people

Amanda Peet (born January 11, 1972) is an American movie and television actress. She has acted in television commercials and several movies. She recently appeared at the television series Studio 60 On The Sunset Strip, where her character Jordan McDeere is the president of the fictional network National Broadcasting System (NBS).

[[Rupert Everett]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Actors from Norfolk, Gay men, English LGBT people, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, LGBT actors

Rupert Everett (Rupert James Hector Everett, born 29 May 1959) is an English actor, singer and writer. He became famous when he appeared in Julian Mitchell's play and movie Another Country playing an openly homosexual student at an English public school in the 1930s.  He has since appeared in many other works, including My Best Friend's Wedding, The Next Best Thing and the Shrek sequels.

Everett left school at 16 and ran away to London to become an actor. In order to support himself, he worked as a prostitute for drugs and money—he disclosed this information in an interview for US magazine in 1997. After being dismissed from the Central School of Speech and Drama, he travelled to Scotland and got a job at the Citizens Theatre in Glasgow.

In the 21st century, Everett has been writing. He has been a Vanity Fair contributing editor, has written for The Guardian and wrote a film screenplay on playwright Oscar Wilde's final years.

In 2006 Everett published a memoir, Red Carpets and Other Banana Skins, in which he reveals his six-year affair with British television presenter Paula Yates. Although he is sometimes described as bisexual, as opposed to homosexual, he described his heterosexual affairs during a radio show with Jonathan Ross as the result of adventurousness: "I was basically adventurous, I think I wanted to try everything".

Everett criticised the introduction of same-sex marriage, claiming, "I find it personally beyond tragic that we want to ape this institution that is so clearly a disaster".

[[Shiri Maymon]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, Israeli pop singers, Israeli singers, Jewish Israeli musicians, People from Haifa

Shiri Maymon (born May 17, 1981 in Haifa, Israel) is an Israeli (pop) singer. She represented her country in Eurovision Song Contest 2005 where she reached the final.

[[Tom Selleck]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Detroit, Michigan, American movie actors, American television actors, American television producers, American television writers, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Writers from Detroit, Michigan, 1945 births, Living people

Thomas William "Tom" Selleck (born January 29, 1945 in Detroit, Michigan) is a Golden Globe and Emmy Award winning American actor, screenwriter and film producer, best known for his role on the long-running television show Magnum P.I. and Peter Mitchell in Three Men and a Baby and Three Men and a Little Lady. He stars on Blue Bloods. He has also acted in many movies and had a recurring role as Dr. Richard Burke on Friends, who was a love interest to the character of Monica Geller (Courteney Cox).

[[Rob Schneider]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Actors from San Francisco, American movie actors, American television actors, American television producers, American television writers, Movie directors from California, Movie producers from California, Screenwriters from California, Writers from San Francisco

Robert Michael Schneider (born October 31, 1963) is an American actor, comedian, screenwriter, producer and director.

[[Växjö]]

CATEGORIES: Växjö

Växjö (Swedish IPA: ˘vɛkːɧøː) is a city in Småland in southern Sweden. It has a population of 55,600 (2005).  Växjö is the seat of Växjö Municipality and is the administrative, cultural and industrial centre of Kronoberg County.  Furthermore, it is the seat of the Diocese of Växjö.

[[Carolina Klüft]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, 2008 Summer Olympics, Competitors in athletics, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Olympic gold medalists, Swedish Olympians

Carolina Evelyn Klüft (born February 2, 1983) is a Swedish athlete. She competes in heptathlon, long jump and pentathlon. She is the current Olympic, World (twice) and European (twice) heptathlon champion and is regarded as one of the best female athletes in the world. Since 16/09/2002, Klüft has been continuously ranked as the world's leading heptathlete, by the IAAF. This is currently the longest of any athlete.

She is also normally a member of the Swedish 4 × 100 m relay team at international competitions, and was part of the team that set the national record.

Her main coach is Agne Bergvall. She is 5 ft 10 in (1.78 m) tall and weighs 65 kg.

On 2 September 2012, during the Finland-Sweden athletics international at Ullevi, Carolina Klüft officially ended her career and retired from sports.

[[Jonas Björkman]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish sportspeople, 1972 births, Living people, Tennis players

Jonas Lars Björkman (born March 23, 1972, Alvesta, Sweden) is a Swedish professional male tennis player and former World No. 4 in singles and World No. 1 in doubles. He is as of the 2006 season the oldest player in the ATP Top 100 (singles). He has also played in numerous Wimbledon tournaments.

[[Do As Infinity]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands, J-pop bands

Do As Infinity is a Japanese pop / rock band.  They had their first song on September 29, 1999, "Tangerine Dream". Their name is sometimes shortened to D.A.I. The band was named after the their guitarist and composer, Dai Nagao. The singer was  Van Tomiko. The group ended on September 29, 2005. They started again 3 years later.

[[Myleene Klass]]

CATEGORIES: Classical musicians, English pianists, English pop musicians, English singers, English television presenters, I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here! contestants, Television personalities from Norfolk, 1978 births, Living people

Myleene Angela Klass (born 6 April 1978) is an English classical pianist, commercial model, television and radio presenter, and former member of British pop group Hear'Say. She was born in Gorleston, Norfolk to a Filipino mother and Anglo-Austrian father. Her pop success achieved 4 Top 10 singles, 2 of which were UK Number Ones. Hear'Say also released 2 albums, Popstars and Everybody. 

Almost a year after the Hear'Say break-up on 13 May 2003, Klass signed a five-album deal with Universal Classics and Jazz.  Klass's album, called Moving On, was sold on 20 October 2003 at Harrods, London.  It was nominated as Peoples' Album Of The Year in the Classical BRIT Awards.  On 23 October 2004 Klass said she would not be releasing any further material through the label.

Klass was a contestant in the 2006 series of I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here!.  She finished in second place, behind Matt Willis. 

Her net worth was about £11 million in April 2012.

[[Kym Marsh]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, English pop singers, English television actors, Musicians from Merseyside, Reality television participants

Kimberley Gail "Kym" Marsh  (formerly Ryder, and Lomas born 13 June 1976 in Whiston, Knowsley, Merseyside, England) is an English actress and singer. Marsh grew up in Garswood, Merseyside.

Marsh rose to fame when she and four other contestants won reality TV show Popstars and formed manufactured pop quintet Hear'Say. She is presently most recognisable from her role as Michelle Connor on the long-running ITV1 soap opera Coronation Street which she has played since 2006. Marsh was one of the contenders to represent the UK in the 2006 Eurovision Song Contest; she was third place and as such did not take part in the ESC.

[[Mackenzie Rosman]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American child actors, Actors from South Carolina, 1989 births, Living people

Mackenzie Ryann Rosman (born December 28, 1989) is an American actress.  She is best known for her role as Ruthie Camden on The CW's 7th Heaven.

[[David Gallagher]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from New York City

David Lee Gallagher (born February 9, 1985) is an American actor. He began his career as a child actor and model when he was two years old and is best known for his role as Simon Camden on the television series 7th Heaven.  He is also known for his feature film roles; as Mikey Ubriacco in Look Who's Talking Now, as Kevin Harper in Angels in the Endzone and as Ri¢hie Ri¢h in Ri¢hie Ri¢h's Christmas Wish.  During his career as a child and teen star, he was nominated for five Young Artist Awards and won a Teen Choice Award. He is also known for voicing the character Riku in the Kingdom Hearts video game series.

[[Jessica Biel]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Minnesota

Jessica Claire Biel (born March 3, 1982) is an American actress, Vocalist and former fashion model. 

Biel became known for her early television role of Mary Camden in the long-running family drama series 7th Heaven. She is perhaps best known for appearing in several Hollywood movies. These include Summer Catch, the remake of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and The Illusionist. 

Biel is also known for her beauty and is considered a sex symbol. In 2005 Esquire magazine declared her the "Sexiest Woman Alive". In 2007 she was voted number 1 in a poll by Stuff magazine.

In 2012, she married singer Justin Timberlake. Their son, Silas Randall Timberlake, was born on April 11, 2015.

[[7th Heaven]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 American television series debuts, 2007 American television series endings, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, American drama television series, Television series about families, Television series set in California, WB network shows, English-language television programs, The WB original programming

7th Heaven was an American television series about a Protestant minister's family living in the fictional town of Glenoak, California. It was created and produced by Brenda Hampton. The series premiered on Monday, August 26, 1996, on the WB Television Network, the first time that the WB aired Monday night programming. The series finale was scheduled for May 8, 2006; however, the show was renewed by the CW Television Network when the intended final episode received high ratings. The 11th and final season premiered on September 25, 2006 and ended on May 13, 2007. Reruns of 7th Heaven can now be seen on the UP channel weekdays from noon-4 p.m. ET.

[[Beverley Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles County, California, 1981 births, Living people

Beverley Ann Mitchell (born January 22, 1981) is an American actress and country music singer. She is perhaps best known for her role as Lucy Camden-Kinkirk on the television series 7th Heaven.

[[Nanne Grönvall]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Swedish singers, Songwriters, Writers from Stockholm, Singers from Stockholm

Nanne Grönvall (born Marianne Elisabeth Nordqvist on May 18, 1962 in Stockholm) is a Swedish singer-songwriter. She's married to Peter Grönvall, who's the son of ABBA's Benny Andersson. Nanne has participated in the National part of Eurovision Song Contest 8 times, won it once with their group One More Time and ended up in 3:rd place in the international competition. She has, beside her musical career, had her own radiotalkshow and hosted many other radioshows, acted in several theatre and musical-productions, among others she did the leading part of Sweet Charity. She has toured Sweden many times in her own name and also had her own shows in the two biggest cities in Sweden, Stockholm and Gothenburg. She had great success around in Europe together with her group One More Time in the 90s and later on Ritchie Blackmore recorded their hitsong Highland with his group Blackmore's Night.

Nannes musical career started in the 1980s group Sound of Music. The trio participated twice in the Swedish Eurovision Song Contest selections, Melodifestivalen, finishing fourth both times; in 1986 with Eldorado and in 1987 with Alexandra. Over the following ten years she established herself as a songwriter in Melodifestivalen, writing two songs for the 1992 competition and the 1995 runner-up Det vackraste (The Most Beautiful Thing) performed by Cecilia Vennersten.

[[Human biology]]

CATEGORIES: Biology, Humans, Anthropology, Physical anthropology

Human biology is an area of study that is part of biology, biological anthropology, and medicine which looks at humans; it is closely related to primate biology, and a number of other areas.

Human biology research includes:

There are not exact boundaries between human biology and regular medical research. However, human biology usually focuses more on health for an entire group of people, and on human evolution, adaptation, and population genetics rather than individual health.

[[Flavor Flav]]

CATEGORIES: African-American rappers, American rap musicians from New York, American robbers, Singers from New York, 1959 births, Living people

William Jonathan Drayton Jr. (born March 16, 1959), known by the stage name Flavor Flav, is an American rapper and television personality. He is a member of the hip hop group Public Enemy. He raps about politics.  After several years of quiet, he has been seen again lately as a star of American reality television. He has starred in some VH1 programs, most recently the Flavor of Love series.

Flav was born in Roosevelt, New York and grew up in Freeport, New York.

[[Schapelle Corby]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Australian criminals, Australian prisoners, Drug dealers, People convicted of drug offenses, People from Queensland

Schapelle Leigh Corby (born 10 July 1977) is an Australian woman convicted and imprisoned in Indonesia for drug smuggling. She is a former shop assistant and beauty therapy student from Queensland.

Corby served a twenty year sentence for the importation of 4.1 kg (9 lb) of cannabis into Bali, Indonesia. She was convicted and sentenced in Bali on 27 May 2005 by the Denpasar (Indonesia) District Court and was serving her sentence in Kerobokan Prison, Bali. On appeal, her conviction and sentence have been confirmed with finality by the Indonesian Supreme Court, with legal maneuvers continuing on her behalf.

She says that the drugs were put in her bag by someone else and that she did not know about them. Her trial and conviction were a major focus of attention for the Australian media. Corby was released on parole on 10 February 2014 after serving nine years in prison. In her parole conditions, Corby cannot leave Indonesia until July 2017.

[[Autogenic training]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Autogenic training is a relaxation technique developed by the German psychiatrist Johannes Schultz and first published in 1932.

The technique involves the daily practice of sessions that last around 15 minutes, usually in the morning, at lunch time, and in the evening. During each session, the practitioner will repeat a set of visualisations that induce a state of relaxation. Each session can be practiced in a position chosen amongst a set of recommended postures (e.g. lying down, sitting meditation, sitting like a rag doll, etc.). 

Schultz emphasized parallels to techniques in yoga and meditation. However, unlike some forms of yoga and meditation, autogenic training is devoid of any mysticism.  It is a method for influencing one's autonomic nervous system. 

[[Mathematical notation]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematical notation

Mathematical notation is a system in mathematics that uses symbols to represent objects and ideas. In mathematics and other exact sciences like physics or computer science, problems often need to be presented in some way. In such representations, different symbols have different meanings:

Some mathematical notations use diagrams, or small drawings to show the underlying concepts. One example is the Penrose graphical notation which is used to show tensors. Another examples are Coxeter–Dynkin diagram which are used for certain problems of geometry. 

There are different ways to write down an equation like  two and three

[[Shell]]

Shell may refer to:

[[Ian Craig Marsh]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, English musicians

Ian Craig Marsh (born 11 November 1956) is a British musician. He helped start the electronic band The Human League, until leaving in 1980 to form B.E.F. (British Electric Foundation) and later Heaven 17.

[[Laboratory equipment]]

CATEGORIES: Laboratory equipment

Laboratory equipment are tools and equipment used by scientists who work in a laboratory.  These can include tools such as:

Laboratory equipment is used to either perform an experiment or to take measurements and gather data.

[[Sarah Palin]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American Evangelicals, Writers from Alaska, Writers from Idaho, American journalists, American mayors, Businesspeople from Alaska, Governors of Alaska, Politicians from Idaho, United States vice-presidential candidates, 2008, US Republican Party politicians

Sarah Louise Palin (Sarah-Louise-Palin-en-US-pronunciation.ogg; née Heath; born February 11, 1964) is an American politician, commentator and author.  She was the ninth Governor of Alaska, from 2006 to 2009. As the Republican Party nominee for Vice President in the 2008 presidential election alongside Arizona Senator John McCain, she was the first Alaskan on the national ticket of a major party and first Republican woman nominated for the vice presidency. Her book Going Rogue has sold more than two million copies. Since January 2010, she has provided political commentary for Fox News, and hosted a television show, Sarah Palin's Alaska.

She was elected to Wasilla City Council in 1992 and became mayor of Wasilla in 1996. In 2003, after an unsuccessful run for lieutenant governor, she was appointed Chairman of the Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, responsible for overseeing the state's oil and gas fields for safety and efficiency.  The youngest person and first woman to be elected Governor of Alaska, Palin held the office from December 2006 until her resignation in July 2009. She has since endorsed and campaigned for the Tea Party movement, as well as several candidates in the 2010 midterm elections.

[[Samvel Babayan]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1957 births, Armenian military people

Samvel Babayan (Սամվել Բաբայան; born June 22, 1957), was the Commander-in-Chief of the Nagorno-Karabakh Defense Army from 1994 to 2000. On March 22, 2000, he allegedly tried to kill President Arkadi Ghukasyan in Stepanakert. He was sentenced to 14 years in prison.

[[Nagorno-Karabakh Defense Army]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Armenia

The Nagorno-Karabakh (NKR) Defense Army was made on May 9, 1992, as the formal defence force of the unrecognized Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, made up of Armenians. It is internationally recognised to be part of Azerbaijan. 

[[Republic of Artsakh]]

CATEGORIES: Nagorno-Karabakh Republic

Artsakh, officially the Republic of Artsakh (ˈ; Արցախի Հանրապետություն, hy) or the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic (n), is a de facto independent republic in the Nagorno-Karabakh region of the South Caucasus. It is internationally recognised to be part of Azerbaijan.

It has previously been populated by Azerbaijanis for a long time. The area has been disputed by Armenia and Azerbaijan since 1918. After the Soviet Union established control over the area, in 1923 it formed the Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast (NKAO) within the Azerbaijan SSR. In the final years of the Soviet Union, the region again became a source of dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan, resulting in the Nagorno-Karabakh War from 1988–1994.

On 10 December 1991, a referendum was held in the NKAO and the neighbouring Shahumian region, which was boycotted by the region's Azerbaijani population. This resulted in a declaration of independence from Azerbaijan as the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. The country is not recognized by any UN member state, including Armenia. Representatives of the governments of Armenia and Azerbaijan have since been holding peace talks mediated by the OSCE Minsk Group.

[[Brandon Lee]]

CATEGORIES: Accidental deaths in the United States, Actors from Oakland, California, American movie actors, American television actors, 1965 births, 1992 deaths, Bruce Lee

Brandon Bruce Lee (February 1, 1965 – March 31, 1993) was an American actor of Han Chinese, German, English and Swedish descent. He was the son of martial arts movie star Bruce Lee. In 1993, he was accidentally shot dead when filming the movie adaptation of The Crow, a popular comic book. About his character Lee said, "He has something he has to do and he is forced to put aside his own pain long enough to go do it".

[[Matt Dillon]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from New York, 1964 births, Living people

Matthew Raymond "Matt" Dillon (born February 18, 1964) is an Academy Award-nominated American actor. He began acting in the late 1970s, gained fame as a teen idol during the 1980s, and made a successful career as an adult actor in the decades following, ending in an Oscar nomination for his acting in the film Crash.

[[Matt Damon]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning writers, Actors from Boston, Massachusetts, Actors from Cambridge, Massachusetts, American movie actors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, American television actors, American voice actors, Golden Globe Award winning writers, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts, 1970 births, Living people

Matthew Paige "Matt" Damon (born October 8, 1970) is an American actor, screenwriter, producer and philanthropist. He won the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay for his writing of the story for the movie Good Will Hunting, and he was nominated for his acting in the same movie. He has also acted in several other movies including The Bourne Identity, the Ocean's Trilogy, and Syria Must Die.

[[Robert Urich]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Ohio, American movie actors, American television actors, American television producers, Cancer deaths in the United States, Emmy Award winning actors, Deaths from sarcoma, 1946 births, 2002 deaths

Robert Urich (December 19, 1946 – April 16, 2002) was an Emmy-winning actor. He was born in Toronto, Ohio. 

Urich is best known for playing private investigators on the television series Spenser: For Hire (1985–1988) and Vega$ (1978–1981).  He also acted in many other television series over the years including: S.W.A.T. (1975), Soap (1977) and The Lazarus Man (1996). He was also known for staring in the movie A long Way Home which was released in 2003.

From 1975 until his death, Urich was married to actress Heather Menzies.

Urich died of synovial sarcoma in Thousand Oaks, California at the age of 55.  

[[Vic Morrow]]

CATEGORIES: Accidental deaths in California, Actors from the Bronx, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, Aviation deaths in the United States, Movie directors from New York City, Screenwriters from New York City, 1929 births, 1982 deaths

Victor Morrow (February 14, 1929 - July 23, 1982) was an American actor. He was famous for acting in the television series Combat! (1962-1967), in which he also worked as a television director.

Morrow was born in the Bronx, New York City. He was the father of actress Jennifer Jason Leigh. 

Morrow died while filming Twilight Zone: The Movie at an accident in Ventura County, California with a helicopter that crashed and killed him and two children. The accident made the government make many reforms in U.S. child labor laws and safety regulations on movie sets in California.

[[Lal Masjid siege]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s in Pakistan, Islamabad, 2007 in Asia

The Lal Masjid siege was a conflict centering around the Lal Masjid mosque and madrasah complex in Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan, that was besieged from July 3 to July 11, 2007.

[[Mourning dove]]

CATEGORIES: Doves, Birds of North America, Birds of Pakistan

The mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) is a member of the dove family (Columbidae). It has five subspecies. The number of mourning doves is about 475 million. They live in North America. Mourning doves are light grey and brown, and males and females look similar.

These birds usually have one partner at a time. Both parents sit on the eggs and care for their chicks. Adult mourning doves usually eat only seeds. The parents feed crop milk to the young.

People hunt mourning doves for sport and for meat. Up to 70 million birds are shot in the United States every year. Its name, "mourning," comes from its sad-sounding call. The bird is a strong flier, and can fly at up to 88 km/h (55 mph).

[[Mai Kuraki]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese singers, 1982 births, Living people, Musicians from Chiba Prefecture

Mai Kuraki (born October 28, 1982 in Funabashi, Chiba) is a Japanese female pop and R&B singer.

Her father is the movie director, Isomi Yamasaki.

She appeared in her father's movies in her childhood.

She started her singing career in 1999 when she was 17 years old. Her first single was "Love, Day After Tomorrow". It became a million seller.

Her first album “delicious way” sold 35 million records.

After graduating Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto on 2005, she has concentrated on musical activities.

She writes her own lyrics most of the times. But she does not compose (write) the music. She gets music from composers. “Cybersound” in Boston often does the arrangements.

She was influenced by Michael Jackson.

[[Saint Mesrob]]

CATEGORIES: 360 births, 440 deaths, Armenian people, Armenian language, Christian saints

Saint Mesrop Mashtots (also Mesrob, Mashtotz, Մեսրոբ Մաշտոց, 360 - February 17, 440) was an Armenian monk. He invented the Armenian alphabet in the year 406. He was a theologian and linguist. That was a basic and important step in strengthening three things: the Armenian Church, the government of the Armenian Kingdom, and connections between the Armenian Kingdom and Armenians living in the Byzantine and Iranian Empires.

[[Ashlee Simpson]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Texas, American television actors, Actors from Texas, 1984 births, Living people, People from Waco, Texas

Ashlee Simpson (born October 3, 1984) is an American pop rock singer, songwriter, actress, and dancer. She is the younger sister of pop singer Jessica Simpson. Ashlee started dancing at the age of 4 and by the time she was 11 enjoyed the status of being the youngest person ever admitted to the prestigious School of American Ballet. In 1999, when she was 14 years old, she moved to Los Angeles with her family for her sister's career and instantly began her own career by working as a backup dancer for Jessica.

Ashlee's first album, Autobiography, was released in 2004. She also starred in her own reality series The Ashlee Simpson Show. Simpson was criticized when she used a pre-recorded vocal track for a performance on Saturday Night Live in October 2004. Simpson released another album in 2005 called I Am Me. In May 2008, Ashlee married Pete Wentz, from the band Fall Out Boy. Their son, Bronx Mowgli, was born in November 2008. In February 2011, Simpson-Wentz filed for divorce.

[[Providence]]

Providence may mean:

[[Airbus A340]]

CATEGORIES: Airbus aircraft

The Airbus A340 is a long-range four-engined widebody commercial passenger airplane manufactured by Airbus S.A.S. a subsidiary of EADS. It is similar in design to the twin-engined A330.

There are 4 variants of this model:

The A340-200 (which is the shortest), the A340-300, the A340-500 and the longest one the A340-600. The A340-600 is the second longest passenger plane in the world. 

Having four engines, the A340 uses more fuel than many other aircrafts. However, that also mean it does not have to pass the ETOPS (extended range twin operations) test to fly long range. 

The Airbus A340 is no longer in production as it was replaced by the more efficient Airbus A350 XWB. 

[[Autonomic nervous system]]

CATEGORIES: Nervous system

The autonomic nervous system (ANS) controls the conditions inside the body. It is sometimes called the 'visceral nervous system' or 'involuntary nervous system'. The ANS is part of the peripheral nervous system.

ANS controls all automatic actions. That means that it controls all reflexes and actions during sleep.

Most of its activities are done without the person having conscious control over them. The person usually cannot feel what the ANS is doing. However, some of the ANS's activities work together with the conscious mind, like breathing. 

The ANS controls many different things, like heart rate, digestion, respiration rate, salivation, perspiration, diameter of the pupils, the discharge of urine, and erection.

There are two different sections within the ANS:

[[Peripheral nervous system]]

CATEGORIES: Nervous system

The peripheral nervous system, or PNS, is part of the nervous system. It consists of the nerves and ganglia which are outside the central nervous system (the brain and spinal cord). The main function of the PNS is to connect the central nervous system (CNS) to the  limbs and organs. 

The PNS is not protected by bone like the central nervous system. Therefore it is exposed to toxins and mechanical injuries. The peripheral nervous system is divided into the somatic nervous system (SNS) and the autonomic nervous system (ANS). But the enteric nervous system (ENS) can be seen as a third branch of its own and not as part of the autonomic nervous system. 

[[IKEA]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Sweden, Shops, 1943 establishments in Sweden

IKEA is a multinational furniture company that was founded by Ingvar Kamprad, from Sweden. The name IKEA is an acronym from the name Ingvar Kamprad, Elmtaryd (the farm where he grew up), and Agunnaryd (his hometown in Småland, southern Sweden).

[[Central nervous system]]

CATEGORIES: Nervous system

The central nervous system (CNS) is the largest part of the nervous system. It is made up of the brain and the spinal cord.

Together with the peripheral nervous system, it has an important role in the control of behaviour. The CNS is protected by bone in the dorsal cavity: the brain in the cranial subcavity, and the spinal cord in the spinal cavity.

[[Spinal cord]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the nervous system

The spinal cord is a bundle of nerves that go to and from the brain. It is enclosed in and protected by the bony vertebral column. The main function of the spinal cord is transmission of neural inputs between the periphery and the brain.

[[Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 British television series debuts, 1990s television series, 2000s television series, 2010s television series, British television game shows

Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? is a British quiz show, produced by Celador. In May 2008, the Dutch company 2waytraffic bought the license for the international format. 

[[Danny Saucedo]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Danny Saucedo (born Daniel Gabriel Alessandro Saucedo Grzechowski on 25 February 1986 in Stockholm, Stockholms Län, Sweden) is a Swedish singer who competed as one of the finalists in Pop Idol — the Swedish version of Idol. His two songs charted on the official Swedish singles chart. '"Öppna Din Dörr"' (Tommy Nilsson cover) peaked at No. 24 in 2006 and Tokyo (credit to Danny) was two weeks at No. 1 in 2007.

[[Agnes Carlsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Swedish singers

Agnes Carlsson (born March 6 1988 in Vänersborg), (better known by her stage name Agnes) is a Swedish singer who rose to popularity after winning Idol 2005, the Swedish version of Pop Idol, shown by TV4. The October 10th 2006 SVT confirmed that Agnes would participate in the Swedish Melodifestivalen 2007 with her song "More than a girl", but she got disqualified because she talked about the song in an interview with Aftonbladet. She is the third only Idol winner who was previously a Wildcard on the show, next to Canada's Ryan Malcolm and Kazakhstan's Almas Kishkenbayev. Agnes advanced to the finals as the jury's choice. She has released a song called "Release Me", which became a huge hit for Agnes.

[[Daniel Lindström]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish singers, 1978 births, Living people

Daniel Lindström (born January 30, 1978) is a Swedish singer from Umeå. He won the Swedish Idol 2004 contest against Darin Zanyar. His first single, "Coming True", sold double platinum, and his self-titled album, released in December 2004, topped the Swedish pop charts. The new album Nån slags verklighet (Some kind of reality) contains songs written in Swedish by the singer himself. Daniel Lindström was the first winner of the Swedish Idol series.

[[Destiny's Child]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 establishments in the United States, 2006 disestablishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, African-American musical groups, American girl groups, Beyoncé, Destiny's Child, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups disestablished in 2006, Musical groups established in 1997, Musical groups from Texas, Musical trios

Destiny's Child was a three-time Grammy Award-winning American R&B girl group. They were founded in Houston, Texas. They formed in 1997. Originally a quartet called Girl's Tyme, the group eventually became a trio whose members were Beyoncé Knowles, Kelly Rowland, and Michelle Williams. According to the World Music Awards, Destiny's Child is the best selling female group of all time. On June 12, 2005, they announced on tour in Barcelona that they would no longer be performing together, but pursuing individual careers in music, theatre, television and film.

They disbanded in 2006. Destiny's Child has sold in total 75 million worldwide including albums, video albums and singles; its leader Beyoncé as a solo and featured artist has sold the same million of copies; Kelly Rowland has sold as a solo and featured artist 20 albums and singles million worldwide.

With Michelle Williams as the lineup destiny's child sold about 35 million copies. By herself Michelle has had several albums amongst them are: heart to you and unexpected.

Destiny's Child has sold 170 million worldwide.

[[Kelly Rowland]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Actors from Atlanta, Georgia, Actors from Houston, Texas, African American actors, African American musicians, American dancers, American movie actors, American R&B singers, American songwriters, American television actors, Destiny's Child, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from Houston, Texas, Singers from Atlanta, Georgia

Kelendria Trene "Kelly" Rowland (born February 11, 1981) is a Grammy Award-winning American R&B singer, songwriter, dancer, and occasional actress, who rose to fame as one of the founding members of the successful R&B girl group Destiny's Child, the world's best-selling female group of all time.

Her total sales (LP, EP, compilation, video album and singles) surpassed 100 million worldwide (60 with the group e 40 as solo and featured artist). Rowland has released four solo albums. Her first album Simply Deep is her most successful album. Rowland had her only number one on the album, "Dilemma".

Rowland's parents separated when she was seven. She and her mother moved to Houston when she was eight.

[[Pop Idol]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 television series debuts, 2000s British television series, ITV reality television programmes, 2001 establishments in the United Kingdom, English-language television programs

Pop Idol was a British television series that was first shown on ITV on October 5, 2001. The show was a talent contest to decide the best new young pop singer, or 'pop idol', in the United Kingdom, based on viewer voting and participation. There were two series of Pop Idol. The first was from October 2001 - February 2002. The winner was  Will Young; the runner-up was Gareth Gates. The second series was in 2003. It was won by Michelle McManus.

The Idol series has become an international franchise. It has spun off many successful shows such as Idol, American Idol, Idols, Canadian Idol, Australian Idol, Idols West Africa, Indian Idol, Indonesian Idol, New Zealand Idol, Philippine Idol, Pinoy Idol, Hay superstar, Nouvelle Star, Deutschland sucht den SuperStar, Singapore Idol, Malaysian Idol, Music Idol, Idols South Africa, Ídolos Brazil, Ídolos Portugal, and others.

[[Rachel Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Beauty pageant winners, People from Tennessee

Rachel Renee Smith (born April 18, 1985 in Panama) is a beauty queen from Clarksville, Tennessee. She won the Miss USA contest in 2007. She had previously competed in the Miss Teen USA contest. She represented the USA in the Miss Universe pageant in 2007.

[[Natalie Glebova]]

CATEGORIES: Miss Universe winners, Living people, People from Toronto, Russian models, 1981 births

Natalie Glebova, (born November 11 1981) is a Russian Canadian beauty queen who has held the title Miss Universe 2005.

[[Michelle Williams (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, African American musicians, American R&B singers, Singers from Illinois, Strictly Come Dancing participants, Destiny's Child, People from Rockford, Illinois

Tenitra Michelle Williams (born July 23, 1979) is an American gospel and R&B singer, songwriter, and actress. She was a background singer for Monica, before rising to fame as one-third of the successful Grammy Award-winning musical group Destiny's Child, the world's best-selling female group of all time, selling over 100 million records worldwide. 

Williams played the character Shug Avery in the play The Color Purple. She was a contestant in the 2010 series of British reality television show Strictly Come Dancing.

In 2013, she made a return to inspirational music with the lead single, If We Had Your Eyes from her upcoming fourth studio album titled Journey to Freedom.

[[Simon Cowell]]

CATEGORIES: American Idol, Businesspeople from London, Television personalities from Hertfordshire, Television personalities from London, 1959 births, Living people

Simon Phillip Cowell (born 7 October 1959) is a British businessman, music talent show judge, television personal, and entrepreneur. Cowell is the A&R executive for Syco in the United Kingdom and the son of estate agent and music industry executive Eric Cowell Sr. and socialite Julie Brett. He was born in Lambeth, London and raised in Elstree, Hertfordshire. He is well known as a judge on television programmes Pop Idol, The X Factor, American Idol and Britain's Got Talent. On these shows, Cowell is known for saying that most of the contestants on the shows are not talented.  He is known for joining activities in the television and music industries, having made singles and records for many television characters.

Cowell has been in a relationship with Lauren Silverman since 2013. The couple's son, Eric, was born in February 2014. Silverman's husband divorced her for alleged adultery with Cowell.

[[Reality television]]

CATEGORIES: Reality television series

Reality television is a genre of television programming which presents unscripted dramatic or humorous situations, document actual events, and have ordinary people instead of professional actors. Although reality television has existed in some form or another since the early years of television, the term "reality television" is most commonly used to describe shows since 2000. Documentaries, news and sports shows are not called reality shows.

There are many different kinds of reality television shows, from game or quiz shows to surveillance-type shows, such as Big Brother.

Critics say that the term "reality television" is not accurate. Many shows portray a changed and highly influenced form of reality, with participants put in exotic locations or abnormal situations, sometimes told to act certain ways, and with events on screen sometimes changed by editing.

[[Tengwar]]

CATEGORIES: Middle-earth

Tengwar is a constructed writing system, invented by J. R. R. Tolkien. The tengwar is used in his fictional world Middle-earth, for example the book The Lord of the Rings. 

In the Quenya language, tengwar means "letters", tengwa is the singular and means "letter".

The tengwar are used to write some of Tolkien's constructed languages, like for example the elven languages Quenya and Sindarin. But Tolkien used the tengwar mostly for writing English. Because the tengwar is an alphabet, it can be used to write almost any language.

[[Petros Duryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1851 births, 1872 deaths, Armenian poets, Armenian actors

Petros Duryan (1851-1872) an Armenian poet and actor. His father was an blacksmith in Istanbul. He died of Tuberculosis at the age of 21. 

[[Adriana Lima]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian models, People from Salvador, Bahia

Adriana Lima (born June 12, 1981) is a Brazilian supermodel. She is well known for her work with underwear company Victoria's Secret.

[[Cuban Missile Crisis]]

CATEGORIES: 1962, 1960s in the United States, Cold War, Fidel Castro, History of the Soviet Union, John F. Kennedy, Nuclear weapons

The Cuban Missile Crisis was a time of heightened confrontation between the Soviet Union, the United States, and Cuba during the Cold War. In Russia, it is known as the Caribbean Crisis (Карибский кризис, Karibskiy krizis). Cuba calls it the October Crisis. It was a proxy conflict around Cuba. 

It began when the Soviet Union (USSR) began building missile sites in Cuba in 1962.  Together with the earlier Berlin Blockade, this crisis is seen as one of the most important confrontations of the Cold War.  It may have been the moment when the Cold War came closest to a nuclear war.

There was a coup in Cuba in 1959.  A small group led by Fidel Castro took power in this Cuban Revolution.  The new government took over American businesses.  The American government refused to import anything from Cuba after that.  The US embargo against Cuba began February 7, 1962.  In 1962, the American government was worried that the USSR would attack America from Cuba, because Cuba is near enough that the missiles could reach almost any city in America.  Cuba was seen by the US as a communist country, like the Soviet Union.

In October 1962, American ships blocked Soviet ships carrying missiles from going into Cuba.  The Soviets and Cubans agreed to take away the missiles if America promised not to attack Cuba. During the Cuban Missile Crisis, the Kennedy administration secretly agreed to remove the Jupiter missiles from Turkey in exchange for the withdrawal of all Russian nuclear weapons from Cuba. 

[[Berber people]]

CATEGORIES: Berber people

Berbers (also called Amazighs, "free men") are an ethnic group found natively in the countries of Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia in North Africa, and also found as immigrants in many countries, especially France. Berbers usually speak the Berber language. Berbers were both nomadic and land owners according to the region they live in. Most Berbers are Muslims or follow the native animist Berber religion.

[[Prosencephalon]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the brain

The prosencephalon (or forebrain), the mesencephalon (midbrain), and rhombencephalon (hindbrain) are the three primary portions of the brain of vertebrates. They develop very early during development of the central nervous system.

When the embryonic prosencephalon fails to divide the brain into two lobes, it results in a condition known as holoprosencephaly.

[[Gag]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality

A gag is any thing used to stop a person from speaking. This is done by blocking or muffling the person's mouth and making it difficult for them to move their jaw and tongue in a normal way.

Gags are very commonly seen in BDSM and bondage fantasy. Many different items can be used, ranging from a hand simply clamped over the victim's mouth, to a scarf tied between the jaws, to adhesive tape placed over the mouth and face to seal the lips. There are also many kinds of specially-made gags, which usually strap around or behind the head. Special gags of that kind are usually made from leather or rubber.

In real life it is quite difficult to gag a person in such a way that their speech cannot be understood at all, and it is almost impossible to prevent a gagged person from making some kind of sound. It is also a risk to the person's safety, as the more tightly and securely someone is gagged, the greater the risk that they will choke or suffocate.

[[Stepchild]]

Stepchild could mean:

[[Meänkieli dialects]]

CATEGORIES: Uralic languages, Languages of Europe

Meänkieli (also known as Tornedalian Finnish, meaning "our language") is a Finno-Ugric language spoken in the River Torne valley in the north of Sweden, above the Arctic Circle. It is an official minority language of Sweden. The language could be seen as a mix between Finnish and Swedish, since it has been changed a lot by Swedish.

For many years, Swedish was the only language to be taught in the schools of the Torne valley. The population became bilingual. They spoke both Finnish and Swedish, but they were mostly only able to write in Swedish. Today many people in the younger generations only speak Swedish. Since 1999, Meänkieli is an official minority language of Sweden.

Since there are no Swedish statistics of the population's native languages, it is not known how many Meänkieli speakers there are. Taking statistics is also a bit controversial, as many people consider the language to be a dialect of Finnish.

[[Toni Braxton]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Actors from Maryland, African American musicians, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from Maryland, Actors from Atlanta, Georgia, Musicians from Atlanta, Georgia, Singers from Atlanta, Georgia, Singers from Maryland, Atlantic Records artists, American contemporary R&B singers

Toni Michelle Braxton (born October 7, 1967 in Severn, Maryland) is an American R&B singer-songwriter, record producer, and actress. She is mostly known as Toni Braxton. Braxton has won seven Grammy Awards, seven American Music Awards, and five Billboard Music Awards. She is famous for her husky alto vocal timbre. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) named Braxton as one of the top selling artists of all time. She has sold over 70 million records worldwide.

Braxton's first album Toni Braxton (1993) reached number one on the US Billboard 200 albums chart. Toni Braxton was certified 8x platinum by the RIAA. The album sold over 10 million worldwide. Her second album Secrets (1996) also reached number one on the Billboard 200 albums chart. Her two singles "You're Makin' Me High" and "Un-Break My Heart" reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 songs chart. After this, Braxton filed for bankruptcy.

Her third album The Heat was released in 2000. The album did not reach number one unlike her previous albums. Her next album More Than a Woman (2002) reached the top ten on the Billboard 200 chart. Braxton named her album More Than a Woman in respect for American singer Aaliyah, who died in a plane crash the year before. Aaliyah's family had released a single with the same name after her death. Braxton released her fifth album Libra in 2005. The album's cover was listed as one of the "Sexiest Album Covers" by Maxim magazine. The album did better than her last album. Libra reached number four on the Billboard 200 albums chart. The song "Stupid", from Libra was one of the songs used by Tyler Perry for his movie Diary of a Mad Black Woman (2005).

Braxton left the music industry but returned in 2009. She released her sixth album Pulse. It reached number one on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, but it was a top ten hit on the Billboard 200. Braxton was a contestant on the seventh season of the reality television show Dancing with the Stars. She was voted off in the fifth week. On October 6, 2010, Braxton filed for bankruptcy again. A reality television series called Braxton Family Values aired on WE TV in 2011. The show is about the personal life of the Braxton family. There has been two complete seasons of the show. On September 18, 2011, Braxton was included in the Georgia Music Hall of Fame.

[[Joan Rivers]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winners, 1933 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from respiratory arrest, Deaths from surgical complications, Actors from New York City, American Jews, Stage names, American movie actors, American stand-up comedians, American television actors, American television talk show hosts, American voice actors, Businesspeople from New York City, Comedians from New York City, Writers from New York City

Joan Alexandra Molinsky (June 8, 1933 – September 4, 2014), known professionally as Joan Rivers, was an American comedian, talk show host, businesswoman, and celebrity. She was known for her tough manner and loud voice with a heavy New York accent. She was the National Chairwoman of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation and was a board member of God's Love We Deliver. She won an Emmy Award in 1990.

[[Melissa Rivers]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American television presenters, Television personalities from New York City

Melissa Rivers (born Melissa Warburg Rosenberg; January 20, 1968) is an American television co-host for fashion and red carpet interviews on cable and satellite television. She is a former host of the E! cable network. She also worked for a TV Guide channel with her mother, comedian Joan Rivers.

[[Teri Hatcher]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American movie actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, American television actors, Actors from Santa Clara County, California, Actresses who played Bond girls

Teri Lynn Hatcher (born December 8, 1964) is an Emmy-nominated and Golden Globe Award-winning American actress and author. She gained attention for her role as Lois Lane in the television series Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman co-starring with Dean Cain. Hatcher is also well known for portraying Susan Mayer, in Desperate Housewives, an accident-prone divorcee. She is also a "Bond Girl", having played Paris Carver in Tomorrow Never Dies in 1997.

[[Felicity Huffman]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, American movie actors, Criminals from New York, Golden Globe Award winning actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Actors from New York

Felicity Huffman (born December 9, 1962) is an Academy Award-nominated and Emmy Award-winning American movie and television actress and convicted felon. She is well known for her role as Lynette Scavo, a busy mother on the ABC television show Desperate Housewives. A year later, her role as a transwoman in the independent film Transamerica was praised by many critics and earned her a Golden Globe Award.

[[Marcia Cross]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Massachusetts, American television actors, Cancer survivors, 1962 births, Living people

Marcia Anne Cross (born March 25, 1962 in Marlborough, Massachusetts) is an Emmy and Golden Globe Award-nominated American actress. She graduated from Juilliard and earned a master's degree in psychology at Antioch University in Los Angeles. In 2005, she was nominated for her first Emmy for her work as Bree Hodge, the "perfect" Housewife on Desperate Housewives. In December 2006, Cross earned her third consecutive nomination for the Golden Globe for Best Actress in a Comedy Series with the series.

In June 2019, Cross revealed that she suffered from anal cancer, and was now in remission.

[[Eva Longoria]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Democrats (United States), Actors from Corpus Christi, Texas, Restaurateurs

Eva Jacqueline Longoria (born March 15, 1975) is a Golden Globe Award-nominated American movie and television actress. She is best known for her role as Gabrielle Solis in the ABC television series Desperate Housewives. She has also become an internationally recognized model after appearing in several high-profile advertising campaigns and numerous men's magazines. 

[[Nicollette Sheridan]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Actors from Sussex, English movie actors, English television actors, People from West Sussex

Nicollette Sheridan (born Colette Sheridan on 21 November 1963) is a Golden Globe nominated British actress. She was born in Worthing, Sussex. She acts primarily on soap operas, movies and television. She is best known for her roles as Paige Matheson on Knots Landing and as the promiscuous Edie Britt on Desperate Housewives.

[[Contiki]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

Contiki is a small, open source free operating system.  It was developed to be used in 8-bit computers and embedded systems.  It has a Graphical User Interface and the full installation needs about 30 kilobytes of RAM.February 2007

The name Contiki comes from Thor Heyerdahl's famous Kon-Tiki raft.

The basic kernel and most of the core functions were developed by Adam Dunkels at the Networked Embedded Systems group at the Swedish Institute of Computer Science.

[[Princess Madeleine of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Swedish royalty

Princess Madeleine of Sweden, Duchess of Hälsingland and Gästrikland, (Madeleine Thérèse Amélie Joséphine; born on 10 June 1982 in Drottningholm, Sweden), is a Swedish princess. She is the youngest child and second daughter of King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia of Sweden. Madeleine is seventh in line to the Swedish throne.

Princess Madeleine is married to British financier Christopher O'Neill. The couple has three children, Princess Leonore, Prince Nicolas, and Princess Adrienne.

[[Queen Silvia of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Kings and Queens of Sweden, People from Munich, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Kings and Queens consort

Queen Silvia of Sweden (born Silvia Renate Sommerlath) (born 23 December 1943) and of half German, half Brazilian descent is the Queen consort of King Carl XVI Gustaf, Sweden's monarch, and the mother of the heir apparent to the throne, Crown Princess Victoria. Their other two children are

She is styled Her Majesty The Queen and is in Sweden most often referred to as Queen Silvia. 

She also make efforts for charitable organizations, human rights and sign language and opposes child sexual abuse and child pornography.

[[Princess Victoria of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Swedish royalty

Victoria, Crown Princess of Sweden, Duchess of Västergötland (full name in Swedish: Victoria Ingrid Alice Désirée, born 14 July 1977) is the heiress apparent to the throne of Sweden.

[[Prince Carl Philip, Duke of Värmland]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Swedish royalty

Prince Carl Philip of Sweden (Carl Philip Edmund Bertil, born May 13, 1979), Duke of Värmland is a Swedish prince. He is the second child of three children and only son of King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia of Sweden.

He was born Crown Prince of Sweden, because Sweden did not allow women to rule as Queen Regnant. On January 1, 1980 the Act of Succession was changed to introduce fully cognate succession. Since then, Carl Philip has been second in the line of succession, after his elder sister, Crown Princess Victoria. 

However, because the UK still has male primogeniture (brothers inherit before sisters), Carl Philip is ahead of his elder sister in the line of succession to the British throne.

Carl Philip was christened at The Royal Palace Church on August 31, 1979. His godparents are Prince Bertil, Duke of Halland, Prince Leopold of Bavaria, Queen Margrethe II of Denmark, and Princess Birgitta of Sweden.

He married Sofia Hellqvist on 13 June 2015. On 19 April 2016 their first child, Prince Alexander was born.

[[Hermeskeil]]

CATEGORIES: Trier-Saarburg

Hermeskeil is a town in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany.

About 5,000 people live there.

[[Reinsfeld]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Rhineland-Palatinate, Municipalities in Rhineland-Palatinate, Trier-Saarburg

Reinsfeld is a village in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. 

About 2,000 people live there.

[[Hunsrück]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Rhineland-Palatinate, Mountain ranges of Germany

The Hunsrück is a low mountain range in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany.

It is bounded by the river valleys of the Moselle (north), the Nahe (south), and the Rhine (east). The Hunsrück is continued by the Taunus mountains on the eastern side of the Rhine. In the north behind the Moselle it is continued by the Eifel. To the south of the Nahe, there is the Palatinate.

Many of the hills are not higher than 400 m. But there are several chains of higher peaks within the Hunsrück, all bearing names on their own: the (Schwarzwälder) Hochwald, the Idarwald, the Soonwald, and the Binger Wald. The highest peak is the Erbeskopf (816 m).

Towns in the Hunsrück include Simmern, Kirchberg, and Idar-Oberstein, Kastellaun, and Morbach.  Frankfurt-Hahn Airport, a growing low-fare carrier and cargo airport is there as well.

The climate in the Hunsrück is characterised by rainy weather. Slate is mined in the mountains.

The German TV drama trilogy Heimat, directed by Edgar Reitz, examined the 20th-century life of a small fictional village in the Hunsrück.

[[International Space Station]]

CATEGORIES: Space stations

The International Space Station (ISS) is a space station, a very large satellite that people can live in for several months at a time. It was put together in Low Earth orbit up until 2011, but other bits have been added since then. The last part, a Bigelow module was added in 2016. The station is a joint project among several countries: the United States, Russia, Europe, Japan, and Canada. Other nations such as Brazil, Italy, and China also work with the ISS through cooperation with other countries.

Building the ISS began in 1998, when Russian and American space modules were joined together.

[[Kentwood, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana

Kentwood is a small town in Tangipahoa Parish, Louisiana near the Mississippi border. The population was 2,205 at the 2000 census. It is best known as the hometown of singer Britney Spears

[[I'm with You]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne songs, 2002 songs

I'm with You is one of Avril Lavigne's most popular songs. She played it at her wedding. The song was released in 2002 (North America) and 2003 (UK). It is on her first album, Let Go. The song was the top rated song in Mexico as well as reaching a rank in the top five in the United States, Ireland, and Italy. It also reached #7 in the UK. The song was a part of the soundtrack for the movie Bruce Almighty.

[[Somersault]]

CATEGORIES: Gymnastics

A somersault is an acrobatic move where a person moves the feet over the head whilst in mid-air. The somersault can be done forwards, backwards, or sideways and is similar to a flip (or, if performed backwards, a backflip). 

A backwards somersault while still moving forward is called a Gainer

The word comes from the old French word sombresault, which is no longer used.

[[Lisa Donovan]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Writers from New York City, Actors from New York City, Writers from Los Angeles, California, American television actors, Internet celebrities, Comedians from New York City

Lisa Donovan (born June 11, 1980) is an American actress, YouTuber, writer and comedian. She does sketches and impersonations of Lindsay Lohan, lonleygirl15 (another YouTuber) and many other. She is best known for her work on YouTube and the television program MadTV.

[[Augite]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals

Augite is a mineral. The mineral's name comes from the Greek word augites, meaning "brightness". However, augites only look shiny some of the time. Most augites have a dull (dark green, brown or black) color.

Augite is a pyroxene.

[[Onyx]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals

An onyx is a type of rock mineral.

[[Opal]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones, Birthstones

The opal is a fairly white rock mineral. It is the birthstone for the month of October. Opals are made from tiny spheres of silica (another mineral) and lots of water.

[[Amethyst]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones, Birthstones

An amethyst is a  mineral gemstone that comes from quartz. It is usually transparent. It is valued because of its violet colour. Even though it is a form of quartz, it has more iron oxide (Fe2O3) than any other kind of quartz. Because of this, some experts think that its colour comes from the iron in it. Heating the amethyst either takes away its colour or changes it to a yellow hue. Amethysts are found in Brazil, Uruguay, Canada (Ontario) and America (North Carolina). The rock amethyst is the birthstone of the month February.  In the Mohs scale, it has a hardness of seven.

[[Emerald]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones, Birthstones

An emerald is a mineral gemstone and a variety of beryl. It is the birthstone of someone whose birthday is in the month of May. It is a green crystal. The emerald is one of the most valuable gems, along with the ruby, the opal, topaz, the diamond, and a sapphire.

[[Garnet]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones, Birthstones

A garnet ˈ is one kind of silicate mineral. There are many different kinds of garnets, containing different metals. Crystals of garnet are often large and pretty. Their most common color is red or purple, but they can be found in almost all colors and are often used in jewelry. In the United States, garnet is the birthstone for people born in the month of January.

[[Ralph Macchio]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York

Ralph Macchio (born November 4, 1961 in Huntington, New York) is an American actor. He is best known for his roles in My Cousin Vinny, The Karate Kid, The Karate Kid II, and The Karate Kid III. He was also in the movie The Outsiders as Johnny.

[[French Armenian Legion]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Armenia, 1916 in France

The French Armenian Legion, was made with the French-Armenian Agreement (1916), was a foreign legion unit within French Army. The Armenian legion was made for the goals of the Armenian national liberation movement and was an armed unit besides the Armenian volunteer units and Armenian militia during World War I which fought against the Ottoman Empire.

[[Vahan Kurkjian]]

CATEGORIES: Armenian historians, Armenian writers, 1863 births, 1961 deaths, Aleppo

Vahan M. Kurkjian (Aleppo, 1863 - New York City, 1961) was an Armenian writer, historian, teacher, and community leader.

[[North India]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of India

Northern India, also known as Hindustan, is a land and cultural region of India. In traditional Indian geography, India is pieced into five major zones: North India, North-east India, East India, West India and South India.

As a linguistic-cultural and political region, North India consists of six Indian states: Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan also The National Capital Territory of Delhi is also a part of northern India. It shares some of its cultural, historical, musical, and linguistic heritage with neighboring Pakistan and Jammu and Kashmir, which was part of British India empire prior to the 1947 Independence. The North Indian Plain is a large part of it.

[[Yalta Conference]]

CATEGORIES: World War II

The Yalta Conference (sometimes called the Crimea Conference) was held from 4 to 11 February 1945, a few months before the Second World War ended in Europe. The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom (Winston Churchill), the President of the United States (Franklin D. Roosevelt) and the dictator of the Soviet Union (Joseph Stalin) all met in Crimea and talked about what to do with Germany. The Yalta Conference was important in European history.

[[Potsdam Conference]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 in Germany, Potsdam, World War II

The Potsdam Conference was a meeting of the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and the United States in Potsdam, Germany from July 17 to August 2, 1945. The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom (Clement Attlee), the President of the United States (Harry S. Truman) and the dictator of the Soviet Union (Joseph Stalin) met to talk about Germany on July 1945 and to discuss what should happen to it now that the Second World War was over.

The first conference was held at Yalta, but the Allies did not agree on anything very important. However, a lot had happened since the Yalta Conference. Firstly, the United States had a new president, Truman, who was much tougher on communism than the previous president, Franklin Roosevelt, had been, which was a problem for Stalin. Also, Winston Churchill had been voted out in the United Kingdom and replaced by Clement Attlee. Stalin saw himself as far more experienced than the new leaders and also caused trouble, as some of what the allies agreed on at Yalta was that Poland should have a neutral government. Stalin had killed the neutral government leaders and replaced them others, who did what he wanted. That caused many problems at Potsdam since other countries no longer trusted the Soviets.

[[Nahe]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Rhineland-Palatinate, Rivers of Germany

The Nahe is a river in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany, a left tributary to the Rhine. It is also a famous wine region of Germany.

The name Nahe comes from the Latin word Nava, which is of Celtic origin and means the wild river. The Nahe separates the northern part of the Palatinate from the Hunsrück.

It rises in the area of Nohfelden (Saarland), flowing through Rhineland-Palatinate and joining the Rhine river in Bingen. Its length is 116. Towns along the Nahe include Idar-Oberstein, Kirn, Bad Kreuznach and Bingen.

[[Palatinate (region)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Rhineland-Palatinate, Regions of Germany

The Palatinate (germ.:Pfalz), historically also Rhenish Palatinate (lat.: palatinatum Renensis; germ.: Rheinpfalz), is a region in south-western Germany. It occupies more than a quarter of the German federal state (Bundesland) of Rhineland-Palatinate (Rheinland-Pfalz).

[[Taunus]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Hesse, Mountain ranges of Germany

The Taunus is a mountain range in Hesse, Germany. It is bounded by the river valleys of Rhine, Main and Lahn. On the opposite side of the Rhine, the mountains are continued by the Hunsrück. The mountains themselves span the districts of Hochtaunuskreis, Main-Taunus, Rheingau-Taunus, and Rhein-Lahn.

Not to be confused with the more famous and high Feldberg in Black Forest, the highest peak is the Großer Feldberg (878 m above sea level). It is followed by the Kleiner Feldberg and the Altkönig (798 m) with the remains of a late Iron Age hill fort (La-Tène A, ca. 400 BC) near the summit.

The Roman Limes was built across the Taunus. The Saalburg, a restored Roman castellum, now houses a museum. After the fall of the Limes (in 259/260 AD), the Alamanni settled here.

[[Antonov An-225]]

CATEGORIES: Civil aircraft, Soviet & Russian aircraft

The Antonov An-225 ''Mriya  is a Ukrainian cargo aircraft and the largest airplane in the world. It has 6 engines. It was manufactured by a company called Antonov. Three of them were built to carry the Soviet Space Shuttle Buran''. Since the shuttle was never finished, the planes have been used to carry very large items that cannot be transported another way. However, there is only one in service today. It was modelled from the Antonov An-124 Ruslan. This plane is big enough to carry a Boeing 747's fuselage. 

[[Edmund Burke]]

CATEGORIES: 1729 births, 1797 deaths, Irish philosophers, Irish politicians, British politicians, People from Dublin

Edmund Burke (12 January 1729-9 July 1797) was an important Irish politician, and writer. He became a member of the British Parliament with the Whigs in 1765.

Burke supported the American Revolution. He opposed the French Revolution for killing Catholics and other dissenters. His most famous book was Reflections on the Revolution in France, which created many of the ideas in conservatism. 

[[Muslim occasions]]

CATEGORIES: Religious holidays, Islam

Muslim occasions mainly celebrate events of the life of the Muslim prophet, Muhammad.

[[Guys and Dolls]]

CATEGORIES: Broadway musicals, 1950s musicals

Guys and Dolls is a 1950 Broadway musical. The music and lyrics were written by Frank Loesser, and the speaking parts were written by Jo Swerling and Abe Burrows. The story of Guys and Dolls is based on short stories written by Damon Runyon. It won the Tony Award for Best Musical. 

[[Ichiro Mizuki]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Tokyo, Singers from Tokyo, Japanese songwriters, Japanese voice actors, 1948 births, Living people

Ichiro Mizuki, real name Toshio Hayakawa (born January 7, 1948 in Tokyo), is a Japanese singer, composer, voice actor and actor.  He is best known for his anime and tokusatsu such as Mazinger Z, Great Mazinger, Kamen Rider and Metal Hero series.

Ichiro Mizuki began his solo career in 1968, although his first single "Kimi ni sasageru Boku no Uta" was released as this song was composed by Kanae Wada. Later, he starts to sing his theme song during the 1970s. His first anime song called Genshi Shounen Ryuu was released in 1971 as the opening theme from the animated television series Genshi Shounen Ryuu. Then he released many other anime and tokusatsu songs from Super Robot, Science Fiction, Sports, Kamen Rider, Metal Hero and Super Sentai series. Ichiro Mizuki has been sang more than 1000 songs since his anison debut.

From August 30 to August 31, 1999, he held a 1000-song concert in duration of 24 hours. Also the success of his 1000-song concert has become a legend in Japan.

On July 19, 2000, he joined as a part-time member of the supergroup JAM Project with other members - Hironobu Kageyama, Masaaki Endoh, Eizo Sakamoto, and Rica Matsumoto.

Meanwhile, Ichiro Mizuki has also act the tokusatsu TV series such as Jikuu Senshi Spielvan, Voicelugger and also the voice actor for anime such as Koraru no Tanken and Dangaioh (OVA).

[[Saalburg]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Hesse, History of Germany

The Saalburg is a Roman fortification in the Taunus mountains in Germany and was a stronghold in the Upper Germanic Limes.

It was constructed about 90 CE and enlarged until about 210. Then the Romans left it after 260. It is estimated that it was home to a cohors equitata, about 500 cavalry and infantry, to protect the access to the Rhine-Main valley from the Germanic tribes in the North. Eventually it decayed, and its stones were used as a quarry.

In 1897 Wilhelm II ordered that it was rebuilt. Today the Saalburg houses a museum and is a center for Roman archeology. It is located between Bad Homburg and Wehrheim, some 30 km north of Frankfurt am Main.

As part of the Upper Germanic Limes the Saalburg belongs to the UNESCO World Heritage sites since 15. July 2005.

[[Kesha Wizzart]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, 2007 crimes, 2007 deaths, Black English musicians, British child singers, English murder victims, Musicians from Manchester, People murdered in England

Kesha Wizzart (22 October 1988 – 12 July 2007) was an English singer. She was a contestant on the television programme Stars In Their Eyes. She was born in Manchester.

Wizzart was murdered on 12 July 2007, along with her mother Beverley and brother Fred. It happened in their home in Manchester. The investigators found injuries to their heads. The next day, a search for the suspect Pierre Williams was started. He was arrested on 14 July, convicted and received three life sentences.

[[Names for small numbers]]

CATEGORIES: Numbers

Naming very small numbers is the same as naming very big numbers, but with one important difference. There is a minus sign over what the 10 in the formula is raised to. So if one wanted to write 0.007 in shorthand form, they would write it 7 x 10−3 since 7 is the third digit after the decimal point (the zero in front of the decimal point does not count). Naming a very small number with lots of different numbers inside it is the same as doing it with a very big number, but again with that one difference of the minus sign. So 0.0000452 would become 4.52 x 10−5 (0.0000452 --> 4.52 x 0.00001 --> 4.52 x 10−5).

[[Military of ancient Rome]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Rome

The Military of ancient Rome (known to the Romans as the militia) means all military forces of Ancient Rome from the founding of the city of Rome to the end of the Western Roman Empire. Originally there was only the Roman army, but a small navy was added during the Second Samnite War, around 320 BC.

The Roman military was an important part of the Roman state. Josephus describes the Roman people as "as if born ready armed". It has a history of more than 1300 years. Roman armies fought in Parthia as well as in Africa, and in - what was in that time the far north - the British Isles.

After a series of reforms, the army became highly trained, and was well equipped in the middle of the Roman Imperial period. The Romans also had a powerful navy that ruled the Mediterranean and the European Atlantic coast. In the late Imperial period the military's numbers were significantly increased to cover the borders and keep internal peace. The circumstances of the Empire had changed; the Western Roman Empire now relied heavily on units of mostly Germanic tribes living within the borders, who fought in the name of Rome during the Migration Period.

[[Roman legion]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Rome

A Roman legion  was the basic military unit of the ancient Roman army in the period of the late Roman Republic and the Roman Empire. It was roughly equivalent to the modern word division. In the plural, the legions, it may mean the entire Roman army.

A legion was about 5,000 men in several cohorts of heavy infantry (legionaries). It was usually accompanied by attached units of auxiliaries, who were not Roman citizens. They provided cavalry, ranged troops and skirmishers to complement the legion's heavy infantry.

The size of a typical legion varied during the history of ancient Rome. It had a complement of 4,200 legionaries in the republican period of Rome. In the imperial period, the full complement was 5,500 men split into 10 cohorts of 480 men each. The first cohort was at double strength with 800 men. The remaining 220 were 120 cavalry plus technical staff.

Rome did not have a standing army until the reforms of Gaius Marius about 107 BC. Legions instead were created, used, and disbanded again. In the time of the early Roman Empire, there were usually about 25–35 standing legions plus their auxiliaries, with more raised as needed.

[[Legion (disambiguation)]]

Legion may refer to:

[[Alpha helix]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

right|thumb|200px|Side view of an α-helix of alanine residues in atomic detail..

An alpha helix (α-helix) is a twisted part of a protein. It is one of the two most common parts of the secondary structure, or shape, of a protein. The other is the beta sheet. An alpha helix is created by alternating groups of atoms. There is a carbonyl group, created by a carbon atom double bonded to an oxygen atom, and an amine group, created by a nitrogen atom bonded to a hydrogen atom. Each section containing one of each of these groups is called a residue, a general term for a small part of a molecule. Each amine group forms a hydrogen bond with the carbonyl group four residues earlier. A prion is a protein that causes disease by changing the shape of another protein. It does this by changing some of the alpha helices, which are more common in normal cells, to beta sheets, which are more common in prions. The alpha helix consists of 3.6 residues per turn. All hydrogen bonds face in the same direction. If two or more alpha helices come together, they become a tertiary structure. (Ex. Five alpha helices arranged into a barrel shape)

[[Allied-occupied Germany]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 disestablishments, 1945 establishments in Germany, 1940s disestablishments in Germany

After World War II Nazi Germany west of the Oder-Neisse line was divided into four occupation zones. This had been agreed in London in September 1944.

They were occupied by the allied powers who defeated Germany (the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and the United States) and by France. This was done for administrative purposes during the period 1945-1949.

In the closing weeks of fighting in Europe the American forces had actually pushed beyond the previously agreed upon occupation zone boundaries, sometimes by as much as 200 miles. After about two months of holding certain areas meant to be in the Soviet zone, the American forces withdrew during July 1945. 

[[Topaz]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones, Birthstones

Topaz is a silicate mineral. Along with silicate, it includes the chemical elements aluminium and fluorine with the chemical formula Al2SiO4(F,OH)2.

[[Beautiful (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 songs, Christina Aguilera songs

Beautiful is a song from Christina Aguilera's fourth album Stripped. It was written by Linda Perry.

Aguilera sings about how people should not be ashamed to show pride in their differences.

It was released late in 2002. It was the second single from Stripped.

"Beautiful" won a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance.

In 2004, the character Damian sang the song at the school's talent show in Mean Girls.

[[Fundamental theorem of algebra]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

Some remarks: 

[[R.E.M. (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1980 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, 2011 disestablishments in the United States, American rock bands, Brit Award winners, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups disestablished in 2011, Musical groups established in 1980, Musical groups from Georgia (U.S. state), Warner Bros. Records artists

R.E.M. is an American rock band. It was formed in Athens, Georgia in 1980. R.E.M. was one of the first popular alternative rock bands. R.E.M. released its first single, "Radio Free Europe" in 1981. The lead singer of the band was Michael Stipe.

During the 1980s, R.E.M. were one of the most important rock bands in the campus radio movement. They became successful internationally in 1987, when they released the songs, "The One I Love" and "It's The End Of The World As We Know It (And I Feel Fine)". They were very popular in the early 1990s and broke-up in 2011. They have been inducted in to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

[[Finite]]

If something is finite, it means it will end. The opposite is infinite. There are many uses of this word, for example:

[[Israel]]

CATEGORIES: Israel, 1948 establishments

The State of Israel is a country in southwestern Asia on the eastern side of the Mediterranean Sea. Israel became an independent country in 1948. Israel is the only Jewish country, and Jews all over the world think of Israel as their spiritual home. Israel's population was 8.1 million people in 2013 and 6.04 million are Jewish. Almost all the other citizens of Israel are Arab (1.6 million) and include Muslims, Christians, Druze, and Samaritans. Israel's largest city is Jerusalem. Israel's capital city is Jerusalem (limited recognition). Most countries keep embassies in Tel Aviv.

Israel is a small country, but it has mountains, deserts, shores, valleys and plains. The climate is hot and rainless in the summers with high humidity in the coastal plain and lower elevations, and cool and rainy in the winters, rarely going below freezing temperatures.

Israel has few natural resources and imports more goods than it exports. It has a relatively high standard of living and life expectancy.  Almost all of its people can read and write.

According to the Democratic Index, Israel is the only democratic republic in the Middle East. According to Freedom House, both Israel and Tunisia are the only full democracies in the Greater Middle East.

[[Lake Champlain]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of the United States, Lakes of Canada, Geography of Vermont, Geography of New York, Geography of Quebec, Biosphere reserves

Lake Champlain is a natural freshwater lake in North America along the borders of New York and Vermont and partially across the United States-Canada border in the province of Quebec. The lake was named for the French explorer Samuel de Champlain, who came there in 1609.

[[Fumie Suguri]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese figure skaters, 1980 births, Living people, People from Kanagawa Prefecture

Fumie Suguri is a Japanese athlete.  She is best known as a figure skater. She is a five-times Japanese National Champion, three-times World Championships medalist, and 2003-2004's Grand Prix Final Champion.

[[Occupational Safety and Health Administration]]

CATEGORIES: United States government agencies, United States Department of Labor, Medical and health organizations in the United States, 1970 establishments in the United States

The United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) is an agency of the United States Department of Labor. It was created by Congress under the Occupational Safety and Health Act and was signed by President Richard M. Nixon, on December 29, 1970. Its mission is to prevent work-related injuries, illnesses, and deaths by making and enforcing rules (called standards) for workplace safety and health.  As of March 2006, the agency is headed by Assistant Secretary of Labor Edwin Foulke.

[[Arsenio Hall]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, African American actors, African American comedians, African American television personalities, American movie actors, American television actors, Comedians from Ohio, Television personalities from Ohio, 1956 births, Living people

Arsenio Hall (born February 12, 1956) is an American actor and comedian. He hosted his own television talk show, The Arsenio Hall Show, from 1989 to 1994 on the Fox network. He also had his own sitcom on ABC titled, Arsenio.

Hall co-starred with Eddie Murphy in the movies Coming to America and Harlem Nights. After his own television series ended, Hall sometimes guest-starred on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno.

Hall was born in Cleveland, Ohio.

[[Bezenye]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Hungary

Bezenye is a village in the north-west of Hungary.  It is very close to the border with Slovakia and only 9 km from the Slovakian capital city Bratislava. The population is about 1600.

Archaeologists  have found things under the ground which show that the first people to lived there were Old Germanic tribes.  Later, Hungarian (Magyar) people lived there.  Then troops from Turkey destroyed a lot of the village and the people fled.  New people came to live in the area: Croatians and Germans.  The Croatians called the village "Bizonja" and the Germans called it "Palersdorf".  "Bezenye" is the Hungarian name.  It comes from a Slav word "baza" meaning an elderberry tree.

After World War II many of the poorer Germans had to go and live in Germany.  New Hungarian families from Slovakia came to live in Bezenye.

Today Bezenye is not a typical Hungarian village.  The people speak a mixture of Hungarian, Croatian, Slovak and German.  The Roman Catholic church of the Blessed Virgin Mary has services in Hungarian and Croatian.

[[Royal Proclamation of 1763]]

CATEGORIES: 1760s in the Thirteen Colonies, 1763, Resistance to the British Empire, 1760s in the Kingdom of Great Britain

The Royal Proclamation of 1763 was issued October 7, 1763, by King George III after Great Britain gained French territory in North America after the end of the French and Indian War/Seven Years' War. The purpose of the Proclamation was to organize Britain's large North American empire, and to make relations with Native Americans better and more stable by controlling trade, settlement, and land purchases on the western frontier. Parliament also wished to gain trust from the natives so they could place forts there.  

The Proclamation stated that Americans could not settle or buy land west of a line along the Appalachian Mountains. This angered colonists. Tempted by great farm land, settlers continued to flow into the Ohio River Valley and Great Britain was unable to provide adequate protection for those colonists. Also, the Proclamation gave Great Britain a monopoly in land bought from Native Americans. The later Quebec Act, 1774 extended the rights of French Catholics, thus further angering English Protestant settlers. 

[[Inkscape]]

CATEGORIES: Free software, Graphics software

Inkscape is a vector graphics (pictures made from lines instead of dots) drawing program published under the GNU General Public License. Its stated goal is to become a really good drawing tool while being able to fit in with standards for SVG graphics.

Inkscape was first made for Linux, but now it is cross-platform and runs on Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, and other Unix-like operating systems. As of 2007, Inkscape is actively being made better, and new features are added all the time.

