[[Book of Enoch]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Bible

The Book of Enoch is a book claiming to be written by Enoch. He was the great-grandfather of Noah and son of Jared in the Bible. However, scholars consider it to be Pseudepigrapha. It is not part of the Bible canon and only the Ethiopian Orthodox Church says it is part of the Bible. The Book is an old Hebrew text, likely written in the 2nd century BC, and contains material on the origins of demons and giants, why some angels fell from heaven, an explanation of why Noah's Flood was morally necessary, and a description of the thousand-year reign of the Messiah. It is interesting to many Christians because the ninth verse of the first chapter is quoted in the Epistle of Jude 1:14-15. 

[[Anton LaVey]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 1997 deaths, American esotericists, Deaths from pulmonary edema, Jewish American writers, Religious leaders, Satanists, Writers from Chicago, American atheists, Deaths from lung disease, Disease-related deaths in California, People from San Francisco, American musicians

Anton Szandor LaVey (April 11, 1930 – October 29, 1997), born Howard Stanton Levey, was the founder of the Church of Satan. He created a religion called LaVeyan Satanism. He wrote several books describing his beliefs. His first book was called The Satanic Bible. He reported a dramatic life story, although some say he lied about his past.

[[Hurricane Ike]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 Atlantic hurricane season, 2008 in the United States, 2008 in Canada, 2000s in Cuba, Category 4 Atlantic hurricanes, 2000s in the Dominican Republic, 2000s in Haiti, Hurricanes in the United States, 2000s in the Bahamas, Turks and Caicos Islands, Natural disasters in Canada, Hurricanes in Texas, Hurricanes in Louisiana

Hurricane Ike was one of the most damaging tropical cyclones in United States history, having caused about $38 billion dollars in damage. It was the sixth-costliest Atlantic hurricane in U.S. history. Hurricane Ike was the ninth named storm, fifth hurricane, third major hurricane and the most-intense hurricane of 2008 in terms of pressure.  Ike may have caused up to 195 deaths. Most deaths happened in Haiti and the U.S. together. Haiti was still recovering from Tropical Storm Fay, Hurricane Gustav, and Hurricane Hanna.

[[Rafflesia]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Asia, Parasitic plants, Flowers, Rafflesiaceae

Rafflesia is a genus of flowering plants.  They are found in southeastern Asia, on the Malay Peninsula, Borneo, Sumatra, Thailand and the Philippines. They are the biggest single flowers in the world. In one species the flowers can be over a meter (three feet) across.

The flowers smell like a dead animal, which attracts flies. The flies, which normally lay their eggs on rotten flesh, pollinate the Rafflesia when they get inside.

Rafflesia is a parasite, and does not use chlorophyll. The plant has no stem, leaves or true roots. It lives inside vines of the genus Tetrastigma (Vitaceae). It spreads its absorptive organ, the haustorium, inside the tissue of the vine. The only part of the plant that can be seen outside the host vine is the flower.

[[Northern Fury FC]]

CATEGORIES: Australian football clubs

Northern Fury F.C. is a soccer club from Townsville, Queensland, Australia. The club was founded in 2008 and competed in the A-League as North Queensland Fury FC. On 1 March 2011, the club was removed from the league due to financial instability. On 3 October 2012, the club was re-formed as Northern Fury FC after it was granted a license to play in the NPL Queensland. Northern Fury play their home fixtures at Townsville Sports Reserve.

[[Edward Said National Conservatory of Music]]

CATEGORIES: Music schools, Buildings and structures in Palestine, Bethlehem, Jerusalem

The Edward Said National Conservatory of Music is a Palestinian music conservatory. It has branches in Ramallah, Jerusalem, and Bethlehem. More than 500 students can study music there.

When it was started in Ramallah in 1993 it was called The National Conservatory of Music. In September 2004 it was given its present name in honour of the Palestinian scholar and musician Edward Said.  The Edward Said National Conservatory of Music and the Al Kamandjati are the two main music schools for the two million Palestinians living in the West Bank and East Jerusalem.

The students of the conservatory study in an are where there is a lot of war and conflict with Israel.  Nevertheless there are a few projects where Israeli and Palestinian musicians have managed to work together.

The Palestine Youth Orchestra was started through the efforts of the Edward Said National Conservatory.  It is one of the best youth orchestras in the Arab world.

[[SafetySuit]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Post-grunge bands, Musical groups from Oklahoma

SafetySuit (or Safety Suit and Safetysuit) is an American rock band formed in 2008. They are famous for the hit singles Someone Like You and Stay. Safety Suit has released only 1 hit studio album called Life Left to Go in July 2008. 

[[Life Left to Go]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums

Life Left to Go is an album by alternative rock band SafetySuit. It was released in the summer of 2008. The album contains the tracks Someone Like You (SafetySuit song), Stay, and Anywhere But Here.

[[Someone like You (SafetySuit song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs

Someone Like You is a hit single released of the album by SafetySuit called Life Left to Go. The single was released in February of 2008. The song was recorded along with the other tracks featured on the album Life Left to Go in 2006 and 2007.

[[Stay (SafetySuit song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs

"Stay" is the 2nd hit single off the album by SafetySuit called Life Left to Go. The song was originally released in fall of 2008, but according to the seemingly major release date in the United Kingdom, it is known to be regularly released in January of 2009. 

[[Vrilissia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece, Attica

Vrilissia (Βριλήσσια) is a small Greek city. It is near Athens in Attica. Almost 40,000 people live there. It is located at the northeastern edge of the metropolis of Athens. The city is accessed by Attiki Odos, the suburban railway and metro transit.

Vrilissia is an area with lots of squares and parks. It has a small forested area near the mountain of Pendeli.

Vrilissia is a twin city of Naples, Italy and Ottweiler in Germany. In Ottweiler, a main bridge is named after the Greek city.

[[Squall]]

CATEGORIES: Severe weather

A squall is a quick and big increase in wind speed which is usually linked to weather such as rain showers, thunderstorms, or heavy snow. 

[[Oxford English Dictionary]]

CATEGORIES: Dictionaries

The Oxford English Dictionary (or OED) is a dictionary. It is published by the Oxford University Press in England, and is the largest English dictionary. 

It traces (or follows in detail) the historical development of the English language, and is a resource to writers and scholars. It describes how the language has been used.

The second edition came to 21,728 pages in 20 volumes, published in  1989. Number of main entries is 231,100 and number of main entries for out-of -date words is 47,100.

Work began on the dictionary in 1857, but it was not until 1884 that it began to be published in parts, under the name of A New English Dictionary on historical principles; founded mainly on the materials collected by the Philological Society. In 1895, the title The Oxford English Dictionary (OED) was first used unofficially on the covers of the series, and in 1928 the full dictionary was republished in ten bound volumes. In 1933, The Oxford English Dictionary was reprinted as twelve volumes with a one-volume supplement. More supplements came over the years until 1989, when the second edition was published. Since 2000, a third edition of the dictionary has been underway, approximately a third of which is now complete.

The first electronic version of the dictionary was done in 1988. The online version has been available since 2000, and as of April 2014 was receiving over two million hits per month. The third edition of the dictionary will probably only appear in electronic form; Nigel Portwood, chief executive of Oxford University Press, feels it unlikely that it will ever be printed.

[[Thomas Beecham]]

CATEGORIES: British conductors, 1879 births, 1961 deaths, Grammy Award winners

Sir Thomas Beecham (born St Helens, Lancashire, 29 April 1879; died London, 8 March 1961) was an English conductor. He was one of the most famous conductors of his time. He came from a very rich family and was able to use his money to pay orchestras that he formed. He formed the London Philharmonic Orchestra and the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. He was especially well known for conducting the music of Mozart as well as that of his friend Delius.

He often made funny jokes and many amusing stories are told about things that he said.

[[Teatro Colón]]

CATEGORIES: Opera houses, Buildings and structures in Argentina, Buenos Aires, 19th-century establishments in Argentina

The Teatro Colón (Spanish) (Columbus Theatre) in Buenos Aires, Argentina, is one of the world's best known opera houses. 

In 2006 the theatre was closed so that work could be done to improve the inside of the building.  It reopened in 2010

There had been a theatre there in the middle of the 19th century.  The present building was opened in 1908.  The auditorium is horseshoe-shaped and has 2,487 seats.  The acoustics of the building are very good.  It is in the middle of Buenos Aires.

Many world famous conductors, composers and singers have appeared at the theatre.

[[Bim Bum Bam]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 television series debuts, Italian television

Bim Bum Bam, (1982-2003), was an Italian children's and teens' television programme.

Bim Bum Bam was produced by Alessandra Valeri Manera and created by Paolo Bonolis and Giancarlo Muratori.

==Mascotte== 

[[Puyi]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1967 deaths, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Emperors and Empresses of China

Pu-yi (Chinese: 溥仪, February 7, 1906–October 17, 1967) was the last Emperor of China. He was crowned emperor in 1908 at the age of three. He married five times but never had any children. His father was Zaifeng Prince Chun II. He never knew his mother and was raised by eunuchs. 

At the age of six, he was overthrown by Sun Yat-sen in the 1911 Revolution. Although he was forced to give up all political power, he was allowed to keep his title, his servants, and everything he owned in the Forbidden City, but in turn he had to pay the Republic of China 4 million taels a year and he was never allowed to leave the Forbidden City. 

In the year 1919, Pu-yi appointed a British tutor named Reginald Johnston. It was through him that the young emperor developed a fascination with the Western world, so he began to adopt aspects of the West for himself. He learned how to ride a bicycle, he cut off his own Manchu queue, he even began to wear glasses. 

After Pu-yi was married to his first wife, he discovered that many of the palace's treasures were getting stolen. Believing that it was his eunuchs who were stealing his treasures, he demanded that they make an inventory to keep the treasury from getting robbed anymore.  On the June 27, 1923, a fire destroyed the area around the Palace of Established Happiness. He accused the eunuchs of burning up the treasury to destroy any proof of their theft, and he also overheard some eunuchs' conversation that made him fear for his life. In response, he banished all the eunuchs from the palace. 

In 1925, warlord Feng Yuxiang forced the emperor to leave the Forbidden City. Pu-yi then asked his tutor Johnston to go to the British Embassy and ask them to let the emperor to move to England. Unfortunately, the embassy refused his request. He then called the Japanese Embassy and they agreed to escort him out of Beijing and move him over to Tianjin. After the Japanese took over Manchuria n 1932, they made Pu-yi the Emperor of their new puppet state, Manchukuo. Despite being emperor, though, he practically had no power, but he was constantly manipulated, threatened, and blackmailed by the Japanese government. Once again, the emperor found himself to be a prisoner in his own palace. 

After the Soviet Red Army invaded Manchuria in 1945, they captured Pu-yi when they invaded Changchun. After the CCP took over China in 1949, the Soviets agreed to hand Pu-yi over to China, and for the next ten years, the former emperor was thrown in a prison camp in Liaoning. After the prison guards declared that he was reformed, he was freed from prison and was moved back to Beijing, where he would spend the rest of his life as a common citizen. He would work as a gardener and then an editor, in which he would earn 100 yuan a month. When he returned to the Forbidden City (which was made into the Imperial Palace Museum), he had to buy a ticket to enter. He thought that it was ironic that he had to buy a ticket just to visit his own home.

[[Lithium (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Nirvana songs, 1992 songs

Lithium is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana which featured on their second album Nevermind. Kurt Cobain wrote the song. He said the song is about a man who became religious after his girlfriend died.

[[Endocrinology]]

CATEGORIES: Endocrinology

Endocrinology studies the working of the endocrine system and hormones.

It is the science of the endocrine system and hormones in a wide range of animals. Endocrinology is also a medical specialty. This means that when a doctor finishes studying medicine in general, they can choose endocrinology as the part of medicine they work in.

The endocrine system consists of several glands in different parts of the body. They secrete hormones directly into the blood. Hormones have many different functions and modes of action.

Hormones are active in metabolism, growth and development, tissue function, sleep, digestion, respiration, excretion, mood, stress, lactation, movement, reproduction, and perception. Another field is behavioral endocrinology.

[[Adipose tissue]]

CATEGORIES: Animal tissues, Lipids

In histology, adipose tissue or body fat or just fat is a tissue made up of cells called adipocytes. They store nutrients called fats in fat cells. Adipose tissue produce different compounds which are called adipokines. They include leptin, tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin 1 beta and others. 

[[Flying Spaghetti Monster]]

CATEGORIES: Gods and goddesses, Internet

The Flying Spaghetti Monster is the god of Pastafarianism. It is often seen as a parody religion and thus has become popular with people opposed to the idea that God or gods created the world. Followers of the Flying Spaghetti Monster are sometimes called Pastafarians. The multiverse theory has suggested that what began as a spoof has become potentially real in the infinite universes and their countless creatures with at least some matching the general description of the FSM. Bobby Henderson first described the Flying Spaghetti Monster in 2005 in a letter to the Kansas State Board of Education. Henderson wrote the letter to protest rules about teaching intelligent design in public schools. The Board of Education required teachers to teach intelligent design.

The Church's website (spaghettimonster.org) contains several sighting of 'His Noodlieness', multiple propaganda resources and an ordination package available for $49. This package contains a paper certificate of ordination, a black/silverresin wallet card and two vinyl car decals. The package also comes with free shipping. As the church states, 'Great. Consider yourself a member.  You’ll notice there’s no hoops to jump through. You don’t need to pay anything.'

[[Campeonato Brasileiro Série A]]

CATEGORIES: Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, 1959 establishments, 1950s establishments in Brazil

Campeonato Brasileiro Série A is a football league in Brazil.

[[Sand plantain]]

CATEGORIES: Plantaginaceae

Sand plantain (Plantago afra), It is generally described as an annual forb. It has two seeds, reddish-brown, narrow-elliptic, shining, 2–3 mm long.It is native to Malta and Mediterranean regions, Afghanistan to Pakistan.

.

[[The Real Ghostbusters]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series, English-language television programs

The Real Ghostbusters is an American animated television series based on the 1984 movie Ghostbusters. The series ran from 1986 to 1991, and was produced by Camme Animation Studios, DiC Entertainment and Coca-Cola Telecommunications. "The Real" was added to the title over a dispute with Filmation and its Ghost Busters properties. The series continues the adventures of paranormal investigators Dr. Peter Venkman, Dr. Egon Spengler, Winston Zeddemore, Dr. Ray Stantz, their secretary Janine Melnitz and their mascot ghost Slimer.

[[Messianic Judaism]]

CATEGORIES: New religious movements, Jewish denominations, Christian movements and denominational families

Messianic Judaism is a movement of Jews who believe that Jesus (called by them with his Hebrew name Yeshua) is the Jewish Messiah, and who perform this belief in a Jewish way (observing the regulations of the Torah etc.). They are called Messianic Jews. The main branches of Judaism do not consider Messianic Judaism to be Judaism, but rather a form of Christianity, because Judaism rejects Jesus/Yeshua as the Jewish Messiah. 

[[Malcolm Sargent]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1967 deaths, British conductors, Gilbert and Sullivan

Sir Malcolm Sargent (born Ashford, Kent, 29 April 1895; died London 3 October 1967) was an English conductor, organist and composer.  He was an extremely famous and popular conductor who had a lot of influence on music in England during his life.  He conducted many choirs, both amateur and professional, as well as orchestras.  He was the main conductor of the Henry Wood Promenade Concerts from 1948 to 1967.  He made the Last Night of the Proms into a very popular and joyful concert which today is enjoyed by millions of people worldwide on television.  He conducted the music of many British composers, helping them to become known to a wide public.

[[Playoffs]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words

The playoffs, postseason, or finals are a series of games played after the regular season of a particular sports league. They are played by the most successful teams of the season. It is used to determine the season's champion. The teams that play in the playoffs are the ones with the most wins or points during the regular season. 

Playoffs are usually, but not always, done with a single-elimination system.

[[Lars]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Lars is a male name. It is usually used in Scandinavian countries and Germany.

Lars comes from the Roman name "Laurentius".

Some famous people named Lars are:

[[Boyce and Hart]]

CATEGORIES: American boy bands, Musical groups from Virginia

Boyce and Hart were a musical and songwriting duo, who worked together in the 1960s and 1970s. Tommy Boyce (born Sidney Thomas Boyce in 1939 and died in 1994) and Bobby Hart (born Robert Luke Harshman in 1939) wrote and produced hit records for The Monkees ("Last Train to Clarksville", "Valleri"), Jay and the Americans ("Come a Little Bit Closer"), Chubby Checker ("Lazy Elsie Molly"), and for themselves, with "I Wonder What She's Doing Tonight" and other songs.

Their biggest success was with the Monkees, as writers, producers and performers. Many of the early Monkees recordings featured Boyce and Hart's band, the Candy Store Prophets, before the Monkees were even selected from auditions. When the Monkees themselves took charge of their recordings, they still recorded Boyce and Hart's songs, and praised the duo to the public.

Ten years after the Monkees's heyday, two former members, Micky Dolenz and Davy Jones, teamed up with Boyce and Hart, touring and performing the band's hits. They also issued a new album on Capitol Records.

[[Janesville, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin, 1835 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Michigan Territory

Janesville is a city in the state of Wisconsin in the United States.6 It is the county seat of Rock County.6  59,498 people were living in Janesville as of the 2000 census.  Janesville has an area of 48.1 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.

The first settlers arrived in Janesville in 1835. It incorporated as a city in 1835

[[Malcolm Gladwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Canadian journalists, Writers from Hampshire, Writers from Ontario

Malcolm Gladwell (born September 3, 1963) is a British-Canadian journalist, author, and pop sociologist, living in New York City. He has written for The New Yorker since 1996. He is well known as the author of the books, The Tipping Point (2000), Blink (2005), and Outliers (2008).

Gladwell was born in Fareham, Hampshire to a Jamaican mother and English father. He moved to Elmira, Ontario at age six. 

[[Rosoideae]]

CATEGORIES: Roses

Rosoideae is a subfamily of plants in the rose  family Rosaceae. These plants may be small trees, shrubs, or plants without wood. Many useful plants are in Rosoideae. Strawberries and Raspberries are two common fruits from Rosoideae. Roses are common flowers in Rosoideae.

[[First Leicester]]

CATEGORIES: British transport companies

First Leicester is the trading name of Leicester Citybus Ltd., a bus company owned by the First Group. It runs buses in the city of Leicester England. 

[[Dappy]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, British people convicted of assault, English rap musicians, Celebrity Big Brother contestants, People from Camden (London borough), Singers from London, British R&B musicians, Grime music artists

Costadinos Contostavlos, better known by his stage name of "Dappy", is a English rapper, singer and songwriter of Greek heritage. He leads the hip hop group N-Dubz. Contostavlos was raised on a Camden Town council estate, North London by his mother, Zoe Contostavlos and father, Byron Contostavlos. His father was the bassist in 1970s group Mungo Jerry.Contostavlos is from Greek origin but speaks fluent English with a classic North London accent. He does not think of himself to be "English in anyway". At home he speaks Greek. He says he is a "foreign guy that lives in Camden". He wears unusual hats. His trademark is a selection of woolly fleece lined hats with big pom-poms on the top and strings on the sides. These have been called "Dappy hats". He normally turns up one side of the hat.

[[Sepal]]

CATEGORIES: Botany

Sepals are one of the four basic parts of a flower. They are found below the petals.

The sepals are often small and green. Some flowers do not have petals. Then the sepals may be big and colorful. In some flowers, the petals and sepals look the same. They are both called tepals.

All the sepals together are called calyx.

The number of sepals is different for different flowers. Both petals and sepals surround the reproductive parts inside the flower. The term for sepals plus petals is the perianth.

The main job of the sepals is to keep the parts of the flower safe before it opens.They are usually green and leaf-like

[[Cotyledon]]

CATEGORIES: Botany

A cotyledon, or seed leaf, is a leaf that is stored in a seed. When the seed sprouts, the cotyledons are the first leaves that the plant has. Monocot plants have only one cotyledon, and other plants have two. Cotyledons often look very different from the other leaves, so they are not called true leaves.

Plants use cotyledons to make sugars through photosynthesis. They use the sugars to keep true leaves growing. After a while, the cotyledons often die because the plant does not need them anymore.

[[Arriva Fox County]]

CATEGORIES: British transport companies, 1981 establishments in England, Bus transport

Arriva Fox County is a bus company which provides bus services in Leicester and Leicestershire. It is part of Arriva Midlands, and a subsidiary of Arriva.

[[Sede do BankBoston]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in Brazil, São Paulo, 2002 establishments in South America, 2000s establishments in Brazil

Sede do BankBoston is a skyscraper in São Paulo, Brazil. It is 145 meters (476 feet) tall and has 35 floors. It was built in 2002, and is a modern skyscraper of Brazil and Latin America.

[[Amygdaloideae]]

CATEGORIES: Rosaceae

Amygdaloideae (often incorrectly called Prunoideae) is a subfamily of flowering plants. This subfamily is placed within the family Rosaceae.

Since 2011 there has been a big change in how the name of this subfamily is used. Before 2011, the only plants in this subfamily were the stone fruits such as plums, peaches, and almonds. Now the subfamily includes all of the family Rosaceae except the subfamilies Rosoideae and Dryadoideae. Commercially important members of the Amygdaloideae include plum, apple, spiraea, cherries, :medlars, and many others.

[[Centrebus]]

CATEGORIES: British transport companies

Centrebus operate a network of routes in Leicestershire, England. Many Centrebus managers came from Arriva's UK and European bus operations. In September 2008, Centrebus purchased Woods Coaches' and there vehicles

[[Vasily Chuikov]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1982 deaths, Soviet generals, Soviet military personnel of World War II

Vasily Chuykov (February 12, 1900 - March 18, 1982) was a Soviet military leader.

During World War II he was commanding the 62nd army, with which he was especially outstanding himself in the Battle of Stalingrad. 

He was twice Hero of the Soviet Union (1944, 1945).

He was made Marshal of the Soviet Union in 1955. 

[[Power Purchasing Agreement]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity distribution

A Power Purchasing Agreement (PPA) is a legal contract between a electricity provider and a land owner. The contract allows the electricity provider to produce power on the land owner's land or roof and the land owner buys the electricity primarily from the electricity provider. This deal is often done using solar technology, where the electricity provider will install, operate, and maintain solar panels on the land owner's roof. Then the land owner will buy the electricity from the solar panels on the roof. Part of the PPA is to set a price for the electrcity (often lower than the previous price the land owner was paying for power line electrcity). If the solar panels do not provide enough electricity for the land owner, then he will buy the rest of his electrcity from the power lines. If the electricity provider creates more electricity than the land owner needs, then he will sell the excess to the power lines.

Schools and government buildings often like to do power purchasing agreements because they do not have the money to install solar panals on their roof.July 2010 Large department stores also like to do power purchasing agreements because they have large roofs and do not want to deal with the costs of installing and maintaining panels.July 2010

Power Purchasing agreements tend to last 5 – 20 years.July 2010 At the end of the PPA, either the contract is extended, the solar panels are removed from the property, or the land owner buys the solar panels from the electricity provider.

Power Purchasing agreements have been very important to the expansion of solar electricity use in the United States.July 2010 Investment tax credits from the federal and state governments have helped make the price of solar panels affordable for the providing companies. The tax credit can help pay for significant percentage of the project cost in some cases. 

Some of the electricity providers who offer PPAs are:

[[Pioneer plaque]]

CATEGORIES: Pioneer program

The Pioneer plaques were a pair of plaques that were launched into deep space on Pioneer 10 and Pioneer 11. The same image is on both plaques. The image is made up of many parts. 

There is a drawing of a nude human female and a nude human male. 

There is a diagram of the change in spin of the electron of a hydrogen particle. This diagram is meant to set up a universal unit of length and a universal unit of time for the rest of the image. 

There is a crude map of our solar system showing a spacecraft leaving the third planet, Earth. There have been negative reactions about the arrow showing the trajectory of the spacescraft. Alien species may not understand the human concept of a line and arrow. 

There is pattern of lines that looks like a star burst design. This is a map. There are 15 lines. 14 of the lines have a long binary number engraved along it. The binary numbers are distances. The distances are not in meters or kilometers, but in the universal unit of distance given by the hydrogen particle diagram. The 14 lines give the distance from the sun to 14 pulsars. The 15th line gives the distance from the sun to the center of the galaxy.

[[Clube Atlético Mineiro]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, Belo Horizonte, 1908 establishments in South America, 1900s establishments in Brazil

June 2020June 2020

Clube Atlético Mineiro is a Brazilian football club. Atletico Mineiro was founded in 1908 in the city of Belo Horizonte, where the team plays. The team has Galo (rooster) as its mascot, for this reason the club is also known simply as Galo. 

Atletico Mineiro is one of the most traditional football clubs in Brazil, being the first champion of the modern version of the Brazilian Football Championhsip. The most important achievement of the club was the Copa Libertadores de America in 2013, which is regarded as the most important tournament in South America. 

In the last five years, Atletico Mineiro is probably passing through the most victorious period in its history, since in the last five years the team has played five out of the nine Copa Libertadores editions the team has ever disputed.

[[Sport Club Internacional]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, Porto Alegre, 1909 establishments in Brazil

S.C. Internacional is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[Guarani FC]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in São Paulo (state), 1911 establishments, 1910s establishments in Brazil

Guarani F.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[C.R. Flamengo]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs

Clube de Regatas do Flamengo (ˈklubi dʒi ʁeˈɡataʒ du flaˈmẽɡu; English: Flamengo Rowing Club), commonly referred to as Flamengo, is a Brazilian sports club based in Rio de Janeiro, in the neighbourhood of Gávea, best known for their professional football team. Flamengo is the only team in the World to have 40 million fans within its country, therefore, it is the most popular club in the Americas.

[[Grêmio Foot-Ball Porto Alegrense]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, Porto Alegre, 1903 establishments in South America, 1900s establishments in Brazil

Grêmio Foot-Ball Porto Alegrense is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[Coritiba Foot Ball Club]]

CATEGORIES: Paraná State, Coritiba Foot Ball Club, 1909 establishments in Brazil

Coritiba Foot Ball Club is a football club which plays Curitiba in Paraná state, Brazil. It was founded in 1909 and currently plays in Campeonato Brasileiro Série A.

Coritiba was founded in October 12, 1909.

[[Sport Club do Recife]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, Recife, 1905 establishments in South America, 1900s establishments in Brazil

Sport Recife is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[Esporte Clube Bahia]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, Salvador, Bahia, 1931 establishments in Brazil

E.C. Bahia is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[Botafogo de Futebol e Regatas]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Rio de Janeiro, 1904 establishments in South America, 1900s establishments in Brazil

Botafogo F.R. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[Clube Atlético Paranaense]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, Curitiba, 1924 establishments in South America, 1920s establishments in Brazil

Clube Atlético Paranaense is a football club which plays in Curitiba, Brazil.

[[Santos FC]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in São Paulo (state), 1912 establishments in Brazil

Santos F.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[Joseph Karl Stieler]]

CATEGORIES: 1781 births, 1858 deaths, German painters, People from Mainz

Joseph Karl Stieler (1 November 1781 — 9 April 1858) was a German painter. He was born in Mainz. His family were engravers and die-cutters. He received some artistic training from his father, August Friedrich Stieler (1736-1789). He began his career as a painter of miniatures.

In 1816, he traveled to Vienna and painted portrait of Emperor Francis I of Austria. Between February and April 1820, he worked on his portrait of Beethoven, which is probably the most well-known representation of the composer today.

[[List of The Real Ghostbusters episodes]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of animated television series episodes

List of The Real Ghostbusters episodes.

[[New Mills]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Derbyshire

New Mills is a town in Derbyshire, England. It is eight miles from Stockport. It is by the rivers Goyt and Sett. It is very near the county of Cheshire.  It has a population of 10,000.

[[Guido Westerwelle]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in Germany, Deaths from leukemia, Disease-related deaths in North Rhine-Westphalia, Gay men, German lawyers, German LGBT people, Government ministers of Germany, LGBT lawyers, LGBT politicians, Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia, Politicians of the Free Democratic Party of Germany, Vice Chancellors of Germany

Guido Westerwelle (27 December 1961 – 18 March 2016) was a German politician.  He was Foreign Minister and Vice-Chancellor of Germany.

Westerwelle was born in Bad Honnef, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.

He was an attorney before he became a politician. From 1994 to 2001 he was secretary general of the German liberal party, the Freie Demokratische Partei (FDP). In 2001 he became the leader of the party.

Westerwelle was also the leader of the FDP parliamentary group and from 1999 to 2005 head of the opposition in the German Bundestag.

Since June 2014 he had suffered from acute leukemia. He died of the disease on 18 March 2016 in Cologne, Germany at the age of 54.

He was openly gay and was in a civil partnership with sports manager Michael Mronz.

[[Vancouver, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state), County seats in Washington

Vancouver, Washington is a United States city, just north of the Columbia River in the state of Washington. It is directly north of Portland, Oregon and 305 south of Vancouver, British Columbia. Both cities were named for George Vancouver, a British explorer and sea captain. The city of Vancouver includes Fort Vancouver, begun by the British Hudson's Bay Company in 1824. It was made part of the United States on June 15, 1846, as part of the Oregon Treaty. It is the fourth largest city in Washington State.

[[Radiant heating]]

CATEGORIES: Construction, Heat

Radiant heating occurs when a hot surface warms other objects around it. Radiant heating has a long history of use in buildings by the Romans and the Koreans, and is much more efficient than standard ways of heating the air in a building. Underfloor radiant heating is the most common type of radiant heating used in buildings, but wall and overhead radiant heating systems are also used. Radiant heating can also be used to heat outdoor areas. 

[[74 (number)]]

CATEGORIES: Integers

Seventy-four is a number. It comes after seventy-three and before seventy-five.

[[Top Gear]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 television series debuts, 2000s British television series, 2010s British television series, BBC Television programmes, English-language television programs

Top Gear is a television show on the BBC. The show is all about cars and other vehicles. They test new cars to see how fast they go. They also test really old cars and do crazy stuff with them. They usually rate cars that the normal person wouldn't be able to afford. The show started as a regular car show but has changed over time to what it is now. It uses comedy to attract viewers which are now estimated to be 350 million.

[[Backpacking (wilderness)]]

CATEGORIES: Leisure, Camping

Backpacking is hiking in the outdoors with a backpack full of all your food, clothing, water, and shelter. Usually, backpackers hike in groups to stay safer. They must think to bring first aid supplies, sleeping bags, tents, rain gear, stoves, food and other camping supplies.

Backpacking may be done on short or long trips. Sometimes, backpacking groups begin at a trail head with a parking lot and hike over a weekend until they work their way back to the vehicle. On longer trips, groups may settle in at a base camp and hike for weeks or even months if they are more experienced and prepared.

When following certain rules, backpackers have the chance to leave the outdoors better than they found them. There are certain practices such as Leave No Trace that teach backpackers and hikers to pack out all waste and help conserve nature in every way possible such as not building fires in dry areas, saving water, and protecting the environment. When backpackers use these skills, they help preserve nature while getting to explore themselves while outside the influence of the rest of the world.

[[Châlons-en-Champagne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Marne, Departmental capitals in France

Châlons-en-Champagne is a commune in the Marne department in the Grand Est region in northeastern France. It is the préfecture (capital) of the department.

Even if Châlons-en-Champagne is the capital of the department, it is only the second largest city in population after Reims. It should not be confused with Chalon-sur-Saône, a city in the Saône-et-Loire department in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region.

[[Nicolas Appert]]

CATEGORIES: 1749 births, 1841 deaths, French inventors

Nicolas Appert (Châlons-en-Champagne 1749 - Massy 1841) was a French inventor.

[[Schulze method]]

CATEGORIES: Voting systems, Debian

The Schulze method is a way of voting that is used to fill a single vacant position in an election. It was developed in 1997 by Markus Schulze. It is also known as Schwartz Sequential Dropping (SSD), Cloneproof Schwartz Sequential Dropping (CSSD), Beatpath Method, Beatpath Winner, Path Voting, and Path Winner. It is used by several organizations including Wikimedia, Debian, Gentoo, BerryTube, and the KDE.

[[The Man from Earth]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, American science fiction movies, American independent movies

The Man from Earth is a 2007 movie written by Jerome Bixby.

The movie tells the story of John Oldman. All of the movie takes place in a small house and its porch, where Oldman tells his friends that he is a 14,000 year old Cro-Magnon caveman.

[[Shaolin Monastery]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in China, Buddhist buildings, 5th century establishments in Asia, Establishments in China

The Shaolin Monastery or Shaolin Temple is a temple at Song mountain of Dengfeng, near Zhengzhou City,Henan Province, China. Now it is led by abbot Venerable abbot Shi Yǒngxìn.

It was Founded in the 5th century and became the Holy Ground of Kung Fu. Now it is the Mahayana Buddhist monastery perhaps best known to the Western world.

[[Egyptian vulture]]

CATEGORIES: Accipitriformes, Birds of Africa, Birds of Europe, Birds of Asia, Vultures

The Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus) is a small Old World vulture. It is found from southwestern Europe and northern Africa to southern Asia. It is the only living member of the genus Neophron, and there are three subspecies. In Southern Asia this species is called the scavenger vulture.

When they feed on the eggs of other birds, they break larger ones by tossing a large pebble onto them. The use of tools is rare in birds, but Egyptian vultures also use twigs to roll up wool for use in their nest.

[[Henan]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of China

Henan is a province of the People's Republic of China. It is in the central eastern part of China. The name Henan means "south of the Yellow River." The capital of Henan is Zhengzhou.

Its major cities are Anyang, Hebi, Jiaozuo, Kaifeng, Luohe, Luoyang, Nanyang, Pingdingshan, Puyang, Sanmenxia, Shangqiu, Xinxiang, Xinyang, Xuchang, Zhengzhou, Zhoukou and Zhumadian.

Henan is now the province of China with the most people. 

The abbreviation of Henan is Yu (豫) to remember a kingdom from history yhat was in the area, and also because another province also has "He" (河) in its name, Hebei (河北).

[[Pulp Fiction]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 crime movies, 1994 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, Academy Award winning movies, American crime drama movies, BAFTA Award winning movies, English-language movies, Film noir, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies about drugs, Movies about murderers, Movies directed by Quentin Tarantino, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Rape in movies, American independent movies

Pulp Fiction is a 1994 American crime drama movie set in Los Angeles. It was directed by Quentin Tarantino. The movie stars John Travolta, Bruce Willis, Uma Thurman and Samuel L. Jackson. It is a very popular movie. Pulp Fiction is rated R for strong graphic violence and drug use, profanity and some sexuality.

[[Soju]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink, Korean food

Soju is a distilled drink. Soju literally means "burned liquor". 

This kind of distilled beverage was first found in Persia, where the distillation methods of producing alcoholic beverage originated from. But through a Mongolian who contacted Islamic culture did this kind of alcoholic beverage and the distillation techniques of making such a drink come about to the East.

As soju became prevalent throughout Won Dynasty of China, it eventually spread throughout Korea Kingdom, where it became so popular that numerous kinds of soju were created. Because soju created at that time were made from pure grains, it was very tasty and clean. It was also not so strong. However, it was very expensive simply because it was distilled.

Nowadays, soju is very popular in South Korea. Koreans enjoy drinking soju as a means of promoting friendship and getting closer to each other. Usually, people drink it with "anju", a side dish, so as to moderate its bitterness.

[[Goguryeo]]

CATEGORIES: History of Korea, Royal dynasties, 30s BC establishments

Goguryeo is a dynasty of ancient Korea which was begun by Jumong (주몽朱蒙) in 37 BC. It was started in the area near the Dongga River, a branch of the Abrok River. Jolbon was the capital city founded by Jumong.

The legend of the nation's birth is that Jumong was born out of an egg and brought up by King Gumwa (금와왕) of East Buyeo. The name, Jumong, means a person who is good at archery. Because of his archery skills, Prince Daeso (대소왕자) envied him. So, Jumong felt death threats and decided to escape from East Buyeo with three friends. He went to Jolbon Buyeo and married Sosuno (소서노) who was the princess of the nation. Jumong succeeded the king and changed the nation's name to Goguryeo after his surname.

Since the first king, King Dongmyeong (동명성왕), Goguryeo had been invaded by several enemies such as the Chinese Han Dynasty, and Xianbei. But, by 11th king's reign, Goguryeo had succeeded in taking control over Liaoong. Until the 24th king's period, it had had its golden age, expanding the range of the nation and driving away all the attacks from ouside. The most famous king was King Gwanggaeto the Great (광개토대왕).

However, when it was under the control of 27th king, Youngryou (영류왕), Goguryeo was becoming a vassal of the Tang Dynasty. Because of this, the king was killed by Yoen Gaesomoon (연개소문) and a new king, Bojang (보장왕) succeeded. After Yoen Gaesomoon died, the people did not cooperate with the nation well and while its control got weak, it was destroyed by the allied forces of Tang and Silla.

[[Wilhelm Pieck]]

CATEGORIES: 1876 births, 1960 deaths, German atheists, Members of the Reichstag (Weimar Republic), Members of the Volkskammer, People from former German territories, Presidents of East Germany

Friedrich Wilhelm Reinhold Pieck (3 January 1876 in eastern Guben (today Poland) - 7 September 1960 in Berlin) was an (East) German communist politician. He was a member of the Spartacus League. He was joint founder, and from 1946 to 1950 co-chairman of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED, together with Otto Grotewohl), and from 1949 to his death in 1960 the first and only president of the GDR.

During the Weimar Republic he was a member of the Landtag of Prussia from 1921 to 1928, and afterwards a member of the Reichstag from 1928 to 1933, both on behalf of the Communist Party of Germany (KPD).

[[Beth Elamen Cemetery]]

CATEGORIES: Beirut, Cemeteries, Buildings and structures in Lebanon

Beth Elamen is the only Jewish cemetery in Beirut, capital of Lebanon. Its spelling in Hebrew is "בית עלמין", meaning: "House of Cemetery". 

The cemetery is very close to Sodeco Square. It can also be reached using the Damascus Expressway.

[[Broxbourne railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations opened in 1840, Railway stations served by National Express East Anglia, 1840 establishments in England

[[Daemon (computer software)]]

CATEGORIES: Servers

In Unix, and in  other computer multitasking operating systems, a daemon (ˈdiːmən or /ˈdeɪmən/) is a computer program that runs as a background task. Many daemons have names that end with the letter "d": for example, syslogd, the daemon that handles the system log, httpd, a daemon that handles web requests, or sshd, which takes care of incoming SSH connections.

[[Overcharge]]

CATEGORIES: Business

Overcharge is an economic term used in legal discourse about price fixing violations. An overcharge is the difference between what a buyer or seller actually paid for a good purchased from a cartel and what the buyer or seller would have paid in the absence of a price-fixing cartel. The total amount of the overcharges paid by customers of a cartel is the major component of damages that can be recovered by plaintiffs in private antitrust suits. Under U.S. federal antitrust law, buyers injured by cartel overcharges are entitled to triple the overcharges that they are able to prove in court.

The overcharge has a one-to-one relationship to the Lerner Index, the most common measure of market power in economics. Both measures employ the same numerator (PM - PC), where PM is the observed market price and PC is the competitive benchmark price, but use different denominators. The overcharge ratio is (PM-PC)/PC, whereas the Lerner Index is (PM-PC)/PM. Both ratios are zero when a market is perfectly competitive or a cartel is ineffective in raising prices. The Lerner Index has an upper limit of one when the pure monopoly price is charged in a market. The overcharge has no upper limit.

[[Rye House railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations served by National Express East Anglia, 1843 establishments in Europe, 1840s establishments in England

Rye House railway station is in Hoddesdon in Hertfordshire, England. It is on the Hertford East branch of the West Anglia Main Line, and train services are provided by Abellio Greater Anglia.

[[List of London Underground stations]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground stations, London-related lists, Lists of railway stations in the United Kingdom

The London Underground is a metro system in the United Kingdom. It serves Greater London and the nearby districts of Essex, Hertfordshire and Buckinghamshire. London Underground was first opened in 1863 which makes it the oldest underground metro system in the world.

[[Ratatat]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Electronic music bands, Musical groups from New York City

Ratatat is a Eletronic Rock/Electronica duo with guitarist Mike Stroud and synthesizer driver and producer Evan Mast. The two met as collee students in Skidmore, started working together in 2001 under the name Cherry. In 2004 they published their debut album Ratatat which includes songs such as Seventeen Years, Germany to Germany, and Desert Eagle. Following, in 2006, Classics, then LP3, in 2008 was released.

Other works done by Ratatat are single albums and remixes of other musicians. Single albums include Seventeen Years, Germany to Germany, Wildcat, Lex, Loud Pipes, Shiller, Mirando, and Shempi. Their most recent remix album Ratatat Remixes No. 2 featured 14 remixes featuring: Young Buck, T.I, Ludacris, The Notorious B.I.G, Jay Z, Z-Ro, Devin the Dude, Juvenile, Beanie Sigel, Despot, Memphis Bleek, Slim Thug, Bun B, Young Jeezy, Kanye West, Beans, Saigon, and U.G.K.

The band is known for their unique use of eletronica style music that emphasizes guitar towards the front while keeping the beat flow in the background.

Their songs were featured in various media. Some examples would be :

Seventeen Years was featured in the 2008 movie Cloverfield.

Loud Pipes was featured in the PlayStation game MLB 07: The Show.

Dura was used in CSI Season 9, Episode 7 "Woulda, Coulda, Shoulda".

Montanita was used in Season 2 - Episode 2 of the NBC show Chuck

They have currently gone through their spring 2009 US tour, and their next upcoming show is scheduled to be in Arendal on June 23, 2009.

[[Binary form]]

CATEGORIES: Music theory

Binary form ( also know as AB Form or movement of continuity)is a type of form of music pieces. The word Binary means "in two parts." The word Form is a kind of guideline for composers when they write a piece of music. So, binary form means "An outline in two parts." A musical piece in binary form is a musical piece with two sections.

Binary form was popular in the Baroque times and was often used for movements in sonatas for keyboard instruments. Each part of a binary form piece of music are usually repeated.

[[Bubble tea]]

CATEGORIES: Tea, Asian foods

Bubble tea, also called pearl tea or Boba, is a drink which comes from Taichung, Taiwan. It is made by mixing black tea with non-dairy creamer or milk and adding round "pearl" tapioca. There are many flavors other than the original one. Green tea can be used instead of black tea. Extra items such as honey, coffee or cocoa can be added. Pudding or coconut cubes can be used instead of pearl tapioca.

When it was first invented, not many people were interested in it. But after a bubble tea maker was interviewed on a Japanese TV program, it became popular among people of all ages. The popularity of bubble tea can be seen not only in Taiwan but also in other countries such as South Korea, Japan, Hong Kong, China, Southeast Asia, Australia, Canada and the USA.

Bubble tea has now arrived in England and the rest of Europe.

[[An Jung-sik]]

CATEGORIES: 1861 births, 1919 deaths, Korean people, Artists

An Jung-sik (1861–1919) was an artist who lived in the late Chosun dynasty. In 1918 he organized the association of paintings and writings artists (Seohwa-hyeopae;서화협회;書畵協會)'. And he founded 'Gyeong Mook Dang (경묵당;耕墨堂)' in which artists and supporters gathered and communicated with each other. As the leader of the association he made an effort to educate younger artist generation. He was excellent at landscape, portrait, flowers and birds. 

His main works are:

In his period, the western modern art was introduced to Korea, and the Korean traditional art was declining. He not only tried to succeed the traditional art but also adapt the western art, a realistic trend.

[[Korean International School of Hong Kong]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in South Korea, 1988 establishments in Asia, 1980s establishments in South Korea

The Korean International School of Hong Kong (KIS) was founded on March 1988. It is in Lei King Wan, Sai Wan Ho, Hong Kong, near Tai Koo Shing. Tai Koo Shing has many Koreans.

[[Cyon]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of South Korea, Technology companies of Asia, 1997 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in South Korea

Cyon is mobile phone brand of Korean LG Electronics. The brand was launched in 1997. Cyon represents the cutting-edge technology in cellphone market world-wide. Cyon adopts "Smart technology", development philosophy that reflects users' emotions, in manufacturing products. Cyon prioritizes customers' opinions and desires in new designs. 

Cyon's headquarters are in Seoul, Korea. However, Cyon branched out to Europe, North America, South America and Asia with strategic marketing, gaining success. 

[[Battle of the year]]

CATEGORIES: Dance

Battle of the year (acronym BOTY) is a worldwide breakdancing tournament held every year. In 1990, Thomas Hergenröther founded BOTY in Hannover, Germany. There were 9 crews and 400 visitors at that time. As break-dancing became more popular, BOTY grew in size and found a new location in Braunschweig, Germany.

Regional BOTY (BOTY France, BOTY Korea and so on) first takes place to choose a single crew that will represent each nation in the upcoming BOTY international. Representing crews compete against each other first in a showcase in which every crew presents their own choreographed performances within 6 minutes or so. According to the rankings of the showcase, 2 semi finals in total between 1st and 4th crew and 2nd and 3rd crew takes place. The final battle follows between the winners of the semi finals to judge the champion crew of the year.

Judging Criteria for a showcase include; synchronicity, stage-presence, theme & music and choreography.

Criteria for individual B-Boys include; top rock, footwork, freeze and power move.

Criteria for a battle include; response, routines, strategy and attitude.

[[Takahiro Matsumoto]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1961 births, Japanese guitarists, People from Osaka Prefecture

Takahiro "Tak" Matsumoto (born March 27, 1961 in Toyonaka, Osaka) is a Japanese guitarist. He is the lead arranger of rock band B'z.

[[Foot binding]]

CATEGORIES: Feet, History of China, Women

Foot binding is an old Chinese custom of wrapping girls' feet with cloth in order to stop them from growing with age. Some Chinese legends say people started binding women's feet as early as the Shang dynasty (1700–1027 BCE). However, writing says that foot binding began at the court of the Song dynasty (960–1279 CE). It lasted until the early 20th century, when it was banned by the People's Republic of China. 

Foot binding was a sign of social status. If a woman's feet were bound, it was a sign that she was a higher-class woman who did not have to do hard work. However, foot binding slowly spread to the lower classes who wanted to try and get a higher social status. By the 17th century, Chinese girls of all social statuses had their feet bound. 

Some people think that Chinese women were forced to bind their feet in order to help their husbands feel sexual pleasure. Some people also see foot binding as insulting to women. But other people argue that this view is biased against the Chinese culture in favor of modern Western standards.

Foot binding usually tried to make the feet about 3 long, at most. Some drastic things were done at times to try to do this. Because of this, women who had their feet bound would usually be impaired, or damaged, for the rest of their lives. The physical consequences (or results) of foot binding stayed in Chinese society until very recently, especially for women in their 70s and 80s (according to a study published by the University of San Francisco}.

When the Manchuria created the Qing dynasty, the Manchurian emperors wrote many laws banning foot binding. However, the laws did not work very well. In 1874, the first anti-footbinding committee (meeting of people) was held in Shanghai by a British priest. After the collapse of the Qing dynasty, the republican government kept trying to stop foot binding. They gave fines (orders to pay money) to women who still had their feet bound after 1915. During the early 20th century, western fashion was affecting China more and more. The People's Republic of China eventually outlawed foot binding, although this was not very successful in actually ending the practice. According to Xinhua News Agency, the last factory to make shoes for bound-feet women stopped making those shoes in 1998, in Harbin, China.

[[Udenhout]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in North Brabant, Former municipalities of North Brabant, Tilburg

Udenhout is a town in The Netherlands. In 1232 the abbey of Tongerlo was started which grew into the village that is now called Udenhout.

Udenhout has been part of the municipality of Tilburg since 1997.

[[HY]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands, 2000 establishments in Japan

HY is a Japanese rock music band formed in year 2000 by five high school friends in Okinawa. Their name comes from the initials of their hometown, Higashi Yakena. The band became popular by performing music in the streets. Their first album Departure (Okinawa-only) sold out immediately. In 2002, the band did a live performance with American group, Linkin Park.

[[Mount Kisco]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

Mount Kisco is a village and a town in Westchester County, in the state of New York. One story says it was named after an Algonquian  Native American chief who once lived in the area. There is another story which says that the name came from the Algonquian word meaning the "edge of creekland", or "a muddy place". It is a suburban town about 40 minutes from New York City by car. There is also a train to New York. The village has more than 10,000 people, who live in an area of 3.1 square miles. There are approximately 2,500 families living in Mount Kisco.

Mount Kisco is a part of the Bedford School District, which has five elementary schools, one middle school, and a high school. The village is run by a Mayor and four trustees. It has a commercial hub in the center of the village. Around the Mount Kisco Library are the shopping corridors on South Monger Avenue. Mount Kisco is a relatively quiet town; however, it is currently suffering from increased traffic.

[[Maslak USO Center]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Turkey

Maslak USO Center is a modern shopping mall in the finance and business quarter of Maslak in Istanbul, Turkey. It opened on 30 January 2000.

[[Kinki Kids]]

CATEGORIES: J-pop bands, 1992 establishments in Japan

KinKi Kids is a Japanese J-pop band. The members are Koichi Doumoto and Tsuyoshi Doumoto. They formed the duo in 1992, and they came out in 1997. They are from Kinki region. So, the duo named KinKi kids after Kinki region. They have same family name, but they are not relatives.

[[Scott Young (writer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2005 deaths, Autobiographers, People from Manitoba, Canadian journalists, Canadian novelists, Elmer Ferguson Award winners

Scott Alexander Young (April 14, 1918 – June 12, 2005) was a Canadian journalist, sportswriter, novelist and the father of musicians Neil Young and Astrid Young.  Over his career, Young wrote 45 books, including novels and non-fiction for adult and youth audiences.

[[Scott Young]]

Scott Young may refer to:

[[Scott Young (ice hockey b. 1967)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, American ice hockey players, American Olympic silver medalists, Colorado Avalanche players, Dallas Stars players, Hartford Whalers players, Living people, Mighty Ducks of Anaheim players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Quebec Nordiques players, Sportspeople from Massachusetts, St. Louis Blues players, Stanley Cup champions

Scott Young (born October 1, 1967 in Clinton, Massachusetts) is a American retired professional ice hockey right winger. 

[[Scott Young (ice hockey b. 1965)]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people

Scott Young (born May 26, 1965 in Oakville, Ontario) is a former professional ice hockey player who played in the minor leagues in North America and in Britain's top level leagues.

[[Pico da Neblina]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Brazil, Mountains of South America, Amazonas (Brazil)

Pico da Neblina is Brazil's highest mountain. It is in Amazonas state, near the edge with Venezuela.

It is located in the Negro River Basin.

[[Amazonas (Brazilian state)]]

CATEGORIES: Amazonas (Brazil), States of Brazil

Amazonas is the largest state of Brazil. It is in the North Region and borders Acre, Mato Grosso, Pará, Rondônia, Roraima and some countries of Latin America. Its main city is Manaus. In Amazonas is found the highest part of Brazil, the Pico da Neblina.

Its name was given because of the Amazons legend, and it is also the name of its major river, the second longest river in the world. Other rivers in Amazonas are Rio Juruá, Purus, Madeira, Rio Negro, Rio Içá, Rio Uaupés, and Rio Japurá.

The economy is based in mining, fishing, and industry.

[[Jurua River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Brazil, Rivers of Peru

Rio Jurua is a river in western Brazil, Amazonas. Its course forms a part of the border with Peru.

[[Japurá River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Brazil, Rivers of Colombia

Japura River or Caquetá River is a river in Brazil, Amazonas state. That is about 2816 long. It begins in the Andes mountains in Columbia where it is called the Caquetá. The river flows through Columbia into Brazil where it is called the Japura. It empties into the Amazon river. 

[[Woolwich Arsenal station]]

CATEGORIES: Docklands Light Railway stations, Transport in Greenwich, London Travelcard zone 4, 1849 establishments in England

Woolwich Arsenal station is a National Rail and Docklands Light Railway interchange station in Woolwich in the London Borough of Greenwich. It acts as a local station on the North Kent Line between London and Gillingham, served by Southeastern, and is the southern terminus of the Woolwich Arsenal branch of the Docklands Light Railway. The station faces General Gordon Square and is named after the nearby Woolwich Arsenal. It is the only DLR station in Travelcard Zone 4.

[[King George V DLR station]]

CATEGORIES: Docklands Light Railway stations, Transport in Newham, London Travelcard zone 3

King George V DLR station is a station on the Docklands Light Railway (DLR) which opened on 2 December 2005. It is named after the King George V Dock, nearby. Until January 2009, it served as a temporary terminus for the King George V branch of DLR but the line has since been extended under the River Thames to Woolwich Arsenal.

The station is in the London Borough of Newham and is in Travelcard Zone 3.

[[London City Airport DLR station]]

CATEGORIES: Docklands Light Railway stations, Transport in Newham, London Travelcard zone 3

London City Airport DLR station is a station on the Docklands Light Railway which serves the London City Airport, and which opened in 2 December 2005. It is on the King George V branch. Trains run westbound to Bank in the City of London and eastbound to Woolwich Arsenal.

Until the extension to Woolwich Arsenal this station was the main reason for this branch.  It continues to be an important station on the DLR.  It has an excellent direct covered connection with adjacent airport terminal building.  Although the station maintains the DLR philosophy of basic good design it makes various concessions to cater for airport passengers including a fully enclosed waiting room on the central island platform.

The station is in the London Borough of Newham and is in Travelcard Zone 3.

[[Pontoon Dock DLR station]]

CATEGORIES: London Travelcard zone 3, Docklands Light Railway stations

Pontoon Dock DLR station, on the Woolwich Arsenal branch of the DLR, opened on 2 December 2005. It is in the east of Silvertown in the London Borough of Newham, and is in Travelcard Zone 3. 

[[West Silvertown DLR station]]

CATEGORIES: Docklands Light Railway stations, Transport in Newham, London Travelcard zone 3

West Silvertown is a station on the Docklands Light Railway which opened in December 2005. It is on the Woolwich Arsenal branch. Trains run Westbound to Bank in the City of London and Eastbound to Woolwich Arsenal, passing through London City Airport station.

The station is in the London Borough of Newham and is in Travelcard Zone 3.

[[Canning Town station]]

CATEGORIES: London Travelcard zone 3, Docklands Light Railway stations

Canning Town station is a major inter-modal transport interchange in East London. It is served by London Underground's Jubilee Line and the Docklands Light Railway (DLR), as well as being served by local buses operated on behalf of London Buses. It is in Travelcard Zone 3.

[[Critical thinking]]

CATEGORIES: Critical thinking

Critical thinking is "thinking about thinking". It is a way of deciding if a claim is true, false, or sometimes true and sometimes false, or partly true and partly false.

To find out if someone is telling you the truth, one needs evidence. Information is found in libraries, online, and by asking people. Professional librarians can help research library sources. Cybrarians can help research using computers. Professional interviewers are good at finding people who are experts in their fields, and they know how to ask the right questions.

To solve a problem, questions can be written as clearly and simply as possible, making certain that all terms are well understood by giving definitions if necessary. Then, this critical thinking can help one judge how true this information is. Critical thinking tools are taken from many fields of study: statistics, logistics, semantics, experimental research methodology, psychology, sociology. Research sources should be of good quality: up to date, thorough, well-informed, and impartial.

[[East India DLR station]]

CATEGORIES: Docklands Light Railway stations, Transport in Tower Hamlets, London Travelcard zone 2, London Travelcard zone 3

East India is a station on Docklands Light Railway (DLR) in east London. It takes its name from the nearby former East India Docks of the Port of London, where ships trading with the Indian subcontinent used to dock. 

It is on the Beckton branch of the DLR, and is in Travelcard Zones 2 and 3. It opened, with the Beckton Branch, on 28 March 1994. 

[[Blackwall DLR station]]

CATEGORIES: London Travelcard zone 2, Docklands Light Railway stations

Blackwall is a station on Docklands Light Railway (DLR) in east London. The station is close to the northern entry to the Blackwall road tunnel under the Thames.

Blackwall station is on the Beckton branch of the DLR between Poplar and East India stations, and is in Travelcard Zone 2.

The DLR station opened, with the Beckton Branch, on the 28 March 1994. There was a previous station on the same site, called Poplar station, which was served by the London and Blackwall Railway from 6 July 1840 to 3 May 1926. Blackwall station on the London and Blackwall Railway was actually farther east. The location of these two stations on the London and Blackwall Railway can be seen in the bottom-right hand corner of the Map of Poplar, 1885.

There is a crossover west of the station which allows trains from Beckton, Poplar or Woolwich Arsenal to reverse here.

[[Amazonas Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Peru

The Region of Amazonas is a region of Peru. It is in the northwest part of the country. Its capital is the city of Chachapoyas.

[[Wayuu]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in South America, Colombia, Venezuela

The Wayúu are a tribe of native people living in La Guajira Peninsula, between Colombia and Venezuela. 

[[Waxing]]

CATEGORIES: Care

Waxing is a method of removing hair from the body. Waxing removes the whole hair including the root. Both men and women engage in waxing, as do female children as young as eight. Any area of the body can be waxed but the more common areas are the legs, underarms, genitals, torso and face. There are health concerns about waxing such as pain, inflammation, infection and physical damage to the skin. At least two women have been hospitalized due to bikini waxing. The waxing of young girls has been criticized and concerns over emotional problems have been raised by parents and by doctors and psychologists. Although it is known as "waxing" not all treatments of this kind use wax. Some waxing treatments use a sugar mixture in the same manner as wax. 

[[Vinoba Bhave]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1982 deaths, Indian revolutionaries, Nonviolence advocates

Vinoba Bhave (1895-1982), was a philosopher and revolutionist of India. Often called Acharya (Sanskrit for teacher). He was a pupil of Mahatma Gandhi (1869~ 1948), who was called "Mahatma", meaning a great sage. Vinoba Bhave also lived following the doctrine of ahimsa, which means nonviolence. His ideas were also influenced by his grandfather, father, and mother. His grandfather taught him about the purity of spirit. His father, who was yoga ascetic, taught him how to think scientifically. His mother taught him what faith is. He got the Bharat Ratna award by Indian government in 1983. The Gita has also been translated into Marathi language by him with the name as Geetai means mother Geeta.2

There are a lot of accomplishments he made. The most famous thing is "Budan", which is an idea of sharing lands with the poor. He argued that land is not something that can be occupied. He insisted that land owners should donate their one sixth of their land to people who do not have land. He campaigned to give rice to hungry people. And he also did a campaign of self-supporting and self-sufficient. These worked successfully and he became a great man of India.

[[Cheongsam]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese culture, Dresses

Cheongsam  is typical, traditional clothing for Chinese women. Also known as Qipao (Ch'ipau).

A cheongsam usually has two long slits at either side of the hem for convenient movement and display of the legs. Unlike a short skirt, the slits of cheongsam show a woman's legs when she walks.

[[Kikuyu]]

CATEGORIES: Kenyan people, Ethnic groups in Africa

Kikuyu is the largest tribe in Kenya. They are 22% of Kenya's population and are of Bantu ethnicity.

[[Incheon International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Asia, Buildings and structures in South Korea, Incheon, Transport in South Korea, 2001 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in South Korea

Incheon International Airport is the largest international airport in South Korea where all international flights leave and arrive every day. Gimpo Airport located near city Seoul used to be the international airport for Korea. However as the population grew and needs for places to stay increased in the area, Gimpo Airport no longer could expand its capacity to meet the growing demands for international flights. To solve the problem, a construction plan for a new  24 hour airport was started in 1992. Incheon International Airport is in Incheon City Jung-gu Unseo-dong (37°27′5″N, 126°26′4″E). Incheon International Airport Railroad (A'REX) and Incheon International Airport Highway were built to join the airport to Seoul. The airport is operated by Incheon International Airport Corporation (IIAC) and it is owned by the government of South Korea.

[[Lao language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Asia

Lao or Laotian is a language and is the official language of Laos. It is also spoken in the northeast part of Thailand. Lao, like the other languages of Laos, is written in an abugida writing system. The languages has variations, but the Vientiane dialect is considered the standard written form of Lao.

Lao and Thai are both Tai languages and are very similar to each other. In fact, speakers of northern Thai dialects and Lao claim that they can largely understand each other, making the dialects mutually intelligible.

[[Sukiyaki]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

Sukiyaki is a very popular one-pot meal in Japan. The main ingredient (or stuff) is thin sliced beef, and it is simmered in a skillet or pan in the sukiyaki sauce with many vegetables and other ingredients. The word "yaki" means "sautee" or "grill" in Japanese. The word is used because the beef in sukiyaki is sauteed in the hot skillet.

[[Poplar DLR station]]

CATEGORIES: Docklands Light Railway stations, London Travelcard zone 2

Poplar DLR station serves Poplar, London. It is a station on the Docklands Light Railway in Travelcard Zone 2. It is a served by four of the five routes of the DLR. Thus it is the busiest station on the network in terms of services.

[[Shawm]]

CATEGORIES: Early musical instruments, Woodwind instruments

The shawm was a musical instrument of the woodwind family that was played in Europe during the Middle Ages and the Renaissance.  The modern oboe was developed from the shawm.  Like the modern oboe, the shawm was played by blowing into a double reed.  It was usually made from one piece of wood, with a flare at the end (like a trumpet).  It sounded very loud, and was mostly used outdoors.

In German the shawm is called Schalmei or Pommer.  The first word may have come from the Latin word calamus  meaning "reed or stalk".  There were many kinds of shawm over the centuries in Europe and they had a variety of names.  There were also several different sizes.

thumb|left|Woman playing a bass shawm, (Tobias Stimmer around. 1500).

[[Westferry DLR station]]

CATEGORIES: Docklands Light Railway stations, London Travelcard zone 2

Westferry DLR station is a station on the Docklands Light Railway (DLR), in the Limehouse district of east London. The station is in Travelcard Zone 2. To the west is Limehouse station, whilst to the east the DLR splits, with one branch going to Poplar station and the other to West India Quay station

The DLR station was built midway between the site of the old Limehouse and West India Docks stations on the disused London and Blackwall Railway. Limehouse Police Station is nearby, as is St Anne's Church, built by Nicholas Hawksmoor and boasting London's tallest church clock tower.

[[Limehouse station]]

CATEGORIES: London Travelcard zone 2, Railway stations opened in 1840, Docklands Light Railway stations, 1840 establishments in England

Limehouse station is a railway station in Limehouse district of east London. The station is in Travelcard Zone 2. It is served by Docklands Light Railway (DLR) services and by National Rail services. The National Rail services are operated by c2c out of Fenchurch Street station. On the c2c route, Limehouse is between Fenchurch Street and West Ham stations. On the Docklands Light Railway, Limehouse is between Shadwell and Westferry stations.

[[Ripley, Derbyshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Derbyshire

Ripley is a town in the English county of Derbyshire.

[[Shadwell DLR station]]

CATEGORIES: London Travelcard zone 2, Docklands Light Railway stations

Shadwell DLR station on the Docklands Light Railway is between the termini of Bank and Tower Gateway to the west and Limehouse to the east. It stands on a viaduct shared with National Rail trains (on the c2c line to Essex), with a single island platform accessed by stairs and a passenger lift (via entrance on Watney Street). It opened on 31 August 1987 as part of the first tranche of DLR stations. The 1991 Bank extension joins the main DLR line just to the west of Shadwell.

[[Wide receiver]]

CATEGORIES: American football positions

A wide receiver (or WR, wideout) is an American football player whose main duty is to catch the football when it is thrown by the quarterback.

Wide receivers may also block, run with the football and sometimes throw the football besides just catching it. They can wear jersey numbers 10-19 and 80-89 in the National Football League, but there are no limits in college football.

[[Offensive linemen]]

CATEGORIES: American football positions

Offensive linemen (also OL) are American football players who defend the quarterback or running backs by blocking defensive players.

[[Purus River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Brazil, Rivers of Peru, Rivers of Bolivia

The Rio Purus is a river in Brazil, in the state of Amazonas.

[[Madeira River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Brazil, Rivers of Bolivia

The Rio Madeira is a river in Brazil, a tributary which flows in Bolivia as well.

[[Putumayo River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Colombia, Rivers of Ecuador, Rivers of Peru, Rivers of Brazil

The Içá or Putumayo is one of the tributaries of the Amazon River. It makes the border between Colombia and Ecuador, and makes up most of the frontier with Peru.

[[Albert Jacka]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1932 deaths, Victoria Cross winners, Australian military people, Politicians from Victoria (Australia), Mayors

Albert Jacka VC, MC & Bar (10 January 1893 – 17 January 1932) was given the Victoria Cross, the highest medal for valour "in the face of the enemy" that can be given to members of the British and Commonwealth armed forces. Jacka was the first Australian to win the VC during the First World War, receiving the medal for his actions during the Gallipoli Campaign. After Gallipoli he was sent to the Western Front where he again was given medals for his bravery.

After the war, Jacka went back to Australia and started a business, Roxburgh, Jacka & Co. Pty Ltd, importing and exporting electrical goods. He was later elected to the local council, and became the mayor of St Kilda, Victoria. Jacka never fully recovered from the many wounds he got in the war and died at the age of 39.

[[Vaupés River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Colombia

The Rio Uaupes is a river in Colombia.  It forms part of the border between Colombia and Brazil.  In Brazil it joins the Papurí River.  Both rivers are then called the Uaupés.

[[Yoruba people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Africa, Ethnic groups in Nigeria

Yoruba is an ethnic group of people living in Africa. They live on the west coast of Africa, mostly they are one of the major tribes in Nigeria Nigeria and Ghana.

[[Pennsylvania Cyber Charter School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Pennsylvania, 2000 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Pennsylvania

The Pennsylvania Cyber Charter School (also known as PA Cyber) is an online school, made as an alternative to regular schooling. It recently changed its name from the Western Pennsylvania Cyber Charter School.

Students from Pennsylvania in grades Prekindergarten-12 can attend PA Cyber for free. Students can have classes that are self-paced and classes that are "virtual" where the student participates in a "online classroom".

[[International Union for the Conservation of Nature]]

CATEGORIES: International Union for the Conservation of Nature, 1948 establishments

The International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) is an international organization set up to protect plants, animals and habitats. It was first called the "World Conservation Union." It was started in 1948, with its main office in Gland, Switzerland. The IUCN brings together 83 states, 108 government agencies, 766 Non-governmental organizations and 81 international organizations and about 10,000 experts and scientists from countries around the world.

IUCN's purpose is to influence, encourage and assist countries around the world to conserve the quality and diversity of nature. It also has to make sure that any use of natural resources is fair and  sustainable without harming the earth.

[[Street dance]]

CATEGORIES: Dance types, Hip hop

Street dance is term applied to dances that were invented by the general public in the 1970’s and later in (largely African-related) urban cultures. The term itself comes from the fact that the dances were made in urbanised cities. There are no  rules to “street dance” as improvisation and freestyle is emphasized. It is hard to define, but it is basically freely expressing music with one’s body.

[[Red-collared lorikeet]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Australia, Lorikeets

The red-collared lorikeet (Trichoglossus rubritorquis) is a species of lorikeet. It was a subspecies of the rainbow lorikeet, but now they are regarded as separate species. The bird is found living in northern Australia.

[[Lee Yunjeong]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1976 births, South Korean singers, People from Seoul

Lee Yun-jeong (b. December 20, 1976) is a South Korean singer and stylist. In 1995, She debuted in the musical world as a singer in Pippi-band, a three person singing group. In 2001, after her second solo album Six sense, she ended her singing career. After singing, She studied fashion design at Central Saint Martins College. After that, she had been active as a stylist for many Korean singer. These include Lee Hyori, Clazziquai, Leessang, Jaurim and Se7en. Lee Yun-jeong was also a stylist at the 2007 Mnet Korean Music Festival (MKMF). She created the design for the opening stage from clothes to props. She has appeared as a coordinator and stylist at M.net's television program Trend Repot Feel. 

In 2008, she made EE, an arts performance team. The team uses music, art, fashion and dance in its performance. The name of the team, EE, symbolizes many acronyms beginning with the letter E such as Eternity, 'Entertainment and Everybody. EE was created in an effort to perform all the genres available at the same time. Its first performance was named Curiosity Kills.

[[Vacaville, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area, Settlements in Solano County, California

Vacaville is a city in the U.S. state of California. It has many schools.

[[Hearts of Iron]]

CATEGORIES: Real-time strategy video games, Video games developed in Sweden

Hearts of Iron (HOI) is a grand strategy real-time simulation game developed by Paradox Interactive in Sweden. 

[[20th Century Fox Games]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies, Fox, Defunct companies

20th Century Fox Games was an American game publishing company launched in 2006. 20th Century Fox Games was 20th Century Fox's video game developer that made games based on 20th Century Fox works, such as The Simpsons. The company was founded in 2006. It went out of business in 2017 and folded to FoxNext.

[[Cell biology]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

Cell biology is the study of how living cells work. This includes the structure and function of the cell organelles, and the carbon-based molecules which cells produce. Cell biology is an interdisciplinary subject, and uses ideas from  genetics, biochemistry, molecular biology, immunology, and other subjects and techniques. 

The most important molecules in cell biology are DNA, RNA and proteins.

The most important structures in the cell are the nucleus and the chromosomes, but there are others. The structure of eukaryotic cells is much more complex than prokaryotic cells. This is because endosymbiosis has occurred: some or all of the eukaryote organelles are former prokaryotes. Examples are mitochondria and plastids.

The most important function of cells is to divide by mitosis or meiosis. Cells in a multicellular organism also specialise in different functions, and the different types may look quite  to each other.

[[Lee Min Ho]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1987 births, South Korean movie actors, South Korean television actors, People from Seoul

Lee Min Ho (이민호) is a South Korean global actor, born on June 22nd, 1987 in Heukseok-dong, Seoul.

In a short span of his acting career, he became a most popular actor worldwide.

He made his debut in 2006 through a EBS TV drama Secret Campus and became popular across Asia in Boys over flowers (2009), then he gained fame in Europe with City hunter (2011) and also became popular in African continent with his drama The King: Eternal Monarch (2020).

He is the first Korean celebrity to have a wax figure made in his image at Madame Tussauds in 2013 and Grevin Museum Paris in 2018.

[[Pentaport Rock Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Rock festivals, South Korean culture, Festivals in Asia, Incheon, 2006 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in South Korea

The Pentaport Rock Festival is a rock festival in South Korea. It is held each year in Incheon for three days in the last week of July.  Bands from many genres of music perform.

The name of this festival comes from five philosophical themes of the festival: music, passion, the environment, DIY (Do it yourself), and friendship.  The festival started in 2006 and has many well-known musicians perform.  The 2006 festival had Jason Mraz and The Black Eyed Peas. In 2007, L'Arc-en-Ciel and Muse performed at the festival. Ellegarden and Travis played in 2008. In 2012 the headliners were Manic Street Preachers, Snow Patrol and Baekdoosan.

[[WJAC-TV]]

CATEGORIES: American television stations, Pennsylvania, 1949 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Pennsylvania

WJAC-TV is the local NBC channel in the Johnstown-Altoona-State College, Pennsylvania area. It is owned by Cox Enterprises, which also owns WPXI-TV in nearby Pittsburgh.

[[WPXI]]

CATEGORIES: American television stations, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 1957 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Pennsylvania

WPXI (also known as WPXI-TV) is the NBC television station in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. It is owned by Cox Enterprises.

[[WIIC-TV]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Pennsylvania, 1981 disestablishments in the United States

[[Jacques-Louis David]]

CATEGORIES: 1748 births, 1825 deaths, French politicians, People of the French Revolution

Jacques-Louis David (30 August 1748 – 29 December 1825) was both a politician and an artist who lived during the French Revolution. As a politician, he is most famous for being one of the handful of leaders that governed France during the most violent part of the French Revolution. David believed that France should not have a monarchy and instead it should be a Republic. He voted to have the King of France Louis XVI killed with the guillotine. When the French Revolution began to fail, David was happy that Napoleon Bonaparte became Emperor of France.

As a painter, Jacques-Louis David wanted artwork to be political. He often painted heroes from myths or history that he believed represented good ideals such as strength, brotherhood, and virtue. His paintings are very realistic and often portray heroes from Ancient Greece and Rome. This is called the Neoclassical style of painting. 

One of David's most famous paintings is of his best friend Jean-Paul Marat who was killed during the French Revolution. David's painting helped make Marat into a popular martyred hero.

[[Popsicle]]

CATEGORIES: Desserts

Popsicle is a popular brand of ice pop in the United States and Canada. It is made of colored, flavored ice on a wooden stick. The brand name includes more than 30 different versions of the snack.

[[WGAL]]

CATEGORIES: American television channels, NBC

WGAL NBC television channel in the Lancaster/Harrisburg/York (Susquehanna Valley) area. It can be viewed on channel 8. Its studios are located in Lancaster, PA.

[[Silvio Barbato]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2009 deaths, Aviation deaths, Brazilian people, Italian conductors, Minas Gerais

Silvio Sergio Bonaccorsi Barbato (born Candeias (Minas Gerais) (Brazil), 11 May 1959; died either in or over the mid-Atlantic Ocean, on the Air France Flight 447, 1 June 2009) was an Italian-Brazilian opera conductor and composer.

[[Travelcard Zone 4]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground

Travelcard Zone 4 is the fourth outward zone of Transport for London's zonal system. The zonal system used for calculating co-ordinated inter-modal Travelcard fares within London. In the Travelcard zonal system, London is split into nine approximately concentric zones for the purpose of determining the cost of a Travelcard.  The zone is also used for pricing London Underground and Docklands Light Railway single journeys, but not journeys undertaken entirely by bus or tram, for which a city-wide flat fare applies.

[[Sexual fetishism]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality

Sexual fetishism (also erotic fetishism or fetish) is sexual arousal caused by an object or body part that is not normally thought of as sexual. The term was made in the late 1800s by Alfred Binet.

Examples of common or well-known fetishes include feet and footwear (shoes, socks), rubber, bondage, furry or cross-dressing.

[[Mark Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, NASCAR drivers, American racecar drivers

Mark Anthony  Martin (born January 9, 1959) is a retired NASCAR driver.  Martin is often called the best driver to never have won a Sprint cup championship. Martin won five International Race of Champions (IROC) series championships. Mark Martin has driven for Roush Fenway Racing, Earnhardt Ganassi Racing, Hendrick Motorsports and Michael Waltrip Racing in the NASCAR Sprint Cup series.

[[Hendrick Motorsports]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR

Hendrick Motorsports is a race team in NASCAR owned by Rick Hendrick. Chase Elliott, William Byron, Kyle Larson, and Alex Bowman all drive for this team. Hendrick Motorsports has won 10 Monster Energy MASCAR Cup Series championships.

[[Earnhardt Ganassi Racing]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR

[[Roush Fenway Racing]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR

Roush Fenway Racing is a NASCAR team owned by Jack Roush and John W. Henry. This team owns race cars that race in the NASCAR Sprint Cup, Nationwide Series, Camping World Truck Series, and the ARCA RE/MAX Series.  Roush Fenway Racing has won two Sprint Cup championships with Kurt Busch  and Matt Kenseth.

[[Jack Roush]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, NASCAR, Sportspeople from Kentucky

Jack Roush (born April 19, 1942) is the co-owner of Roush Fenway Racing with his partner John W. Henry. Roush's race team has won two NASCAR Sprint Cup Championships with Kurt Busch and Matt Kenseth. During his whole career in NASCAR Jack's race team has 260 NASCAR wins, 168 poles, 1,104 top-five and 1,838 top-10 finishes

[[John W. Henry]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Illinois

John William Henry II (born September 13, 1949) is an American businessman. He is the owner of the Boston Red Sox and Roush Fenway Racing. He is also the owner of the association football team Liverpool F.C. of the Premier League. He is one of the 50 richest people in Boston.

[[Photo booth]]

CATEGORIES: Photography, Commerce

A photo booth is a vending machine that takes instant photos. After you pay, usually in coins, a computer-based screen and often a recorded voice will tell you when the picture will be taken, how many shots will be taken and when the photo is developed.

Anatol Josepho invented the first self-automated photo booth in 1925. Photo booths began as black and white, film-based machines to fully coloured, digitalised machines.

There are many types of photo booths today that offer different sizes and kinds of photos such as passport photos and photos for identification. Also, some photo booths give you a number of tools you can use to create different features for your photos. Sticker photos are a good example. Sticker photos are instant photos printed on sticker-based material. After you take your picture, you can change backgrounds the tone or the color of the photo and insert letters and symbols. Invented in Japan, photo sticker booths are especially popular in Asian countries among teens and grown-ups alike.

Nowadays, the term photo booth also refers to Apple's photography program that features editing tool such as black-and-white, pencil and comic book.

[[Busan International Film Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Movie festivals, Busan, Festivals in Asia, 1996 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in South Korea

The Busan International Film Festival (BIFF, previously Pusan International Film Festival, PIFF), is one of the biggest movie festivals that is held in Busan, South Korea. It has been held every year since 1996. Although the name of Pusan changed to Busan, the festival committee decided to keep the name for the PIFF's authority. Every year, millions of people participate in this festival. They do this because many movie stars come to the festival. It is also the first international movie festival in Korea. PIFF promotes the culture and art of Busan internationally. It also helps Korean movies be known to the world movie market, and finds talented movie directors.

[[Oscar Peterson]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2007 deaths, Canadian musicians, Deaths from renal failure, Jazz pianists, People from Montreal

Oscar Emmanuel Peterson (August 15, 1925 – December 23, 2007) was a Canadian jazz pianist. Peterson won seven Grammy Awards and was put into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame in 1978. His career lasted for more than 65 years.

He was born in Montreal, where his father taught him to play the piano. While at high school he had lessons with a Hungarian classical pianist, Paul de Marky. 

[[Wonder Girls]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean musical groups, K-pop music groups, 2007 establishments in South Korea

The Wonder Girls are a South Korean girl group. The Wonder Girls debuted on February 10th, 2007 on Show! Music Core, singing "Irony", the single from their debut mini-album, The Wonder Begins. The mini-album went on to become a minor hit, selling 11,454 copies in 2007. The main producer was Jin-young Park, the leader of JYP entertainment. Wonder Girls is the first female group from JYP entertainment since it was established.  Each of the five original members were selected through auditions.

The members are Yoo Bin, Ye Eun, Sun Ye, Hye Rim and So Hee. Former member 김현아 (Kim Hyuna) left in June 2007 due to health problems, and Sun Mi left in January 2010 to pursue her education. Now Sun Ye has left and Sun Mi Has rejoined.

Sohee has become a successful actress after leaving Wonder Girls.

In 2017, Yeeun and Sunmi left JYP Entertainment, resulting in the group's disbandment.

[[All About Lily Chou-Chou]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese movies, 2001 movies

[[John Barbirolli]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1970 deaths, British conductors, Companions of Honour, Knights Bachelor

Sir John Barbirolli CH,  (born London, 2 December, 1899 ; died London 29 July  1970), was a English conductor and cellist.  Barbirolli was particularly remembered as the conductor of the  Hallé Orchestra, Manchester, which he conducted for nearly thirty years, turning it into a world famous orchestra.  He was conductor of other great orchestras including the New York Philharmonic and the Houston Symphony, and also conducted orchestras including the London Symphony Orchestra, the London Philharmonic Orchestra, the Berlin Philharmonic, and the Vienna Philharmonic.  He often played the music of English composers such as Edward Elgar and Ralph Vaughan Williams.

[[Byzantium (color)]]

Byzantium is a color that is a dark shade of purple.

The first recorded use of Byzantium as a color name in English was in 1926. 

[[John Galliano]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, British fashion designers, British LGBT people, Gibraltar, LGBT fashion designers

John Galliano, also known as Juan Carlos Antonio Galliano-Guillén (born on November 28, 1960 in Gibraltar) is a world-renowned British fashion designer. After studying design at St. Martin's School of Art in London, he sold his French Revolution-inspired graduation collection to a London retailer shop. He launched his own line in 1984. From 1995 to 1996 he designed haute couture and ready-to-wear at the House of Givenchy. In 1996, he was appointed creative director of Christian Dior. Being in charge of Dior and his own label, he designs for six collections a year plus a mid-season line under his label "G Galliano". In 2001 Galliano was made a Commander of the British Empire. In March 2011 he was sacked from Dior because anti-semitic remarks which he made appeared on the internet, and were being investigated by the police in Paris.

Galliano's historically influenced designs are an adaptation of traditional styles into highly contemporary pieces. His shows are theatrical and his runway tableau are often likened to performance art. Thirties-influenced chiffon cut on the bias is among Galliano's signatures, as are imaginative hats. He is known for his end-of-show looks, where he stuns his audience with eccentric, avant-garde appearances in continuance with the show's inspiration.

Galliano also owns other product lines like eyewear, fragrances, jeans, lingerie and shoes. Since 2004, Galliano has collaborated with Diptyque, creating scented candles.

Galliano is openly gay.

[[Sasuke Uchiha]]

CATEGORIES: Naruto characters

Sasuke Uchiha is a fictional character from the manga series Naruto, which depicts a world of ninjas. He is an important character in the manga due to the fact that the story basically revolves around Naruto, the main character, and Sasuke, Naruto's rival. Sasuke is a very popular character, there have been many polls that prove this. Merchandise based on Sasuke has also been released, ranging widely from action figures to plush dolls and even to his ninja equipment. Sasuke has also appeared in Naruto related video games and OVAs.

[[Exclusive economic zone]]

CATEGORIES: Economic policy, International law, Oceans

Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) is an area in the ocean where only one country gets to look into and do economic activity, such as mining underwater resources and fishing. In the case of islands far from the mainland, EEZ starts at the coasts of the islands. Normally, EEZ goes out to 200 nautical miles (370 km), unless EEZs of two or more countries overlap. Many EEZs actually overlap; countries argue over where their outermost boundaries of EEZ should be.

It is different from territorial waters in that ships and submarines from other countries can freely travel without any permission. However, this is under the condition that they are just passing by and not taking any resources. These zones were invented in the middle 20th century.

[[Amar Shonar Bangla]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladesh, National anthems

Amar Shonar Bangla (bn. আমার সোনার বাংলা, pron. ʃonar baŋla; en. "My Golden Bengal") is the national anthem of Bangladesh. Adopted in 1972, the lyrics (words) were written by Rabindranath Tagore in 1909 and the music was composed by Gagan Harkara in 1889. 

[[Shin Seung-hun]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean singers, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Shin Seung-hun is a South Korean singer. He was at the top in the 1990s in the Republic of Korea. He is remembered as the "Emperor of Ballads". He made his debut in 1990 with his first album. As soon as he released his first album, he went to the top of the Korean broadcasting music chart. His album became a million seller. And his first album had won Korea's main award, the Golden Disk Award. In 1991, he released his second album, "Invisible Love". Through this album he got his nickname, "Emperor of Ballads". With this album, he was at the top of the MBC music chart for eleven weeks, and the SBS music chart for fourteen weeks. That is in the Guinness Book of World Records. This album also won a Golden Disk Award.

His first seven albums were all million sellers. And his all formula album, all 10 albums, had won the main award or the greatest award in the Golden Disk Award. He is the singer who had been at the top the most times in Korea's 1990s. And he is also a composer. He composed all his albums' title songs, and he is the composer who composed the song which had been at the top the most times. And his accumulated album sales is fifteen million. He is still actively performing and working today.

[[Munhwa Broadcasting Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Television networks, Korean media

Munhwa Broadcasting Corporation (MBC) is a national television network in South Korea.  Munhwa is the Korean word for "culture."

[[Travelcard Zone 1]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground, London Travelcard zone 1

Travelcard Zone 1 is the central zone of Transport for London's zonal system used for calculating co-ordinated inter-modal Travelcard fares within London. London is split into six (approximately concentric) zones for the purpose of determining the cost of London transport fares on the London Underground and Docklands Light Railway, but not journeys undertaken entirely by bus or tram, for which a city-wide flat fare applies.

[[Acton Town tube station]]

CATEGORIES: District Line stations, Piccadilly Line stations, London Travelcard zone 3

Acton Town is a London Underground station in Acton, west London, served by the Piccadilly and District lines. The station is at the junction of Gunnersbury Lane (A4000) and Bollo Lane and is in Travelcard Zone 3.

[[Aldgate tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Circle Line stations, Metropolitan Line stations, Tube stations in the City of London

Aldgate tube station is a London Underground station at Aldgate in the City of London.

The station is on the Circle Line between Tower Hill and Liverpool Street. It is also the eastern terminus of the Metropolitan line. It is in Travelcard Zone 1, and its ticket office is part-time only.

Platforms 1 and 4 at Aldgate are two of the only three platforms on the network to be served exclusively by the Circle Line (the other being Platform 2 at Gloucester Road). All other Circle Line platforms are shared by the District, Metropolitan and/or Hammersmith & City Lines.

[[Travelcard Zone 2]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground, London Travelcard zone 2

Travelcard Zone 2 is the second most central zone of Transport for London's six (approximately concentric) zones system used for calculating co-ordinated inter-modal fares, and fares for London Underground and Docklands Light Railway single journeys.  A flat fare applies for journeys entirely by bus or tram. 

[[Aldgate East tube station]]

CATEGORIES: District Line stations, Hammersmith & City Line stations, Transport in Tower Hamlets, London Travelcard zone 1

Aldgate East is a London Underground station. It is between Aldgate and Whitechapel in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets.

The station is in Travelcard Zone 1. It is on the Hammersmith & City Line between Liverpool Street and Whitechapel, and the District Line between Tower Hill and Whitechapel.

[[All Saints DLR station]]

CATEGORIES: London Travelcard zone 2, Docklands Light Railway stations

All Saints DLR station is a station on the Docklands Light Railway (DLR) in East London. It is named after the neaby All Saints, Poplar, a church dating from 1821-3. The station entrance is on the East India Dock Road, opposite Chrisp Street Market.

[[Travelcard Zone 3]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground, London Travelcard zone 3

Travelcard Zone 3 is the third-outward zone of Transport for London's zonal system used for calculating co-ordinated intermodal Travelcard fares within London. In the Travelcard zonal system, London is split into nine (approximately concentric) zones for the purpose of determining the cost of a Travelcard.  The zone is also used for pricing London Underground and Docklands Light Railway single journeys, but not journeys undertaken entirely by bus or tram, for which a city-wide flat fare applies. 

[[Alperton tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Piccadilly Line stations, Transport in Brent, London Travelcard zone 4

Alperton is a London Underground station on the Uxbridge branch of the Piccadilly Line.  The station is between Sudbury Town and Park Royal. It is on Ealing Road (A4089 road) a short distance from the junction with Bridgewater Road (A4005) and is close to Alperton Bus Garage and the Paddington branch of the Grand Union Canal. The station is in Travelcard Zone 4.

[[Angel tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Line stations, London Travelcard zone 1, Tube stations in Islington

Angel tube station is a London Underground station in The Angel, Islington. It is on the Bank branch of the Northern line, between Old Street and King's Cross St. Pancras stations. It is in Travelcard Zone 1.

[[Amersham station]]

CATEGORIES: Metropolitan Line stations, Buckinghamshire, 1892 establishments in England

Amersham station is a railway station serving Amersham in Buckinghamshire. It is in Travelcard Zone 9 (previously zone D). 

Amerhsam Station is a terminus of the Metropolitan Line branch of the London Underground. It is situated 23.7 miles (38.1 km) north west of Charing Cross and is the second most westerly station on the whole London Underground system, after Chesham

Amersham Station is also served by Chiltern Railways, which runs trains between London Marylebone and Aylesbury. From Aylesbury a shuttle service to Princes Risborough provides access to through services between Marylebone and Birmingham Snow Hill. The journey times to Central London range between 33 and 60 minutes.

Ticket barriers are in operation.

[[Travelcard Zone 5]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground, London Travelcard zone 5

Travelcard Zone 5 is the fifth outward zone of the Transport for London zonal system used for calculating co-ordinated inter-modal Travelcard fares within London. In this zonal system, London is split into six approximately concentric zones for the purpose of determining the cost of a Travelcard.  The zones are also used for pricing London Underground and Docklands Light Railway single journeys, but not single journeys undertaken entirely by bus or tram, for which a city-wide flat fare applies. The zones are not usually used for calculating the cost of tickets on National Rail services, but do apply to Travelcards used for such services.

[[Teddy boy]]

CATEGORIES: British culture, Fashion, 1950s

A Teddy boy was a young man who dressed in a style popular in 1950s Britain. The word 'Teddy' comes from the clothes, which were a version of clothes from the Edwardian period, about 1910. That period is named after Edward VII (19011910).

Teddy boys relate to early rock and roll music. People often thought of them as rebels. The teddy boy also meant the first British culture of young people. For the first time, teenagers who were in a working class could buy clothes, a bicycle or motorcycle and entertainment. Teddyboys wore clothes that might shock older people. 

[[Shinee]]

CATEGORIES: K-pop music groups, R&B bands, South Korean boy bands, 2008 establishments in South Korea

SHINee is a South Korean boy band formed by SM Entertainment The members are Onew, Jonghyun, Minho, Key, Taemin (order from oldest to youngest). The groups first album named “Replay-The first mini album” was released on the 22nd of May 2008, but the group officially debuted on the 25th of May 2008 with the song Noonan neomu yeppeo (누난 너무 예뻐) Or better known as replay.

[[Baskin-Robbins]]

CATEGORIES: American food companies, 1953 establishments

Baskin-Robbins is an international chain of ice cream parlors.  It has franchises in more than 30 countries. Out of 5800 locations, 2800 are based in the United States. It was founded in 1953 by the merger of two separate ice cream ventures of Burt Baskin and Irv Robbins, who were brothers-in-law. Before the merger, the two separate ice cream ventures were called Burt’s Ice Cream Shop and Snowbird Ice Cream. Snowbird Ice cream had 21 flavors at the time, which was praised as novel and fresh.

After the two ventures were combined into Baskin-Robbins, which would later become a world-famous ice cream parlor, pushed the slogan of ’31 flavors.’ Baskin-Robbins was creative in its approach to put forward the sampling system—letting people taste the different flavors of ice cream with small, single-use pink plastic spoons until they find the flavor that they want. Also, Baskin-Robbins was the first to introduce the ice cream cake to the public.

[[Kurt Busch]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, NASCAR drivers, American racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Las Vegas, Nevada

Kurt Thomas Busch (born August 4, 1978) is a Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series Race car driver from Las Vegas, Nevada. He drives the No. 1 Chevrolet for Chip Ganassi Racing. Busch has raced for Roush Fenway Racing, Penske Racing, Stewart-Haas Racing and Phoenix Racing. He has won one NASCAR Sprint Cup Championship, which he won in 2004. In 2014, Busch raced in the Indianapolis 500, where he finished in sixth place. The Indianapolis 500 was Kurt Busch's first try at racing in the IndyCar Series.

[[Strike zone]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball rules

The strike zone is the area over home plate through which a pitch must pass to be called a strike, roughly between the batter's armpits and knees. The Strike Zone shall be determined from the batter's stance as the batter is prepared to swing at a pitched ball. The strike zone in baseball is a tricky subject as the strike zone changes with each batter. Accordingly, there is no "automatic" strike zone and much of what is a strike or not a strike is left to the judgement of the home plate umpire.

In short, the strike zone extends from the batters' knees to the letters across the front of his uniform.

To be called a strike, the pitcher must throw the baseball across home plate, an area 17 inches wide (0.4318 meters), and between the knees and letters as indicated.

In professional baseball, a player who stands 5' 6" tall (1.67 meters), for example, will have a much smaller strike zone that will a 6' 4" (1.93 meters) homerun hitter.

Moreover, the focus is not on where the ball is caught by the catcher, but rather where the ball is as it passes the front of home plate.

[[Team Penske]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR, Formula One constructors, 1968 establishments, 2009 disestablishments, IndyCar Series

Team Penske is a auto racing team the IndyCar Series and NASCAR. The team is owned by Roger Penske. Penske Racing has one Indy Racing League championship and several more in other forms of open wheel racing

[[Chupa Chups]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Spain, Food companies of Europe

Chupa Chups is a Spanish confectionery company which was started in 1957. Enric Bernat had the idea of caramel on a stick because many children ate a lot of caramels and this caused their hands to get dirty. The company had much success.  

Chupa Chups was sold outside of Spain in the 1970s. It now does business in over 150 countries. These include Russia, Japan, Germany, Mexico, Australia and the United States. 

Chupa Chups began with seven flavours. This number has grown since then.

The logo of the company is a daisy with the name of the company inside. It was an designed by Salvador Dalí in 1969.

[[Big Bang (band)]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean boy bands, K-pop music groups, 2006 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in South Korea

Big Bang (빅뱅, ビッグバン) is a Korean boy band. The five members of the group are G-Dragon, Taeyang, T.O.P, Daesung, Seungri. Since their debut in 2006, they have become one of the most popular groups in Korea. Big Bang has been praised for their musical talent. In 2017, T.O.P. left for the military.

[[Hélio Castroneves]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian racecar drivers

Hélio Castroneves (born Hélio Castro Neves; May 10, 1975) is a Brazilian racecar driver. Until 2020, Castroneves raced for Team Penske in the IndyCar Series. He has won the Indy 500 four times. Castroneves won Dancing with the Stars in 2007 with his partner Julianne Hough. Castroneves drove for Team Penske since he entered the Indycar series in the late 1990s. Even though he has many race wins, Castroneves has never won an IndyCar Series championship. Castroneves lives in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

[[Changdeokgung]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces, Buildings and structures in Seoul, World Heritage Sites in South Korea

Changdeokgung is one of the five grand palaces in South Korea. They are Gyeongbokgung, Changdeokgung, Deoksugung, Changgyunggung, and Gyeonghuigung. The five grand palaces were not built at the same time. Changdeokgung was built as the secondary palace next to Gyeongbokgung. The construction began by King Taejong, the Third King of the Joseon Dynasty, in 1405. Taking 7 years to complete, it was finished in the year 1412.

In the word Changdeokgung, Changdeok means 'Prospering Virtue', and gung means 'palace'. So the word Changdeokgung means 'the palace of prospering virtue'. Because of the meaning of the name of the palace, the kings of Joseon Dynasty chose mostly Changdeokgung to live in.

The palace had been the home of 14 kings of Joseon Dynasty until it was totally destroyed by the Japanese army in the year 1592. After the Japanese were driven back by the combined forces of Korea and China, Changdeokgung was rebuilt in 1612. After the reconstruction, the palace had suffered little damage and became the primary royal court of the Joseon Dynasty. This was because Gyeongbokgung was also destroyed by the Japanese but the Joseon Dynasty did not rebuild it for some reason and the Changdeokgung became the biggest palace in Korea.

However, Changdeokgung had suffered some damage for 350 years after the reconstruction. As a result, a large scale restoration took palace from 1990 to 1999. This restoration shows how much the Korean people loved Changdeokgung. Apparently, the UNESCO saw its value as well. Seeing Changdeokgung as a vital global asset, UNESCO listed it as a World Cultural Heritage. The UNESCO said that Changdukgung 'was outstanding example of Far Eastern palace architecture and garden design'.

Changdeokgung is in a park in Seoul, the capital city of South Korea.  There are total of 13 buildings remaining in all and the area is designated as Historical Site No. 122. Tourists from all around the world visit this historic site. Changdeokgung is also an enjoyable park for families to spend their weekends.

[[Korea University]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in South Korea, 1905 establishments, 20th century establishments in South Korea, 1900s establishments in Asia

Korea University is a private university in Seoul, South Korea. Along with Seoul National University and Yonsei University, KU is one of the three most renowned universities in the country, collectively known as 'SKY.'

Founded in 1905 with the struggle against Japanese colonialism as a historical background, Korea University holds its legacy with highly national values as priorities. These days, however, an emphasis on internationalism and globalization is also becoming an important value that KU pursues.

Korea University has 81 academic departments, and is most well known for its law school, business school, and college of education. 

It has many notable alumni, including the former President of the Republic of Korea Lee Myung-bak and former mayor of Seoul Oh Se-hoon. 

Cha Bum-Kun, famous football manager and former player (nicknamed Tscha Bum), graduated from KU.

In 2009, famous figure skater Kim Yu-Na entered Korea University as a physical education major. 

About 28,000 students are currently studying in Korea University, including 1,000 foreign students.

[[Joseph-Armand Bombardier]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1964 deaths, Canadian inventors, People from Quebec

Joseph-Armand Bombardier (April 16, 1907 – February 18, 1964) was a Canadian inventor famous for inventing the snowmobile.  In 2000, Joseph-Armand Bombardier was honnoured by the government of Canada with his image on a postage stamp. 

[[Earthship]]

CATEGORIES: Houses

An Earthship is a type of house that is built with natural and recycled materials with energy conservation in mind. Designed by the architect Michael Reynolds and his company Earthship Biotecture, it is built to produce water and electricity for its own use. Mainly made of earth-filled tires it takes advantage of thermal mass, natural heat insulation and ventilation to maintain its temperature. Since it does not require any public utilities such as gas, electricity, water or sewage it can be considered as an off-the-grid housing, meaning that it can live away from public utilities.

An Earthship does not require external support to sustain itself. Instead, it is built to use resources available from its natural surroundings. For example, windows are placed so that sunlight is shone inside the house to be used for heating. Electricity is generated by solar panels and stored in batteries. The roofing collects rainwater that is filtered and used for drinking and various household activities such as cooking and washing. Used water from sinks and showers is reused to water indoor plants and after that for toilet flushing.

Earthships can adapt to different climates and are being build worldwide. In North- and South America, the Carribeans, Asia, Africa and Europe. Construction drawings and training should enable people to build their own off-the-grid Earthship home and become independent from public and commercial utilities.

[[Matt Kenseth]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR drivers, 1972 births, Living people, American racecar drivers, Daytona 500 winners, Sportspeople from Wisconsin

Matt Kenseth (born March 10, 1972) is an American race car driver. He drove for Joe Gibbs Racing and Roush Fenway Racing before he retired. In 2003, Kenseth won the NASCAR Winston Cup Championship.

[[Kittanning, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Pennsylvania, 1724 establishments, Boroughs in Pennsylvania, Settlements established in the 18th century, 1720s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in Pennsylvania

Kittanning (kɪˈtæniŋ) is a borough and the county seat of Armstrong County, Pennsylvania, United States. It is 44 miles (71 km) northeast of Pittsburgh,  and is by the Allegheny River.

[[Gastric dumping syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases and disorders of the digestive system

Gastric dumping syndrome, also called dumping syndrome, and rapid gastric emptying, is when food or water passes through the body too fast. It can cause cramps, vomiting, diarrhea, feeling dizzy, nausea, and feeling tired.

[[Richard Peddie]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Canadian sportspeople, Ice hockey people from Ontario

Richard A. Peddie (born January 31, 1947 in Windsor Ontario) is the CEO of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment. This is the company that runs the Toronto Maple Leafs.

[[Webmail]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, E-mail

Webmail (or Web-based e-mail) is an e-mail service which is usually accessed through a web browser, instead of an email client such as Microsoft Outlook. Some well known versions are Gmail, Windows Live Mail and Yahoo! Mail. One of the advantages of using web-based e-mail, as with other Cloud computing is that users needn't have their own computer. They can access and write their mail from anyone else's computer that has a web browser connected to the internet. 

[[Club Penguin]]

CATEGORIES: Online games, Disney video games, Massively multiplayer online role-playing games

Club Penguin was a massively multiplayer online game that was available to play online. It was owned by The Walt Disney Company starting in October 2005 before it was shut down in late March 2017. Club Penguin started as a chat room called Penguin Chat by Rocketsnail Games. The game was replaced by a freemium mobile application called Club Penguin Island, which did not receive the success that the original online game had.

[[Crush syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Syndromes

Crush syndrome is a very bad health condition. It involves major shock and kidney failure because of the skeletal muscles being crushed. This condition can cause death.

[[Shock]]

Shock may refer to:

[[Culture shock]]

CATEGORIES: Anthropology

Culture shock is a feeling people have when they are in a different and unknown culture or place, such as a different country. Culture shock grows out of the difficulties in getting used to the new culture, causing difficulty in knowing what is appropriate and what is not. The word was used for the first time in 1954 by Kalervo Oberg.

[[Modern dance]]

CATEGORIES: Dance types

Modern dance is related to ballet, but aims at different types of performance, as compared to the classical ballets. Many of its dancers have been trained in ballet, and modern dance companies are rather similar to ballet companies. Here the word "modern" is not used to mean "recent". Modern dance is over a century old, having begun (in this sense) around 1900.

The phrase 'modern dance' is also applied to ballroom dance of the English (now 'International') style. However, this page uses Modern dance as a term to describe 20th century concert dance, on stage. The modern dance style does not have set rules. Modern dancers often create their own dance routines using their emotions and moods but, on the other hand, many performances are choreographed.

Also modern dancing does not require specific costumes. So modern dancers often dance barefoot and choose whatever they want to wear. Modern dancers try to show their innermost emotions through dancing, often trying to get closer to their inner-selves. Modern dance has evolved continually. Artistic content has changed and shifted from one choreographer to another, as have styles and techniques.

[[Epik High]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean musical groups, 2003 establishments in South Korea

Epik High is a South Korean hip hop music group. They are well known for having combined genres and different styles of hip-hop throughout their career and for the quality of their music and the lyrics to their songs. Group members are Tablo, DJ Tukutz and Mithra Jin. They made their first recording in 2003, and started their own music label, Map the Soul, in 2009. They went on a World Tour to Japan, Korea and U.S.A. (April 26 ,2009 ~ May 23, 2009). The label was acquired by Woolim Entertainment, their former label. But soon the contract between them and their company ended and they are now the members of 

YG Entertainment.

[[Ben Foster (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, English association football goalkeepers, Sportspeople from Warwickshire, Premier League players

Ben Foster (born 3 April 1983) is an English footballer. He is a former England national team goalkeeper who currently plays for the EFL Championship club Watford. He holds the record for having done the most no. of saves (1178) in premier league history.

Foster started his football career at Racing Club Warwick and in 2001, secured his first transfer to Stoke City. Although considered promising, Foster struggled and could not get regular game-time in his youth days.

In 2005 he departed, without playing a single match, from Stoke City after a series of loan spells and joined Manchester United where he played as a back-up to Edwin van der Sar. He was loaned twice, consecutively, for the years 2005-06 and 2006-07 to Watford before spending three more seasons at Manchester United as a substitute goalkeeper. He finally left Manchester United for Birmingham City in 2010.

It was from this time that Foster started to get regular starts in all the teams he played till now. At Birmingham City, he instantly established himself in the main-eleven for the 2010-11 season. The next season, West Bromwich Albion successfully managed to seal a loan deal with Birmingham City for Foster before finalising the transfer in 2012. He spent a total of seasons at West Brom before leaving the club for Watford in 2018. Since joining Watford, he has been praised several times by analysts for his calm presence in the goal behind a considerably weak Watford defense and has won back-to-back Premier league goalkeeper of the year awards at the London Football Awards.

[[Yonsei University]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in South Korea, 1885 establishments, 1880s establishments in Asia, Establishments in South Korea

Yonsei University (연세대학교,延世大學校) is one of the top three universities in South Korea. It is privately-owned, and one of the oldest universities in the country.

[[Hankuk Academy of Foreign Studies]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in South Korea, 2004 establishments in Asia

Hankuk Academy of Foreign Studies (HAFS) is a private boarding school in Yongin City, South Korea. It was founded by the city council and the Hankuk University of Foreign Studies through working together. HAFS was established on 9 October 2004. The school has around 113 workers and approximately 1050 students. The school is well known for its school uniform which is designed by André Kim, a famous designer in S. Korea.

The school ground includes three classroom buildings named Pioneer Hall, Dream Hall, and Challenge Hall respectively and two dormitory buildings named Ace Hall. All students have to live in the dormitory throughout the school years.

There are 5 language departments, which are often referred to as "majors": English, French, German, Chinese, and Japanese. Classes 1 - 3 are English majors; class 4, French major; class 5, German major; classes 6 - 8, Chinese majors; classes 9 - 10, Japanese majors. There are approximately 35 students per class. The English majors are often referred to as the International Department and the French, German, Chinese and Japanese majors, or the Eurasian Majors as the Domestic Department.

[[El Clásico]]

CATEGORIES: Football in Spain

El Clásico (The Classic, El clàssic) is a football match between two Spanish rival football clubs, FC Barcelona and Real Madrid, in the Spanish football league La Liga. It is one of the most famous football matches in the world.

[[American Embassy School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in India, New Delhi

The American Embassy School is an international school in New Delhi, India. The campus is spread over twelve acres, and it accommodates up to 34 faculty families on campus. The school, despite its large area, is continuously being expanded to accommodate additional students. The school accepts students from nursery to twelfth grade. 

AES is unique, since it is an international school. All lessons, except for special language classes, are held in English. There are about 1500 students in the school, and although 35% of them are Americans, the rest of the students come from 53 different nationalities.July 2009 The school's motto is "Enter to learn... Leave to serve." 

[[Bungee jumping]]

CATEGORIES: Leisure, Sports

Bungee jumping is an adventurous sport in which people jump from higher ground such as a bridge with an elastic rope tied to their ankles to stop them from hitting the ground. The rope is designed to stretch, not break. When the rope has stretched all the way, the jumper bounces back up. When people jump they wear safety equipment like helmets and a harness.

[[Blast fishing]]

CATEGORIES: Fishing

Blast fishing or dynamite fishing is the use of dynamite or homemade bombs to kill or stun many fish at once. This makes the fish easier to catch. It kills many fish, and damages where they live. The explosions often destroys the habitat (such as coral reefs) which supports the fish. 

The explosives are also dangerous for the fishermen, causing accidents and injuries. The practice is illegal in many places.

[[Nam June Paik]]

CATEGORIES: American artists, 1932 births, 2006 deaths

Nam June Paik (July 20, 1932 – January 29, 2006) was a Korean-born American artist. He is often thought to be the first video artist.

In 1971, he made a cello out of three television sets and some cello strings. Then he got a famous cellist to play the cello.

Starting with his debut, he started the neo-dadaism movement. In 2006, he died of natural causes.

[[Arirang (2011 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 movies, Korea

Arirang is a 2011 movie about the revolutionist Kim San and about the sadness and pain of the Korean people under the rule of the Japanese.

In the story, a female reporter Nim Wales meets Kim San in Yanan City in China and listens to Kim San about his thoughts of revolution and freedom of his home country Korea.  The Japanese rule at that time was so strict and violent to the people who wanted independence of Korea from Japan, so many Koreans, like Kim, were forced to leave their own country. When Kim met Nim Wales in Yanan, as the kind of Independence movement, he joined revolution in China, against to Japan's aggressive war.

In this movie, the main theme is revolution, and Independence of Korea. It is also about Kim San's mind to his mother country and his own life.

He said to Wales:

[[Osechi]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

Osechi is Japanese food made to celebrate the coming of the New Year, called Shogatsu. It is one of the most important annual events in Japan. Osechi food is packed in colorful lacquer boxes called jubako. Each dish and ingredient in osechi has a meaning, such as good health, fertility, good harvest, happiness, long life, and so on. The kind of osechi foods eaten in Japanese homes varies from area to area. It is a Japanese tradition to eat osechi dishes during the New Year's holidays which go from January 1 to January 3.

[[Enma]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhist gods and goddesses, Japanese deities

Enma is the god of hell in the Buddhist religion. He is often called Yama. He is the god who judges whether the souls of people go to heaven or hell. 

[[Futon]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture, Furniture

Futons are traditional Japanese bedding. A futon is a padded mattress, called a shikibuton, a quilt, called a kakebuton, and a pillow filled with beans, called a makura. The futon was put on the floor at night for sleeping. They could be easily rolled up during the day when they were not needed. The word futon has come to mean a lot more than this. Although many Japanese people sleep in a bed, they say "I sleep on futon"; it means to go to bed. Futon now means things that Japanese people sleep on, including beds.

[[Johnny & Associates]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Japan, Entertainment companies, 1963 establishments in Japan

Johnny & Associates (ジャニーズ事務所, janīzu jimusho in Japanese) is a well-known boys entertainment company in Japan. It was established in 1963 by Johnny Kitagawa. It accepts and trains talented boys and promotes their debuts to the entertainment industry. Although Johnny & Associates once accepted female idol candidates in 1980s, it now only takes boys as its candidates.

[[Archway tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Line stations, Tube stations in Islington, London Travelcard zone 2, London Travelcard zone 3

Archway tube station is a London Underground station in north London, underneath the Archway Tower, at the intersection of Holloway Road, Highgate Hill and Junction Road in the area known as Archway.

It is on the High Barnet branch of the Northern line, between Highgate and Tufnell Park. It is in both Travelcard Zone 2 and Zone 3.

[[Arnos Grove tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Piccadilly Line stations, Tube stations in Enfield, Grade II listed buildings in London, Grade II listed railway stations, Art Deco buildings, Railway stations opened in 1932, Charles Holden buildings

Arnos Grove is a London Underground station on the Piccadilly line between Bounds Green and Southgate. The station is in Travelcard Zone 4 and is in Arnos Grove - near Arnos Park on Bowes Road, London. The station and the surrounding neighbourhood of Arnos Grove take their names from the Arnos Grove estate, which was north of the station. The station is the first surface station north after the long tunnelled section from Barons Court via Central London.

[[Cuba libre]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink

The Cuba Libre (IPA /'kuβ̞a'liβ̞ɾe/ in Spanish, kjuːbʌ liːbɹeɪ/ in English, "Free Cuba") is a cocktail made of Cola, rum, and lime. Also referred as Rum and Coke in United States and Canada, it is usually served in a highball glass. The exact recipe of the drink is 2 oz of light rum, juice of 1/2 limes, and cola, although variation in rum is possible according to taste. After pouring the lime juice into the highball glass, add rum, fill the rest of the glass with cola, and then stir. 

The exact history of Cuba Libre is uncertain. Generally accepted theory is that the drink was invented in Havana, Cuba around 1900, after Cuba’s liberation and when Coke was first introduced to Cuba.

[[Nanta]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean music

Nanta is a popular Korean musical. It is a non-verbal performance using the traditional Korean "Samulnori" rhythm. 

This musical was first performed in 1997.

Nanta received an award for Best Performance at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival in 1999. Since then, it has been performed successfully in many foreign countries. In 2004, Nanta opened a long running show on Broadway, in New York, a first for an Asian musical. 

Nanta is presented through music and motions, so there is no language barrier. This musical combines traditional rhythms of Korean samulnori with modern musical forms including rock music and jazz. This musical creates unique but familiar experience to a world audience. It is a comedy where everyone in the audience can join in the performance. The audience interacts with the performers in many ways.

[[Boeing 777]]

CATEGORIES: Boeing aircraft

The Boeing 777 is a long range, twin-engine, widebody commercial airliner. It is the world's largest twinjet plane. It is often called the "Triple Seven". It can carry between 283 and 368 passengers. It has a range from 5235 to 9380 nautical miles. 

The first 777-200 model first entered service in 1995. The stretched 777-300 was introduced in 1998. That model is 33.3 longer. The longer-range 777-300ER and 777-200LR models entered service in 2004 and 2006, respectively. A freighter version, the 777F, first flew in 2008. Beginning in 2019, Boeing will deliver a new version of the 777, the 777X.

More than 60 airlines operate one or more kinds of the Boeing 777. Of them, Emirates has the most in its fleet: more than 100 of them are in service or on order. Other airlines that operate a lot of 777s include United Airlines, Air France, Cathay Pacific, and American Airlines.

[[Seo Tai-ji]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean singers, 1972 births, Living people

Seo Tai-ji (b. February 21, 1972) is a South Korean singer. He was a member of the group Seo Tai Ji and Boys. The songs and performances of this group were very good at that time. However, Seo Tai Ji and Boys broke up. This many fans. After a few years, Seo Tai Ji released a new solo album. He introduced many new forms of music to South Korea after his comeback.

Until even now Seo Tai Ji has a large effect on the singers and other people in South Korea. Fans of Seo Tai Ji call him Daejang which is the word for "captain" in Korean. He is also called the ‘President of Culture.’

[[Cyworld]]

CATEGORIES: Social networking

Cyworld is a social networking service created by SK communications. 

The name can be interpreted in two ways. The first meaning is simply short for "cyber world" and the second meaning is "사이(Korean word for relationship) world."

In Cyworld, making the raltionship as friends is called "being 1chon". 1chon means very very close relative like family in Korea.   

The users can easily update pictures, videos clips, and blogs and share them with other users through what is called "minihompy." It is similar to that of Facebook or Myspace in U.S. 

The statistics shows that there are about 22,000,000 users in South Korea, which is about the half of the population of South Korea. Although it is mainly used by Koreans, the SK communications has expanded the cyworld services into other countries, such as China, Japan, Vietnam, and U.S.A starting on 2005.

[[Yoo Young Chul]]

CATEGORIES: Burglars, Fraudsters, Prisoners, Robbers, Serial killers, South Korean criminals, Thieves, Living people, 1970 births

Yoo Young Chul is a South Korean criminal. He is a thief, burglar, robber, fraudster, batterer and serial killer. He murdered 21 women from September 2003 to July 2004 in Seoul, the capital of South Korea. The victims were all women, including a bride who was going to marry the next day. After he was arrested on July 18th 2004, he claimed that he had killed 26 people. However, according to investigation done by The Korea Public Prosecutor’s Office, it was found that he murdered 21 people. The judge gave him the death penalty on December 13rd, 2004, instead of life imprisonment because of the cruelty of his murders. The judge considered Yoo Young Chul’s statement that if he wasn’t arrested, he would have chopped even 100 people into pieces. The chief judge said “considering the pain the victims’ family suffered and panic prevailed in the society, he cannot avoid the top penalty.” He is living on death row.

He said that he started murdering because of hatred toward women caused by his divorce. He got a score of 38 on psychopath test where the maximum score is 40. The closer the score is to 40, the more likely that the test-taker is a psychopath. But, psychiatrists made a diagnosis that he was normal and that he could act according to his own true will. So, the fact that he was psychopath could not justify the crime he committed. This shocking event made many people in Korea pay attention to psychopath and this criminal case was made into a movie named "Chu-Gyuk-Ja" which means "The Chaser" in English.

[[Men at Work]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s music groups, 1980s music groups, 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Australian pop music groups, Australian rock bands, New wave bands, Musical groups from Melbourne, Musical groups established in 1979, 1979 establishments in Australia, Musical groups disestablished in 1986, 1980s disestablishments in Australia, Musical groups established in 1996, 1990s establishments in Australia

Men at Work is an Australian reggae-influenced rock band that formed in 1979 in St. Kilda, a suburb of Melbourne. Men at Work often used woodwind and brass instruments. In 1986, they disbanded, but in 1996 they reformed and are still playing. Their biggest success they had in the 1980s. Their biggest hit song was "Down Under" which went to Number 1 on the charts in the USA and UK. They are the only Australian band to have both a single and an album at No 1. on the US charts at the same time.

[[Ji Kang Hun]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean criminals

Ji Kang Hun (1954~October 15th 1988) was an escapee from prison in Seoul. 

Ji became well known to Koreans, along with those who escaped with him, as their hostage taking was broadcast live all over Korea. Ji became famous for his saying “If you have money, non-guilty. If you don't have money, guilty.” The phrase criticized social and income inequality of the 1980s Korean society. Also, it raised the issue of “Preventive Custody Policy,” which separated prisoners from the society for a while even after their prison term was over in a preventative approach to potential crimes.

[[Valya Balkanska]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Bulgarian singers

Valya Mladenova Balkanska (born January 8, 1942) is a Bulgarian folk music singer. She is most famous for performing the song Izlel je Delyo hajdutin, which was sent to space on board the Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 probes in 1977.

Valya Balkanska was born in a hamlet consisting of seven houses near the village of Arda in the Rhodope Mountains. Since her childhood years she has been singing Rhodopean folk songs, which she learned from her mother and grandmother, as well as at work-bee parties. In 1960 she became the main soloist of the Rhodopa State Ensemble for Folk Songs and Dances. She was only 18 years old at that time. Up to this day Balkanska has performed more than 300 folk songs, having been accompanied by the bagpipe player Petar Yanev for the last 14 years.

The most important moment in Balkanska's career came with the folk song Izlel je Delyo hajdutin, which she recorded together with the bagpiper Dimitar Petkovski. In 1972 it became part of the Voyager Golden Record, a collection of songs, sounds and images from our planet, which also contains works of famous composers such as Mozart, Bach, Beethoven, and Stravinsky. NASA put copies of the record in the Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 space probes and launched them on August 20, 1977. According to Carl Sagan, one of the creators of the Voyager Golden Record, only advanced alien civilizations would be able to play it. 

In 2004 Balkanska released an album called Glas ot vechnostta (Voice from the Eternity), comprising some of her most popular songs such as A bre yunache ludo i mlado, Goro le goro zelena, and Maychinko stara maychinko.

[[Commercial Act of South Korea]]

CATEGORIES: Economy of South Korea, Commerce, Legislation, History of South Korea

The Commercial Act of South Korea (대한민국 상법) is the law that controls commerce in South Korea. It was originally enacted on 1 January 1963. It currently consists of 5 main chapters: General Provisions, Commercial Transactions, Company, Insurance, and Maritime Commerce.

Amendments (changes) were made in 1963, 1984, 1991, 1993, 1995, 1996, 1998, 1999, 2001, 2002, 2008 and 2009. The biggest changes were made to comply with rules made by the International Monetary Fund. These changes were made during South Korea's foreign currency crisis in 1998. They were commentated to support corporate restructuring and improving accountability and transparency of management through efficient monitoring.

The concept of directors' fiduciary duty of loyalty was introduced into the statute in the Commercial Act and was imposed as a statutory obligation of directors of stock companies. The Commercial Act also newly included the concept of de facto directors liable for damages under certain circumstances.  This enabled the Commercial Act to enhance managerial accountability by holding "owners", who do not hold any official corporate directorship, liable for mis-management and misconduct. Additionally, through the introduction of the shareholder proposal rights, the status of minority shareholders improved, securing the opportunities of minority shareholders to propose certain issues to the board of directors and the general shareholders' meeting.

[[Dilation and curettage]]

CATEGORIES: Surgery, Female reproductive system

Dilation and Curettage (D&C) is a type of surgery used to diagnose and treat problems with woman's uterus.

During a D&C, a doctor will do these things:

A D&C can be used for many reasons.  For example:

[[Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophers, Autobiographers, 1931 births, 1990 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Religious people, Spiritual teachers

Rajneesh (11 December 1931 – 19 January 1990) was an  Indian mystic, guru, and spiritual teacher. Among many gurus who brought forms of yoga to the West, he is one of the most notable. He freely invented yogic and tantric practices, characteristics of Neo-Hinduism that began to emerge in the 1870s. His international following has continued after his death. Rajneesh was born Chandra Mohan Jain; he was known as the Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh during the 1970s and 1980s, and finally as Osho in the last year of his life.

[[Ashkenazi Jews]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish ethnic groups, European Jews

Ashkenazi Jews / Ashkenazic Jews / Ashkenazim are Jews who originally lived in northern and eastern Europe. They once lived in the area of Rhineland and France and after the crusades they moved to Poland, Lithuania and Russia. In the 17th century, avoiding persecution, many Jews moved to and settled in Western Europe.

Scientists believe that Ashkenazi Jews originally came from the Land of Israel and initially went to Italy, France, and Germany. Later, during pogroms in the middle ages, mainly in Germany, they fled to Poland and Lithuania, and from there they spread over the rest of Eastern Europe. They then adopted the Yiddish language.

After that, two terms, Ashkenazi and Sephardi Jews, became commonly used: The former indicates the Jews who worshiped in the German way and spoke Yiddish, the latter indicates the Jews who worshiped in the Spanish way and spoke the Ladino language. They differ in language (pronunciation), cultural tradition and worship style.

During World War II, about 6 million Jews, 5 million of whom were Ashkenazi, were killed in the Holocaust. The Holocaust destroyed or greatly reduced the large Jewish communities and the Yiddish language in Europe. Many of the surviving Ashkenazi Jews emigrated to countries such as Israel, Canada, Argentina, Australia, and the United States after the war.

As of 2018, Ashkenazim are around 75% of the 14.6 million Jews of the world. They are also the mainstream of Israeli politics. Famous Ashkenazim are Albert Einstein, George Gershwin, Gustav Mahler, Franz Kafka.

[[Dilation and evacuation]]

CATEGORIES: Abortion

Dilation and evacuation (or "D&E") is a medical procedure. It may be used as a method of abortion when a woman is in her second trimester (between 12–32 weeks pregnant). This procedure also may be used after a woman has a miscarriage, to make sure that the uterus is emptied out completely.  If tissue is left behind in a woman's uterus after a miscarriage, she can get an infection.

A dilation and evacuation involves two major steps. First, the cervix (the bottom part of the uterus) is dilated, or made bigger. This is often done about a day before the actual procedure. To dilate the cervix, a doctor may put special tools into the cervix. The cervix needs to be made larger so that medical tools, like forceps (surgical tongs) or a curette (a tool that is used to scrape away the lining of the uterus) can be put into the cervix.

The second step of the D&E procedure is to evacuate, or remove, everything inside of the uterus. The woman is given a local anesthetic to numb part of her body or a general anesthetic to put her to sleep. The doctor will then put a cannula (a medical tube) into the uterus, through the vagina. The cannula is attached to a bottle and a pump that create a vacuum. The cannula is used to vacuum (or suction) out everything that is in the uterus, including the fetus. The doctor may use forceps to take out any tissue that is still in the uterus. The doctor may also use a curette to scrape out the lining of the uterus. The vacuum can then be used again to make sure that the uterus is completely empty. This is to prevent infection from tissue left behind by accident.

If a woman is earlier on in her pregnancy, this procedure can sometimes be done without dilating the cervix first. This is called a "vacuum aspiration". It can be used for women who are in the first trimester (the first 12 weeks of pregnancy) or for women who are in the early stages of the second trimester. However, sometime during the second trimester, it becomes very difficult to do this procedure without dilating the cervix first. At this point, a full dilation and extraction is needed.

A complete D&E usually takes 10 to 20 minutes.  Often, women are able to go home on the same day as the procedure, without staying overnight in a hospital.

Most abortions are done much earlier on in the pregnancy, so a full dilation and extraction is usually not needed.

[[Visual kei]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music, Japanese culture

Visual kei (aka visual rock) is a Japanese musical style that started in the late 1980s. Visual kei was influenced by glam rock. Visual kei artists use striking fashion and theatrical performances to highlight their music.

Early visual kei bands were strongly influenced by glam rock and heavy metal. Over time, visual kei has changed to meet the consumers' taste for music. Today, visual kei music includes goth, industrial, J-pop, and hip hop. Sometimes it is called "neo-visual kei".

Visual kei influenced the Goth lolita fashion trend. Visual kei artists often have wild dress, androgynous looks, jewelry, dyed hair, and thick make-up. Goth lolita dressers say that they are inspired by their favorite visual kei bands.

X Japan is widely seen as the first visual kei band. Other well-known bands that helped to increase visual kei's popularity include Malice Mizer, Luna Sea, and Dir en grey.

[[Dwarf hamster]]

CATEGORIES: Hamsters

The dwarf hamsters represent a group of small hamsters in the genus Phodopus. Although they do not belong to this genus, the Chinese hamster is often referred to as a dwarf hamster as well.

Although more limited in colour than the Syrian hamster, dwarf hamsters are an alternative to pet owners who enjoy a smaller, more sociable hamster. The dwarf hamster was discovered by W.C. Campbell in the early 1900's.

[[Damien Rice]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Irish guitarists, Irish rock musicians, Irish singer-songwriters, European pianists, Record producers, Rock guitarists

Damien Rice (born 7 December 1973) is an Irish singer-songwriter, musician and record producer. He plays guitar, piano, clarinet and percussion. Some call his music Brit-pop (British pop music) but he says his music is  alternative rock. He is known as a singer and song writer who wrote sad but beautiful songs for on popular movie and television programs. The Blower's Daughter is his representative song. It was used in the 2004 move Closer. His music is often used in ice skating. Recently, Rice was given "special thanks" in the end credits of the Academy Award winning 2007 Irish musical movie Once. The movie starred fellow Irish musician Glen Hansard.

He was born 7 December 1973 and raised in Celbridge, County Kildare Ireland. Before he started his own solo-career, he was a member of the rock band Jupiter which later became Bell X1. In this band, he released 2 singles and 1 album. However, Rice became disenchanted with the label and left the band to pursue a solo career. When he start his own career, he form a band with new members. For example, Lisa Hannigan is famous for featuring Damien Rice's songs like Cold water, 9 crimes and so on.

So far, he has released two studio albums: O in 2002, and 9 in 2006. And he also has released EPs B side in 2004. In 2002, his album was a strong commercial success and won the Shortlist Music Prize. After that, his second studio album 9 released not only in Ireland but also Europe and North America. 

Rice is also known for his charity work. He helped the Burma Campaign to free Burmese democracy movement leader Aung San Suu Kyi. Rice and Hannigan recorded a charity song, campaigning for her release, called Unplayed Piano, which they performed at the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize Concert in Oslo. In 2008 he participated in a music album called Songs for Tibet which is an initiative to support Tibet and to underline the human rights situation in Tibet.

[[Entrena]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in La Rioja (Spain)

Entrena is a municipality in the autonomous community of La Rioja, Spain. The population of the town is 1.488 (2009). Entrena is located near Logroño.

[[Brahui people]]

CATEGORIES: Dravidian peoples, Ethnic groups in Balochistan (Pakistan)

The Brahui people (Brahui: بروہی) are the only Dravidian ethnic group in Pakistan.  Of the 2.2 million Brahuis, most live in  Baluchistan and Afghanistan, where they are native. They are closely linked to the Balochs with whom they have intermingled, and whose cultural traits they have absorbed. Linguistically they were believed to be a remnant of the inhabitants of the IVC. The Brahui language, also called Bravi, is a Dravidian language. 

DNA studies suggest that the Brahui are most closely related to the ancient Dravidian people, which are descedants of neolithic farmers from the Zagros mountains area in modern day Iran.

[[Chittagonian peoples]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Bangladesh, Tripura, Chittagong Hill Tracts

The Chittagonian peoples are groups of tribes and native aborigines living in the Chittagong Hill Tracts, consisting of the Tripuris, Rakhines, the Chakmas and various others inhabiting SE Bangladesh. In their overall complexion and facial features these peoples are more closely related to Burma and other South East Asian nations of Indo-China, gives the country a strong candidate to become a future member of ASEAN.

Chittagongian people speak the Chittagongian language, which is an Indo-Aryan language of Assamese-Bengali group. It is considered a dialect of Bengali by the Bangladeshi government though they are not mutually intelligible.

They live in the Chittagong division of south-eastern Bangladesh. They are predominantly Theraveda Buddhist, but there are sizeable Hindus and due to influx of people from Bangladesh’s other parts Muslims are now consisting the largest minority of the region.

The Indian tricolour was hoisted in Rangamati for 3 days, but was put down by the Pakistani government( Then Bangladesh was under Pakistan as East Pakistan)

[[Shan]]

Shan may refer to:

[[International Year of Astronomy]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy

The year 2009 was named The International Year of Astronomy by the International Astronomical Union (IAU) and UNESCO. It was a celebration of astronomy around the world with 141 countries taking part. "The Universe, Yours to Discover" was the official slogan. The idea was to promote astronomy worldwide and get young people interested in it. The year 2009 is special to astronomers, as it is the 400th anniversary since the first astronomical telescope by Galileo Galilei was used. 

Activities run during the year included observatory tours, shows, and photograph displays. People could get involved in many of these activities online with a computer.

[[Shan people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in China, Myanmar, Thailand

The Shan peoples (Shan: ; IPA: tɑ́ɪ, IPA: lùmjóʊ; Chinese: 掸族; pinyin: Shànzú；傣族) are a Tai ethnic group of South East Asia. The Shan live mostly in Shan State, Myanmar. These people have close religious ties and similarities with Bangladesh's Chittagonian peoples.

[[Marketing mix]]

CATEGORIES: Marketing

The marketing mix is the combination of elements necessary to the planning and execution of the total marketing operation. The total marketing operation mainly consists of three 

processes : Analyzing the situation of companies, STP, and Marketing mix. Marketing 

managers first analyzes the situation of the company and then conduct STP : Segmentation, 

Targeting, Positioning. In STP, they segment the market, choose the target market in which 

the company can have competitive advantages and determine what is to be their products' 

position in the market, and then they design the marketing mix. In the process, marketing 

managers should design an internally consistent and mutually supportive marketing mix.

It was specifically divided into the 4Ps : Product, Place, Price and 

Promotion by E.Jerome McCarthy in 1960, and from then it has been dealt with various 

variables. These variables include not only goods and services but usage, 

value, image and so on.

[[Infiltration tactics]]

CATEGORIES: World War I

Willy Rohr developed successful in 1915 the Shock-Troops-Taktiks in the Western Front. They had been used in the Battle of Verdun. His Bataillon became independent and was first named as Sturmbataillon Rohr and became about one year later renamed by the Prussian Minister of War to Sturm-Bataillon Nr. 5 (Rohr).

Oskar von Hutier was another one of Germany's most successful and innovative generals of World War I. He did the same for the Eastern Front

After rising to army command early in 1917, Hutier began to apply the lessons learned from his three years of commanding troops, along with his study of tactics used by other armies. He devised a new strategy for the Germans to break the stalemate of trench warfare. These tactics were to prove so successful in 1917 and 1918 that the French dubbed them "Hutier tactics", although the more commonly used term today is "infiltration tactics".

[[Clarity Act]]

CATEGORIES: Canada, 1999 in Canada, 1990s in law

The Clarity Act (known as Bill C-20 before it became law) was a law passed by Canadian Government in 1999.

[[Nell]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean musical groups, Rock bands, 1999 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in South Korea

Nell is a South Korean rock band. They formed in 1999. It consists of Kim Jong-wan, who sings and plays guitar and keyboard; Lee-Jae-kyung on guitar; Lee Jung-hun on bass; and Jung Jae-won on drums. The band's name comes from a 1994 movie of the same name. Nell is one of the few rock bands who gained mainstream popularity in South Korea. They also have been nominated for several musical awards.

[[Mongolian hamster]]

CATEGORIES: Hamsters

The Mongolian hamster (Allocricetulus curtatus) is a species of rodent in the Cricetidae family. It is found in China and Mongolia.

[[Tibetan dwarf hamster]]

CATEGORIES: Hamsters

The Tibetan dwarf hamster (Cricetulus alticola) is a species of rodent in the Cricetidae family. It is found in China, India, and Nepal.

[[Lee Chang-dong]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1954 births, South Korean movie directors

Lee Chang-dong (born July 4, 1954) is a South Korean movie director, screenwriter and novelist. He won the 2008 Special Director's Prize at the Asian Film Awards and has been nominated for the Golden Lion and Palme d'Or. Lee was South Korea's Minister of Culture and Tourism from 2003 to 2004.

He graduated in 1981 with a degree in Korean Literature from Kyungpook National University in Daegu. After a teaching Korean Language in high school using his major, he established himself as a renowned novelist. Later in his career, to the surprise of many, he turned to movie making.

Lee did not study movie making before starting movie making. He penned two screenplays, Park Kwang-su's To the Starry Island in 1993 and A Single Spark in 1995. Lee then directed Green Fish in 1997.

In 2000, Lee made Peppermint Candy. It is a story following a single man in reverse chronology through 20 years of South Korean history. All of his movies have received critical acclaim and awards. Oasis, a story involving a mentally ill man and a woman with cerebral palsy, won the prestigious Director's Award at the 2003 Venice Film Festival.

He is very good at expressing the plain life of ordinary people on the screen. He also maintains popularity even though sometimes he makes stories about serious social problems.

He served as the minister of Culture and Tourism in the South Korean Government from 2003 to 2004.

[[The Hallé]]

CATEGORIES: British orchestras, Manchester, 1858 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1850s establishments in England

The Hallé is an orchestra based in Manchester, England. It is the UK's oldest symphony orchestra and the fourth oldest in the world.  Since 1996 its home is in the Bridgewater Hall, Manchester.

[[Turkish hamster]]

CATEGORIES: Hamsters

The Turkish hamster (Mesocricetus brandti) is a species of hamster closely related to the Syrian hamster. It is used as a laboratory animal in scientific research, but is not widely available on the pet market.

[[Romanian hamster]]

CATEGORIES: Hamsters

The Romanian hamster (Mesocricetus newtoni) is a species of rodent in the Cricetidae family. It is found in Bulgaria and Romania.

[[Chinese striped hamster]]

The Chinese striped hamster (Cricetulus barabensis), also known as the striped dwarf hamster, is a species of hamster. It is distributed across northern Asia, from southern Siberia through Mongolia and northeastern China to northern North Korea.

[[Kam dwarf hamster]]

CATEGORIES: Hamsters

The Kam dwarf hamster (Cricetulus kamensis) is a species of rodent in the Cricetidae family. It is found only in China.

[[Samaritans]]

CATEGORIES: Abrahamic religions, Ethnic groups in Israel, Ethnic groups in the Middle East, Palestine, Religion in Israel

The Samaritans are a group of people who live in the Levant. Samaritans believe in the same one God of Judaism, but use only the Torah as text.

There are more than 800 Samaritans. Most of them live in Holon and Nablus.

[[Indian religions]]

CATEGORIES: Indian religions

Indian religions or Indic religions or Dharmic religions are religions those originated from the Indian subcontinent. Dharma is an idea common to these religions.

[[The Red Queen]]

CATEGORIES: Biology books, Coevolution, Metaphors referring to nature

The Red Queen is the name of an evolutionary theory of Leigh Van Valen and, later, a book by Matt Ridley.

The term is taken from  the Red Queen's race in Lewis Carroll's Through the Looking-Glass. The Red Queen said, "It takes all the running you can do, to keep in the same place."  The Red Queen principle can be stated as follows:

The hypothesis is used to explain two different phenomena: the advantage of sexual reproduction at the level of individuals, and the constant evolutionary arms race between competing species.

The book takes Van Valen's idea, which is about co-evolution, and extends it into a discussion about sexual selection in humans. It argues that few aspects of human nature can be understood apart from sex, since human nature is a product of evolution, and evolution in our case is driven by sexual selection.

[[Lembit Oll]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 1999 deaths, Chess grandmasters, Estonian sportspeople, Suicides by jumping

Lembit Oll (23 April 1966 – Tallinn, 17 May 1999) was an Estonian chess grandmaster. He was already successful as a junior, becoming champion of Estonia in 1982 and junior champion of the Soviet Union in 1984. He also won multiple European and World junior championships. The FIDE awarded him the IM-title in 1983 and the GM-title in 1992. From that moment, he regularly played for Estonia during Chess Olympiads and European teamchampionships. Early 1998 he reached his highest rating on the FIDE rating list: 2655.

He played his last tournament in 1999 in Nova Gorica reaching a shared 2nd position.

Oll, who was married, fell into severe depressions after he divorced. He jumped out of the window of his house on the fifth floor and did not survive. Despite his personal problems, he still held the 42nd place on the world ranking list at that time. He was buried in Tallinn. His grave is not far from that of Paul Keres, another famous chess player.

[[Matryoshka]]

CATEGORIES: Dolls

Matryoshka (Russian: матрёшка) is a traditional Russian doll made of wood and painted with colorful ornaments. This doll is one of the most popular souvenirs in Russia. It is also widely distributed abroad under different names such as “Aunt Olga,” “Babushka” or “Mommy doll.”  Although Matryoshka is called a doll it is actually a set of dolls of different sizes placed one in another. The reason for that lies behind the name “Matryoshka.” The name "Matryoshka" came from the traditional Russian name "Matryona". This name was associated with motherhood and fertility. The biggest doll symbolizes “mother” with her numerous “doll” family.

[[Novak Djokovic]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Australian Open champions, Male tennis players, Olympic bronze medalists, Serbian tennis players, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Novak Djokovic is currently the best tennis player in the world.

Novak Djokovic was born 22 May 1987. He is a Serbian tennis player.

Djokovic has won 20 Grand Slam singles titles: the 2008, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2015, 2016, 2019, 2020 and 2021 Australian Open, the 2016 and 2021 French Open, the 2011, 2014, 2015, 2018, 2019, and 2021 Wimbledon Championships as well as the 2011, 2015, and 2018 US Open. He is the first player since Rod Laver in 1969 to hold all four Grand Slam tournaments at the same time. He is the third player after Roy Emerson and Rod Laver to win each Grand Slam tournament at least two times.

Djokovic was ranked No. 1 in the world for the first time on 4 July 2011. His longest streak at No. 1 was 122 weeks, from July 7, 2014 until November 6, 2016. On 8 March 2021 he reached 311 total weeks at No. 1, which broke the ATP record by Roger Federer.

He won the ATP World Tour Finals in 2008, 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015, and helped Serbia win the Davis Cup in 2010. He won a bronze medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics. He has won a record 36 Masters 1000 series titles (single season records with six titles in 2015).

Several tennis critics and former and current players consider Djokovic to be among the greatest tennis players of all time. Djokovic was named the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year in 2012, 2015, 2016 and 2019.

[[On the 6]]

CATEGORIES: Jennifer Lopez albums, 1999 albums, Debut albums, Pop albums, Latin music albums, R&B albums

On the 6 is the first album by Jennifer Lopez. The album's title refers to a time when Jennifer lived in the Bronx. The label released five singles to promote the album.

[[J.Lo]]

CATEGORIES: Jennifer Lopez albums, 2001 albums, Dance pop albums, Latin music albums, R&B albums

J.Lo is a second album by Jennifer Lopez. It was her best-selling album. Epic Records released 4 singles to promote the album.

The album was re-released in July 2001. It contained three bonus tracks. Due to usage of slurs such as "nigga", "bitch" and "fuck" in "I'm Real (Murder Remix)", the re-edition has been released with 'Parental Advisory' sticker. Also the album has been released without label, despite strong language and sexual content.

[[FIDE]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in France, Chess

FIDE (Fédération Internationale des Échecs) is the world chess organisation. All national federations are members. It decides matters like World Championships and changes in rules of the game.

FIDE was founded on 20 July 1924 in Paris, France. However, it had little influence until the end of World War II. The reigning world champion at that time, Alexander Alekhine, did not want to have anything to do with it. He regarded the world title as his personal property. This only changed when he died with the title, in 1946 (no other champion has ever died while holding the title). It was obvious that some method was needed to find a new champion. FIDE stepped in and, with Russian backing, put forward a solution. The strong Soviet Chess Federation only joined FIDE in 1946. It had a great influence, with resources and many young strong players.

[[Chess master titles]]

CATEGORIES: Chess

A Master in chess is a player who is awarded a master title by the world chess organisation FIDE, or by a national chess organisation. The term was used for a long time to describe someone who was accepted as an expert player, but it now has an official meaning.

Grandmaster is a chess title for even stronger players. The title comes from the word in Middle French: Grand maistre. It was the title given to the head of an Order of Knights, such as the Knights Templar or the Teutonic Knights. Its first use in chess is a comment in the periodical Bell's Life (18 February 1838) referring to William Lewis as "our past grandmaster".p156

[[Pungmul]]

CATEGORIES: Korean music

Pungmul is a Korean traditional music. It includes drumming, dancing, and singing. Most performances are outside, with tens of players, all in constant motion. Pungmul is rooted in the dure farming culture. It was originally played as part of farm work, on rural holidays, at other village community-building events, and in shamanistic and Buddhistic rituals. Pungmul performers wear very gorgeous costumes. A flowery version of the Buddhist kkokkal is the most common headdress. Advanced performers sometimes wear sangmo, which are hats with long ribbons attached to them that players can spin and flip in intricate patterns by moving their heads.

Drumming is the most important element of Pungmul. Each group is led by a kkwaenggwari (small handheld gong) player, and includes at least one person playing janggu (hourglass drum), buk (barrel drum), and jing (gong). Wind instruments (t'aepyongso and nabal) are sometimes played along with the drummers. Following the drummers are dancers, who often play the sogo (a small drum that makes almost no sound) and tend to have more elaborate choreography. Finally, japsaek (actors) dressed as caricatures of traditional village roles wander around to engage spectators, blurring the boundary between performers and audience. Minyo (Korean traditional chants) are performed in Pungmul sometimes, and audience members enthusiastically sing and dance along. Most Minyo are set to drum beats in one of a few jangdan (rhythmic patterns) that are common to Pungmul, Sanjo, P'ansori, and other traditional Korean musical genres.

[[Afro]]

CATEGORIES: Hairstyles

The afro is a type of hairstyle that is noted for its large size. The hair is curled out, forming a ball shape. For some people, this is how their hair grows because it is naturally curly. Not all beauty salons can offer this hairstyle, though.

It is called the afro because most people who can grow an afro naturally have ancestors from Africa.  The afro became popular among Civil Rights activists in the 1960s in the United States.  They were tired of white people's hair and bodies being called beautiful and black people's hair and bodies being called ugly.  So they grew their hair into afros on purpose.  The afro became less popular in the middle of the 1970s through the late 1990s.  Then it came back with the natural hair movement.  In the 1960s, wearing an afro was seen as a political choice, but in the 21st century it can also be just a style choice.  Some people wear an afro only because they do not want to straighten their hair with hot tools or chemicals.

An afro can be any length, short or long, but it is different for everyone, especially depending on the person's race and ethnicity. Europeans and Asians will tend to have wavier, looser curls, so they usually cannot grow natural afros.  Some people say it is in poor taste or bad manners for a white person to call their hairstyle an "afro" because that cuts the afro off from its history as a way black people showed their hair could be beautiful even when white-majority cultures said it wasn't. Some Jewish people also can naturally grow afros, because of their curly hair. These hairstyles are often called "Jewfros."

The afro needs care. In a 2015 interview in Glamour, Dr. Rolanda Wilkerson of Pantene said people with afros should wash their hair once a week instead of every day, air-dry instead of using a hair dryer, and moisturize.

[[Unconscious mind]]

CATEGORIES: Cognition, Consciousness

The unconscious mind is thought to be a deeper part of a person's mind that works without that person knowing it. Feelings, thoughts, desires or emotions appear to come out of nowhere, leaving the person to question where they came from.

The unconscious mind is a term coined by the 18th century German romantic philosopher Friedrich Schelling and later introduced into English by the poet and essayist Samuel Taylor Coleridge. It is, however, an ancient idea which has been noticed in many civilisations and cultures. Also, whether other mammals have similar mental mechanisms to man is also a question with a considerable history.

[[Andrew Rivkin]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian businesspeople, Living people, People from Toronto, 1969 births

Andrew Rivkin (born May 31, 1969) is a Canadian entrepreneur. He co-founded Cryptologic Inc

, which was one of the first online gambling software companies. He also co-founded Fun Technologies which is one of the largest online skill gaming provider worldwide. Andrew is an avid polo player, member of the Toronto Polo Club. He is also listed as a donor to the Mount Sinai Hospital of Toronto.

[[Roborovski hamster]]

CATEGORIES: Hamsters

Roborovski hamsters (Phodopus roborovskii) are the smallest of all hamsters commonly kept as pets. Roborovski hamsters live in the wild around the Gobi Desert, throughout Mongolia's desert steppe and parts of northern China. Robo hamsters, as they are commonly called, are also extremly fast. Because of their size wired cages are not suitable for them

[[Palmengarten]]

CATEGORIES: Botanical gardens in Europe, Frankfurt

The Palmengarten is one of two botanical gardens in Frankfurt am Main, Germany.  It is in the city area Westend-Nord.

The garden was privately paid for and built by the architect Heinrich Siesmayer.  Work was done in 1871 and the garden opened to the public. One special visit was from the American entertainer Buffalo Bill.  Buffalo Bill performed his Western show at the garden in 1890. In 1931, it was placed in the care of the city of Frankfurt.  Control of the  garden was later moved to the American occupation authorities after World War II.  When the Palmengarten was returned to the city's control in the 1960s, a major rebuilding started. The halls that were destroyed in the war were redeveloped and expanded. In 1992, the reconstruction finished and the Palmengarten showed in its new form.

Next to the area of the Palmengarten is the Frankfurt Botanical Garden, which belongs to the biology department of Johann Wolfgang Goethe-Universität Frankfurt.

The botanical exhibits are placed according to their start in free-air or climate controlled greenhouses, which also contain many tropical and subtropical plants.

With 29, it is the biggest garden of its kind in Germany.

[[Jeju-do]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of South Korea, Provinces of South Korea

Jeju-do (Korean for Jeju Province) is a province in South Korea.  Most of Jeju Province is Jeju Island, which is the largest island in South Korea. The island was created as a result of a volcanic eruption. Jeju-do is in the southern part of South Korea. Many people visit this island on honeymoon or to sight-see. Because Jeju-do is in the southern part of South Korea, it's warmer than the rest of South Korea.

Jejudo has exotic views and fruits compared to other places in South Korea. A few things it is famous for are Jeonbokjuk (a kind of congee made of abalone) and Dekopon.  Hallasan, the highest mountain in South Korea, is at the center of Jeju-do. The Natural World Heritage Site Jeju Volcanic Island and Lava Tubes is also on the island.

[[Las Cruces, New Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Mexico, County seats in New Mexico, 1840s establishments in North America

Las Cruces is the second largest city in the American state of New Mexico. The current population is about 90,000. The city is known for it large Urban Renewal Project that tore down much of its historic Main Street area.

The main campus of New Mexico State University is in Las Cruces.

[[Rio Rancho, New Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Mexico

Rio Rancho is the largest city in Sandoval County and third largest city in the U.S. state of New Mexico. A suburb of Albuquerque, it is part of the Albuquerque Metropolitan Statistical Area. 

[[Watford tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Hertfordshire, Metropolitan Line stations, Watford, 1925 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in England

Watford is a station at the end of the Watford branch of London Underground's Metropolitan line in the north-western part of the network in Zone 7, previously zone A.

There are plans to close this station when a new line to Watford Junction railway station opens, called the Croxley Rail Link, by 2020.

[[Ha Seung-Jin]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, South Korean sportspeople, Basketball players, Portland Trail Blazers players, People from Seoul

Ha Seung-Jin (하승진; Hanja 河昇鎮, born 4 August 1985) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as a basketball player. He has played in the NBA for the Portland Trail Blazers. He was the first Korean to play basketball in the NBA.

Ha was born in Seoul. His father was a member of the national basketball team and his older sister is a member of the national basketball team. His height was 2.18 m in middle school when he won the championship. Lots of universities wanted Seung-Jin to sign with their school. He decided to play for Yonsei University and won the university championship with them. He decided to go pro and signed with the Portland Trail Blazers in 2004.

His NBA career was short due to his low basic skills. So he decided to go back to Korea and enter the Korean Basketball League in 2008.

[[This Is Me... Then]]

CATEGORIES: Jennifer Lopez albums, 2002 albums, Hip hop albums, Soul albums, R&B albums

This Is Me... Then is the third (fourth overall) studio album by Jennifer Lopez. It was released in November 2002. The album debuted at number six on Billboard 200. t has sold 2.5 million copies in the United States and over five million copies worldwide.

[[Rebirth (Jennifer Lopez album)]]

CATEGORIES: Jennifer Lopez albums, 2005 albums, Dance albums, Hip hop albums, R&B albums

Rebirth is the fifth album by Jennifer Lopez. Epic Records released two singles to promote the album. They scheduled to release three singles, but after the success of "Hold You Down", they decided not to release "Cherry Pie".

[[Como Ama una Mujer]]

CATEGORIES: Jennifer Lopez albums, 2007 albums, Latin music albums, R&B albums, Spanish-language albums

Como Ama una Mujer (How a Woman Loves) is the first full-length Spanish-language studio album, and fifth studio album overall released by American entertainer Jennifer Lopez. The album was mainly produced by Colombian composers Julio Reyes and Estéfano.

[[El Cantante (soundtrack)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Jennifer Lopez albums, Latin music albums, Latin pop albums, R&B albums, Latin Grammy Award-winning albums

El Cantante (The Singer) is the soundtrack to the motion picture of the same name by American recording artists Marc Anthony and Jennifer Lopez and was released on July 24, 2007 by Sony BMG. The entire album, with the exception of the last track "Toma de Mí", is a cover album of songs originally written and recorded by the famous Puerto Rican salsa icon Héctor Lavoe.

[[Brave (Jennifer Lopez album)]]

CATEGORIES: Jennifer Lopez albums, 2007 albums, Pop albums, Funk albums, R&B albums, Dance albums

Brave is the fifth English-language studio album by Jennifer Lopez, released by Epic Records on October 6, 2007 in Australia, October 9, 2007 in North America, and October 15, 2007 in Europe. It debuted at number twelve on the U.S. Billboard 200 with 53,000 copies sold in its first week. It became Lopez's least successful album to date, selling just 600,000 units worldwide to date.

[[Feelin' So Good (DVD)]]

CATEGORIES: Jennifer Lopez albums, 2000 albums, Compilation albums, Latin music albums, Hip hop albums, R&B albums

Feelin' So Good is the first video album by American recording artist and actress Jennifer Lopez. It was first released in the United States on DVD and VHS on November 7, 2000 by SMV Enterprises, the home media division of Sony's music and entertainment label Sony Music Entertainment. Executively produced by Lopez alongside Cory Rooney and Benny Medina, Feelin' So Good provides a documentary-style look at the launch of Lopez's music career. With a run time of one hour, it contains a mixture of interviews, behind-the-scenes footage, music videos and live performances. The interview segments of Feelin' So Good were conducted by Lopez's sister Lynda, who interviews not only Lopez, but also her mother, Medina and her future husband Marc Anthony.

Feelin' So Good received generally favorable reviews from critics, although it was noted that it would be of no interest to those who were not fans of Lopez. It was additionally praised for showing Lopez's transition from her acting career to a music career. In the United States, Feelin' So Good was certified as a Gold Video Longform by the RIAA for shipments of 50,000 units.

[[Let's Get Loud (DVD)]]

CATEGORIES: Jennifer Lopez DVDs

Let's Get Loud is the second DVD by American singer Jennifer Lopez, released in February 2003 and recorded in Puerto Rico.

[[The Reel Me]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, Jennifer Lopez albums, Jennifer Lopez DVDs

The Reel Me is the third DVD by American singer Jennifer Lopez, released in November 2003.

[[Como Ama una Mujer (miniseries)]]

CATEGORIES: Jennifer Lopez DVDs

The Jennifer Lopez produced dramatic mini-series "Como Ama Una Mujer" is Jennifer Lopez's first Spanish-Language TV Project. The five-part dramatic mini-series will debut on the Univision Television Network this fall.

The five episodes was released as a 2-Disc DVD set on December 18, 2007.

Jennifer Lopez expressed: 

[[Gravitational lensing]]

CATEGORIES: Astrophysics, Relativity, Basic physics ideas, Galaxies, Gravitation

Gravitational lensing is caused by a massive body between a distant object and ourselves. It can create the appearance of two or more objects where there is really only one. The light from the object gets bent round the massive body in between.

The massive body, such as a galaxy or black hole, creates a very strong gravitational field in space. The exact nature of the effect depends on:

[[Lasse Lindh]]

CATEGORIES: Pop musicians, 1974 births, Living people, Swedish musicians

Lasse Lindh is a Swedish indie pop musician born in 1974. His debut album Bra came out in 1998 on EMI and three singles, "I en annan flicka", "Jag vill vara som du" and "Hon ar battre", were released. After his first solo album he tried a project team named Tribeca with his album producer Claes Björklund.

His second official album You Wake Up At Sea Tac was released in 2002. In this album he started to write songs in English. This album was released in USA, France, Japan and other countries. 

His most recent album is Sparks, released in 2009.

[[Glen Hansard]]

CATEGORIES: Guitarists, Irish singers, Songwriters, 1970 births, Living people, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters

Glen Hansard (born 21 April 1970 in Dublin, Ireland) is the main songwriter and singer/guitarist for Irish rock group The Frames. He is also known for starring in the movie Once and co-writing its Academy Award-winning song, "Falling Slowly."

[[Ciscaucasian hamster]]

CATEGORIES: Hamsters

The Ciscaucasian hamster (Mesocricetus raddei) is a species of rodent in the Cricetidae family. It is found only in Russia and some areas of Devon.

[[MacBook Pro]]

CATEGORIES: Apple hardware, Laptops

A MacBook Pro is a type of laptop computer made by Apple Inc. It replaced the PowerBook G4 and was the second Intel model to be released. It runs macOS and comes with a built in webcam and microphone and a power adapter that is attached by magnets. MacBook Pros are housed in aluminum metal and are currently available in 13" and 16" models.

[[Joan Bennett]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New Jersey, 1910 births, 1990 deaths, American silent movie actors

Joan Geraldine Bennett (February 27, 1910 – December 7, 1990) was an Emmy-nominated American movie actress who appeared in more than 70 Hollywood movies from the silent era to talkies, from color to the advent of television and epic movies. She may be best known and loved for her film noir movies femme fatale roles in movies by director Fritz Lang.

[[Rice Riots of 1918]]

CATEGORIES: 1918, 20th century in Japan, 20th century riots

The Rice Riots of 1918 were riots where many of the citizens of Japan became upset and rebelled against the government. This happened between July 1918 to September 1918. They caused the ending of the Terauchi Masatake government.

[[Judith Chapman]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from South Carolina, People from Greenville, South Carolina

Judith Chapman (born Judith Shepard on November 15, 1952) is an actress well known to fans of daytime television in the United States.  She has appeared on many daytime dramas since the mid-1970s.  Her first daytime role was that of "Natalie Bannon Hughes" on As the World Turns from 1975 to 1978.  Her character became known as "Nasty Natalie." Her present role started in January 2005, when she joined the cast of The Young and the Restless replacing Joan Van Ark in the role of Gloria Fisher.

In addition to her many daytime television roles, Chapman has had a long career in both stage and movies. Her most recent movie role was that of the mother of Judy (Parker Posey) in the 2002 romantic comedy, The Sweetest Thing.

[[Hinduism in Bangladesh]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladeshi culture, Hinduism by country, Hinduism in South Asia

Hinduism before indepence in United Pakistan

Hinduism is the second largest religious affiliation in Bangladesh, covering over at least 8.5% of the population. In terms of population, the independent nation-state of Bangladesh is the third-largest Hindu state of the world after the Republic of India and Nepali states, and hosts the world's largest minority population of Hindus of Bengali ethnic origin.

In nature, Bangladeshi Hinduism closely resembles the forms and customs of Hinduism practiced in the neighboring Indian state of West Bengal, with which Bangladesh (at one time known as East Bengal) was united with that country until the Partition of India in 1947. The river Ganges is a sacred holy river that flows into the country from Bharat.

[[Bhutan–India relations]]

CATEGORIES: Foreign relations of India, Bhutan

The bilateral relations between the Himalayan Kingdom of Bhutan and the Republic of India have been traditionally close. With independence in 1947, India inherited the suzerainty over Bhutan enjoyed by the British Raj. Although modified and modernised since, India remains influential over Bhutan's foreign policy, defence and commerce.

[[India–Ireland relations]]

CATEGORIES: Republic of Ireland, Foreign relations of India

Indo-Irish relations between the Republic of Ireland and the Republic of India picked up steam during the freedom struggles of the respective countries against a common imperial empire in the United Kingdom. Political relations between the two states have largely been based on socio-cultural ties, although political and economic ties have also helped build relations. Indians recognise Northern Ireland as part of its country.

[[Cornish people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the United Kingdom, Celtic peoples, People from Cornwall

Cornish people (Cornish: Kernowyon) are often regarded as a distinct ethnic group or national identity of the United Kingdom, originating in Cornwall. They are described as a Celtic people.

In the 19th century, many Cornish people moved abroad to find jobs in mining. Today, descendents of Cornish people can be found all over the world, including Australia, Canada, America, Mexico and South Africa.

[[Argentina-India relations]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Argentina, Foreign relations of India

Argentine-Indian relations are foreign relations between Argentina and India.  Diplomatic relations were established on February 3rd, 1949.  India has an embassy in Buenos Aires and Argentina has an embassy in New Delhi. Indians have expressed its desires to agree with the Argentinian claims on British colonies in Southern Atlantic Ocean and other territorial border disputes with Chile.

[[Yaqui River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Mexico, Sonora

The Yaqui River (Río Yaqui in Spanish) (Hiak Vatwe in Yaqui) is a river in the state of Sonora in northwest Mexico. It is the largest river system in the state of Sonora. The Yaqui river is used for irrigation.

It is about 320km (200mi) in length, the Yaqui flows south and southwest to empty into the Gulf of California. 

The Yaqui river starts in the Sierra Madre Occidental and flows into the Gulf of California near the port of Guaymas.

Its course is broken up by several reservoirs like Plutarco Elías Calles (El Novillo), Lázaro Cárdenas (Angostura), or Álvaro Obregón (El Oviáchic, Lake Ouiachic), which provides the water for the heavily farmed region of Ciudad Obregón.

[[Kacchu]]

CATEGORIES: Armour, History of Japan, Japanese clothing, Samurai

Kacchu is a Japanese traditional armor. Japanese swords and scabbards are higher quality than swords from other countries. Therefore, Kacchu also needed to develop to protect the body from attack. Kacchu was also made to be worn by horses. It was made of leather, bronze and iron.

[[Calligraphy]]

CATEGORIES: Writing

Calligraphy is the art of writing. The word is from the Greek language and means "beautiful writing". In the west, this was an interest in decorating words on the page. Calligraphy in the Western world was always considered a minor art.

East Asian calligraphy was a "high art" form before the Tang Dynasty. It continues to have a high status among the arts. It is practiced today by many people including school children. 

[[Mad cow disease]]

CATEGORIES: Infectious diseases

Mad cow disease is the common name of Bovine spongiform encephalopathy. It's a disease that affects a cow's nervous system and their physical state. It comes from the chemistry structure of prion protein. When cattle get this disease, they have holes forming in their brains. The brain becomes spongy and begins to waste away. The cattle become very violent and show signs of mental disorder and have trouble when they move. It has a long incubation period, about 4~5 years. Cattle that are 4~5 years old can get the disease very easily.

It was not a common disease, but in 1996 the Minister of Health and Welfare in England said that it could be contracted by humans. Mad cow disease has damaged the cattle industry. Some food was made from cattle that had the disease. In England, the nation that was worst affected, more than 179,000 cattle were infected and 4.4 million were killed in an attempt to get rid of the disease.

[[Galen]]

CATEGORIES: Greek physicians, Philosophers

Galen of Pergamum (AD 129 – 199/217) was a prominent Roman physician and philosopher from Pergamon, a Greek city in western Asia Minor. He was an important medical researcher during the time of the Roman Empire. His theories influenced Western medical science for over a thousand years.

He came up with the 'Theory of Opposites' based upon Hippocrates' Four Humours' theory, which helped develop medicine in the Roman and again in the Middle Ages to include more natural based medicine (rather that just religious medicine).

Some of his observations in his books were wrong, as he could only dissect animals (mostly pigs and apes) and compare them to humans, because he was not allowed to dissect human corpses. Later on in the Renaissance period people, such as Andreas Vesalius wrote books showing that some of what Galen said was wrong.

Galen was vital in the beginnings of natural medicine, and is often known as the 'Father of Anatomy'.

[[Ibn Battuta]]

CATEGORIES: 1360s deaths, 1304 births, Explorers, Moroccan people

Ibn Battuta (1304 – 1368 or 1369) was a Moroccan explorer. He is known for the account of his journeys called the Rihla ("Voyage"). He travelled for nearly 30 years and covered most of the Islamic world. He also explored West Africa, Southern and Eastern Europe, South Asia, Central Asia, Southeast Asia and China. This distance was more than Marco Polo travelled; about 75000. Ibn Battuta was considered the greatest traveller of the medieval period.

Battuta also made  maps that were used by cartographers. He also met Mohammad bin tughlaq and write a book called the travels of bin battutta

Ibn Battuta was born on February 24, 1304 in Tangier. His family consisted of judges and scholars of Islamic law. At age 21, Ibn Battuta started his long exploration when he went on the Hajj. This is a year-long pilgrimage that brings Muslims closer to God. Ibn Battuta first went across North Africa (Maghreb), to the great port Alexandria in 1326. Ibn spent 30 years visiting every Muslim country of his day. He recorded details about the social and political life he saw on his journeys. He gave information all about Muhammad Bin Tuglaq.

Ibn Battuta met a Syrian Arab Damascene girl who was a slave of a black African governor in Mali. Ibn Battuta engaged in a conversation with her in Arabic.

Christians became part of harems as slaves in the Balkans and Asia Minor when the Turks invaded. Muslim qadis owned Christian slave girls. Greek girls who were pretty were forced into prostitution after being enslaved to Turks who too al their earnings in the 14th century according to Ibn Battuta. 

[[Kyshtym disaster]]

CATEGORIES: 1957, 1950s in the Soviet Union, Disasters in the Soviet Union, Nuclear accidents, September events

The Kyshtym disaster was a radiation contamination disaster on 29 September 1957, in Mayak, a nuclear plant in Russia (then a part of the Soviet Union).  It measured as a Level 6 disaster on the International Nuclear Event Scale (the Chernobyl disaster and the Fukushima disaster are the only accidents listed as more serious than this one).

Mayak is the name for a number of nuclear facilities, which are about 150 from Ekaterinburg, in Russia. The facilities were also known as Chelyabinsk-65, or Chelyabinsk-40. Mayak was built between 1945 and 1948. It was the first plant that could produce nuclear material in the Soviet Union. At times, up to 25.000 people worked at Mayak. They produced the plutonium fuel that was used for the first Soviet atomic bomb, amongst other things.

Between 1948 and 1987, a total of ten nuclear reactors were built. Until 1991, all but two were closed. The two remaining produce radioactive isotopes for health care and for research purposes.

During different accidents, a large amount of radioactivity was released into the environment. The biggest of these accidents happened in 1957, and is known as Kyshtym Disaster today. It happened in a plant near Kishtim (Кыштым). There were many accidents in this secret plant.  The most serious of them happened on September 29, 1957. The cooling system of the plant failed to work. A (non-nuclear) explosion occurred. This explosion had the force of between 75 and 100 tons of TNT. It threw the lid of the container, which weighted 160 tons, into the air. The accident released about 20 MegaPCi (about 740 Petabecquerel) of radioactivity. At least 200 people died from radiation sickness. About 10,000 people were evacuated from their homes. More than 470,000 people were affected by the radiation, without knowing it.

During the next ten to eleven hours, the radioactive cloud moved towards the northeast, reaching between 300 and 350 kilometers from the accident.  The fallout of the cloud resulted in a long-term contamination of an area of more than 800 square kilometers, mostly with caesium-137 and strontium-90.  Today, the area is known as the East-Ural Radioactive Trace (EURT).

The existence of Mayak was a secret. Only very few people knew it was there. For this reason, the people living in the areas affected by the accident were not told about the accident. On 6 October, a week after the accident, the authorities started to evacuate about 10,000 people, but they did not tell about the reason for the evacuation. People grew hysterical with fear because unknown 'mysterious' diseases were breaking out. Victims were seen with skin 'sloughing off' their faces, hands and other exposed parts of their bodies." It was Zhores Medvedev who revealed the nature and extent of the disaster to the world.

Even though the Soviet government hid information about the figures, it is known that the direct exposure to radiation caused at least 200 cases of death from cancer.

To reduce the spread of radioactive contamination after the accident, contaminated soil was removed and kept in fenced enclosures that were called "graveyards of the earth".

In 1968, the Soviet government disguised the EURT area by creating the East-Ural Nature Reserve, which prohibited any unauthorised access to the affected area.

Rumours of a nuclear mishap somewhere near Chelyabinsk had long been circulating in the West. That there had been a serious nuclear accident west of the Urals was eventually inferred from research on the effects of radioactivity on plants, animals, and ecosystems, published by Professor Leo Tumerman, former head of the Biophysics Laboratory at the Institute of Molecular Biology in Moscow, and associates.

According to Gyorgy, who invoked the Freedom of Information Act to gain access to the relevant Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) files, the CIA knew of the 1957 Mayak accident all along. They kept it secret to prevent adverse consequences for the fledgling American nuclear industry.  Only in 1990 did the Soviet government declassify documents pertaining to the disaster.

According to different sources, the amount of radioactivity produced by this disaster is between twice and six times that of Chernobyl disaster of 1986. Because the leakage was more limited, this is classified as a Level 6 (of 7) disaster on the International Nuclear Event Scale. Chernobyl is rated at Level 7.

In 2003, Russian authorities closed down the Mayak plant. Lake Karachay, which is close to the plant is seen as one of the most contaminated spots on the planet.

In the past 45 years, about 500,000 people in the region have been irradiated in one or more of the incidents. Some  of them were exposed to more than 20 times the radiation suffered by the Chernobyl disaster effects victims.

[[Oldboy]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, Korean-language movies

italictitle

|based_on=Old Boy|screenplay=

Oldboy is a 2003 movie by Park chan-wook. This movie is based on the 1997 Japanese comic book. It is a mystery action movie about the contest of Oh Dae-su who was confined in private jail for 15 years (even he does not know why he was caged) and Lee woo-jin who confined Oh because of revenge. This movie deals especially and in detail with human hatred and revenge, and uses nice visual techniques to deal with sensational material.

The movie was nominated for many international movie festivals. It won 31 awards including Best Director at the Cannes Film Festival in 2004.

[[Cheese on toast]]

CATEGORIES: Cheese dishes

Cheese on toast is a type of food sometimes called grilled cheese. It is often eaten as a light snack. It is popular because it is easy to make quickly, and uses few ingredients. It is made by grilling cheese on toast.

Cheese on toast is often made with cheddar cheese. Other items (such as grilled tomatoes and butter) may be added to the dish.

[[Deoksugung]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in South Korea, Palaces

The Deoksu Palace (Deoksugung ; 덕수궁, 德壽宮), is one of the five grand palaces of the Korean Joseon Dynasty.

When the Japanese invaded Joseon in 1592, King Seonjo escaped from Hanyang (present-day Seoul) and fled to Uiju. When the war finished, he returned to Seoul.

But there was no place for him to stay, because all of the palaces(such as Gyeongbok Palace, Changdeok Palace, Changgyeong Palace) had burned down during the war.

So, he lived in this place, which was originally the home of Prince Wolsandaegun who was King Seongjong's elder brother.

King Gwanghaegun who succeeded King Seonjo renamed this palace Gyeongun Palace (Gyeongungung ; 경운궁).

The palace became a secondary royal residence after the king moved to Changdeok Palace.

Queen Dowager Inmok was confined to the palace, and it was renamed West Palace(Seogung ; 서궁).

After he was overthrown by King Injo, it was returned to itsoriginal owners.

After two years, King Gojong returned to power and he chose to live in this palace.

He renamed this palace Gyeongun Palace again.

An electrical system and fencing were installed at the palace, and the name of the palace was changed to Deoksugung Palace: meaning the palace of virtuous longevity.

He remained at the palace even after he had relinquished the throne to his son, Emperor Yunghui (or Emperor Sunjong ; 융희제, 순종)

From 1910 until 1945, when Korea was under the colonial rule of Japan, the palaces's buildings were destroyed and made into a public park.

[[Infinite Challenge]]

CATEGORIES: Reality television series, South Korean television series, 2005 television series debuts, 2005 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in South Korea

Infinite Challenge is a famous Korean TV show. Its Korean name is Muhan Dojeon. It started in 2005 as Mu(mo)han Dojeon and titled Muhan Dojeon in 2006. 

There are seven people on the show now; Yoo Jae-suk, the MC, Park Myeong-su always seated second, Jeong Jun-ha whose nickname is 'eating god' because he eats a lot and fast, Roh Hong-cheol who can speak quickly and has swindler character, Jeong Hyeong-don who is called "MiJon gae-oh" that means remarkable in everywhere, HaHa who is called "little baby", Jun Jin was a member for about 2 years and went military service. Instead of him, Gil who is singer of South Korea's Hip-hop group Leessang appears in this show.  

This show is the first real variety show in Korea. The seven members of the team try new challenges for each episode. For example, they held an end of year concert to raise money for unfortunate neighbors, made a drama, met and played games with world famous stars like Thierry Henry and Paris Hilton. These were all produced by Kim Tae-ho, the producer of Infinite Challenge. He wants to keep the program new and exciting so he has recently tried to add a new member of the team.

[[Bean Pole International]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of South Korea, Clothing companies, 1989 establishments in Asia, 1980s establishments in South Korea

Bean Pole International is the name of a South Korean clothes brand. It was started by Cheil-Mogic, one of the Samsung Company group, in 1989.

The brand name "Bean Pole" signifies happiness and hope, by symbolizing a man riding a bicycle in the novel Daddy Long-Legs. The picture of a man riding a bicycle is the logo of Bean Pole. In addition, it also signifies the tradition of the Boston Ivy League universities.

In the 21st century Bean Pole became a nationally famous brand in South Korea. It has six sub-brands including Bean Pole, Bean Pole Ladies, and Bean Pole Golf. They have become an international company selling clothes to China, the United States and Europe. They hired Gwyneth Paltrow and Daniel Henny to appear in advertising to promote the brand name.

[[Nakseongdae]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Seoul

Nakseongdae is the birthplace of the famous Goryeo-Era general, Gang Gam-chan (강감찬, 姜邯贊 ; 948-1031). Legend says that when Gang Gam-chan was born, a star fell from Heaven.  Because of this, his birthplace was named "Site of the Falling Star" (Nakseongdae).

The people of the Goryeo Kingdom (918-1392) built a three-story pagoda at the house of Gang Gam-chan's birth to praise him for his great deeds.  He is famous for defeating 400,000 invading Khitan soldiers. Damaged parts of this pagoda were rebuilt by the Seoul Metropolitan Government in 1964, and the pagoda was named Seoul Tangible Cultural Property No. 4 in 1972. Two years later, a shrine was built for Gang Gam-chan. The pagoda, which was originally located at 218 Bongcheon-dong, was moved to be with the shrine.

[[Hwaseong Fortress]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in South Korea, Fortification, World Heritage Sites in South Korea

Hwaseong Fortress (Suwonhwaseong) is the wall that surrounds the centre of Suwon.  Suwon is the capital city of Gyeonggi-do, a province in South Korea. The fortress was built by Jeongjo, the 22nd king of the Joseon Dynasty.

The wall is about 6 km long and it has four gates.

Jeongjo had he wanted the fortress to do.  He wanted to show loyalty to his family.  He wanted to protect his father's burial place.  He wanted to strengthen his power and protect the southern area of Suwon.  He also wanted to reduce conflict between different political parties.

Construction started near Mount Paldalsan in January 1794. Construction was finished in September 1796.  Chae Jae-gong supervised the building process. Chae Jae-gong was a former minister in the government and the magistrate of Yeongjungchubu County.  Engineers made new tools to help build the fortress.  The Geojunggi was one of these new tools.  It is a traditional Korean crane. They also made potter's wheels were created.  They were used to move and put together large stones for the wall.

After the original fortress was finished in 1801, a construction archive called the Hwaseong Seongyeokuigwe was published.  This archive recorded what the fortress was like when it was first built.  This helped construction workers know how to rebuild the fortress after it was damaged, so it would look like the original wall.

The fortress was partly damaged twice.  First, it was damaged when Japan controlled Korea in the early 20th century.  The fortress was also damaged during the Korean War.  Today, most of its original features have been restored.  

The fortress is on both flat and hilly lands.  This is uncommon in neighbouring China and Japan.

The fortress is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

[[Yi Sang-jae]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 births, 1927 deaths, History of Korea, Religious leaders, Korean people

Yi Sang-jae (이상재, 26 October 1850 – 29 March 1927; also written as Lee Sang-jae) was a religious leader and independence fighter at the end of the Korean Empire.

He was born in Jongji-ri, Hansan-myeon, Seocheon-gun, Chungcheongnam-do. His real name is Gey-ho. He was the president of the Independence Association and published the first Korean private newspaper, Independence Newspaper. When Korea was a colony of Japan, he was active in the movement to establish the Korean Private University. Also, he was the first president of Singanhoe, one of the biggest independence groups in Korea.

[[YB]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean musical groups, Rock bands, 1990s establishments in South Korea, Musical groups established in 1994, 1994 establishments in Asia

YB, formed in 1994, is a Korean rock band. They have made seven studio albums, three live albums, digital single albums, and DVDs.  They sold more than 2 million albums and held more than one hundred live concerts in a year. The members are:

YB use traditional Korean musical instruments including the gayageum, a stringed instrument, and the daegeum, an instrument like the clarinet, in their recordings. 

[[Brown Eyed Soul (band)]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean musical groups, K-pop music groups, R&B bands, 2003 establishments in South Korea

Brown Eyed Soul is a Korean musical singing group. The 4 men in the band are Naul, Jung-Yeop, Sung-Hun, & Young-Jun. Their genre is soul pop and R&B. Brown Eyed Soul made their debut in 2003 with their 1st album Soul Free. Their 2nd album, The Wind, The Sea, The Rain was released in 2007. They took four years to release their 2nd album. Although 4 years was a long time, they still had many fans. Their 2nd album sold about 100,000 copies. It helped them win the R&B award at the 5th Korean Music awards in 2008.

Brown Eyed Soul have not appeared on television which is very unusual in Korea where most groups appear regularly. Brown Eyed Soul`s popularity is not their looks or their dancing, but their music.

[[Tteokguk]]

CATEGORIES: Korean food, Soups

Tteokguk is a traditional food of Korea. It is eaten on January 1 to celebrate Seollal, the Korean New Year.

Tteokguk is a soup made from tteok ( a sweet Korean rice cake), sliced cooked eggs, ground meat, mandu, leek, and onion.

[[Nail art]]

CATEGORIES: Body art, Cosmetics

Nail art is a creative activity that draws pictures or designs fingernails. It a type of art. These days fingernails and toenails are seen by some as important points of beauty.

Also, it is a type of fashion activity, related to manicuring. There are commercial shops ('nail bars') where nails are worked on to make them attractive. The main product is acrylic nails with ready-made designs which can be stuck on top of natural nails.

[[Gyeongju]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Korea, Capital of Korea, Former national capitals

Gyeongju (경주) is a coastal city in the southeastern corner of North Gyeongsang province in South Korea. It is the second largest city in the province (Andong is the first largest city). It is 1324 large, with 269,343 people living in the city, according to the 2008 census. From southeast, Gyeongju is 370 away from Seoul, and from the east, 55 away from the provincial capital, Daegu. Cheongdo and Yeongcheon are on the west side of the city. Ulsan is to the south side, and Pohang is to the north. On the east there is the coast of the Sea of Japan (East Sea). Many low mountains are around the city. They are part of the Taebaek range.

Gyeongju was the capital of the ancient kingdom of Silla (57 BC – 935 AD). Silla ruled most of the Korean Peninsula between the 7th and 9th centuries, and many archaeological sites from that time are still in the city. This is why Gyeongju is often called "the museum without walls".

For example, Gyeongju Historic Areas and Yangdong Folk Village were made World Heritage Sites by UNESCO. The many important historical sites have helped Gyeongju become one of the most popular places in Korea for tourists.

In 1995, the city of Gyeongju and Gyeongju County were put together. There are 53 other small and medium-sized cities with about 300,000 or less people in South Korea. Today, Gyeongju is not only influenced by its history–it is influenced by the economic, demographic and social changes in South Korean culture. Its economy is mostly based on tourism. Manufacturing has also developed because Gyeogju is near large industrial cities such as Ulsan and Pohang. It is also connected to railways and highways that are often used by tourists.

[[Samsung]]

CATEGORIES: Samsung, Companies of South Korea, 1938 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in South Korea

Samsung Group is a South Korean multinational conglomerate headquartered in Samsung Town, Seoul. It comprises numerous affiliated businesses, most of them united under the Samsung brand, and is the largest South Korean chaebol (business conglomerate). Samsung is a large worldwide company based in Seoul. Samsung means "three stars" in Korean.

Samsung was founded by Lee Byung-chul in 1938 as a trading company. Over the next three decades, the group diversified into areas including food processing, textiles, insurance, securities and retail. Samsung entered the electronics industry in the late 1960s and the construction and shipbuilding industries in the mid-1970s; these areas would drive its subsequent growth. Following Lee's death in 1987, Samsung was separated into four business groups – Samsung Group, Shinsegae Group, CJ Group and Hansol Group. Since 1990, Samsung has increasingly globalised its activities and electronics; in particular, its mobile phones and semiconductors have become its most important source of income.

Notable Samsung industrial affiliates include Samsung Electronics (the world's 2nd largest information technology company measured by 2015 revenues, and 5th in market value), Samsung Heavy Industries (the world's 2nd largest shipbuilder measured by 2010 revenues), and Samsung Engineering and Samsung C&T (respectively the world's 13th and 36th largest construction companies). Other notable subsidiaries include Samsung Life Insurance (the world's 14th largest life insurance company), Samsung Everland (operator of Everland Resort, the oldest theme park in South Korea) and Cheil Worldwide (the world's 15th largest advertising agency measured by 2012 revenues).

Samsung has a powerful influence on South Korea's economic development, politics, media and culture and has been a major driving force behind the "Miracle on the Han River". Its affiliate companies produce around a fifth of South Korea's total exports. Samsung's revenue was equal to 17% of South Korea's $1,082 billion GDP.

Samsung has many different businesses. It makes mobile phones, cameras and other electronics. 'Samsung Electronics' who sell Samsung Galaxy products.  Samsung is the best known South Korean brand in the world.

Samsung also is the sponsor of several sports teams, such as the Chelsea Football Club.

In December 2018 the company announced a launch of new 5G smartphone, which took place in 2019.

[[Ko Young-Min]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, South Korean baseball players

Ko Young-min (born February 8, 1984 in Seoul, South Korea) is a professional baseball player of the South Korean baseball club Doosan Bears. He graduated from Seung-Nam High School.  His height is 182.0 cm. and his weight is 76.0 kg. 

His position is second baseman. He is a member of the national team. He has fast legs and a great catching ability. His nickname is Koget. He is a second fielder. Koget is a compound word made up of his family name and an animation gadget.  His experiences as a member of the national team are in the Beijing Olympic Games and the second WBC. He won the golden glove prize in  2007. He also won the Korea professional baseball at second baseman prize. He got the best point prize in  2007 for the Samsung PAVV professional baseball team.

[[Insadong]]

CATEGORIES: Seoul, Subdivisions of South Korea

Insa-dong (인사동, 仁寺洞) is a neighborhood (also called a dong) of Jongro District, Seoul, South Korea. The main street is Insadong-gil, which is connected to many alleys that lead deeper into the district. 

Insa-dong is a popular tourist spot in Seoul. It is mainly one long street, and is known for its many art galleries, restaurants, and shops that sell traditional Korean items and art. There is also plenty of street food and sometimes there are public performances of dancing or a traditional display of criminals. Winding side streets are home to a variety of traditional restaurants.

[[Mexican peso]]

CATEGORIES: Currency of North America, Economy of Mexico

The $Mexican Peso (sign: $; code: MXN) is the currency, or money, of Mexico. The symbol used for the peso is "$", which is the same as for the US dollars it got its symbol from the Spanish-Mexican currency. It is one of the most traded currencies in the world. The current ISO 4217 code for the peso is MXN; before its value was changed in 1993, the code MXP was used. The peso is made up of 100 centavos, represented by "¢". The name comes from the Spanish words pesos oro (gold weights) or pesos plata (silver weights). The meaning of peso in English is weight.

[[Olive ridley sea turtle]]

CATEGORIES: Reptiles of Australia, Turtles

The olive ridley sea turtle, (Lepidochelys olivacea), also called the Pacific ridley, is one of the smallest species of sea turtle. It is named for the olive-green color of its heart-shaped shell. It is one of seven marine turtle species living today.

[[System requirements]]

CATEGORIES: Software, Computer science

System requirements refer to a checklist of minimum necessary items for a computer to have. These items would be requirements in order for an operating system to work, such as Windows XP. If the system did not have these things, the computer or operating system might crash or cause problems. If it exceeds minimum expectations, you could check the recommended system requirements, and see if it also meets those. If it does not, it is not bad. But if it does meet the recommended requirements, that is very good to know.

[[George Clooney]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Actors from Kentucky, Actors who played Batman, American movie actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, American voice actors, Extras, People from Lexington, Kentucky, Writers from Kentucky

George Timothy Clooney (born May 6, 1961) is an American actor, filmmaker and humanitarian. He is the son of Nick and nephew of singer Rosemary. After leaving college, He starred in the series ER and several other series. He later starred in movies, including Ocean's Eleven, Syriana, Batman and Robin, Good Night, and Good Luck and Up in the Air. He is a political advocate for human rights issues, include Save Darfur. Many of his movies contain references to current politics.

[[Canon EOS]]

CATEGORIES: Cameras

The Canon EOS (Electro-Optical System) is an autofocus 35 mm film and digital SLR camera system that was introduced in 1987 with the Canon EOS 650 and is still in production as Canon's current dSLR system.  The acronym EOS was chosen for Eos in Greek mythology, and is often pronounced as a word (i.e., EE-oss), although some spell out the letters, reading it as an initialism. Both pronunciations are acceptable as there is no official pronunciation.

It competes primarily with the Nikon F series and its successors, as well as autofocus SLR systems from Olympus Corporation, Pentax, Sony/Minolta, and Panasonic/Leica. In most countries, EOS cameras have the largest market share of SLR cameras.

[[Coco Chanel]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 births, 1971 deaths, French fashion designers, French people of World War II, People from Pays de la Loire

Gabrielle Bonheur "Coco" Chanel (19 August 1883 – 10 January 1971) was a French fashion designer.  Coco went with the nuns and she never got adopted, so she left the orphanage when she was 18 to work at a local tailor shop. The nuns taught Coco everything she knew about sewing and making clothes. She was a founder of the House of Chanel. She was the only fashion designer to be named on TIME Magazine's 100 most influential people of the 20th century. She broke free of conventions and became a role model for some. Her behaviour during the German occupation of France in World War II led to criticism.

[[Itaewon]]

CATEGORIES: Seoul, Subdivisions of South Korea

Itaewon is a neighborhood in Yongsan-gu, Seoul. It is an international neighborhood. Travellers and expatriate residents come here for  shopping, restaurants, and nightlife. 

About 22,000 people live there, but between 4000-5000 reportedly visit the commercial district daily. Many US military personnel from the nearby Yongsan Garrison come here. Itaewon has restaurants serving food from many parts of the world, including India, Thailand, and Mexico. Those foods are not common in Korea.

[[J. M. G. Le Clézio]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, French essayists, French Nobel Prize winners, French novelists, People from Nice, Writers from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur

Jean Marie Gustave Le Clézio (born April 13, 1941 in Nice) is a French novelist. He won a Nobel Prize in Literature.

[[Sejong the Great]]

CATEGORIES: 1397 births, 1450 deaths, Kings of Joseon

Sejong the Great (May 6, 1397 – May 18 1450) was the fourth king of the Joseon Dynasty. He is one of only two Korean kings called "great" (the other is Gwanggaeto the Great of Goguryeo). He picked out young scholars and tried to fix the prejudice of classes by helping intelligent but low-class prodigies. In 1442, he had Jang Young-Sil, a scientist in Joseon, invent the 'Chuk-Oo-Gi (測雨器)'. This was a kind of tool to help measure the rain and how much it fell. Also, he expanded the territory of Joseon.  

One of the best works and the biggest reason why Sejong was called great was because he created the Hoon min jung um (訓民正音). It is called in modern days as 'Han-gul (한글)'. Because of the creation of  the Hoon min jung um, Joseon (now Korea) now got its own alphabet, and many people, most of whom have never learned how to read Hanja (Chinese characters used for Korean) could learn how to read and write much more easily than before.

[[Kabuki]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment in Japan, Dance types, Drama

Kabuki is a traditional form of Japanese classical drama which started about 400 years ago. It is known for its very stylized acting and the elaborate makeup worn by the actors. The word kabuki means "singing and dancing", and also means "to act strange and different, to be outside what is normal." The style of kabuki is not meant to look like real life.

People from around the world are now interested in Kabuki. It was recognized by UNESCO in 2006 as an important part of Japan's cultural history.

[[Karl Böhm]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1981 deaths, Austrian conductors, Grammy Award winners, People from Graz

Karl Böhm (born Graz, 28 August 1894; died Salzburg, 14 August 1981) was an Austrian conductor. He was one of the greatest conductors of the 20th century, especially famous for his conducting of the music of Mozart, Wagner and Richard Strauss.

[[Leipzig Gewandhaus]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Saxony, Concert halls, Leipzig

The Gewandhaus is a world famous concert hall in Leipzig, Germany. Today's building is the third hall to have this name. It is the home of the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra.

The name "Gewandhaus" means a building where cloth is traded. Originally merchants used to sell their cloth there. 

The first Gewandhaus was built in 1781 by the architect Johann Carl Friedrich Dauthe. The second opened in 1884, and was destroyed in the fire-bombings of World War II between 1943 and 1944. The third Gewandhaus, which stands now, was opened on 8 October 1981. It is known for its fine acoustics.

[[Rebab]]

CATEGORIES: String instruments, Early musical instruments

The rebab is a musical instrument from the Middle East. It is a very old instrument, and is probably the origin of the medieval rebec. It is a string instrument and is played by bowing or plucking the strings. It has a body made out of a solid piece of wood, with straight sides and a round back. The belly of the rebab is made of skin. The pegs used to tune the strings are like those on a violin, and are pushed into holes on the side of the peg box. The peg box is made from a separate piece of wood.

[[Sackbut]]

CATEGORIES: Trombones, Early musical instruments

The sackbut is a brass musical instrument from the Renaissance. By the 1750s, it was developing into the modern trombone. It has narrower tubing, does not have a water key, a slide lock or a tuning slide that are found on trombones. It is played by buzzing the lips into a mouthpiece. The length of the instrument could be changed by the use of a sliding tube which meant it could play a full chromatic range of notes. The earliest instruments come from the 1500's. The sackbut was popular because it could be played loudly or softly, and it could also be played in tune. They were made in a range of sizes, a descant (rarely used), alto, tenor and bass. They were often played to accompany a church choir.

[[Boeing 727]]

CATEGORIES: Boeing aircraft

The Boeing 727 is a jet airliner. It is made by Boeing Commercial Airplanes. It can carry 149 to 189 passengers. It can fly for 2400. The Boeing 727 was made to fly short distances. It can also take off from short runways at smaller airports. It has three Pratt & Whitney JT8D engines. One engine is at the back, and the other two are on the sides of the plane.  The 727 is the only plane made by Boeing which has three engines.

The Boeing 727 was made after the Boeing 707. The 727 and the 707 have some similar features. The 727-100 first flew in February 1963. The first airline to use it was Eastern Air Lines. The 727-200, a longer version of the 727, first flew in July 1967. It was first used by Northeast Airlines in December 1967.

The 727 was made during the 1970s. The last 727 was made in 1984. In July 2011, 23 727-100s and 227 727-200s were being used by airlines. The 727 is a very noisy aircraft, so some 727s have been given hush kits to make them quieter.

[[PowerBook]]

CATEGORIES: Apple hardware, Laptops

The PowerBook was a type of laptop computer built by Apple Computer, Inc. from 1991 to 2006. The PowerBook was changed many times in the time that it was made. Many times, the laptop was the first to have features that would later become common in other laptops. The PowerBook line was made for professional people. It got many awards. Examples are the 2001 Industrial Design Excellence Awards "Gold" status, and Engadget's 2005 "Laptop of the Year".

Before the PowerBook, Apple made the Macintosh Portable. At that time, third-party laptops that ran Macintosh software were also available, such as the Outbound Laptop. In 1999, Apple started making the cheaper iBook model. The PowerBook and iBook lines were discontinued (Apple stopped making them) and replaced by the MacBook family in 2006.

[[IBook]]

CATEGORIES: Apple hardware, Laptops

The iBook was a line of laptop computers sold by Apple Inc. between 1999 and 2006. Apple designed these computer for the consumer and education markets, so they had lower specifications and prices than the PowerBook, Apple's higher-end line of laptop computers. 

Apple replaced the iBook line with the MacBook in May 2006 while Apple changed to using Intel processors. 

[[Scrapbook]]

CATEGORIES: Stationery, Hobbies

A scrapbook is a book where people can keep pictures, newspapers articles, recipes, letters and similar things. It is often used to keep memorable things or a collection of things. It is also often used in the hobby of scrapbooking. Scrapbooking is the use of a scrapbook as a hobby rather than a more practical use such as keeping collections of recipes used in daily cooking. It is a way to preserve pictures and memories in a book that can last throughout a person's whole life.  Scrapbooking is becoming more popular. The hobby interest has created a business phenomenon with many companies selling various tools, paper and equipment to make the craft easier and more enjoyable.

Scrapbooking, also known as 'cropping,' is an art that creates family heirlooms.  Each page of a scrapbook become a family treasure, especially when the author writes in his/her own handwriting about the pictures.

[[Agios Nikolaos]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece, Crete

Agios Nikolaos is a town on Crete island. It is a coastal town in the northeast of Crete. It is near the main airport of Crete, "Nikos Kazatzakis". There are also ships which connect Agios Nikolaos with Piraeus and Dodekanisa islands.

[[Rethymno]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Rethymno is the third biggest city of Crete island. It is in the north of Crete between Heraclion and Chania, the other big cities of Crete. Rethymno has 54,900 people. Rethymno has a big port and a beautiful old town and Castle. Today in Rethymno there is a university for literature studies.

[[Chios (city)]]

CATEGORIES: cities in Greece

Chios (Greek: Χίος) is a Greek city and it is a capital of Chios island and Chios prefecture. It is one of the largest city from the cities of Greek islands. Its population is 32.000 residents. The town of Chios is located opposite the coasts of Turkey very close to region of ancient Erythrea. Chios connects with the port of Piraeus as well as other ports. The city is served by the Chios Island National Airport.

[[Ron Clark]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, People from New York City, 1972 births

Ron Clark is an American teacher who has worked with disadvantaged students in rural North Carolina and Harlem, New York City. He is known for his books and multiple teaching awards. Clark's latest project is the Ron Clark Academy, a private non-profit school in Atlanta, Georgia where students follow a unique curriculum. The school also gives students opportunities for international travel and offers training workshops for teachers to learn more about Clark's teaching methods. Clark made a set of rules called the esential55 that he use to teach his students.

[[Rhodes (city)]]

CATEGORIES: cities in Greece

Rhodes is the capital of Rhodes island and Dodekanisa prefecture. It is a big city and very touristic mainly during summer period. Its population is at about 50.000 inhabitants but in the summer its population increases a lot. It is located in the north of Rhodes island. It has a big port where big cruise ships come all the time. Rhodes is very beautiful city with many sights. The most interesting sight is the big castle which it is built at the crusade period by Ioannites Knights. In the antiquity on the port of Rhodes there was the gigantic statue of the Sun God which was named Colossus of Rhodes. The statue was destroyed because of a powerful earthquake in the Roman period.

[[Daniel Harding]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, British conductors

Daniel Harding (born Oxford, 31 August 1975) is a British conductor.

Harding studied trumpet at Chetham's School of Music in Manchester.  When he was 13 he became a  member of the National Youth Orchestra.  When he was 17, Harding got together a group of musicians to perform Pierrot Lunaire by Arnold Schoenberg.   He sent a tape of the performance to the conductor Simon Rattle in Birmingham.  Rattle was very impressed and invited Harding to be assistant conductor to him at the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra for a year, from 1993-1994.   Harding then went to the University of Cambridge, but after his first year at university, he was invited by Claudio Abbado to be his assistant with the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra.

Harding has been conductor of the Trondheim Symphony Orchestra (1997-2000), the Deutsche Kammerphilharmonie Bremen (1999-2003) and the Mahler Chamber Orchestra (since 2003).   He conducted the 2005 opening night at La Scala, Milan in Idomeneo, after Ricardo Muti had resigned. 

In 2004, Harding was made guest conductor of the London Symphony Orchestra from 2006.  He became the Principal Conductor of the Swedish Radio Symphony Orchestra as of 2007.

Harding is married and has two children. His wife plays the viola.  He is a fan of the football club Manchester United.

[[Mytilene]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Mitilene is a capital of lesbos island. Lesbos is the third biggest island in Greece. It is a beautiful city with important history. It is located in the east of Lesbos island. Mytilene has 36.196 inhabitants. In the past, Mytilene was a rich town and this seems from the rich houses in the city. Also, it has got a big port which connect Mytilene with Piraeus and other ports. 

[[Zakynthos (city)]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Zakynthos is the capital of Zakynthos island. Zakynthos is one of the Ionian Islands. Zakynthos city is located in the north-west of island. Its population according to 2001 census is 16.457 inhabitants. It is a coastal city and it has got a port which connect Zakynthos with Peloponnese. Zakynthos is a beautiful town. The most beautiful district of city is the district Bochali. 

[[Mitsuko Uchida]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese pianists, 1948 births, Living people

Dame Mitsuko Uchida, DBE (born Atami, Japan,  December 20, 1948) is a Japanese pianist who lives in London.

[[Ekaltadeta]]

CATEGORIES: Marsupials of Australia, Fossils

The Ekaltadeta was a giant, meat-eating rat-kangaroo from Australia. This long-extinct marsupial (pouched mammal) lived from the late Oligocene (roughly 25 million years ago) until about 50 thousands years ago. Fossils have been found in northern Australia, at the Riversleigh site (in Queensland).

[[Aad de Mos]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Eredivisie managers, Sportspeople from The Hague

Aad de Mos (born 27 March 1947) is a former Dutch football manager.

[[Britain's Got Talent]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 British television series debuts, 2000s British television series, 2010s British television series, ITV reality television programmes, Reality television competitions, English-language television programs

Britain's Got Talent is a British television show on ITV and part of the Got Talent series. The programme is presented by Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly (colloquially known as Ant & Dec).

There is one series each year; the most recent being the thirteenth series. The four judges of the current series are: Simon Cowell, Alesha Dixon, Amanda Holden and David Walliams.

The winner of the programme performs in front of the Queen at The Royal Variety Show and receives a cash prize of £250,000.

[[Syco]]

CATEGORIES: British record labels

Syco Entertainment, often known as simply Syco, was a British entertainment company.  It was started in 2002 by X Factor and Britain's Got Talent judge, Simon Cowell. It is no longer in operation.

There are offices in London and Los Angeles

[[Neil Diamond]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, American folk musicians, American pop musicians, American rock musicians, People with Parkinson's disease, Singer-songwriters from New York, Folk singers, Jewish American musicians, Kennedy Center honorees, Musicians from New York City, Singers from New York City, 1945 births, Living people

Neil Leslie Diamond (born 24 January, 1941) is an American singer-songwriter and musician. He wrote songs for Sonny and Cher, the Ronettes, Jay and the Americans and the Monkees. He began singing his own songs in 1966. From 1966 to 1968 he had written 14 hit songs and sold more than 12 million records. For a while he was the most highly paid performer in the world.

His first recording was "Solitary Man" in 1966. He recorded the album Brother Love's Travelling Salvation Show which included the song "Sweet Caroline". This song reached number 3 on the US charts and sold more than a million copies.

Diamond is Jewish.

In January 2018, Diamond was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease.

[[Got Talent series]]

CATEGORIES: Reality television competitions

The Got Talent franchise is a British TV format owned by Simon Cowell's SYCO.  It has many popular shows such as Britain's Got Talent and America's Got Talent.

[[István Kertész]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1973 deaths, Accidental deaths by drowning, Entertainers from Budapest, German conductors, Hungarian conductors

István Kertész (born Budapest, Hungary, 28 August 1929; died near Tel Aviv, Israel, 16 April 1973) was a world-famous  Hungarian Jewish conductor.

[[PGA Tour]]

CATEGORIES: Golf, Sports organizations

The PGA Tour is a professional golf association.  The association is in charge of the professional golf tours in the United States.  Its three tours are the PGA Tour, the Champions Tour, and the Web.com Tour.

[[Phil Mickelson]]

CATEGORIES: American golfers, Sportspeople from San Diego, California, 1970 births, Living people

Phil Mickelson (born June 16, 1970) is an American golfer. He plays on the PGA Tour. He has 39 PGA Tour wins. He has won The Masters three times. The most recent time was in 2010. Mickelson has the nickname "Lefty" because he swings with his left hand.

He won the 2021 PGA Championship, becoming the oldest winner in golf history at aged 50.

[[Fall of Constantinople]]

CATEGORIES: History of Turkey, 1453

The fall of Constantinople was when the Ottoman Empire took over Constantinople, the capital city of the Byzantine Empire, on 29 May 1453. The Ottomans were commanded by 21-year-old Ottoman Sultan Mehmed II, who defeated an army commanded by Byzantine Emperor Constantine XI Palaiologos. The conquest of Constantinople followed a 53-day siege started on 6 April 1453.

This event marks the end of the Byzantine Empire, and so it was the end of the Roman Empire, which had lasted for nearly 1,500 years. Previous Sultans had taken most of the Empire in previous centuries. Some places, like the Morea Despotate and Empire of Trebizond were not defeated by the Ottomans until several years later.

The fall of Constantinople had important results, because the Ottoman Turks at last had control of the Balkans. Nothing could stop them from further Muslim conquests in Europe, which went on until after the Battle of Vienna in 1683. After the fall of Constantinople and the Byzantine empire, many refugees escaped to Western Europe and helped create humanism. In particular, the arrival in Italy of Greek scholars is said to have helped the Renaissance.

[[List of libertarian parties]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of political parties, Libertarian parties

Many countries have libertarian political parties. Although these parties may call themselves "libertarian," their way of thinking may differ from one another and not all of them can be described as really libertarian. Some of these parties prefer to be called "liberal" rather than "libertarian."

[[Council areas of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Council Areas

A council area in Scotland is an area made for local government. There is a total of 32 council areas in Scotland. They are all governed by unitary authorities called "councils". The council areas were created on 1 April 1996, under the provisions of the Local Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994. The Act calls them local authority areas but most people call them council areas.

The council areas have the option of being known as a comhairle when choosing to go by a Gaelic name. However, only Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar (Council of the Western Isles) has chosen this option, while the Highland Council (Comhairle na Gaidhealtachd) uses both an English name and a Gaelic name.

[[Forks, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Forks is a city in Clallam County of the state of Washington in the United States.  

[[Doyle Brunson]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, People from Texas, Poker players

Doyle F. Brunson (born August 10, 1933) is an American poker player from the U.S. state of Texas. He is sometimes called by his nickname, Dolly. He was active as a child. He played basketball for a short time but while in a factory he by mistake broke his leg. Then he chose to play poker. In 1976 he won the Main Event of the World Series of Poker. His winning hand was a ten and a two. In 1977 he won the Main Event again with the same hand and in 1980 he took second place at Main Event. He now has ten World Series of Poker bracelets and holds one World Poker Tour title.

[[Tim Pawlenty]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, US Republican Party politicians, Governors of Minnesota

Tim Pawlenty was the Governor of  Minnesota. He was elected Governor in 2002 and was re-elected in 2006. He did run for another term in 2010. He is a member of the United States Republican Party. He was succeeded by Mark Dayton.

Pawlenty ran for governor again in the 2018 election, but lost the Republican nomination to county commissioner Jeff Johnson.

Pawlenty ran for president in 2012. 

[[Grand Forks, North Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Grand Forks, North Dakota, County seats in North Dakota, 1870 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Dakota Territory

Grand Forks is a city in the U.S. state of North Dakota along the Red River of the North. It was founded by Alexander Griggs on June 15 1870. It has a population of slightly over 50,000 and is now the county seat of Grand Forks County.  It is the third-largest city in the state after Fargo and Bismarck.

Across the river is East Grand Forks, Minnesota. 

[[Kent Conrad]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, US Democratic Party politicians, United States senators from North Dakota, People from Bismarck, North Dakota

Gaylord Kent Conrad was the Senior Senator of North Dakota. He took office as senator on January 3 1987 and is currently serving with Junior Senator John Hoeven. He was the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. He is a member of the North Dakota Democratic-NPL Party, the North Dakota affiliate of the Democratic Party.

[[Didí Torrico]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Bolivian footballers

Didí Torrico Camacho (born 18 May 1988 in Cochabamba) is a Bolivian football midfielder who currently plays for Wilsterman and the Bolivian national team.

Torrico began his career in 2005 playing for Iberoamericana before transferring to La Paz F.C. the following year. After three seasons in La Paz, he joined Wilstermann.

He has also played in six games for the Bolivian national team since 2008, and scored his first international goal against Mexico on March 11, 2009.

[[Internet fraud]]

CATEGORIES: Crime

Internet fraud means trying to trick or scam someone else using the Internet.  This usually means that the person who is being tricked loses money to the people scamming them.  Internet fraud can take place on computer programs such as chat rooms, e-mail, message boards, or Web sites. Advertisements that pop up on the internet have a big risk of being scams.

[[Mimar Sinan]]

CATEGORIES: Architects, 1489 births, 1588 deaths

Mimar Sinan or Koca Mi'mâr Sinân Âğâ (Ottoman Turkish: خواجه معمار سنان آغا; Modern Turkish: Mimar Sinan) (15 April 1489  - 9 April 1588) was an Ottoman architect and civil engineer. He worked for sultans Suleiman the Magnificent, Selim II, and Murad III. He worked about fifty years for Ottoman Empire. His masterpiece is the Selimiye Mosque in Edirne. His most famous work is the Suleiman Mosque in Istanbul. 

[[The Ashes]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket

The Ashes is the symbol of international cricket  matches played between England and Australia. The Ashes were supposedly what remained of English cricket after the Australians had beaten them in the first test match played in England. 

The name comes from a small pot (known as an "urn") of ashes, which was made and presented to the England captain in 1882. It was based on a joke printed in The Sporting Times, an English newspaper. Someone placed an advertisement in the pages of the paper, describing how English cricket had died and its body had been cremated.

[[Travelcard Zone 6]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground, London Travelcard zone 6

Travelcard Zone 6 is the sixth outward concentric zone of the Transport for London zonal system used for calculating co-ordinated inter-modal Travelcard fares within Greater London. In this zonal system, Greater London is split into six (approximately concentric) zones for the purpose of determining the cost of a Travelcard. The zones are also used for pricing London Underground and Docklands Light Railway single journeys, but not single journeys undertaken entirely by bus or tram, for which a system-wide flat fare applies. 

[[Gerresheim]]

CATEGORIES: Düsseldorf-Gerresheim, Boroughs of Germany, Düsseldorf

Gerresheim is one of the oldest parts of the City of Düsseldorf, Germany. It is in the east of the city. About 28,200 live in Gerresheim today.

[[Independent Spirit Awards 2005]]

CATEGORIES: Movie awards

The 21st Independent Spirit Awards, given by Film Independent on 4 March, 2006, awarded who they thought were best in movie for 2005.

[[Argostoli]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Argostoli is a coastal Greek town. It is in Kefalonia island whose is a capital. Also it is a capital of Kefalonia prefecture which is conclude and Ithaca island. According to the 2001 census, 12.589 people lived there. Argostoli has a port and it connects with Peloponnese port, Killini. 

[[Lefkada (city)]]

CATEGORIES: cities in Greece

Lefkada City is a Greek town which is the capital of the Greek island Lefkada. The population of Lefkada City was 10,875 people, according to the 2001 census. It is located in the north of the island Lefkada. 

Here is the narrow isthmus which separates Lefkada from continental Greece. Lefkada City is the first place visitors see, going to the island of Lefkada from continental Greece.

Lefkada has many earthquakes, so its houses are built by wood and metal. 

[[Komotini]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Komotini is a Greek city in Thrace. Thrace is a periphery in the northwest of Greece. Komotini is a capital of Rodopi prefecture. 52.659 people live there. Some of the people are Muslims. Komotini is the second city in Greece which has Muslims. The other city is Xanthi.

[[Raval]]

CATEGORIES: Video game characters, Online games

Raval is the God of the large Imperial Group known as The Imperial Zongian Empire, which hails from the internet game Second Life.

[[Apple Worldwide Developers Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Apple Inc., San Francisco, June events, 1987 establishments in California

The Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC, also called "dub-dub") is an event held every year for software developers who create software for macOS and iOS. The first WWDC took place in 1987. After 13 years of being held in early June in San Francisco, California, WWDC returned to San Jose, California in 2017. Sometimes new products are announced at the conference.

Since 2020, WWDC is a virtual event due to COVID-19 pandemic.

[[Strum, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Trempealeau County, Wisconsin, Villages in Wisconsin

Strum is a village in Trempealeau County of the state of Wisconsin in the United States.  It can be found along the Buffalo River. 1,001 people were living in Strum as of the 2000 census. Strum has an area of 1.2 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.

[[Dard people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Kashmir

The Dards are an ethnic group predominantly found in Eastern Afghanistan, India's Jammu and Kashmir, in the Northern Areas and in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. Smaller Dard populations can be found in China. The term Dard is due to Herodotus who described a land of the Dardikae in the area of northeastern Afghanistan.

[[Tony Mowbray]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, English football managers, English footballers, People from North Yorkshire, Sportspeople from Yorkshire

Anthony Mark "Tony" Mowbray (born 22 November 1963) is an English former professional football player and the current manager of Coventry City. Mowbray played for Middlesbrough, Celtic and Ipswich Town as a defender.

Mowbray was born in Saltburn-by-the-Sea, North Riding of Yorkshire. He previously managed West Bromwich Albion, Hibernian and Celtic.

[[Primary cell]]

CATEGORIES: Batteries

A primary cell is a battery that is made to be used one time only. It cannot be recharged. Once all the power is used up, the battery must be thrown away. It no longer makes electricity. Primary cells are often used to give power to small appliances that are used in the home.

The advantages  about this kind of disposable battery are:

The disadvantages about this kind of disposable batteries are:

[[Liam Finn]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Rock musicians, New Zealand singers

Liam Finn is a rock singer who was born in Australia, grew up in New Zealand but now lives in London in England. Liam is the son of Neil Finn, the singer of the famous group Crowded House. He sometimes plays as part of that group as well.

Liam Finn played a song in the television show of David Letterman in 2008.

[[Twilight (2008 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 drama movies, 2008 romance movies, 2000s fantasy movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, 2000s teen drama movies, 2000s teen romance movies, American fantasy movies, American romantic drama movies, American teen drama movies, American teen romance movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in Washington (U.S. state), Phoenix, Arizona in fiction, Vampires in movies

Twilight is a 2008 American teen romantic-fantasy movie. It is based on the novel by Stephenie Meyer. The movie was directed by Catherine Hardwicke and stars Robert Pattinson, Kristen Stewart, and Taylor Lautner. Stephenie Meyer has a cameo appearance in the movie. The movie is about a teenage girl and a vampire falling in love.

The movie was a huge success. It was released in cinemas on November 21, 2008 and grossed $35.7 million on this day.May 2013 Since then, it has gone on to gross over $382,133,300 worldwide.May 2013 The soundtrack for the movie was released on November 4, 2008 and debuted at #1 on the Billboard 200. The soundtrack contains all of the music from the movie including music created and sung by actor Robert Pattinson, who appeared in the movie.

[[Cyclone Tracy]]

CATEGORIES: 1974, Tropical cyclones in Oceania, 20th century in Australia, Northern Territory

Cyclone Tracy was a tropical cyclone that destroyed the city of Darwin, Northern Territory, Australia, from Christmas Eve to Christmas Day, 1974. It is the most compact tropical cyclone on record in Australia, with the gale force winds reaching out only 48 from the centre. It is the second most compact cyclone in the world. Tropical Storm Marco of the 2008 Atlantic hurricane season had gale-force winds reaching only 19 from the centre. After forming over the Arafura Sea, the Tracy moved south and hit the city with Category 4 winds on the Australian cyclone scale. It is possible that it had reached Category 3 on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale when it made landfall.

Tracy killed 71 people, caused $837 million in damage (1974 AUD) and destroyed more than 70% of Darwin's buildings, including 80% of the houses. Of the 49,000 people who lived in Darwin, 20,000 people were left homeless. More than 30,000 people had to leave the city. Most of Darwin's population were moved to Adelaide, Whyalla, Alice Springs and Sydney. Many people never returned to Darwin. The city was rebuilt using modern materials and updated building methods. Bruce Stannard of The Age stated that Cyclone Tracy was a "disaster ... without parallel in Australia's history."

[[Kristen Stewart]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American child actors, American movie actors, BAFTA Award winners, 1990 births, Living people, LGBT entertainers, Bisexual people

Kristen Jaymes Stewart (April 9, 1990) is an American actress working in television and movies. She is known for roles in the films Catch That Kid, Panic Room, Zathura, In the Land of Women, Adventureland, Into the Wild, The Messengers, Twilight, The Twilight Saga: New Moon and ''The Twilight Saga: Eclipse.

[[Catch That Kid]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 comedy movies, 2000s criminal comedy movies, 2000s movie remakes, 20th Century Fox movies, American criminal comedy movies, American family movies, American heist movies, American movie remakes, English-language movies, Movies about families

Catch That Kid! is a 2004 American criminal comedy movie. It was directed by Bart Freundlich. It is a remake of the Danish movie Klatretøsen (2002). The movie's working titles were Mission Without Permission (also the movie's United Kingdom title) and Catch That Girl.

[[Catherine Hardwicke]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1955 births, American movie directors

Catherine Hardwicke (born Helen Catherine Hardwicke; 1955) is an American production designer and movie director. She has worked on the movies Thirteen, The Nativity Story and Twilight.

[[Art museum]]

CATEGORIES: Art museums

An art museum or art gallery is a place where works of arts are shown for people to look at.  These works of art are usually paintings, but they can also be sculptures, photographs or other visual art works.  Most art museums are open for the public to visit, but there are also some which are private.

What distinguishes an art museum from other galleries is that it owns the works of art. A museum has staff called "curators", who are expert on art. Art museums are often used to help teach students about the history of art. There are about 700 uiversity art museums and galleries in the United States.

[[Bavarian State Opera]]

CATEGORIES: Munich, Opera companies, 1653 establishments, 1650s establishments in Europe, 17th century establishments in Germany

The Bavarian State Opera (in German: Bayerische Staatsoper) is an opera company based in Munich, Germany.  It has been in existence since 1653. Its orchestra is the Bavarian State Orchestra. While opera performances are held in the Prinzregententheater (completed in 1901), the company's home base is the National Theatre Munich on Max-Joseph-Platz.

Peter Jonas is the General Director.  He has been there since 1993 and is the first British director of any major German speaking Opera House. Since 1998 the conductor Zubin Mehta was music director of the Bavarian State Opera and Bavarian State Orchestra. He was followed in 2006 by Kent Nagano.

[[Police Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Police Academy, Warner Bros. movies, Animated television series

Police Academy is a popular movie and television series.

[[Tacloban]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Philippines

Tacloban or Tacloban City, is a first class highly urbanized city in the whole of Eastern Visayas, Region 8, and the capital city of Leyte province. Tacloban is a port city in the Philippines. It is about 360 miles (580 kilometers) southeast of Manila. It is the capital of the province of Leyte. It is also the regional center of Eastern Visayas. It is geographically located at San Juanico Bridge, a famous longest bridge in the Philippines, stragecally in San Juanico Strait which divides in Leyte and Samar Province, Tacloban also known as the heart of Eastern Visayas, The city accessibility have made the city, commercial educational, government and political hub as well as the tourism service center of the region, Tacloban City is the first to be as highly urbanized city in Region next is to. Ormoc City, the Independent City of province.

[[Indian National Congress]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 establishments, Social democratic parties, Political parties in India, 1880s establishments in India

The Indian National Congress is a major Indian political party. The party was founded in 1885. It is the largest constituent party of the UPA, a coalition of Indian political parties that form the opposition against the ruling NDA coalition. The party's chairperson is Sonia Gandhi. It has registered its worst performance in an election in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.

[[Pentium]]

CATEGORIES: Computer processors

Pentium is an x86 microprocessor, first made in 1993. It is a brand name by Intel who developed the Pentium I (1993-1999), Pentium II (1997-1999), Pentium III (1999-2003), Pentium 4 (2000-2008), Pentium M (2003-2008), Pentium D (2005-2008) and Pentium Extreme Edition (2005-2008) processors. Today, it is the medium range microprocessor in the Intel microprocessor lineup, above the Celeron and Atom and below the Core family of microprocessors.

[[His Dark Materials]]

CATEGORIES: Fantasy books, Series of books

His Dark Materials is a fantasy novel series by British author, Philip Pullman.

[[Spearman's rank correlation coefficient]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics, Mathematics

[[Killzone 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, PlayStation 3 games

Killzone 2 is a is a first-person shooter for the PlayStation 3, made by Guerrilla Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. It is the third game in the Killzone series that began on the PlayStation 2 with Killzone and continued on the PlayStation Portable with Killzone: Liberation. The game was first announced at E3 2005, with a technology demo on display, while the first gameplay video was shown two years later at E3 2007.

[[Velafrons]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous dinosaurs

Velafrons (meaning "sailed forehead") is a genus of hadrosaurid dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous of Mexico. Its fossils were found in the Upper Cretaceous Cerro del Pueblo Formation (about 73.5 million years old), near Rincon Colorado, Coahuila, Mexico. The type specimen is CPC-59, and the type species is V. coahuilensis.

[[Manzai]]

CATEGORIES: Comedy, Japanese culture, Entertainment in Japan

Manzai is a traditional kind of Japanese comedy. Manzai is a special kind of stand-up comedy.  It is both dialogue and performance.

A comedy team brings together a straight man (tsukkomi) who feeds punchlines to a funny man (boke).  A pair of comedians with a special back-and-forth style is called kakeai manzai.

[[Arsenal tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Piccadilly Line stations, Tube stations in Islington, Arsenal F.C., London Travelcard zone 2, Railway stations opened in 1906, 1906 establishments in England

Arsenal tube station is a London Underground station in Highbury, north London. The station is on the Piccadilly line. It is in Travelcard Zone 2. It is between Holloway Road and Finsbury Park tube stations. The station was originally known as Gillespie Road. In 1932, it was renamed after Arsenal Football Club. It is the only Tube station named directly after a football club. The station is quieter than other stations on the Piccadilly line except when Arsenal are playing football matches.

[[Leadbeater's possum]]

CATEGORIES: Marsupials of Australia, Endangered species, Victoria, Australia

Leadbeater's possum (Gymnobelideus leadbeateri) is an endangered species of Australian possum. They need food all year round, and trees with holes where they can hide during the day. They live in mixed-age wet sclerophyll forest with plenty of Acacia.

The possum was once thought to be extinct. It now lives only in small areas of old and mixed age mountain ash forest in the central highlands of Victoria, north-east of Melbourne. 

These trees are a species of Eucalyptus: they give off vapour which catches fire easily. About half this area was burnt in the disastrous Black Saturday bushfire in 2009. Large areas of the forest around Marysville, Narbethong and Healesville were destroyed.  

[[Vostok 1]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet spacecraft

Vostok 1 (Восто́к, East or Orient 1) was the first flight to take a human into space. It used a Vostok 3KA spacecraft, and was launched on April 12, 1961. It took into space Yuri Gagarin, a cosmonaut from the Soviet Union. The Vostok 1 mission was the first time a person went into outer space and the first time anyone had entered into orbit. The flight made one orbit and lasted for 1 hour, 48 minutes.53 The Vostok 1 was launched by the Soviet space program and made by the Soviet rocket scientists Sergey Korolyov and Kerim Kerimov.

The Vostok spacecraft weighed 4.73, was 4.4 long and 2.43 in diameter.52 The cosmonaut flew inside a spherical module. He sat on a seat which was also an ejection seat which allowed the cosmonaut to escape from the spacecraft. The flight was simple, the cosmonaut was simply a passenger.52 There were controls for use in an emergency. The spacecraft had a food locker, radio, an experiment cabinet, and a round window. Gagarin ejected from the spacecraft after re-entry and landed by parachute.

There were six manned Vostok flights, the last one, Vostok 6, carried Valentina Tereshkova, the first woman to go into space on June 16, 1963.53

[[Glazed tile]]

CATEGORIES: Ceramics

A glazed tile is a tile with glaze. It is made by putting chemical glazes on the tile, let it dry, and putting it into a kiln (an oven that heats up to high temperatures). The kiln heats to about 2000 degrees turning the chemical glaze to colors. It is often framed and sold. This is a popular form of art.

Glazed tiles were used to make the roof  on buildings in China.

[[Enola Gay]]

CATEGORIES: World War II, Hiroshima

The Enola Gay is a B-29 Superfortress Bomber. This plane is famous for dropping the first atomic bomb (named Little Boy) over the Japanese city of Hiroshima during World War II. The Bomber is named after its Pilot, Paul Tibbets' mother Enola Gay Tibbets. The plane was used from 18 May 1945 to 24 July 1946, after which it was stored at Suitland, Maryland.

[[Paul Tibbets]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2007 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from stroke, American aviators, American people of World War II, Military people from Illinois

Paul Warfield Tibbets, Jr (23 February 1915 – 1 November 2007) was a Brigadier general for the United States Air Force from 1937 to 1966. Paul is famous for dropping the first Atomic bomb on Hiroshima in the B-29 Superfortress called Enola Gay. He was born in Quincy, Illinois.

Tibbets died of heart failure after suffering a small stroke in Columbus, Ohio, aged 92. His remains were cremated where his ashes were later scattered across the English Channel.

[[Phil Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Chicago Bulls head coaches, New Jersey Nets players, New York Knicks players, Sportspeople from Montana

Phil Jackson (born September 17, 1945) is a coach in the NBA. He has won eleven championships as coach in the NBA, six with the Chicago Bulls and five with the Los Angeles Lakers. With his 10th championship, Phil Jackson surpassed Red Auerbach, who won 9 championships before 1966. As of March 4, 2010, Phil Jackson has the highest winning percentage in regular season games of any coach in NBA history who coached at least 500 games.  Before he was a coach, Jackson was a player for the New York Knicks and the New Jersey Nets.  Jackson is from Montana.

[[Kennel cough]]

CATEGORIES: Dogs, Animal diseases

Kennel cough or tracheobronchitis is a very easily caught dog illness. The dogs have swelling and pain  of the upper breathing passages.  It can be caused by viral infections such as canine distemper, canine adenovirus, canine parainfluenza virus, or canine respiratory coronavirus, or bacterial infections such as Bordetella bronchiseptica.page needed  It is called kennel cough because the infection can spread very quickly among dogs, who live together as in a kennel or an animal shelter.

[[Pierre Schaeffer]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1995 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in France, French musicians, People from Nancy

Pierre Henri Marie Schaeffer (14 August 1910 – 19 August 1995) was a French musician and other things, like an inventor and engineer, and more. He was born in Nancy. He created a kind of music called musique concrète (which in the French speak means "concrete music"). This music was different from regular music, and had many sounds from things in the real world.

Schaeffer died of Alzheimer's disease in Aix-en-Provence.

[[Area 51]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Nevada, United States Air Force, Conspiracy theories, 1942 establishments in the United States, UFOs, 20th-century establishments in Nevada

Area 51 is a military base, and a remote detachment of Edwards Air Force Base. It is in the southern portion of Nevada in the western United States, 83 miles (133 km) north-northwest of downtown Las Vegas. At its center, on the southern shore of Groom Lake, is a large military airfield. The base's primary purpose is to support development and testing of experimental aircraft and weapons systems. The base is in the United States Air Force's Nevada Test and Training Range NTTR, formerly called the Nellis Air Force Range NAFR. Although the facilities at the range are managed by the 99th Air Base Wing at Nellis Air Force Base, the Groom facility appears to be run as an adjunct of the Air Force Flight Test Center AFFTC at Edwards Air Force Base in the Mojave Desert, around 186 miles (300 km) southwest of Groom, and as such the base is known as Air Force Flight Test Center Detachment 3.

Though the name Area 51 is used in official Central Intelligence Agency documentation, other names used for the facility include Dreamland, Paradise Ranch, Home Base, Watertown Strip, Groom Lake, and most recently Homey Airport. The area is part of the Nellis Military Operations Area, and the restricted airspace around the field is referred to as R- 4808N, known by the military pilots in the area as "The Box" or "the Container ".

The facility is not a conventional airbase, as frontline operational units are not normally deployed there. It instead appears to be used for highly classified military/defense Special Access Programs SAP, which are unacknowledged publicly by the government, military personnel, and defense contractors. Its mission may be to support the development, testing, and training phases for new aircraft weapons systems or research projects. Once these projects have been approved by the United States Air Force or other agencies such as the CIA, and are ready to be announced to the public, operations of the aircraft are then moved to a normal air force base. 

There was intense secrecy surrounding the base. The U.S. government did not acknowledge its existence until July 14, 2003. This secrecy made it the frequent subject of fiction and conspiracy theories and a central component to unidentified flying object (UFO) folklore. Testing the U-2 plane in the 1950s – at altitudes much higher than commercial aeroplanes then flew – provoked "a tremendous increase in reports of unidentified flying objects (UFOs)". 

The presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said she would release information about Area 51, as long as it did not threaten national security.

In July 2019, more than 1,700,000 people responded to a joke proposal to storm Area 51 which appeared in an anonymous Facebook post. A further 1,300,000 people said they were interested in the event, scheduled for 20 September 2019, and billed as "Storm Area 51, They Can't Stop All of Us", an attempt to "see them aliens."

[[Ding Liren]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese chess players, 1992 births, Living people, Chess grandmasters

Update

Ding Liren (born 1992) is a Chinese chess grandmaster. He won the Chinese Chess Championship in 2009. On 6 June 2009, at the age of 16, he became the youngest ever person to win the national title. In October 2009, he became China's 30th Grandmaster.

In April 2011, Ding won the Chinese Championship for a second time.

[[Oliver Twist]]

CATEGORIES: 1830s books, Books by Charles Dickens, Books first published in serial form, English novels, English-language novels

Oliver Twist; or, The Parish Boy's Progress (1838) is Charles Dickens's second novel. It was first published as a book by Richard Bentley in 1838. It tells the story of an orphan boy and his adventures among London's slums. Oliver is captured by, and forced to work among, pickpockets and thieves until redeemed by a gentleman who has taken an interest in him. Characters include Fagin, Nancy, Bill Sykes, and the Artful Dodger. The book is one of the earliest examples of the social novel. It draws the reader's attention to evils such as child labour, the recruitment of children as criminals, and the presence of street children.

The novel may have been inspired by the story of Robert Blincoe, an orphan whose account of hardships as a child labourer in a cotton mill was widely read in the 1830s. It is likely that Dickens's own early youth as a child labourer contributed to the story's development. The book influenced American writer Horatio Alger, Jr. and his stories of poor boys living on the streets of nineteenth-century New York City.

The book has been adapted to a popular musical play called Oliver! and several movies, notably a 1948 production starring Alec Guiness as Fagin. A Disney animated feature about alley cats called Oliver & Company has also been released.

[[Danish Kaneria]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani people, Pakistani cricketers, Living people, 1980 births, People from Karachi

Danish Prabha Shanker Kaneria (born 16 December 1980) is a Pakistani cricketer. He was born in Karachi and made his first cricket entrance in 2000 against England in Faisalabad. He is generally a leg spin bowler and is famous for his googlies. 

His best bowling figures are getting 7 wickets for 77 runs against Bangladesh. Kaneria was born into a Gujarati family of Marwari origin.

On June 22, 2012 Kaneria was banned for life from any involvement in the playing, organisation or administration of any cricket under the jurisdiction of the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB). Kaneria was found guilty of two charges of spot fixing. 

[[Sachin Tendulkar]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, People from Mumbai, Indian cricketers

Sachin Ramesh Tendulkar  Sachin_Tendulkar.ogg (born 24 April 1973 in Mumbai) is a former Indian cricketer. He has the highest number of runs in both Test cricket and One Day Internationals. He also has the highest number of centuries in both formats of the game. His last Test match being played against the West Indies.He always honoured better players than him like Garfield Sobers or Don Bradman.

[[Ethelbert Nevin]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1901 deaths, American composers, American pianists

Ethelbert Woodbridge Nevin (born near Pittsburgh, November 25, 1862; died in New Haven, Connecticut, February 17, 1901) was an American pianist and composer.  He is remembered for a small number of romantic songs and piano pieces which became extremely popular in the early 20th century.

[[Eucalyptus regnans]]

CATEGORIES: Trees of Australia, Eucalyptus

Eucalyptus regnans, also called Mountain Ash, Victorian Ash, Swamp Gum, Tasmanian Oak or Stringy Gum, is a species of Eucalyptus from Victoria and Tasmania. It can grow to more than 100 and is the tallest flowering plant in the world.

[[Bahía Lomas]]

CATEGORIES: Conservation

Bahía Lomas is a protected wetland area in Chile. It was declared as a legal measure of protecting the site, which is expected to be nominated as a Western Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve under the RAMSAR Convention.

[[Destroy All Humans! Path of the Furon]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, Destroy All Humans!, Xbox 360 games, PlayStation 3 games, THQ games

Destroy All Humans! Path of the Furon is the 4th Destroy All Humans! in the series first released December 1, 2008 in North America for the Xbox 360. The game is made by THQ's Sandblast Games studio for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.

[[Brandy]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic spirits

Brandy is a type of alcoholic beverage. It has about 36%-60% alcohol (60-120 proof). It is from a distillation of fermented fruit juices or fruit mash. The color is amber/brown. It has a sweet flavor. It is normally an after dinner drink.

[[NASDAQ]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 establishments in the United States, Companies based in New York City, Companies listed on NASDAQ, Stock exchanges

NASDAQ is a stock exchange in New York City. It stands for National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations. About 3,800 companies trade on it. It is owned by a company called Nasdaq, Inc.

NASDAQt was founded in 1971 by the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD).

[[Internet Engineering Task Force]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 establishments in the United States, Internet standards, Internet-related organizations

The Internet Engineering Task Force, or IETF, is the main organization that researches and promotes new Internet standards. It is an open volunteer organization.

A Request for Comments, or RFC, is a document from the IETF. These are divided into several categories: Informational, Historical, and Standard-track. Only Standard-track are Internet Standards.

[[Iranian Arabs]]

CATEGORIES: Arab people, Iran, Ethnic groups in Asia

Iranian Arabs عربان ايرانی are the Arabic-speaking peoples of Iran. Most Iranian Arabs live in the coastal regions of southern Iran by the Persian Gulf. Iranian Arab communities are also found in Bahrain, Kuwait, Iraq, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates.

[[Blowjob]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual slang

[[Tibetan Muslims]]

CATEGORIES: Tibet, Ethnic groups in China, Islam

The Tibetan Muslims, also known as the Kachee (Kache), are a small minority in Tibet. Despite being Muslim, they are classified as Tibetans. The Tibetan word Kachee literally means Kashmiri and Kashmir was known as Kachee Yul (Yul = Country).

The small number of Tibetan Muslims live throughout Tibet. ,Many of them can be found in Lhasa and Shigatse. Some live outside the Tibet Autonomous Region. These ethnic groups such as the Balti (indigenous people) and Burig are of Tibetan origin and consider themselves to be ethnically Tibetan, are Muslims as well. These other groups, however, are mainly found in the Occupied Kashmir's Ladakh area and the Pakistani-admnistered Baltistan.

[[Lure, Haute-Saône]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in France, Communes in Haute-Saône, Subprefectures in France

Lure is a French city in the Haute-Saône department in eastern France. About  people live there.

[[Burnout Paradise]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, Xbox 360 games, PlayStation 3 games, Windows games

Burnout Paradise is the seventh video game of the Burnout series made by Criterion Games. It was released in January 2008 for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 and on February 5, 2009 on Microsoft Windows. It was also released on the PlayStation Store in September 2008. It has an open world set in the fictional Paradise City.

[[The Wave 96.4 FM]]

CATEGORIES: Radio stations in the United Kingdom, Welsh culture, 1995 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s establishments in Wales

The Wave is a local radio station in South Wales. It is available on 96.4 FM, digital radio and on the Internet, in Swansea, Llanelli, Neath and Port Talbot. It plays a mix of popular music and news.

[[The Big Top 40 Show]]

CATEGORIES: British music, Record charts

The Big Top 40 Show is a commercial record chart show broadcast on radio stations in the United Kingdom. It is powered by the download company iTunes.

[[Hurricane Boris (1996)]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in Mexico, East Pacific hurricanes, 1996 in North America, 1990s in Mexico

Hurricane Boris was a deadly storm. It was the fourth cyclone of the 1996 Pacific hurricane season. It formed on June 27. During the night the depression became Tropical Storm Boris. Shortly after this, Boris rapidly became stronger. It became a hurricane. Just as an eye started to form, Boris made landfall in Mexico. It had strongest winds of 85 mph (140 kn/h). It quickly became weaker. It ended on July 1. Boris caused heavy flooding in southern Mexico. Ten deaths were reported.

[[Henryk Szeryng]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican musicians, Polish musicians, 1918 births, 1988 deaths

Henryk Szeryng (pronounce: SHERR-ing), (born Żelazowa Wola, Poland, 22 September 1918; died Kassel, 8 March 1988) was a Polish-born violinist who later became Mexican. He is thought to be one of the greatest violinists of his time.

[[Elin Nordegren]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Swedish models

Elin Maria Pernilla Nordegren Woods (born January 1, 1980) was a Swedish model and former wife of Tiger Woods. Nordegren and Woods divorced in 2010.

[[Ivana Trump]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Czech businesspeople, Celebrity Big Brother contestants, Czech sportspeople, Trump family

Ivana Trump  (born Ivana Marie Zelníčková; (ˈɪvana ˈmarɪjɛ ˈzɛlɲiːt͡ʃkovaː); February 20, 1949) is a Czech businesswoman, former Olympic skiier and model. She is best known for her marriage to Donald Trump, which ended in divorce. They had three children together, Donald Trump Jr, Ivanka Trump, and Eric Trump.

In 2010, she was a contestant in the British version of Celebrity Big Brother.

[[Elasmotherium]]

CATEGORIES: Rhinoceroses

Elasmotherium is an extinct giant rhinoceros.

It lived from 2.6 million years ago (mya) to about 50,000 years ago. Fossils have been found in Europe and Asia. This giant lived and grazed on the Eurasian steppes (grasslands).

[[Master of Science]]

CATEGORIES: Academic degrees

Master of Science (usually abbreviated MSc) is a postgraduate degree. It is awarded by universities. Usually, it is awarded for studies in natural sciences or Engineering. A Master of Science is usually awarded after a Bachelor of Science, and after presenting an academic thesis work. It is required for many jobs especially in research. It is usually required to start a doctorate.

[[Natural sciences]]

CATEGORIES: Natural sciences

There are some sciences that are used to study nature. According to these sciences, the things that can be observed in nature follow certain rules. These rules are often unknown, and natural sciences are about finding them. They often use what is called the scientific method to do this.

Some sciences, like Mathematics, can help in all of the above. They make it easier to talk about rules and models.

Other sciences that mainly look at how humans think and behave, and about their society are called social sciences.

[[Concentric zone model]]

CATEGORIES: Urban planning, Urban geography

The Concentric zone model, or Burgess model is a model to explain how a settlement, such as a city, will grow. It was developed by Ernest W. Burgess between 1925 and 1929. Burgess looked at the growth of Chicago in the late 19th and early 20th century. Many people moved to Chicago at that time. 

The model was the first to explain why certain groups of people lived in certain areas of the city. Burgess said that there were circles around the center of the city. The circle a piece of land was in determined how it was used. Burgess saw different zones, starting at the center:

Burgess saw that richer people tended to live farther away from the city center. When the city grew, the city center would grow; the rings would also shift outwards.

The model also has some problems, for example:

[[Equilibrium]]

CATEGORIES: Analytical chemistry, Physical chemistry, Physics

An equilibrium is a state of a system where all forces acting on the system is balanced. A system that is in equilibrium does not change. The word has been used for different concepts from different fields of study. 

[[Packet (computing)]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

In Information technology, a packet is collection of data that can be used by computers which need to communicate with each other, usually as part of a  network. Some computers and networks do not use packets to communicate. But most currently do, including nearly all computers on the Internet. Packets allow many computers on a  network to communicate more quickly and easily.

[[Errors and residuals in statistics]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

Statistical errors and residuals occur because measurement is never exact.

It is not possible to do an exact measurement, but it is possible to say how accurate a measurement is. One can measure the same thing again and again, and collect all the data together. This allows us to do statistics on the data. What is meant by errors and residuals is the difference between the observed or measured value and the real value, which is unknown. 

If there is only one random variable, the difference between statistical errors and residuals is the difference between the mean of the population against the mean of the (observed) sample. In that case the residual is the difference between what the probability distribution says, and what was actually measured.

Suppose there is an experiment to measure the height of 21-year-old men from a certain area. The mean of the distribution is 1.75 m. If one man chosen at random is 1.80 m tall, the "(statistical) error" is 0.05 m (5 cm); if he is 1.70 tall, the error is −5 cm.

A residual (or fitting error), on the other hand, is an observable estimate of the unobservable statistical error.  The simplest case involves a random sample of n men whose heights are measured.  The sample mean is used as an estimate of the population mean.  Then we have:

The sum of the residuals within a random sample must be zero. The residuals are therefore not independent. The sum of the statistical errors within a random sample need not be zero; the statistical errors are independent random variables if the individuals are chosen from the population independently.

In sum:

[[Quartet]]

CATEGORIES: Music

Generally speaking, a quartet is a group of four. In music, a quartet is a group of four people playing or singing four different parts to make a piece of music, such as a string quartet or a barbershop quartet.

[[Bank and Monument stations]]

CATEGORIES: Tube stations in the City of London, Central Line stations, Northern Line stations, Circle Line stations, District Line stations, Docklands Light Railway stations

Bank and Monument are interlinked stations, officially one station known operationally as the "Bank-Monument complex". However, separate names are used on station entrances, platforms and the tube map. The complex spans the length of King William Street in the City of London. Together they form the eighth busiest station on the network, being served by five London Underground lines and the Docklands Light Railway (DLR). 

The two parts of the combined station take their names from the nearby Bank of England and the Monument to the Great Fire of London. The complex is in Travelcard Zone 1.

[[Packet]]

Packet may refer to:

[[Barbican tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Circle Line stations, Hammersmith & City Line stations, Metropolitan Line stations, Tube stations in the City of London, 1865 establishments in the United Kingdom, Railway stations served by First Capital Connect

Barbican is a London Underground station serving the Barbican Centre in the City of London, England.  It is on the Circle, Hammersmith & City and Metropolitan lines. It is between Farringdon and Moorgate. It is in Travelcard Zone 1. First Capital Connect trains used to stop at this station on their way to Moorgate station, but this stopped in March 2009. The outbound service calling here was abandoned many years before. 

[[Barking station]]

CATEGORIES: Barking, District Line stations, Hammersmith & City Line stations, London Overground stations, Transport in Barking & Dagenham

Barking station is a railway station served by National Rail, London Underground and London Overground services. It is in Barking in the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham in East London. The station is in Zone 4 and is managed by c2c.

[[Barkingside tube station]]

CATEGORIES: London Travelcard zone 4

Barkingside tube station is a London Underground station on the Central Line. It has been in Travelcard Zone 4 since 2 January 2007. It is on the eastern edge of Barkingside in the London Borough of Redbridge, at the end of a cul-de-sac called Station Road. The station is above ground and has two platforms - northbound and southbound.  The station is located at TQ448894.

[[Barons Court tube station]]

CATEGORIES: District Line stations, Piccadilly Line stations, Grade II listed buildings in London, Grade II listed railway stations

Barons Court is a London Underground station on the District and Piccadilly lines. It is in West Kensington, Greater London. The station is located on Gliddon Road, a short distance from Talgarth Road (A4) in the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham. Barons Court is between West Kensington and Hammersmith on the District Line, and between Earl's Court and Hammersmith on the Piccadilly Line. It is in Travelcard Zone 2.

[[Bayswater tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Circle Line stations, District Line stations, London Travelcard zone 1, Tube stations in the City of Westminster

Bayswater tube station is a London Underground station. It is in Travelcard Zone 1. It is on the Circle and District lines.  It is between Notting Hill Gate and Paddington.

[[Beckton DLR station]]

CATEGORIES: Docklands Light Railway stations, Transport in Newham, London Travelcard zone 3

Beckton DLR station is the eastern terminus of the Beckton branch of the Docklands Light Railway (DLR) in the Docklands area of east London. The DLR branch from Poplar was opened on 28 March 1994.

[[Beckton Park DLR station]]

CATEGORIES: Docklands Light Railway stations, Transport in Newham, London Travelcard zone 3

Beckton Park DLR station is a station on the Docklands Light Railway (DLR) in the Docklands area of east London. The station is located by the north quay (wharf) of the Royal Albert Dock (though no foot access is possible). The station is opposite Beckton District South Park, which is open space leading to housing in South Beckton.

[[Becontree tube station]]

CATEGORIES: District Line stations, London Travelcard zone 5, Transport in Barking & Dagenham

Becontree Station is a London Underground station on the District Line, in Becontree. The station is in Zone 5.

[[Balham station]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Line stations, Transport in Wandsworth, Railway stations opened in 1863

Balham station is the name given to the London Underground and the National Rail stations in the Balham area of south London, England.  The station is on the A24 Balham High Road in the London Borough of Wandsworth. It is in Travelcard Zone 3.

[[Methadone]]

CATEGORIES: Opioids, Addiction

Methadone is a synthetic opioid. It is used as an analgesic. Besides relieving pain, it is also used to treat addiction to certain narcotics, and some illegal drugs. Methadone can also lead to: memory loss, shortness of breath, throat pains, stomach aches, and anxiety attacks.

[[Red Dragon FM]]

CATEGORIES: Radio stations in the United Kingdom, Welsh culture

Red Dragon FM was a radio station in South East Wales, broadcasting to Cardiff, Newport and the surrounding areas. Colleagues are The Wave 96.4 FM, 95.8 Capital FM and Gold. In 2010 the name of the company changed to Capital FM. Some of the competitions and other content w were removed as part of a clean-up process due to happen in other capitals in the United Kingdom.

[[Soapy Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1860 births, 1898 deaths, American gangsters, Deaths by firearm in the United States, People from Georgia (U.S. state)

Jefferson Randolph "Soapy" Smith II (November 2, 1860 - July 8, 1898) was an American confidence trickster and gangster. He was a major figure in organized crime in Colorado and Skagway, Alaska.

He was born in Coweta County, Georgia. He was killed in a shootout in Skagway when he was 37.

[[Paul Williams (songwriter)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Actors from Omaha, Nebraska, American folk musicians, American movie actors, American pop singers, American rock musicians, American songwriters, American television actors, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters, Musicians from Omaha, Nebraska, Singers from Omaha, Nebraska

Paul Hamilton Williams (born September 19, 1940 in Omaha, Nebraska) is an American musician, songwriter and actor.

As a boy, Williams auditioned for a role in a television series, Circus Boy, which went to another boy, young Micky Dolenz. Ten years later, Williams auditioned for The Monkees, and was again beaten out for a role by Dolenz. There were no hard feelings between the two, and the Monkees later recorded "Someday Man", which Williams cowrote with Roger Nichols.

Williams's songs include hits for Three Dog Night ("An Old Fashioned Love Song", "Family of Man", "Out in the Country"), Helen Reddy ("You and Me Against the World"), and the Carpenters ("Rainy Days and Mondays," "I Won't Last a Day Without You," and "We've Only Just Begun"). He wrote many songs with Kenneth Ascher, including "The Rainbow Connection", featured in The Muppet Movie.

His acting credits include roles in Battle for the Planet of the Apes, Phantom of the Paradise (a retelling of Phantom of the Opera; Williams also wrote the music), Little Enos Burdette in Smokey and the Bandit, and Miguelito Loveless Jr. in The Wild Wild West Revisited.

In 2013, Paul Williams was revealed to be working with French electronic duo Daft Punk on their album Random Access Memories singing the song "Touch" and co-wrote "Beyond".  

[[Injection]]

CATEGORIES: Medical procedures

An injection, known as a shot is putting liquid into the body, usually with a needle and a syringe. There are many different kinds of injections, such as:

Injections can be used to prevent illness or to give medicine.

Injections that prevent illness put a dead or weakened version of the virus they want to prevent into the body. The body then 'remembers' the virus to make future encounters of the virus easier to manage.

[[Western Desert cultural bloc]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian culture, Regions of Australia

The Western Desert cultural bloc or just Western Desert is a cultural region in Australia covering about 600 000 square kilometres, including the Gibson Desert, the Great Victoria Desert, the Great Sandy Desert and Little Sandy Deserts in the Northern Territory, South Australia and Western Australia. The Western Desert can be said to stretch from the Nullarbor in the south to the Kimberley region of Western Australia in the north, and from the Percival Lakes in the west through to the Pintupi lands in the Northern Territory.

This term is often used by anthropologists and linguists when discussing the 40 or so Aboriginal groups that live there, who speak dialects of one language, often called the Western Desert language.

[[The Lonely Island]]

CATEGORIES: American comedy bands, Hip hop bands, Musicians from Berkeley, California, 2011 establishments in the United States

The Lonely Island is an American comedy group made of three people. The people are Andy Samberg, Jorma Taccone, and Akiva Schaffer. They are from Berkeley, California, but are now based in New York City. They work for Saturday Night Live. They are known for songs such as "I'm On A Boat", "Like a Boss", "Jizz in My Pants", "Dick in a Box", and "Lazy Sunday". They have three albums called Incredibad, Turtleneck and Chain and The Wack Album. 

[[Portal (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: Puzzle video games, Shooter video games, 2007 video games, Platform games

Portal is a puzzle video game made by Valve Corporation set inside the Half-Life series. It was originally sold in The Orange Box, a game collection deal which came with the Valve-made games Portal, Half-Life 2, and Team Fortress 2. It is now sold by itself and is available for Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, Mac and PC.

The player plays as a woman named Chell who has to go though tests while being watched by a computer named GLaDOS, an acronym for Genetic Lifeform and Disk Operating System. GLaDOS provides all of the game's dialog and is known for being clever, funny, and sarcastic, promising the player character a cake if all of the tests are finished. GLaDOS and the testing rooms were created by a company called Aperture Science, which competes with Black Mesa. The player must use a gun, called the Portal Gun, that makes two linked holes, called portals, to solve puzzles. The two portals, one blue and one orange, are linked together and let the player get from one place to another. When the player enters the blue portal, they will come out of the orange portal. When the player enters the orange portal, they will come out of the blue portal.

Portal has many jokes in it that have become popular on the internet, for example, "the cake is a lie". Because the game was very popular, Valve made a sequel in 2011, called Portal 2.

[[Valve Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies

Valve Corporation is an American video game developer and digital distributor company in Bellevue, Washington. It was founded in 1996 by Gabe Newell and Mike Harrington, two Microsoft employees in the past. The company is widely known for Steam and its critically acclaimed first-person shooter series, Half-Life, with the first being released in 1998. Also, the company develops the SteamOS. The company plans to make popular the all-in-one hardware, called Steam Deck, by the first half of 2022.

[[Sistan and Baluchestan Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Iran

Sistān o Balūchestān استان سیستان و بلوچستان is one of the 31 provinces of Iran. It is in the southeast of the country. It has borders with Pakistan and Afghanistan. Its capital is Zahedan. 

The province is the largest in Iran, with an area of 181,785 km² and a population of 2.4 million. The counties of the province are Iran Shahr, Chabahar, Khash, Zabol, Zahedan, Saravan, and Nik Shahr.

The region is also home to Iran's Baloch Sunni minority.

[[Balochistan (region)]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Pakistan

Balochistan or Baluchistan is an arid region on the Iranian plateau. The plateau is in Southwest Asia and South-central Asia, between Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan. The area is named after the numerous Baloch tribes.  The Baloch are of Aryan and other races who moved into the area from the west around A.D. 1000.  All natives are considered Baloch even if they do not speak the Balochi language; Pashto, Persian, Hazaragi language, and Brahui languages are also spoken in the region. The southern part of Balochistan is known as Makran. Now it is recognised by UNPO as an Unrepresented Nation.

[[Naked mole rat]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Africa

The naked mole rat (Heterocephalus glaber), (or sand puppy) is a burrowing rodent. The species is native to parts of East Africa. It is one of only two known eusocial mammals (the other is the Damaraland mole rat). Both species are similar in many respects. 

The animal has unusual features, adapted to its harsh underground environment. 

The animals do not feel pain in their skin. They also have a very low metabolism.

[[Capsaicin]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds, Organic compounds, Analgesics

Capsaicin is a chemical substance. It is responsible for the sense of spiciness or hotness found in chili peppers. In mammals, it causes a sensation of burning of the tissues it comes in contact with. Capsaicin, and other similar substances called capsaicinoids are produced by chili peppers and other plants, probably as a protection against being eaten. Pure capsaicin is a hydrophobic, colorless, odorless, crystalline to waxy compound.

Capsaicinoids are added to food to make it have a hot taste, but it can also be used as an analgesic, a painkiller. Such painkillers are often directly used on the skin. The burning of the capsaicin will mask the real pain. Capsaicin is also the main agent in pepper spray. 

Capsaicin is not soluble in water; it binds to oil and fat. Soap can be used to wash it off. If something too hot has been eaten, milk or yoghurt can be used.

[[Football team]]

CATEGORIES: Football

A football team refers to a group of players who together play football.

A football team may represent a football club, or their nation, group or other associations. In general, there may be 11-18 members in such a team depending on the type of football, i.e., whether it is association football or American football or any other format of the game.

[[West Ham station]]

CATEGORIES: District Line stations, Hammersmith & City Line stations, Transport in Newham, Jubilee Line stations, Docklands Light Railway stations, West Ham

West Ham station is a London Underground, Docklands Light Railway and  National Rail station. It is on the District Line, Hammersmith & City Line, Jubilee Line and is served by c2c train services. It is in Travelcard Zone 3, and is managed by London Underground. All open platforms have step-free access to the street and each other.

[[Wimbledon station]]

CATEGORIES: London Travelcard zone 3

Wimbledon station is a National Rail, London Underground, and Tramlink station in Wimbledon in the London Borough of Merton. It is the only London station that provides an interchange between rail, Underground, and Tramlink services. The station serves as a junction for services from London Underground's District line and National Rail operators (South West Trains and First Capital Connect), as well as Tramlink route 3. Some early morning services on the First Capital Connect route are provided by Southern. The station is in Travelcard Zone 3.

[[Tube map]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in London

The Tube Map, is a map that navigates passengers around London using the London Underground, London Overground, Docklands Light Railway, and Emirates Air-line. To make the map easier to read, the lines of the tunnels are made straight instead of the shape they really follow.

The Tube Map was the first map to use these simplifying techniques that are now used in transport maps across the world. Transport for London (TfL) continue to expand the Tube map as more stations, lines and methods of transport are added.

The Tube Map helps navigate over a billion journeys a year in the biggest city in Europe.

[[Waterloo & City line]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground lines, 1898 establishments in England, Transport in Lambeth, Transport in the City of London, Tunnels underneath the River Thames

The Waterloo & City line, also nicknamed The Drain, is a short underground railway line in London. It was opened on 11 July 1898. It has two stations, Waterloo and Bank.

[[London Underground 1967 Stock]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground electric multiple units

The London Underground 1967 Stock was a deep-level tube stock that ran on the Victoria line from 1968 to 2011. These trains do not run on the London Underground anymore as they were replaced by the London Underground 2009 tube stock between 2010 and 2011. The stock was built by Metro-Cammell. The trains have also ran on the Woodford–Hainault section of the Central Line in the past.

[[Victoria, London]]

CATEGORIES: City of Westminster

Victoria is an informal area of inner city London. It is in the City of Westminster. It is named after Queen Victoria.

[[Walthamstow]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Waltham Forest

Walthamstow is an area in the London Borough of Waltham Forest, North East London, England. It is 6.4 northeast of Charing Cross.

[[Congestion]]

Congestion may refer to:

[[Traffic congestion]]

CATEGORIES: Traffic

Traffic congestion is when vehicles travel slower because there is too much traffic on roads. This makes trip times longer, and increases queueing. This is also known as a traffic jam.  Congestion may result from a decrease in capacity, for example accidents on the road or roads being closed.  Bad road layouts can also restrict capacity.  Increased traffic, for example by many cars leaving a sports stadium at the same time, can also cause congestion. 

Where congestion is common, for example because of commuting in big cities, several methods are used to relieve it. Cars may be banned in certain districts or certain times, or made to carry passengers or pay a fee, or people may use public transport, such as rapid transit, which travel independently of car traffic and are not affected by traffic jams. 

[[Private bill]]

CATEGORIES: Law

A Private bill is a proposal for a law that would apply to just a person or a group of individuals. This is unlike public law which applies to everyone within its jurisdiction. 

[[British Transport Commission]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in the United Kingdom, Transport in the United Kingdom

The British Transport Commission (BTC) was created by Clement Attlee's post-war Labour government. It was a part of its nationalisation programme. Its objective was to provide an efficient, adequate, economical and properly integrated system of public inland transport and port facilities within Great Britain for passengers and goods, excluding transport by air. The BTC came into operation on 1 January 1948. Its first chairman was Lord Hurcomb. Miles Beevor was the Chief Secretary.

[[London Underground 2009 Stock]]

The London Underground 2009 Stock is a type of London Underground train. It is built by Bombardier Transportation at their Litchurch Lane Works in Derby, England. The stock belongs to Bombardier's Movia type of train. Bombardier Transportation UK used to be known as ADtranz, and before that ABB Asea Brown Boveri. ABB Asea Brown Boveri built the 1992 tube stock which is currently used on the Central and Waterloo & City lines.

Forty-seven 8-car units will be built for use on the Victoria line. These replace the line's original 1967 tube stock. The trains are still being built. They were introduced by 2012, when all of the 1967 tube stock trains were completely replaced. The first 2009 tube stock train started running on the line with passengers on board on 21 July 2009. One new train will enter service every two weeks from early 2010.

[[Victoria line (disambiguation)]]

Victoria Line is the name of many things. They are often associated with Queen Victoria:

[[Uherské Hradiště]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Czech Republic

Uherské Hradiště is a town in the Czech Republic. About 26,280 people live there (2008). It is located in the South-East of the historical region Moravia in the Zlín region. It was founded on October 15 1257 by the Czech king Přemysl Otakar II.

[[Ice skate]]

CATEGORIES: Skating

An ice skate is a boot with a blade in it that is used in recreation or sports to move across an ice rink.

[[Boing]]

CATEGORIES: Television networks, Italian television

Boing is an Italian TV channel marketed at children and teenagers, produced and broadcast in Italy by Time Warner on its DVB-T frequencies.

[[Mir-Hossein Mousavi]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Iran

Mir-Hossein Mousavi Khameneh (میرحسین موسوی خامنه; born 29 September 1941) is an Iranian  politician, painter and architect. He belongs to the Iranian reform movement. 

He was the fifth Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran from 1981 to 1989. After his term, the constitution was changed, and the post of prime minister was abolished. Mousavi is currently the president of the Iranian Academy of Arts. He also was a candidate for the 2009 presidential election.

Before his post as prime minister, he was the Minister of Foreign Affairs. He is also a member of the Expediency Discernment Council and the High Council of Cultural Revolution. He has not attended their meetings for years. Political analysts think that he does not like these councils.  In the early years of the revolution, Mousavi was the editor-in-chief of the official newspaper of the Islamic Republican Party, the Jomhouri-e Eslami (Islamic Republic) newspaper. In 2009 presidential election, Mousavi chose green as his campaign color, a color which has since become common in Iran.

[[René Lévesque]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1987 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Quebec, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Quebec, People from New Brunswick, Politicians from Quebec

René Lévesque (August 24, 1922 – November 1, 1987) was a Minister of the Provincial Government of Quebec from 1960-1966. He was born in New Brunswick and raised in Quebec. He was the founder of the Parti Québécois. The Parti Québécois have twice tried to get Quebec to leave Canada and become a separate country.

[[Dead Space]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, PlayStation 3 games, Windows games, Xbox 360 games

Dead Space is a third-person survival horror video game, made by Visceral Games for the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Microsoft Windows. The player plays as an engineer named Isaac Clarke. He fights against an alien infestation which turns humans into monsters called "Necromorphs" on a mining ship in space named the USG Ishimura.

[[Ty Cobb]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1961 deaths, American baseball players, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), Detroit Tigers managers, Detroit Tigers players

Tyrus Raymond "Ty" Cobb (December 18, 1886 – July 17, 1961), also known as "The Georgia Peach," was a Major League Baseball player. He is known as the best player of the dead-ball era (before 1920) and as one of the best baseball players of all time.

[[Fulham Broadway tube station]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham

Fulham Broadway is a London Underground station on the Wimbledon branch of the District Line. It is famous as the nearest station to Stamford Bridge stadium. The stadium is the home of Chelsea Football Club. The station was opened as Walham Green on 1 March 1880. 

[[Tottenham]]

CATEGORIES: Tottenham

Tottenham (ˈtɒʔnəm) is an urban area of North London, England in the London Borough of Haringey. It is situated 6.6 north-east of Charing Cross. 

[[Manor House, London]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London

Manor House is a district of North London. 

[[Barbara Castle]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 2002 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Former Labour MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Bradford, People from Derbyshire, Politicians from Yorkshire

Barbara Castle, Baroness Castle of Blackburn PC, GCOT (6 October 1910 – 3 May 2002) was a British politician. She was born as Barbara Anne Betts in Chesterfield, Derbyshire. She grew up in Pontefract and Bradford, Yorkshire. She graduated from St Hugh's College, Oxford with a Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy, Politics and Economics. She adopted her family's politics, which were left wing. Castle joined the Labour Party. She was Member for Blackburn from 1945 to 1979. She was Minister of Transport from 23 December 1965 – 6 April 1968. She died in Chiltern, Buckinghamshire.

[[Richard Marsh, Baron Marsh]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2011 deaths, English politicians, British businesspeople

Richard William Marsh, Baron Marsh PC (14 March 1928 – 29 July 2011) was an English politician and business executive.

[[Weak interaction]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear physics

Weak interaction,  the weak force or weak nuclear force, is one of the four fundamental forces in the universe. 

It is carried by particles known as the W and Z bosons, which are gauge bosons. The weak force causes beta decay, a form of radioactivity. At extremely high energy levels, the force of weak interaction and electromagnetism begin to act the same, and this is called electroweak interaction.

[[Cognition]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Cognition is the scientific word for the thought process. This process is the way we think. The word comes from the Latin word cognoscere, which means "to know" or "to recognize". Cognitive psychology is the science which studies cognition.

[[Russki]]

CATEGORIES: English profanity, Slurs

[[Medic Droid]]

CATEGORIES: American pop music groups, Electronic music bands, Musical groups from Arizona, Musical groups established in 2007, 2007 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Arizona, Musical groups disestablished in 2008, 2008 disestablishments in the United States, 2000s disestablishments in Arizona

The Medic Droid is an American electronic pop band. They are most notable for their fans making their own comedic music videos and posting them on YouTube as well as their song Fer Sure.

[[Wood Street railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Waltham Forest, London Travelcard zone 4, 1873 establishments in England, Railway stations served by National Express East Anglia

Wood Street railway station is in Walthamstow. It is a part of the London Borough of Waltham Forest in north east London. It is in Travelcard Zone 4. It was opened in 1873.

When the Victoria line was being planned, this station was going to be the end of the line instead of Walthamstow Central station. A decision was made in 1961 which meant that this did not happen. If this station had become the end of the Victoria line, the building would have been on the surface next to the British Railways station.

[[Chuck Yeager]]

CATEGORIES: American people of World War II, American military people, People from West Virginia, 1923 births, 2020 deaths, American aviators

Charles Elwood "Chuck" Yeager (February 13, 1923 – December 7, 2020) was a major general of the United States Air Force. He was the first person to break the sound barrier. This was accomplished on 14 October 1947 in a Bell X-1 aircraft. Yeager also served in World War II.

Yeager died on December 7, 2020 at a Los Angeles hospital at the age of 97.

[[Deep-level tube lines]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground

Deep-level tube lines were built by tunnelling shields and are tunnels that are deep underground that allow trains to run through them. They are commonly found on the London Underground. An example is the Victoria line. The depth creates ventilation problems. Powerful fans must push clean air very far underground.  In the event of a emergency the people trapped on-board cannot get off due to the insufficient space inside the tunnel compared to the subsurface line.

[[Bolsover]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Derbyshire

Bolsover is a town near Chesterfield in England. It is 145 miles (233 km) from London, 18 miles (29 km) from Sheffield and 54 miles (87 km) from Manchester.

Its population in 2001 was 11,291.

[[Sympathetic nervous system]]

CATEGORIES: Nervous system

The Sympathetic nervous system is part of the autonomic nervous system. It becomes more active when you are stressed.  It is a part of the "fight or flight" response.  The sympathetic nervous system can increase heart rate; make bronchial passages wider; decrease motility (movement) of the large intestine; make blood vessels narrower; increase peristalsis in the esophagus; cause pupil dilation, piloerection (goose bumps) and perspiration (sweating); and raise blood pressure. 

[[Pierre Monteux]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 births, 1964 deaths, French conductors, American conductors

Pierre Monteux (born Paris, 4 April 1875; died Hancock, Maine, 14 July 1964) was a French-born conductor who later became a American citizen.  He was one of the great conductors of his time.

[[Milhaud]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Gard

Milhaud is a commune in the Gard department in France.

[[Willem Mengelberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1871 births, 1951 deaths, Dutch conductors, People from Utrecht (city)

Willem Mengelberg (born Utrecht, 28 March 1871; died Zuort, Switzerland, 22 March 1951) was a Dutch conductor.  He is famous for conducting the Concertgebouw Orchestra in Amsterdam for fifty years, making them one of the world’s finest orchestras.

[[Willem Kes]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1943 deaths, Dutch conductors, People from Dordrecht

Willem Kes (16 February 1856 in Dordrecht - 22 February 1934 in Munich) was a Dutch conductor. He was the first conductor of the Concertgebouw Orchestra (now called the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra). 

Kes learned the violin, studying with the famous Joseph Joachim in Berlin. From 1876 he started his career as a conductor. When the Concertgebouw Orchestra was started in Amsterdam in 1888 Kes was its conductor. He made it into a good orchestra. He had this job until 1895 when Willem Mengelberg took over. Kes went to Glasgow to conduct the Scottish Orchestra. In 1898 he took a conducting job in Moscow. From 1905 to 1926, Kes was director of a music conservatory (college) in Koblenz. He also worked in Dresden.

[[Cathay Dragon]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Asia, Transport in Hong Kong

Cathay Dragon, known as Dragonair before, was an airline based in Hong Kong International Airport. It had a fleet of 46 airplanes, including Airbus A320s, A321s and A330s. It flew to 44 destinations in China and Asia. It was named the "World’s Best Regional Airline" by Skytrax World Airline Awards four times. On 21 October 2020, Cathay Pacific announced to stop the operation of Cathay Dragon due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

[[Hong Kong International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Hong Kong, Transport in Hong Kong

Hong Kong International Airport (IATA airport code: HKG; ICAO airport code: VHHH), also known as Chek Lap Kok Airport is the airport of Hong Kong that was built at Chek Lap Kok on Lantau Island. It opened in 1998. It is one of the leading airports in the world, and has won "World Airport of the Year" from Skytrax for 7 times in 10 years. It is the hub for Cathay Pacific, Hong Kong Airlines, Hong Kong Express and Air Hong Kong. It is the third busiest airport in terms of international passenger traffic in the world, and the busiest in the world in terms of cargo traffic.

The airport has an advanced highway and railway system linking it to the city centre of Hong Kong. The building project was one of the largest in the world, and featured in Discovery Channel's "Ten Greatest Modern Projects of the World". It was designed by the famous architect, Norman Foster. The aim of the airport was to increase traffic and capacity which the old Kai Tak Airport could not handle. It remains one of the best airport in the world, along with Singapore's Changi Airport and Seoul's Incheon International Airport.

[[Parasympathetic nervous system]]

CATEGORIES: Nervous system

The parasympathetic nervous system (PNS or PSNS) is part of the autonomic nervous system.  It does the opposite things of the sympathetic nervous system, the other part of the autonomic nervous system.  This way, the parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous systems balance each other's effects.  The sympathetic nervous system helps a person "fight or flight" when they are in danger.  When the danger is gone, the parasympathetic nervous system lets the person "rest and digest," "feed and breed."

[[Heart rate]]

CATEGORIES: Heart

Heart rate (HR) is how many times a heart beats per minute (bpm). The average bpm for a man or women who does not exercise is 70 bpm. Heart rate varies between people because of fitness, age and genetics.

[[Airbus A321]]

CATEGORIES: Airbus aircraft

[[Vasoactive intestinal peptide]]

CATEGORIES: Hormones

Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP, also polypeptide) is a kind of hormone that has 28 amino acid residues in it and is made in many areas of the human body including the gut, pancreas, and suprachiasmatic nuclei (which is a small part of the brain's midline) of the hypothalamus in the brain. In humans, the vasoactive intestinal peptide is encoded, or transforming information from one format into another, by the VIP gene.

VIP has a half-life in the blood of about two minutes.

VIP is made more than it should in a VIPoma.

Increase intestinal secretion, relaxes sphincters and smooth muscles. Released from nerve cells in mucosa and smooth muscle.

[[Pan European Game Information]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments in Europe, Cultural organizations, Video game ratings

Pan European Game Information (PEGI) is a European self-regulatory organization that assigns age and content ratings to consumer video games. The PEGI system is used in more than thirty countries. PEGI has rated more than 15,000 video games from 2003 to 2010.

[[Psychiatrist]]

CATEGORIES: Psychiatry, Healthcare occupations

A psychiatrist is a medical doctor who specializes in psychiatry, and treats people with mental illness. Psychiatrists can prescribe psychiatric medication.

[[Monifieth]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Scotland, Angus

Monifieth (mɒnifiθ) is a town and former police burgh in the council area of Angus, Scotland.

[[Eugen Jochum]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1987 deaths, German conductors

Eugen Jochum (pronounce: OY-gen YO-ghum) (born Babenhausen, 1 November 1902; died 26 March 1987) was a famous German conductor.

Jochum was born in Babenhausen, near Augsburg, in the south of Germany.  He soon showed musical talent and was playing the organ for church services when he was eight.  He studied at the Augsburg Conservatory and then the Munich National Theatre and at Mönchen-Gladbach.  He became conductor of the Kiel Opera where, during three years, he conducted more than 50 operas in several German cities.  Then, in 1934, he followed Karl Böhm and Karl Muck as the conductor of the Hamburg Staatsoper.    He stayed there until 1949.  He also was guest conductor in Amsterdam with the Concertgebouw Orchestra and later he became chief conductor.  

After World War II, Jochum became the first chief conductor of the Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra in 1949.  He often conducted in London with the London Philharmonic Orchestra and the London Symphony Orchestra. In 1975, the LSO gave him the title of conductor laureate. 

He appeared regularly at Salzburg and, from 1953, Bayreuth.  The first opera he conducted there was Wagner's Tristan und Isolde.

Jochum is remembered especially for his warm, romantic performances of Anton Bruckner's symphonies.  He often conducted the passions of Bach and music by composers such as Beethoven, Brahms, Mozart, Haydn, Schumann, Wagner and Carl Orff. 

Jochum died in Munich, Germany at the age of 84.

[[Big O notation]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Computer science, Algorithms

In mathematics and computer science, Big O notation is a way of comparing rates of growth of different functions. It is often used to compare the efficiency of different algorithms, which is done by calculating how much memory is needed, and how much time it takes to complete.

The Big O notation is often used in identifying how complex a problem is, also known as the problem's complexity class. The mathematician Paul Bachmann (1837-1920) was the first to use this notation, in the second edition of his book "Analytische Zahlentheorie", in 1896. Edmund Landau (1877-1938) made the notation popular. For this reason, when people talk about a Landau symbols, they refer to this notation.

Big O notation is named after the term "order of the function", which refers to the growth of functions. Big O notation is used to find the upper bound (the highest possible amount) of the function's growth rate, meaning it works out the longest time it will take to turn the input into the output. This means an algorithm can be grouped by how long it can take in a worst-case scenario, where the longest route will be taken every time.

[[QI]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 British television series debuts, 2000s British television series, 2010s British television series, British comedy television series, British television game shows, Panel games

QI (Quite Interesting) is a British comedy television quiz show. It is now hosted by Sandi Toksvig who took over from Stephen Fry. There are four contestants in each show, of whom one is always Alan Davies. The shows' series are lettered (not numbered as most television shows are), for example the first series is Series A. To begin with, QI was shown on BBC Two but was moved to BBC One for Series F.

[[21st Century Breakdown]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Green Day albums, Reprise Records albums, Punk albums

21st Century Breakdown is the eighth studio album by the punk rock band Green Day. It is the band's second rock opera, following American Idiot, and its first record to be produced by Butch Vig. The band started work on the record in January 2006. 45 songs were written by vocalist and guitarist Billie Joe Armstrong by October 2007, but the band members did not start studio work with the producer, Butch Vig until January 2008. The writing and recording process was three years long. The band used four recording studios and was finished in April 2009.

[[Glossop North End A.F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1886 establishments in England

Glossop North End A.F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

[[Bradford (Park Avenue) A.F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1907 establishments in England

Bradford Park Avenue A.F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

[[Nelson F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1881 establishments in England

Nelson F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

[[Darlington F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1883 establishments in the United Kingdom

Darlington F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

[[Newport County A.F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1912 establishments in the United Kingdom, 20th century establishments in Wales

Newport County A.F.C. is a football club located in Wales that plays in the English league system.

[[Rotherham United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1877 establishments in England

Rotherham United F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

[[Bristol Rovers F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1883 establishments in the United Kingdom

Bristol Rovers F.C. is a football club which plays in Bristol, People who live in North Bristol traditionally support Bristol Rovers, however people you live in South Bristol support their fierce rivals Bristol City F.C. 

[[Scunthorpe United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1899 establishments in England

Scunthorpe United F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

[[Oxford United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, Oxford, Bakrie Group, 1893 establishments in England

Oxford United F.C. is a football club in England.

[[Hereford United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, Hereford, 1924 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in England

Hereford United F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

[[Mansfield Town F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 establishments in the United Kingdom, English football clubs, Mansfield

Mansfield Town F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

[[Wrexham A.F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1873 establishments in the United Kingdom, 19th century establishments in Wales

Wrexham A.F.C. is a football club which plays in Wales.

[[Shrewsbury Town F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1886 establishments in England

Shrewsbury Town Football Club is a professionl football club from Shrewsbury, the county town of Shropshire in England. They currently compete in League One, the third level of football in England. They play their home games at New Meadow. The club was founded in 1886. They are nicknamed The Shrews, Salop, The Blues and Town.

[[Cambridge United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Cambridge, English football clubs, 1912 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1910s establishments in England

Cambridge United F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

[[Rushden & Diamonds F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1992 establishments in England

Rushden & Diamonds F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

[[Yeovil Town F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1895 establishments in England

Yeovil Town F.C. is a football club that plays in England.

[[Peterborough United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1930s establishments in England, 1934 establishments in Europe

Peterborough United F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

[[Robinson Sucroe]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series

Robinson Sucroe, is a French animated series created by Claude Robinson.

[[National Health Service]]

CATEGORIES: Public services in the United Kingdom, Health care

The National Health Service is a government run health care organisation that provides health and medical services to citizens and residents of the United Kingdom. It was started in 1948 and intended by its creators to be "free at the point of service". This meant that people who use the NHS would not be required to pay for services each time they used them.

The NHS is paid for out of employee contributions from their wages and also from general government money raised in the form of taxes.

The promise of a health service that would be free at the point of service was broken almost right away with the start of prescription charges. Prescription charges are a set price that people within England must pay for each item on a prescription form. This charge is currently £8.60 for each item and is raised each year.

The NHS is made up of four systems: National Health Service (England), Health and Social Care in Northern Ireland, NHS Scotland and NHS Wales. Each system is run by its government. For example, National Health Service (England) is ran by the UK Government. The systems are run in different ways depending on which country within the United Kingdom a person lives in. For instance, there are no charges for prescriptions in Scotland or Wales, but there are in England.

The service also provides basic dental services and prescription eyeglasses, hearing aids, prosthetic limbs and other services. There are normally charges at the point of service for these services unless one lives in a no-charge country or is considered a special needs case; such as children (aged up to 18, or up to 21 if you are a student), pregnant women or the elderly.

The coalition government has made cuts to the NHS. On 29 September 2013 around 50,000 people protested in Manchester. They set up a stage with banners saying things like 'Save Our NHS' around it. Hospitals can now earn up to 50% of their income from private work.

The NHS has been criticized for working through a 'postcode lottery', meaning that access to quality treatment depends on where you live. The percentage of diabetics getting the NICE recommended levels of care ranges from 6% to 69% depending on where they live.

[[Christiaan Eijkman]]

CATEGORIES: 1858 births, 1930 deaths, Dutch academics, Dutch Nobel Prize winners, Dutch physicians

Christiaan Eijkman (August 11, 1858 - November 5, 1930) was a Dutch doctor. He won the 1929 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, along with Sir Frederick Hopkins, for the discovery of vitamins

[[Frederick Hopkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1861 births, 1947 deaths, English chemists, Order of Merit, Knights Bachelor, Fellows of the Royal Society, Presidents of the Royal Society, Alumni of University College London, British Nobel Prize winners

Sir Frederick Gowland Hopkins OM FRS (20 June 1861 – 16 May 1947) was an English chemist. He won the 1929 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, along with Christiaan Eijkman, for the discovery of vitamins.

[[Windows CE]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft operating systems

Windows CE (also known officially as Windows Embedded Compact post version 6.0, and sometimes abbreviated WinCE) is Microsoft's operating system for embedded devices and minimal computers. Windows CE is a different operating system and kernel. It is not a trimmed-down version of desktop Windows. It is not Windows XP Embedded which is NT-based.

The Zune portable media player, as well as the Windows Mobile and Windows Phone 7 smartphone platforms are based on Windows CE.

Version 8, or Windows Embedded Compact 2013, released in June 2013 is the only still supported version (until October 10, 2023).

[[Simon Cowell (presenter)]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1952 births, British television personalities

Simon Cowell MBE (born 19 April 1952) is a British television presenter and author who hosts the Animal Planet documentary series Wildlife SOS. He is the co-founder of a Leatherhead, Surrey, based charity called Wildlife Aid.

In June 2005, Simon was awarded an MBE for his services to wildlife.

Simon lives in Leatherhead, Surrey. He received a PhD for Biological sciences at Jesus College, Cambridge.

[[2015]]

CATEGORIES: 2015

2015 (MMXV) was 2015.

[[2016]]

CATEGORIES: 2016

2016 (MMXVI) was 2016.

The year was designated as the International Year of Pulses by the sixty-eighth session of the United Nations General Assembly.

[[2017]]

CATEGORIES: 2017

2017 (MMXVII) was 2017.

[[Yasunari Kawabata]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1972 deaths, Japanese writers, People from Osaka, Japanese Nobel Prize winners, University of Tokyo alumni

Yasunari Kawabata (14 June 1899–16 April 1972) was a Japanese writer.  He was the winner of the 1968 Nobel Prize in Literature.  He was the first Japanese author to receive the award.

[[2018]]

CATEGORIES: 2018

2018 (MMXVIII) was 2018.

[[2019]]

CATEGORIES: 2019

2019 (MMXIX) was 2019.

[[2021]]

CATEGORIES: Demons, 2021

2021 (MMXXI) is the current year. It is 2021.

2021 hosted most major events that were originally scheduled for 2020, including UEFA Euro 2020, 2020 Summer Olympics and other events that were postponed or cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

[[2022]]

CATEGORIES: 2022, Years in the future

2022 (MMXXII) will be 2022.

[[2024]]

CATEGORIES: 2024, Years in the future

2024 (MMXXIV) will be 2024.

[[2025]]

CATEGORIES: 2025, Years in the future

2025 (MMXXV) will be 2025.

[[Acid Survivors Foundation]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in Bangladesh, 1999 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in Bangladesh

The Acid Survivors Foundation is a Bangladeshi organization that helps victims of acid attacks and tries to prevent these attacks..

It was founded in 1999 with support from UNICEF and the Canadian International Development Agency. In 2005 the co-founder Monira Rahman was granted the Human Rights Award of Amnesty International. 

[[Shmuel Yosef Agnon]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 births, 1970 deaths, Israeli Nobel Prize winners, Jewish Israeli writers, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Poets, Short story writers, Ukrainian Jews, Ukrainian writers

Shmuel Yosef Agnon (July 17, 1888 - February 17, 1970) was an Israeli writer and winner of the 1966 Nobel Prize in Literature.

He was one of the central figures of modern Hebrew fiction. In Hebrew, he is known by the acronym Shai Agnon. In English, his works are published under the name S. Y. Agnon.

[[Acid throwing]]

CATEGORIES: Domestic violence, Human rights, Hate crimes

Acid throwing or vitriolage is a form of violent assault. Sometimes the crime is called acid attack. The attackers throw acid or other corrosive substances at their victims. Usually they throw it at the targets' faces. They want to damage skin tissue, even to expose and to dissolve the bones. The consequences of these attacks include blindness and permanent scars of the face and body.

In India, the number of acid attacks have been rising. There had been 68 acid attacks in Karnataka alone (of which Bengaluru is the capital) since 1999. These are only the cases that have been reported. Unlike India, Bangladesh has introduced the death penalty for throwing acid and laws strictly controlling the sales of acids since 2002. An important role for the introduction of that legislation had the Acid Survivors Foundation.

Acid throwing is a crime in most countries in the world.  Many Islamic countries have the concept of qisas, or retributive justice. With this, a victim can ask that the attacker be disfigured in a similar way. That way, an Iranian court ordered that the attacker of a woman who was blinded by such an attack, be blinded as well.

[[Nelly Sachs]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1970 deaths, German Nobel Prize winners, German poets, Jewish German writers, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Nobel Prize in Literature winners, Swedish playwrights, Swedish poets

Nelly Sachs (1891–1970) was a German-Swedish poet and playwright. She is a Nobel Prize winner and of Jewish descent.

[[1594]]

CATEGORIES: 1594

1594 was a common year in the 16th century.

[[2008 in science]]

CATEGORIES: 2008, Years in science

The year 2008 in science had some important events, listed below.

[[Tikrit]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iraq

Tikrit sometimes known as Takrit or Tekrit, is a city in Iraq, located 140 northwest of Baghdad and 220 southeast of Mosul on the Tigris River. As of 2012, it has a population of 160,000.

At least 80% majority of the people are Sunni. Saddam Hussein, leader of Iraq through April 2003, was born there; he considered it his hometown. He was actually born in a village on the outskirts of Tikrit, however in a part of Tikrit municipality.

[[2007 in science]]

CATEGORIES: 2007, Years in science

The year 2007 in science had some important events, listed below.

[[White nose syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Bats, Fungal diseases

White nose syndrome (WNS) is a condition which has caused many bats in the United States and Canada to die. The condition is named white nose because the affected bats have a fungus around their nose which is white. It was discovered in February 2006.

The disease was first reported in January 2007 in some New York caves. It spread to other New York caves and into Vermont, Massachusetts and Connecticut in 2008. In early 2009 it was found in New Hampshire, New Jersey, Pennsylvania. West Virginia  In March 2010, it was found in Ontario, Canada, and Middle Tennessee.  In 2012, new cases showed up in northeastern Ohio, and Acadia National Park in Maine. New confirmed cases appeared in 2013 in Georgia, South Carolina, and Illinois. 

[[2006 in science]]

CATEGORIES: 2006, Years in science

The year 2006 in science had some important events, listed below.

[[Missy Peregrym]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1982 births

Melissa "Missy" Peregrym (born June 16, 1982 in Montreal, Quebec, Canada) is a Canadian actress. 

[[Ken Follett]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Welsh novelists, Writers from Cardiff

Kenneth Martin Follett CBE (born 5 June 1949) is a Welsh writer, known as Ken Follett. He was born in Cardiff, Wales. Follett has written many detective books and history novels. He has sold 100 million copies of his books.

[[British National Party]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 establishments in the United Kingdom, Nationalist organisations in the United Kingdom, Political parties in the United Kingdom

The British National Party (or BNP for short) is a far-right political party in the United Kingdom. The party's policies promote an end to Third World immigration, right-wing populism and Third position economics. They are British nationalists. They want to "keep Britain British" by not letting people from other countries move to the UK. The party was led by Nick Griffin from 1999 until 2014 and the current leader of the BNP is Adam Walker.

In 2009, the party had 2 MEPs (Members of European Parliament) out of 73 British seats in the European Parliament. Those two seats were held by Griffin and Andrew Brons. It has no seats in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom or the devolved assemblies. 

The BNP was started in 1982 by John Tyndall (politician).

In November 2012 the British Democratic Party was started by Brons. Brons started the party after leaving the BNP in October 2012. Brons wants the BDP to end the BNP. He does not like the BNP because he thinks its ideology is not extreme enough. Griffin lost his seat in the European Parliament in 2014.

[[Differentiation]]

Differentiation is a term used in different senses.

[[FC Utrecht]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in Europe, 1970s establishments in the Netherlands, Dutch football clubs, Utrecht (city)

FC Utrecht is a football club which plays in the Netherlands.

It was a merger of three clubs from the city of Utrecht: Door Oefening Sterk, USV Elinkwijk and Velox in 1970.

[[Sparta Rotterdam]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch football clubs, Rotterdam

Sparta Rotterdam is a football club which plays in Netherlands.

[[Road number]]

CATEGORIES: Roads

A road number is usually given to a portion of public roadway. The chosen number often depends on the type of road. The numbers will be different if the road is an interstate, a motorway, an arterial thoroughfare, a two-lane road, and so forth.

[[AFC Door Wilskracht Sterk]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch football clubs, Amsterdam, 1907 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in the Netherlands

AFC Door Wilskracht Sterk is a football club which plays in Netherlands.

[[2005 in science]]

CATEGORIES: 2005, Years in science

The year 2005 in science had some important events, listed below.

[[2004 in science]]

CATEGORIES: 2004, Years in science

The year 2004 in science had some important events, listed below.

[[Midwest Irish Radio]]

CATEGORIES: Radio stations in Europe, County Mayo

Midwest Radio and Midwest Irish Radio are an Irish radio station in County Mayo, Ireland. Its studios are on Clare Street, Ballyhaunis. The station started in 1989. When first opened the Midwest Radio studios were in Abbey Street, Ballyhaunis, Co. Mayo. Its target audience is people over 35 and it mainly broadcasts country music and classic hits. Some of the station's programmes do contain current chart music such as The Breakfast Show, The Late Late Lunchbox and The Hot Hits Hour. The station broadcasts live every day from 7:00 am to 1:00 am. The latest JNLR/MRBI radio listener survey shows that Mid West Radio is by far the most popular radio station in Connacht with a market-share of 52.2%. Midwest Radio's franchise area is county Mayo although it can be heard in various parts of Connacht. 

Midwest Radio started an online only radio station, Midwest Irish Radio, in 2005. This has a different programme to Midwest Radio, although The Mid Morning Show does broadcast on Midwest Irish Radio. Most of its broadcasts are non stop Irish music. It's sister station Northwest Radio shut down in 2004June 2009.

[[Russian Social Democratic Labour Party]]

CATEGORIES: Communist parties, Social democratic parties, Political parties in Russia, 1898 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in Russia, 1898 establishments in Asia

Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (RSDLP) was a Russian political party. 

It was founded in 1898. The RSDLP program was based on Marxism and socialism. The party wanted to head the workers of Russia and to throw down the Tsar. Some members of the party wanted democracy. They were called "Mensheviks". Other members of the party spoke for the dictatorship of the working class. They were called "Bolsheviks". The leaders of the Menshevik group were Martov and Potresov. The leaders of the Bolshevik group were Plekhanov and Lenin.

The Russian Social Democratic Labour Party was an illegal party. It fought against the autocracy, organized meetings and strikes, and printed illegal newspapers blaming the Tsar and his government. Many members of the party were arrested, put into prison or condemned to penal servitude.

In 1917 Lenin and most Bolsheviks became a separate political party, RSDLP(B), which later became the Russian Communist Party.

During the Russian Civil War, the RSDLP was banned by Communists. Some Social Democrats became Communists, some fled from Russia, others became political prisoners.

[[Signed number representations]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Mathematics

Signed Number representations are used to solve the problem of representing negative integers in binary. The problem of trying to store the negative sign (−) of a binary number is that there are no states left to use with which to represent the negative assignment. It is not possible to just use 'off' for minus and 'on' for plus because the computer would have no way of knowing whether it was a digit or a sign.

To overcome this issue computer designers invented two methods for storing negative binary numbers: sign-and-magnitude and 2's complement. These produce alternative representations for signed numbers.

[[Kingpin]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in the 1960s, Marvel Comics characters, Spider-Man

The Kingpin (Wilson Fisk) is a fictional character in the Marvel Universe. The character first appears in The Amazing Spider-Man #50 (July 1967), and was created by writer Stan Lee and artist John Romita, Sr. The Kingpin often appears as an adversary of Spider-Man, Daredevil and the Punisher.

[[Centre Pompidou-Metz]]

CATEGORIES: Art museums in France, Grand Est

The Centre Pompidou Metz is a museum of modern and contemporary art. It is in Metz, France. It shows sculptures, modern and contemporary paintings and graphic art.

The architecture of the building is inspired by a traditional Chinese hat. The carpentry is an innovative assembly made of sixteen kilometers of wood.

[[Floating point]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Mathematics

Real numbers in binary have to be stored in a special way in a computer. Computers represent numbers as binary integers (whole numbers that are powers of two), so there is no direct way for them to represent non-integer numbers like decimals as there is no radix point. One way computers bypass this problem is floating-point representation, with "floating" referring to how the radix point can move higher or lower when multiplied by an exponent (power).

[[South Petherton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset

South Petherton is a small town in Somerset, a county in England. Over 4, 000 people live there. 

It is twinned with the town of Javané, which is in France. 

There are two schools in South Petheton: South Petherton Infants School, which is run by the Church of England and is for children from the age of 4 to 7, and South Petherton Junior School, which is for children aged 7 to 11.

[[Norwegian]]

Norwegian might mean:

[[Markup language]]

CATEGORIES: Markup languages

[[Alan Davies]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Actors from Essex, Actors from London, Alumni of the University of Kent, Comedians from Essex, Comedians from London, English movie actors, English television actors, People from Chingford, Television personalities from Essex, Television personalities from London

Alan Davies (born 6 March 1966) is an English comedian, writer and actor. He is best known for starring in Jonathan Creek and for being a panellist on QI.

Davies was born in Loughton, Essex. His childhood years were spent in Chingford, London. Davies' mother died when he was six. He graduated in Drama from the University of Kent in 1988.

In 2008, Davies was in the teen comedy Angus, Thongs and Perfect Snogging.

Davies' first book, the autobiographical My Favourite People and Me, 1978-88, was published by Penguin Books in late 2009.

[[Ponzi scheme]]

CATEGORIES: Types of crime, Commercial crime

A Ponzi scheme is a special kind of fraud. It is based on a fake investment that one schemer (or group of schemers) gets other people to give money to.

In Ponzi schemes, the schemer basically says, "I found a great way to make money fast. The more you give me, the more I can invest in that cause, and the more I can earn for us all". But a Ponzi scheme doesn't actually "earn money". Instead, all of the scheme's money comes from the investors.

Once a Ponzi scheme gets too many investors, the system will always crash. This is because the investors all expect more money than they invested, and they will get impatient.

These schemes always stop one of three ways:

The scheme was named after a man named Charles Ponzi. He used the scheme after moving from Italy to the United States in 1903. (Ponzi didn't invent the scheme, though. In 1857, Charles Dickens wrote a book called Little Dorrit about a scheme like this. The scheme is a simple idea, and probably very old.) However, Ponzi's scheme was so big that it became the most popular. His original scheme was based on using countries' money-exchange rates to make money, based on international postage stamps. But money soon stopped being invested in coupons, and went to early investors, and a lot to Ponzi himself. 

Ponzi schemes can be run anywhere, even online, and are being run even now.

[[Baní]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dominican Republic, 1764 establishments, 18th-century establishments in the Spanish Empire

The Dominican city of Baní is the head municipality of the Peravia province, on the south of the country, close to the Caribbean Sea.

[[Morgan Freeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Memphis, Tennessee, African American actors, African American movie directors, African American movie producers, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television producers, American voice actors, Beekeepers, Democrats (United States), Golden Globe Award winning actors, Kennedy Center honorees, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Morgan Freeman (born June 1, 1937) is an Afro-American actor and movie producer. 

He is also a beekeeper.

[[Mikhail Sholokhov]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1984 deaths, Novelists, Russian Nobel Prize winners, Russian writers, Soviet writers

Mikhail Aleksandrovich Sholokhov  (24 May 1905  21 February 1984) was a Soviet/Russian novelist and winner of the 1965 Nobel Prize in Literature. 

[[Dire Straits]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1995 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1970s British music groups, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, Brit Award winners, English rock bands, Grammy Award winners, Music groups from Newcastle upon Tyne, Musical groups disestablished in 1995, Musical groups established in 1977, Warner Bros. Records artists

Dire Straits was a British rock band from Newcastle, England. They formed in 1977 and have sold more than 120 million albums worldwide and also won three Grammy Awards.

Dire Straits disbanded in 1995.

[[Kathryn Janeway]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: Voyager characters

Kathryn Janeway is a character in the American TV series Star Trek: Voyager. She is the captain of the starship Voyager.

[[Tikhon Khrennikov]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2007 deaths, Music critics, Russian composers, Soviet musicians

Tikhon Khrennikov (born Yelets, Russian Empire, 10 June 1913; died Moscow, 14 August 2007) was a Russian musician.   He was a composer and pianist He got involved in the musical politics of his country, which was then the Soviet Union.   A lot of people hated him, especially in western countries.  He is particularly remembered for what he did at the unpleasant conference in 1948, when some of the most famous Soviet composers, including Shostakovich and Prokofiev, were made to say they were sorry for the music they had written and that they would compose better music in future.

In the days of the Soviet Union, and especially under Stalin, musicians had to be very careful about what they did and how they composed.  Music, like all arts, was supposed to make people feel that they were lucky to be living in a great country like the Soviet Union.  If composers wrote music that the politicians did not like or understand, life became very difficult for them: they would not be allowed to compose, and their music could not be performed.  They might even be sent to prison.  Tikhon Khrennikov became Secretary to the Union of Soviet Composers in 1948, at the time when Stalin was dictator.  He continued in this job until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. He made sure that all musicians obeyed their political leaders.

It is difficult for us today to judge the actions of Khrennikov fairly.  He survived because he did what he was told by Soviet dictators.  After the collapse of the Soviet Union he tried to say he was sorry for what he did.  It is difficult to judge whether he really meant this.

[[Seven of Nine]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: Voyager characters

Seven of Nine is a character in Star Trek: Voyager. She is an ex-Borg and is the science officer on the star ship Voyager.

When she was very young, Seven of Nine was taken on an expedition by her parents, who were studying the Borg. They were all assimilated; Seven of Nine and her parents (this is when the Borg change people or other aliens into Borg).

According to the Borg, Seven of Nine is the first Borg to go back to the life she had before being assimilated.

[[Doctor (Star Trek)]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: Voyager characters

The Doctor is a character on the American television show Star Trek: Voyager. He is a hologram with a database of medical knowledge and is the chief medical officer on Voyager.

[[Jim Gannon]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London

James Paul "Jim" Gannon (born 7 September 1968) is an English former footballer and manager. He is currently the manager and Director of Football of English Conference National team Stockport County F.C..

[[Lisa Marie Presley]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American singer-songwriters, Elvis Presley, Singers from Memphis, Tennessee

Lisa Marie Presley (born February 1, 1968) is an American singer-songwriter. She is the only child of singer/actor Elvis Presley. 

She owns Graceland, the mansion her father lived in. She has released three albums. 

[[Dialysis]]

CATEGORIES: Medical procedures, Organ failure

Dialysis is where a machine is used to replace a kidney after kidney failure. The word dialysis comes from the Greek word dialusis, dia meaning through, and lusis meaning loosening.

Dialysis can be used for people who have become sick and have lost the use of their kidneys for a short time, or for people who no longer have working kidneys. The purpose of the kidney is to keep a balance of water and minerals in the body. These minerals include sodium, potassium, chloride, calcium, phosphorous, magnesium and sulfate. The kidneys also take out hydrogen ions from the blood. Dialysis is able to remove these wastes from the body and help keep the minerals in balance.

However the kidneys are also part of the endocrine system and make erythropoietin and calcitriol. Dialysis machines are not able to replace this part of the kidney's function.

[[Kinkajou]]

CATEGORIES: Procyonids, Omnivores

The kinkajou is a mammal of the family Procyonidae and it is related to the raccoon, coati, olingo, raingtail and cacomistle. It lives in the rainforests of South America and Central America, and spends most of its time on trees. It can eat both meat and plants and has a gripping tail that can be used like an arm. It is an endangered species because it is being hunted for its fur, meat and to be illegally sold as pets.

[[The Barber of Seville]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Gioachino Rossini, Operas set in Spain

The Barber of Seville (in Italian: Il barbiere di Siviglia) is a comic opera (opera buffa) in two acts by the composer Gioachino Rossini. The libretto (words) are based on a comedy by Pierre Beaumarchais called The Barber of Seville. It is Rossini’s most famous opera, containing some very well known tunes.

The first performance took place on 20 February, 1816 inmjm Rome

[[Veroia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Veroia (or Veria) is a Greek city which is a capital of Imathia prefecture. It is in the north of the Greece, in the central Macedonia periphery. In 2001, 42.794 lived there. 

[[Katerini]]

CATEGORIES: cities in Greece

Katerini is a Greek city which is the capital of Pieria prefecture in the region of Macedonia. It is found on the foothill of Mount Olympus, the highest Greek mountain. Katerini is located in the periphery of Central Macedonia and it is near Thessaloniki. It has a population of 85,851 inhabitants according to 2011 census.

[[Drama, Greece]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Drama is a Greek city that is the capital of Drama prefecture. It is in the east of Macedonia and it belongs to the East Macedonia periphery. 42,501 people live there.

[[Kavala]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Kavala is one of the biggest cities in Macedonia. It is the capital of Kavala prefecture. It is in the northeastern part of Greece, in the East Macedonia and Thrace periphery. It is on the Bay of Kavala, across from the island of Thasos. According to the 2001 census, 63,293 people lived there.

[[Alexandroupoli]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Alexandroupoli (or Alexandroupolis) is a Greek city, in the Thrace periphery. It is the capital of Evros prefecture. Alexandroupolis is in the northeast of Greece, very close to Turkey and Bulgaria. It had 57,812 people according to 2011 census. 

[[Marten]]

CATEGORIES: Mustelids

The Martens are small mammals in the family Mustelidae.

They belong to the genus Martes, with eight species. They live in the Northern Hemisphere, and are found in North America, Canada, Europe and Asia.

[[Karl Landsteiner]]

CATEGORIES: 1868 births, 1943 deaths, Austrian scientists, Austrian Nobel Prize winners, Austrian physicians

Karl Landsteiner (June 14, 1868 - June 26, 1943) was an Austrian doctor. He won the 1930 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for the discovery of human blood types published on 14 November 1901. His blood type is O.

[[Otto Heinrich Warburg]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 births, 1970 deaths, German chemists, German Nobel Prize winners

Otto Heinrich Warburg (October 8, 1883 - August 1, 1970) was a German chemist. He won the 1931 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for the discovery of the respiratory enzyme.

[[Charles Scott Sherrington]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 births, 1952 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, English physicians, British Nobel Prize winners

Charles Scott Sherrington (27 November 1857 – 4 March 1952) was an English doctor. He won the 1932 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, with Edgar Douglas Adrian, for discoveries about neurons.

[[Ruhla]]

CATEGORIES: Urban Districts of Thuringia

Ruhla is a German city in the west of Thuringia. Next bigger Cities are Eisenach and Erfurt. About 6,500 people live there. 

[[Eddie May]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers

Eddie May (born August 30, 1967) is a former Scottish footballer.  He also was the head coach of Falkirk.

[[Chakotay]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: Voyager characters

Chakotay is a character from the science fiction television show Star Trek: Voyager. He is Kathryn Janeway's second-in-command on the starship Voyager.  Actor Robert Beltran played Chakotay.

[[Tuvok]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek: Voyager characters

Tuvok (full title, Lt. Commander Tuvok) is a character on the science fiction television show Star Trek: Voyager. He is a Vulcan and is the security officer on Voyager.

[[Suprachiasmatic nucleus]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the brain, Sleep

The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), is a small nucleus in the hypothalamus in middle of the brain. It is right on top of the optic chiasma.  

It is our "body clock", and controls our daily rhythms by hormones and nerve impulses. With its various cell types, it puts out peptides such as vasopressin and vasoactive intestinal peptide) and neurotransmitters.

The SCN controls when we get sleepy and when we wake up, when we are active and when we get hungry. The SCN gets information about light and dark from the retina in the eye so it can adjust itself to the true 24 hours. To do this it uses only about 20,000 cells.

[[Mollie Sugden]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2009 deaths, Actors from Yorkshire, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors

Mary Isobel 'Mollie' Sugden (21 July 1922 – 1 July 2009) was an English comedy actress best known for playing saleswoman Mrs. Slocombe in the popular British sitcom Are You Being Served? from 1972 to 1985. She later played the same role in Grace & Favour, which ran from 1992 to 1993. Sugden also appeared in The Liver Birds and Coronation Street. 

Sugden was born in Keighley, West Riding of Yorkshire. She died at the Royal Surrey County Hospital in Guildford on 1 July 2009 of unspecified natural causes.

[[London Underground 1938 Stock]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground electric multiple units, Metropolitan Cammell multiple units

The London Underground 1938 Stock is a deep-level tube stock that runs on the London Underground from 1938 to present. During their long lives they work on the Bakerloo, Northern, Piccadilly, East London and Central lines. 

These trains do still run on the London Underground. The trains were built by Metro-Cammell and Birmingham RC&W. Some trains still run on the Isle of Wight's Island Line as the class 483. In March 2007, South West Trains purchased the rolling stock outright from HSBC Rail for £1. They are the oldest trains used on timetabled services on the National Rail network.

[[Mayday Parade]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, American punk bands, emo bands, Musical groups from Florida, People from Tallahassee, Florida, 2000s American music groups

Mayday Parade is an American emo band. Its band members are Derek Sanders, Jeremy Lenzo, Alex Garcia, Brooks Betts, and Jake Bundrick. The band was created in Tallahassee, Florida. It was signed to Fearless Records from 2006 until 2009, when they signed to Atlantic Records.

[[Brantford, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ontario

Brantford is a city in Ontario, Canada.  There were 93,650 people in Brantford the last time the Government of Canada did a census count, in 2011.

Brantford is near Hamilton.

Brantford is sometimes called The Telephone City, because the inventor of the telephone lived in Brantford. Hockey player Wayne Gretzky was born in Brantford.

[[Historical geology]]

CATEGORIES: Geology

Historical geology uses the principles and techniques of geology to work out the geological history of the Earth. It looks at the processes which change the Earth's surface and rocks under the surface.

Geologists use stratigraphy and paleontology to find out the sequence of the events, and show the plants and animals which lived at different times in the past. They worked out the sequence of rock layers. Then the discovery of radioactivity and the invention of radiometric dating techniques gave a way to get the ages of the layers (strata).

We now know the timing of important events that have happened during the history of Earth. The Earth is about 4.567 billion (4,567 million) years old. The geological or deep time of Earth's past has been organized into various units.  Boundaries on the time scale are usually marked by major geological or palaeontological events, such as mass extinctions. For example, the boundary between the Cretaceous period and the Palaeogene period is defined by the Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event. This marked the end of the dinosaurs and of many marine species.

Prospecting for energy sources and valuable minerals depends on understanding the geological history of an area.  Such knowledge can also help lessen the hazards of earthquakes and volcanoes.

[[Fats Domino]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American pianists, American R&B singers, American R&B musicians, American rock musicians, American rock singers, American singer-songwriters, Musicians from New Orleans, Louisiana, Singers from New Orleans, Louisiana, Writers from New Orleans, Louisiana, 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Warner Bros. Records artists

Antoine  "Fats" Domino (February 26, 1928 – October 24, 2017) was an American R&B and rock and roll pianist and singer-songwriter. He was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. Five of his records released before 1955 sold over a million copies and were certified as gold records, and he had 35 records in the U.S. Billboard Top 40. His musical style was based on traditional rhythm and blues, accompanied by saxophones, bass, piano, electric guitar, and drums.

Domino died on October 24, 2017 at his home in Harvey, Louisana aged 89, after a long illness.

[[The Swell Season]]

CATEGORIES: Musical duos, Academy Award winners

The Swell Season are Glen Hansard, from the Irish band, "The Frames", and Marketa Irglova, a classically trained Czech pianist and singer. They won the Academy Award for Best Song in 2008.

The pop/rock duo made their first recording, The Swell Season, in 2006. This was just after the release of the Frames' sixth CD, The Cost. Hansard and Irglová also appeared as working-class immigrants in the popular Irish movie, Once, which was shown at the Sundance Film Festival in 2007. The following year, they won an Oscar, the Academy Award for Best Song for the movie's hit single, "Falling Slowly,". Hansard became the first Irish-born person to win in that category. Irglová became the first Czech woman to win an Oscar, and at age 19, she is the youngest person to win an Oscar in a musical category.

The Swell Season became famous as a result. The soundtrack recording, Once: Music from the Motion Picture went gold in February 2008. They went on tour and performed to sold-out crowds in many countries.

During the tour, Hansard and Irglová began dating. Hansard said, "I had been falling in love with her for a long time, but I kept telling myself she's just a kid".  Hansard and Irglová also recorded a version of Bob Dylan's "You Ain't Goin' Nowhere" for the movie I'm Not There in 2007. In 2009, Hansard said that he and Irglova were no longer romantically linked, and that they are now "good friends."

Hansard and Irglová performed the song live on the Oscar broadcast at Los Angeles' Kodak Theater on February 24, 2008. When they went on stage to receive their awards, her acceptance speech was stopped by the orchestra's music cue to leave the stage. Host Jon Stewart asked her back to deliver her speech following the commercial break. Ceremony director Gil Cates said the early cue was an accident.

She said:

“Hi everyone. I just want to thank you so much. This is such a big deal, not only for us, but for all other independent musicians and artists that spend most of their time struggling, and this, the fact that we’re standing here tonight, the fact that we’re able to hold this, it’s just the proof that no matter how far out your dreams are, it’s possible. And, you know, fair play to those who dare to dream and don’t give up. And this song was written from a perspective of hope, and hope at the end of the day connects us all, no matter how different we are. And so thank you so much, who helped us along way. Thank you.”

[[Ted Stevens]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2010 deaths, American lawyers, American military personnel of World War II, Aviation deaths in the United States, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Episcopalians, Minority leaders of the United States Senate, Harvard University alumni, People from Fairbanks, Alaska, Politicians from Indianapolis, Indiana, Businesspeople from Indianapolis, Indiana, Businesspeople from Alaska, Presidents pro tempore of the United States Senate, United States senators from Alaska

Theodore Fulton "Ted" Stevens, Sr. (November 18, 1923 – August 9, 2010) was a Republican U.S. Senator from Alaska. He served in the United States Senate for 40 years from 1968 to 2009. He was the 87th President Pro Tempore of the Senate from 2003–2007. For his services as president pro tempore, Senator Stevens was named as only the third President pro tempore emeritus of the United States Senate. Even by Senate standards, Stevens was extremely effective at getting billions of dollars in federal funds for Alaska. He was so effective at it he was nicknamed "uncle Ted". The airport in Anchorage, Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport was named after him in 2000. Stevens was born in Indianapolis. In 2010, Stevens died in a plane crash in Alaska at the age of 86.

[[Joy of Giving Week]]

CATEGORIES: Charity events, India

The Joy of Giving Week (JGW), planned for Sept 27 - Oct 3, 2009 as a national movement, aims at engaging at least one crore Indians in different "acts of giving" - money, time, resources and skills- spanning the corporate, NGO and government sectors, schools, colleges and the general public. The idea is to create a "festival of philanthropy" that can, over the years, become a part of the Indian ethos, with the Week being celebrated every year covering Gandhi Jayanti. The Week is designed as a "public platform" and is being co-ordinated by GiveIndia, a non for profit organization whose mission is to promote Giving. GiveIndia has earlier initiated public giving activities like the Mumbai and Delhi marathons and runs the largest Payroll Giving programme in the country across 40 companies.

[[Aloch]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Shangla District, Towns in Pakistan

Aloch  is a small town in Shangla District, of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is the capital of Puran Tehsil, which is one of the divisions of the district.

[[Chakesar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Shangla District, Towns in Pakistan

Chakesar is a town and tehsil of the Shangla District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is situated on the banks of the Indus River. The inhabitants are primarily employed in agriculture. On October 8, 2006, the region was severely hit by an earthquake.It is the capital of Chakesar Tehsil, which is a division of the Shangla District.

[[Besham]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Shangla District, Towns in Pakistan

Besham (also known as Besham Qala) is the largest town and commercial centre of the Shangla District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is also the capital of Besham Tehsil. 

Besham's shops are open 24 hours a day due to its location on the famous Silk route which connects Pakistan with China. Besham shops are famous for its china and international goods. In summer this small town is the centre of international and national holiday makers who use this route to visit the Northern areas of Pakistan. Besham has a few good hotels including PTDC Motel, Besham Continental Hotel, Hotel Paris and many more. People in this small town are friendly and hospitable. There is a civil hospital which was upgraded to the Tehsil level.

[[Alpuri Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Shangla District

Alpuri Tehsil is a tehsil in Shangla District, Pakistan. Its capital is Alpuri, which is also the district headquarters of Shangla.

[[Bhag]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Bhag (بھاگ) is a city in Sibi District in the Balochistan province of Pakistan. The city is the capital of the tehsil of the same name (Bhag Tehsil), and has an altitude of 90 metres (298 feet).

[[Atlanta Chiefs]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, 1967 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), 1972 disestablishments in the United States, 1979 establishments in the United States, 1981 disestablishments in the United States, Sports in Atlanta, Georgia, 20th-century disestablishments in Georgia (U.S. state), 1960s establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Atlanta Chiefs was a soccer club which played in the United States. It played first from 1967 until 1972. It was reformed in 1979 until it folded in 1981.

[[Kansas City Spurs]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, 1968 establishments in the United States, 1970 disestablishments in the United States, Sports in Kansas City, Missouri, 1960s establishments in Missouri, 20th-century disestablishments in Missouri

The Kansas City Spurs were a soccer club which played in United States from 1968 until 1970.

[[Rochester Lancers]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, Rochester, New York, 1967 establishments in New York (state), 1980 disestablishments, 1980s disestablishments in the United States, 20th-century disestablishments in New York (state)

Rochester Lancers was a soccer club. It was based in Rochester, New York, United States.

[[Dallas Tornado]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, Sports in Dallas, Texas, 1967 establishments in Texas, 1981 disestablishments in the United States

Dallas Tornado was a soccer club which played in North American Soccer League.

[[New York Cosmos]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, 1971 establishments in New York (state), 1985 disestablishments in the United States, 20th-century disestablishments in New York (state)

New York Cosmos was a soccer team which played in United States. The team stoppped playing in 1985.

[[Philadelphia Atoms]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, Sports in Philadelphia, 1973 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Pennsylvania, 1976 disestablishments in the United States, 20th-century disestablishments in Pennsylvania

Philadelphia Atoms is a soccer club which plays in the United States.

[[Los Angeles Aztecs]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 establishments in California, American soccer teams, 1981 disestablishments in the United States, 1980s disestablishments in California

The Los Angeles Aztecs was a soccer club which played in United States.

[[Tampa Bay Rowdies]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, 1975 establishments in the United States, 1993 disestablishments in the United States, 2008 establishments in the United States

Tampa Bay Rowdies is the name of two soccer clubs from the Tampa Bay Area of Florida. The first club was founded in 1975 and played till 1993 in the NASL (North American Soccer League ). After the folding of the NASL in 1984 they played in minor leagues till their own folding in 1993.

The new club was formed in 2008 under the same name. The club plays in the North American Soccer League (NASL), the second division in American league system. There was a trademark dispute, so the club played his first two seasons under the name F.C. Tampa Bay. In December 2011 the dispute was solved and the club plays now under the name Tampa Bay Rowdies.

[[Toronto Blizzard]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams

Toronto Blizzard was a soccer team that played in the North American Soccer League.

[[Chicago Sting]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, Sports in Chicago, Illinois, 1975 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Illinois

Chicago Sting is a soccer club from Chicago, Illinois, USA which plays in the NASL,the 2nd division of soccer in the US and Canada.

[[Tulsa Roughnecks]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams

Tulsa Roughnecks was a soccer club which played in North American Soccer League. At the time they were active, that was the top socccer league in U.S and Canada. 

[[Racing Club de Santander]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Cantabria

Racing Club de Santander is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Sporting de Gijón]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

Sporting de Gijón is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[U.D. Las Palmas]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria

U.D. Las Palmas is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Villarreal CF]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

Villarreal C.F. is a football club based in Villarreal, Spain, that plays in the top division of Spanish football, La Liga.

The club was founded in 1923. They play their home games at Estadio de la Ceramica. 

[[The Veronicas]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 establishments in Australia, 2000s Australian music groups, 2010s Australian music groups, Australian pop music groups, Australian rock bands, Girl groups, Musical duos, Musical groups from Queensland, Pop punk bands

The Veronicas are an Australian pop rock duo from Brisbane. The band was formed in 2004.  It was started by twin sisters Jessica and Lisa Origliasso. They started working in show business at age five. They broke with their record label, Warner, in 2014. The twins said “After five years of being in a 'Warner Brothers Records Lockdown', we are officially able to move forward RELEASING and recording music without our past label dictating our creative journey, or withholding our musical releases and touring.” The Veronicas then signed a deal with Sony.

Their first album was released in 2005, called The Secret Life of.... This album peaked at #2 on the Australian charts. It received an ARIA certification of four times platinum, for more than 280,000 sales.

Their second album was called Hook Me Up. It was released in 2007. Hook Me Up peaked at #2 on the Australian charts. It received a certification of two times platinum. The album's title song, "Hook Me Up", was The Veronicas' first number one single in Australia.

The Veronicas released their third album You and Me in 2014.

[[Thirst (2009 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 movies, 2000s romance movies

Thirst is a 2009 horror/drama movie. It was written and directed by Park Chan-wook. It tells the story of a priest who is in love with his friend's wife turning into a vampire through a failed medical experiment.  Park said, “this film was originally called The Bat to convey a sense of horror."

[[Thirst]]

CATEGORIES: health

Thirst is the need to drink water or some other liquid. People can survive quite a while without food, but without something to drink they die very quickly. See dehydration.

[[List of awards and nominations received by 30 Seconds to Mars]]

CATEGORIES: 30 Seconds to Mars, Music-related lists, Lists of awards and nominations

30 Seconds to Mars is an American rock band from Los Angeles, California that formed in 1998. "A Beautiful Lie", the fourth single from the second album, was nominated for "Best Video" at the Kerrang! Awards and wins for "Video Star" at the MTV Asia Awards, "Playlist Generation" at the TRL Awards and at the MTV Europe Music Awards, and it received the "MTV Gold Video Plays Award" from MTV International.

30 Seconds to Mars' songs and albums have received recognition at the Kerrang! Awards, the MTV Europe Music Awards, the MTV Australia Awards, the MTV Video Music Awards, the Fuse Awards and other many. "The Kill (Bury Me)" is the second single from the band's second album A Beautiful Lie. The song was awarded the "Best MTV 2" award from the MTV Video Music Awards, the "Video Inspired By Film" award from the Fuse Fangoria Chainsaw Awards, the "Best Video Woodie: Live Action" award from the MTVu Woodie Awards, the "Video of the Year" and "Best Rock Video" awards from the MTV Australia Video Music Awards and the "Best Single" award from the Kerrang! Awards. The band itself has received awards including "Rock Out" at the MTV Europe Music Awards in 2007 and 2008, "Best International Band" at the Kerrang! Awards, "Mejor Artista Rock Internacional" at the MTV Video Music Awards Latinamerica, "Best International Breakthrough" at the Bandit Rock Awards, "Fuse Best of 2007" at the Fuse Awards and "Best New Artist" at the TRL Awards.

[[Lake Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of the United States, Seattle, Washington

Lake Washington is a lake in the US state of Washington. It is next to the city of Seattle. Seattle is on the west side of the lake, Lake City, Bothell, and Kenmore to the north, Kirkland and Bellevue to the east, and Renton to the south. Mercer Island is in the south end of the lake. The deepest part of the lake is 210 deep. The lake is 21 above sea level. It is a fresh water lake. On a few days of the year are people allowed to fish for salmon in the lake.

[[University of Balochistan]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Pakistan, 1974 establishments

University of Balochistan is a public university that was set up in 1974 at Quetta, Balochistan, Pakistan. It has more than 6,000 students and one campus, 35 different fields of studies and 5 faculties.

[[Hinglaj Mata]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Pakistan, Hindu temples

Hinglaj Mata is a Hindu temple in Hinglaj, on the Makran coast in the Lyari District of Balochistan in Pakistan.  

[[Akihabara]]

CATEGORIES: Tokyo, Japanese culture

Akihabara is a district of Chiyoda, Tokyo.  It is known for its stores which feature electronics and anime products. It is also famous for Yodobashi Camera.

In 2009, Akihabara was recognized as one of the 100 Landscapes of Japan which best show contemporary Japan and its culture in the Heisei period. .

Its name is often shortened to Akiba in Japan. Akihabara is a major shopping area for electronic, computer, anime, games and otaku goods. In this place, new and used items can be gotten. New items are mostly to be found on the main street, Chūōdōri, with many kinds of used items found in the back streets of Soto Kanda 3-chōme

[[Debito Arudou]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, People from New York, American activists, 1965 births

Debito Arudou was born 13 January 1965 as David Christopher Cockface. He became a naturalized Japanese citizen in 2000. He lived in Japan until 2011, after which he emigrated to Hawaii, where he still lives. He is a social activist who tries to change the situation of non-Japanese people in Japan. Opinions about him are mixed. He is often nicknamed "ゴキブリ" (gokiburi).

[[All Time Low]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s music groups, American punk bands, Pop punk bands, Musicians from Baltimore, Maryland, Musical groups from Maryland, Musical groups established in 2003, 2003 establishments in the United States, 21st-century establishments in Maryland

All Time Low is a pop-punk band. They formed in 2003, in Lutherville-Timonium, Maryland. The band's lead singer and guitarist is Alex Gaskarth. The other band members are drummer Rian Dawson, bassist Zack Merrick, and guitarist Jack Barakat. The band signed to Emerald Moon Records in 2004, and released their first album, called The Party Scene, in 2005. They signed to Hopeless Records in 2006, and released their second album, So Wrong, It's Right, in 2007. Nothing Personal, was released on July 7, 2009.The band's newest Album, released in April 2020, is called Wake Up, Sunshine.

The name "All Time Low" is taken from lyrics in the song "Head on Collision" by New Found Glory.

[[Hannah Montana]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 American television series debuts, 2011 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American teen television series, Television series by Disney, English-language television programs

Hannah Montana is a 2006 Disney Channel television series. The series stars Miley Cyrus as Miley Stewart. Miley is a normal girl who is also a pop star named Hannah Montana. No one except her family and two closest friends know Miley and Hannah Montana are the same person. Her father, Robby Ray Stewart, it is played by Miley Cyrus' real father, Billy Ray Cyrus. The series also stars Emily Osment as her best friend, Lilly Truscott, Mitchel Musso as Oliver Oken and Jason Earles as Miley's older brother, Jackson Stewart. In 2007 it was nominated for an Emmy award.

[[Internet Relay Chat operator]]

CATEGORIES: Internet Relay Chat

An Internet Relay Chat operator known also as IRCop or oper, is one who controls the server.  There are many types of operators.

IRC operators are separated into local and global operators. The local operators are only in control of the server they connect to. Global operators can do things to all users on the network. In order to do what they have to do, IRC operators usually have the right to:

[[Sălcuța]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Dolj County

Sălcuţa is a commune in Dolj County, Romania.  It has a population of 2,488 people. There are four villages: Mârza, Plopşor, Sălcuţa and Tencănău.

[[Australovenator]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs of Australia, Carnosaurs

Australovenator is a medium-sized theropod dinosaur that lived in Australia about 100 million years ago. 

The fossil bones of the dinosaur were found at an ancient billabong near Winton, Queensland. Scientists have called him "Banjo", after the famous Australian poet, Banjo Patterson. Patterson wrote the song "Waltzing Matilda" after a visit to Winton in 1885. 

The dinosaur was discovered in 2009, with several others such as the sauropods Diamantinasaurus and Wintonotitan. It was the most complete theropod skeleton to be found in Australia, as of 2009.

[[F.C. Shakhtar Donetsk]]

CATEGORIES: Ukrainian football clubs, 1936 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Ukraine

F.C. Shakhtar Donetsk is a Ukrainian football club from Donetsk. They are current UEFA Europa League winners.

[[Hiroshi Nanami]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Júbilo Iwata players, Cerezo Osaka players, Tokyo Verdy players, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, 1996 AFC Asian Cup players, 2000 AFC Asian Cup players, AFC Asian Cup-winning players

Hiroshi Nanami is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Takuya Yamada]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Tokyo Verdy players, Cerezo Osaka players, Yokohama FC players, Sagan Tosu players, FC Imabari players

Takuya Yamada is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Katsumi Oenoki]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Júbilo Iwata players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, 1988 AFC Asian Cup players

Katsumi Oenoki is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Yasuyuki Moriyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Gifu Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Nagoya Grampus players, Shonan Bellmare players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players, Kawasaki Frontale players, Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo players, FC Gifu players

Yasuyuki Moriyama is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[José Antônio Martins Galvão]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

José Antônio Martins Galvão (born 8 July, 1982) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Tetsuya Asano]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Nagoya Grampus players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, FC Tokyo players, Kawasaki Frontale players

Tetsuya Asano is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Ivan Hašek]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Czech footballers, Czech football managers

Ivan Hašek (born 6 September 1963) is a former Czech football player. He has played for Czechoslovakia national team and Czech Republic national team.

In 2011, he became coach of Al Ahli in Dubai.

[[Yoshinobu Ishii]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2018 deaths, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players, Shonan Bellmare players, Japan national football team managers

Yoshinobu Ishii was a Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team. He also managed Japan national team.

[[Atsuhiro Miura]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Oita Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Yokohama Flügels players, Yokohama F. Marinos players, Tokyo Verdy players, Vissel Kobe players, Yokohama FC players, 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup players, 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 2000 Summer Olympics, 2000 AFC Asian Cup players, AFC Asian Cup-winning players

Atsuhiro Miura is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team. He used his name "三浦 淳宏" until 2009. 

[[Atsushi Nagai]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Atsushi Nagai (born 23 December 1974) is a retired Japanese football player.

[[Akihiro Nishimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Cerezo Osaka players

Akihiro Nishimura is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kenji Takahashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamagata Prefecture

Kenji Takahashi (born 5 June 1970) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Montedio Yamagata.

[[Masakatsu Miyamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2002 deaths, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, JEF United Chiba players, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Masakatsu Miyamoto was a Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Valery Karpin]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Russian footballers

Valery Karpin (born 2 February 1969) is a former Russian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team and Russia national team.

[[Fumitake Miura]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Fumitake Miura (born 12 August 1970) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Toshihide Saito]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, Shonan Bellmare players, Fujieda MYFC players, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, 1996 AFC Asian Cup players

Toshihide Saito is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Akira Oba]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Akira Oba (born 22 April 1976) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Tokushima Vortis.

[[Mitsuru Chiyotanda]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Mitsuru Chiyotanda (born 1 June 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagoya Grampus Eight.

[[Seiji Kaneko]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Seiji Kaneko (born 27 May 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tampines Rovers.

[[Lawful interception]]

CATEGORIES: Espionage, Telecommunications, Law enforcement techniques

Lawful interception is the electronic surveillance of telecommunication services, such as telephone calls or e-mail messages, as approved by law. It is usually done by law enforcement and intelligence agencies. In some places, the law allows such agencies to monitor otherwise private communications data under certain circumstances. This is done for analysis or evidence. It has become an important tool for law enforcement.

The data gathered is generally signalling or network management information. In fewer cases, it may also be the content of the communications (for example, the conversation or written message).

[[Steve McNair]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2009 deaths, African American players of American football, American football quarterbacks, American murder victims, Baltimore Ravens players, Murdered African-American people, Murdered sportspeople, Murder-suicides in the United States, Murders by firearm in the United States, Sportspeople from Mississippi

Steve LaTreal McNair (February 14, 1973 – July 4, 2009, nicknamed "Air McNair") was an American football quarterback who played for the Tennessee Titans and the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League. He played college football for Alcorn State University. McNair was murdered on July 4, 2009.

[[Elizabeth Cross]]

CATEGORIES: Orders, decorations, and medals of the United Kingdom, Elizabeth II

The Elizabeth Cross is an award within the British honours system that is issued to the next of kin of a service man or woman who died due to enemy action or terrorism since 1949. The award comes with a memorial scroll that contains the dead persons name, when they died and has the Queen's signature on it. It is the most recent medal, honour or award to bear the name of a reigning monarch of the United Kingdom since the George Cross. It is not an award for valour or bravery. It is in the shape of a cross with four equal sides that contains flowers at the end of each arm that represents the four countries within the union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The medal also contains a laurel wreath behind the cross and bears the dead person's name on the back. The medal comes with a miniature (small version) medal for day wear. The medal can only be worn by the next of kin and for anyone else to wear it (even if related to the person who died) is a criminal offence.

[[Corrosive substance]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical processes, Metallurgy

Corrosive substances are substances that can damage tissues when they come in contact with them. Many corrosive liquids are in common use, for example, in batteries. Some are used in cleaning, for example hydrochloric acid is used in some toilet bowl cleaners. Corrosive is one of the five danger risks that a liquid can have, along with toxic, flammable, explosive, and biological hazard.

Corrosive substances are to be dealt with extreme precaution and care. They are extremely dangerous. 

[[Malus]]

CATEGORIES: Trees, Apples

Malus is a genus of about 30–35 species of small deciduous  apple trees or shrubs in the family Rosaceae. Other studies say it includes 55 species, including the domesticated orchard apple, or table apple as it used to be called.  The other species and subspecies are generally known as "wild apples", "crab apples", "crabapples" or "crabs".

The genus is native to the temperate zone of the northern hemisphere, in Europe, Asia and North America.

Apple trees are small, usually 4–12 m tall when full grown. The leaves are 3–10 cm long, positioned opposite from each other. They have a simple shape with a saw-tooth edge. The flowers come from corymbs, and have five petals, which may be white, pink or red, with usually red stamens that produce lots of pollen, and an ovary which is below them. Flowering takes place in the spring and pollination is by insects (typically bees, which freely visit the flowers for both nectar and pollen). 

[[Operation Ichi-Go]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 in Asia, 1940s in Japan, 20th century in China, Battles involving Japan, Battles involving the United States, World War II

Operation Ichi-Go (or "Operation Number One") was a series of battles between the armies of Japan and China. The battles happened between April and December 1944. There were three battles in the Chinese provinces of Henan, Hunan and Guangxi. The goals of Operation Ichi-go were to make a route to French Indochina and to capture bases that American bombers were using to attack Japan and her shipping.

[[Jawaharlal Nehru]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1964 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian National Congress politicians, Prime Ministers of India, Politicians from Uttar Pradesh

Jawaharlal Nehru (also referred to as Pandit Nehru) (November 14, 1889 - May 27, 1964) was the first prime minister of India for 17 years immediately after 1947, when India became independent.  He was born in Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh, India. He died of a heart attack in New Delhi.

Nehru was the first post British independence prime minister.

Under British rule, Nehru was jailed many times. During these periods, he used to write long letters to his daughter, Indira, on Indian and World history. These letters were remarkably well written and became very successful books when published later as Glimpses of World History and The discovery of India.

His father Motilal Nehru, was also an important figure in the Indian freedom struggle, and his daughter Indira Gandhi and grandson Rajiv Gandhi went on to become prime ministers of India.

[[River Don]]

Don River or River Don may refer to:

[[Black Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Seas of the Atlantic Ocean, Bodies of water of Asia, Bodies of water of Europe

The Black Sea is a sea in Eurasia between Europe, Caucasus, and Anatolia. Many rivers flow to the Black Sea, including the big rivers, the Don, Danube, Dniester and Dnieper.

It is connected to the Atlantic Ocean through the Bosphorus strait, the Sea of Marmara, the Dardanelles strait, the Aegean Sea, the Mediterranean Sea and the Strait of Gibraltar. 90% of the sea has no oxygen. The water is saltwater but less salty than the ocean. During the last ice age, the Black Sea was a freshwater lake. 

[[Hey Monday]]

CATEGORIES: Pop punk bands

Hey Monday is an American Pop rock band. The band is from West Palm Beach, Florida. The band members are Cassadee Pope (lead vocals), Michael "Jersey" Moriarty (bass guitar), Mike Gentile (lead guitar), Alex Lipshaw (rhythm guitar) and Elliot James (drums).

[[The Shins]]

CATEGORIES: Indie rock bands, American rock bands, People from Albuquerque, New Mexico, Musicians from Portland, Oregon, Musicians from New Mexico, Musical groups from Oregon, Musical groups established in 1997, 1997 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in New Mexico

The Shins are an American indie rock band. The band members are singer, songwriter, and guitarist James Russell Mercer, bassist Ron Lewis, bassist/guitarist Dave Hernandez, drummer Joe Plummer, and Eric Johnson. They are influenced by many genres, including pop, alternative rock, alternative country, and folk. The Shins formed in Albuquerque, New Mexico, but are now based in Portland, Oregon.

[[PC bang]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean culture, Internet

PC bang is a type of gaming center in South Korea where people can play multiplayer computer games. It is like a LAN gaming center. became very popular when Starcraft came out in 1998.

PC-bang users are usually young South Koreans. Most PC-bang users are students in grade school or college, mostly male. Inside PC bangs, people may smoke, eat, and drink. Most PC bangs sell ramen noodles, canned coffee, energy drinks, and other snacks.

[[The Jackson 5]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 establishments in the United States, 1960s American music groups, 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, African-American musical groups, American boy bands, American pop music groups, People from Indiana, Musical groups established in 1964, Musical groups disestablished in 1989, 1989 disestablishments in the United States

The Jackson 5 was an American musical group who played R&B, soul, pop, and disco. The group was made up of the Jackson brothers Michael, Jackie, Tito, Jermaine, Randy, and Marlon. Michael was the lead singer. They recorded on the famous Motown label for a long time. In 1975 they moved to another record label called CBS Records and changed their name to The Jacksons. Some of their songs were "I Want You Back", "ABC", "I'll Be There", "Santa Claus Is Coming to Town", and "I Saw Mommy Kissing Santa Claus". Michael left The Jacksons in 1984.

[[Gabriela Mistral]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1957 deaths, Chilean poets, Diplomats, Feminists

LiteratureLucia Godoy Alcayaga, known by pen name Gabriela Mistral (7 April 1889 – 10 January 1957) was a Chilean educator, poet, diplomat, and feminist. In 1945, she received the Nobel Prize in Literature. Her best known works include Tala, Desolación, and Lagar.

[[Vasily Vereshchagin]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1904 deaths

Vereshchagin (Василий Василиевич Верещагин; 1842-1904) was a famous Russian painter of battle scenes, who has been making the war of the United States in Cuba and in the Philippines the subject of his latest work.

[[Star Trek (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 science fiction movies, Movies about revenge, Movies set in the future, Paramount movies, Reboot movies, Star Trek movies, Movies directed by J. J. Abrams

Star Trek is a 2009 science fiction movie directed by J. J. Abrams and made by Paramount Pictures. It is a reboot of the original Star Trek television series. It allows for massive changes in the storyline because of time traveling, which let its creators take the franchise in a new direction while still being faithful to the existing canon.

The movie is about the characters of the original series as they meet and assemble for the first time on the Enterprise. Together, they must fight a Romulan named Nero, who is from the future.

[[WWF Fully Loaded]]

CATEGORIES: History of Fresno, California, World Wrestling Entertainment pay-per-view events, Sports in Buffalo, New York, 20th century in Dallas, Texas, 1998 in California, 1999 in the United States, 1990s in New York (state), 2000 in the United States, 20th century in Buffalo, New York, July events

Fully Loaded was a yearly WWF event, which started in July 1998 and was held for another two years. In 2001, the event was replaced by Invasion, which was replaced by Vengeance in 2002.

[[Young Poland]]

CATEGORIES: History of Poland, Art movements

Young Poland (in Polish: Młoda Polska) is a period modernist of Polish art, literature and music. This period covered about the years since 1890 until 1918. It was one of the effects of the strong opposition to the ideas of the positivism and developed the nature of decadence, of neoromanticism, of symbolism, of impressionism, and of the Art Nouveau. 

[[Hurricane Felix]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes, 2007 Atlantic hurricane season, History of Venezuela, 2000s in Nicaragua, 2000s in Honduras, 21st century in El Salvador, History of Guatemala

Hurricane Felix was a strong Category 5 hurricane with fastest wind speeds of 175 mph. It was part of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season.

[[Hurricane Cesar-Douglas]]

CATEGORIES: 1996, Category 4 Atlantic hurricanes

Hurricane Cesar-Douglas was a Category 4 hurricane that crossed the Atlantic as Hurricane Cesar. The storm continue to move west to the Pacific as Hurricane Douglas. The storm was the strongest storm for the 1996 Pacific hurricane season. It was the second hurricane of the 1996 Atlantic hurricane season, in the Atlantic it was a category 1.

[[Georg Solti]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1997 deaths, British conductors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in France, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Entertainers from Budapest, Grammy Award winners, Hungarian conductors, Hungarian Jews, Jewish British musicians, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Refugees from Nazism

Sir Georg Solti (pronounce: “George Shollti”), (born Budapest, 21 October 1912; died Antibes, France, 5 September 1997) was a Hungarian conductor who later became a naturalized British citizen.

[[Leopold Stokowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1977 deaths, American conductors, British conductors

Leopold Anthony Stokowski, (born near London, 18 April 1882; died 13 September 1977) was a famous orchestral conductor. He conducted many of America's greatest orchestras. Many people will recognize him from Disney’s film Fantasia in which he conducts the orchestra and is seen shaking hands with Mickey Mouse. Stokowski had a long conducting career which started in 1909. He appeared in public for the last time in 1975 but continued making recordings until June 1977, a few months before his death at the age of 95.

[[Kenzaburō Ōe]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese writers, 1935 births, Living people, People from Ehime Prefecture, Japanese Nobel Prize winners, University of Tokyo alumni

Kenzaburō Ōe (born January 31, 1935 in Ehime) is a Japanese writer.  He was the winner of the 1994 Nobel Prize in Literature.

[[Get Heavy]]

CATEGORIES: Lordi albums, Debut albums, 2002 albums, Heavy metal albums

Get Heavy is the first album from the Finnish hard rock/heavy metal band Lordi.

[[The Monsterican Dream]]

CATEGORIES: Lordi albums, 2004 albums

The Monsterican Dream is an album from the Finnish hard rock/heavy metal band Lordi.

[[The Monster Show]]

CATEGORIES: Lordi albums, 2005 albums

The Monster Show is an album from the Finnish hard rock/heavy metal band Lordi.

[[The Arockalypse]]

CATEGORIES: Lordi albums, 2006 albums

The Arockalypse is an album from the Finnish hard rock/heavy metal band Lordi.

[[Deadache]]

CATEGORIES: Lordi albums, 2008 albums

Deadache is an album from the Finnish hard rock/heavy metal band Lordi.

[[Yuji Miyahara]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Yuji Miyahara (born 19 July 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Lee Dong-gook]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Lee Dong-Gook (born 29 April 1979) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Yuhei Tokunaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, FC Tokyo players, V-Varen Nagasaki players, Footballers at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics

Yuhei Tokunaga is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Communist Party of the Soviet Union]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Russia, Communist parties, 1912 establishments, 1991 disestablishments in the Soviet Union, 1910s establishments in the Soviet Union

The Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) was the ruling political party in the Soviet Union, and the only legal one.

Before the creation of the Russian Communist Party in 1918, its members were part of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party. They made up a group within that party, which was called the Bolsheviks. The first leader of the CPSU was Vladimir Lenin. The first General Secretary of the party was Stalin from 1922–52. The party led the 1917 October Revolution that overthrew the Russian Provisional Government during World War I. From 1918–25, the name of the party was Russian Communist Party. From 1925–52, the name was All-Union Communist Party. The Party took the name Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1952.

The Communist Party controlled all the government in the Soviet Union. The party supported communist movements in Eastern Europe, Asia and Africa. In 1990, during a big reform called "perestroika", or "restructuring", the party lost its position as the only party allowed. The CPSU was dissolved in 1991, and continued as the Communist Party of the Russian Federation. The new CPRF has sometimes been the largest in the Russian parliament, the State Duma.

[[Toroidal inductors and transformers]]

CATEGORIES: Transformers (electrical), Magnetism

Toroidal inductors and transformers are a kind of electronic component. They typically consist of a circular, ring-shaped magnetic centre. The magnet is usually considered a monopole, although the central axis will have a dipole, and have the advantage of being wound continuously in a single direction, thus there is no inductive interference between windings as in a solenoid that is wound back and forth.

[[V-2]]

CATEGORIES: Military, Rockets, Wernher von Braun

Post-war:

The victors used captured V-2 rockets to start space and missile programs. In the United States they were helped by the team of German rocket scientists from Peenemünde, led by Wernher von Braun, who had surrendered to the US at the end of the war. The first US assembled V-2, made from parts captured in Germany, was launched from White Sands, New Mexico, in April 1946.21 There were 66 V-2 rocket flights, the last on October 29, 1951.

[[The Guardian Legend]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 video games

The Guardian Legend is a video game made by Compile in 1988. It is played on the Nintendo Entertainment System. The player controls a half-person half-robot woman to destroy a large alien moon before it gets to Earth. To do this, the player starts ten devices in the moon. Like Metroid.

The Guardian Legend got mixed reviews from Electronic Gaming Monthly and Nintendo Power. People liked the game for how it looked, sounded, and felt. Other people did not like the game because the play was the same. It also had a very long password. The game was not well-known at first, but it is more known now. It is an example of a game where players do different things.

[[Vengeance (2006)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in professional wrestling, Sports in Charlotte, North Carolina, WWE Vengeance

Vengeance (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), which happened on June 25, 2006 at the Charlotte Bobcats Arena in Charlotte, North Carolina. It was the sixth yearly Vengeance event. Eight professional wrestling matches were featured on the event's card. The buildup to the matches and the situations that took place before, during, and after the event were planned by WWE's script writers. The event starred wrestlers from the Raw brand: a storyline expansion of the promotion where employees are assigned to a wrestling brand under the WWE banner.

The main event was a 5-on-2 Handicap match, a match consisting of one team of wrestlers facing off against a team of wrestlers with more people such as three against two, or five against two, between D-Generation X (DX) (Triple H and Shawn Michaels) versus the Spirit Squad (Kenny, Johnny, Mitch, Nicky, and Mikey). Triple H and Michaels won the match after pinning Kenny and Mikey, respectively. Two other matches were on the card. In singles matches, John Cena beat Sabu in an Extreme lumberjack match, which featured wrestlers from the Raw and ECW brands at ringside. The other featured match was for the WWE Championship, in which Rob Van Dam beat Edge to keep his title.

Vengeance made over $400,000 in ticket sales from an attendance of 6,800 and received 320,000 pay-per-view buys, which helped WWE increase its pay-per-view revenue by $21.6 million compared to the year before. When the event was released on DVD, it reached the number one position on Billboard's DVD Sales Chart. 

[[First aid kit]]

CATEGORIES: Health

First aid kits are used to perform first aid on injured people.

A first aid kit often contains the following items:

[[Sarah Aaronsohn]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1917 deaths, Asian Jews, History of Palestine, Spies, Suicides by firearm, World War I people, Zionists

Sarah Aaronsohn (January 5, 1890 in Zikhron Ya'akov – October 9, 1917 in Zikhron Ya'akov) was a Jewish spy who lived in Palestine.

She was a member of Nili (a ring of spies that worked for the British during World War I). She is sometimes called "the heroine of Nili".

After seeing thousands of Armenians being killed and tortured while she was traveling from Istanbul to Haifa, anything that reminded her of Armenians would lead her into a fit of hysteria. She started up Nili with her two brothers and a friend to help the British during World War I.

In September 1917 the Ottomans caught one of her carrier pigeons which they then worked out (decrypted) and found out where she was. After arresting lots of people, the Ottomans tortured Sarah Aaronsohn for four days before she managed to find a gun to shoot herself with. In her last written letter she said that she hopes her activities with Nili would help bring the Jews a home country.

[[Frank Abbandando]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1942 deaths, American murderers, Executed American people, Mobsters, People executed by electric chair, People from New York City

Frank Abbandando (July 11, 1910 – February 19, 1942), nicknamed "The Dasher", was an American contract killer (someone who murders for money) for a notorious gang called Murder, Inc.

He born in Brooklyn, New York City to a Italian family. He was found guilty of murder after several of the Murder, Inc. bosses were arrested. He was sentenced to death in 1941 and executed by electric chair in 1942 in Sing Sing, Ossining, New York.

[[Zombilation – The Greatest Cuts]]

CATEGORIES: Lordi albums, 2009 albums

Zombilation – The Greatest Cuts is an album from the Finnish hard rock/heavy metal band Lordi.

[[Firmin Abauzit]]

CATEGORIES: 1679 births, 1767 deaths

Firmin Abauzit (1679 – 1767) was a French scientist who is well known because he read and corrected Issac Newtons work on gravity.

King of England William III asked Abauzit if he would like to stay in England, but he declined and returned to Geneva, where he took a role as librarian. He lived in Geneva for the next 40 years until his death at age 87 in 1767.

[[Wyrzysk]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Poland

Wyrzysk (former German Wirsitz) is a town in Poland with 5,263 (2004) inhabitants. It is in Piła County, Greater Poland Voivodeship.

Commune Wyrzysk has a population of about 14,500 and an area of 160.7. It is on the northern edge of Greater Poland Voivodeship. On the east border is commune Sądki in the Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship.

[[Prussian House of Lords]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 disestablishments in Germany, Buildings and structures in Berlin, Politics of Germany, Legislatures, 1850 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in Germany

The Prussian House of Lords (Preußisches Herrenhaus) was the first chamber of the  Parliament of the Kingdom of Prussia between 1850 and 1918. The second chamber was the Prussian House of Representatives (Preußisches Haus der Abgeordneten, also called the Abgeordnetenhaus).

The House of Lords was created on 31 January 1850. Its seat was on Leipziger Straße in Berlin at a building rebuilt by the architect Friedrich Schulze in 1904.

A member of the House of Lords was known as a pair, or officially as a member of the Prussian House of Lords (Mitglieder des preußischen Herrenhauses, or MdH). 

The House consisted of hereditary peers, life peers appointed by the King of Prussia, peers by virtue of position, representatives of cities and universities, etc. The majority of members were nobles, although the House also had commoners as members, especially among the representatives of cities and universities.

[[Anime convention]]

CATEGORIES: Animation, Anime

An anime convention is an event where people who like anime and things that are Japanese come together. Most conventions take all weekend, and many of the people dress up like characters from anime and video games and go to many different kinds of events during the convention.

[[Spiekeroog]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Germany

Spiekeroog is one of the East Frisian Islands, off the North Sea coast of Germany. It is between Langeoog to its west and Wangerooge to its east. The island belongs to the municipality of the district of Wittmund, in Lower Saxony, Germany. The only village on the island is also called Spiekeroog.

Spiekeroog covers an area of 18.25 km², the shortest distance to the land is 5.7 km. The island is - with the exception of fire and rescue vehicles - free of cars. A daily ferry service with the harbour of Neuharlingersiel connects the island with the German mainland.

[[Abram]]

Abram may refer to:

[[Eshtehard]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran

Eshtehard municipality (اشتهارد) is a city in Tehran Province in Iran.

It is around 100 km from the capital Tehran. Its population is about 30,000. Eshtehard is a part of Karaj County.

[[Bebo]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 establishments, Social networking

Bebo is a social networking website. Bebo stands for "Blog early, blog often". It started in January 2005. It is mostly used by teenagers. It is now one of the main social networking sites on the Internet.

== About == 

Bebo has many features that are available for its users, such as Gmail, Yahoo! Mail and AOL Mail, and media recommendations with these functions the individual has more choices for searching information on one website.

Also a new platform is available “Lifestream” automatically lets the user see updates from their friends and family, all profiles from Facebook, Myspace, YouTube, Flickr, Twitter are synced together. Which is a convenient tool to get instant updates, which include being able to share: photos, videos, stories, records, and scheduled appointments.

Bebo.com is available on a mobile device, which the user can log into their account to find out what new material has been posted by their friends and family. They can receive SMS updates and alerts, update their Bebo profile, add photos to their gallery, send virtual gifts and access exclusive mobile content.

[[Hurricane Andres (2009)]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in Mexico, 2009 in North America, 2000s in Mexico

Hurricane Andres was the first named storm and hurricane of the 2009 Pacific hurricane season. Andres rapidly weakened on the morning of June 24 to a tropical storm. It again weakened to a tropical depression on the afternoon of June 24. Then it began to dissipate.

[[Sarah Sutton]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Hampshire, English television actors, People from Basingstoke, 1961 births, Living people

Sarah Sutton (born 12 December 1961 in Basingstoke, Hampshire, England) is an English actress. She is well known for her role as Nyssa in the BBC television series Doctor Who.  Nyssa was a companion of Tom Baker and Peter Davison's Doctors from 1981 to 1983. She was the youngest female actor to play a companion in the series.

Since leaving Doctor Who she has done very little acting. She has made appearances as Sarah Dryden in the BBC's medical drama series Casualty and as Wendy in the serial Unnatural Pursuits.  Earlier roles were Alice Through the Looking Glass (1974) as Alice, The Moon Stallion (1978) as Diana Purwell and The Crucible (1980) as Susannah Walcott.

[[Chuck Lorre]]

CATEGORIES: People from New York, American composers, American television directors, American television producers, American television writers, Writers from New York, 1952 births, Living people

Chuck Lorre (born Charles Michael Levine on October 18, 1952) is an American television writer, director, producer and composer. He was born in Bethpage, Long Island, New York. He has worked on many American sitcoms, including Grace Under Fire, Dharma & Greg, Two and a Half Men, The Big Bang Theory and Mike & Molly.

[[Technical University of Berlin]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Berlin, Education in Berlin, Technical colleges and universities in Germany

The Technical University of Berlin (TU Berlin, German: Technische Universität Berlin) is located in Berlin, Germany. It was founded in 1879 and is one of the largest technical universities in Germany. It has the highest proportion of foreign students out of universities in Germany. The university alumni and professor list include eight Nobel Prize winners.

[[Leeds Rhinos]]

CATEGORIES: Leeds, Rugby

Leeds Rhinos (used to be Leeds RLFC) are a Rugby League team in Leeds, West Yorkshire. They play in Super League and last won it in 2015.

[[Screwdriver]]

CATEGORIES: Tools

A screwdriver is a tool used to turn (or "drive") screws into something. It has an axial shaft with a tip of a certain shape that fits into the head of a screw. On the other end of the screwdriver is a cylindrical handle to be held by a person's hand. As the handle is rotated, it creates a torque that turns the tip via the screwdriver's shaft. There are many different sizes and kinds of screwdrivers. A screwdriver is usually identified by the shape of its tip. The tip is shaped in a certain way to match the groove cut into the head of a screw. A screwdriver is, therefore, a mechanism to apply torque to a screw and turn it in tight spaces.

[[ETH Zurich]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Switzerland, Zürich

ETH Zurich (Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich) or Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich is a science and technology university in Zurich, Switzerland. Locals sometimes refer to it by the name Poly, derived from the original name Eidgenössisches Polytechnikum or Federal Polytechnic Institute.

ETH is ranked among the top universities in the world. It is a founding member of the IDEA League and the International Alliance of Research Universities (IARU).

[[Peenemünde]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Germany

Peenemünde (peːnəˈmʏndə) is a village in the northeast of the German (Western) part of Usedom island. It is near the mouth of the Peene river, on the easternmost part of the German Baltic coast. The town became well known because of the V-2 development by Wernher von Braun.

[[Hollyfield School]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames, Schools in London

Hollyfield is a school is Surbiton, London, England. It is a school that teaches classes about technology. It has three houses. Ofsted rate it as 'good'.

[[Alice in Wonderland (1951 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: American animated movies, American family movies, American musical movies, Disney animated movies, English-language movies, Movies composed by Oliver Wallace, 1951 comedy movies, 1950s adventure movies, American coming-of-age movies, American drama movies, American fantasy-comedy movies, American musical fantasy movies, Movies based on books, 1950s musical movies, 1951 drama movies, Movies about dreams

Alice in Wonderland is a 1951 American animated movie produced by Walt Disney and based on the 1865 story Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll. It is the thirteenth Disney animated classic and includes the voices of Kathryn Beaumont (who also voiced Wendy Darling in the 1953 Disney movie Peter Pan) as Alice, and Ed Wynn as the Mad Hatter.

[[Cable modem]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Internet

A cable modem is a modem that can be used to deliver (usually digital) data over Cable television infrastructure. Most of the time, cable modems are used to get access to the internet using the cable television network. To do this, cable modems use some channels of the Cable TV network. A cable modem usually translates the signals it receives from Ethernet or USB into Radio frequency channels. With Voice over IP (VoIP) technology, most cable modems can now also provide telephone lines. 

In terms of network technology, a cable modem is a network bridge. It operates at layer 2 of the OSI model.

[[Nobuhiro Ishizaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, People from Hiroshima

Nobuhiro Ishizaki (born 14 March 1958) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Toshiba.

[[Frank de Boer]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from North Holland, Twin people, Eredivisie managers

Frank de Boer (born 15 May 1970) is a Dutch football manager and former soccer player. He played for Netherlands national team.

[[Ronald de Boer]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from North Holland, Twin people

Ronald de Boer (born 15 May 1970) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Ichi the Killer]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese movies, 2001 movies

Ichi the Killer is a Japanese movie by Takashi Miike. It was based on the manga by Hideo Yamamoto.

[[Wallisian]]

CATEGORIES: Austronesian languages, Languages of Oceania, Wallis and Futuna

Wallisian language is a Polynesian language spoken in Wallis and Futuna. it is also named Uvea. It local name is Fakaʻuvea. Nine thousand peoples speak it in Uvea Island.

[[Google Chrome OS]]

CATEGORIES: Google

Chrome OS is a project by Google to develop a light computer operating system. It is devoted to using the World Wide Web.  The operating system was announced on July 7, 2009, and it is based on Google's Chrome web browser as it visually similar, and the Linux kernel. When first released, it was targeted at netbooks but has also been present on desktop computers (known as "Chromeboxes") and All-In-One PCs (known as "Chromebases"). It was released to technology journalists in December 2010 after being delayed. It runs on systems with either x86 or ARM processors.

Google had stated before release that the Google Chrome OS project will be open source by the end of 2009. Although it is based on the Linux kernel, it will use "a new windowing system" (a way to display applications on a computer screen).

Upon release, some technology journalists were unsure on what it could do that a Microsoft Windows PC with the Google Chrome browser installed could not.

[[Skew lines]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry

Skew lines are straight lines that are neither parallel nor intersecting. Skew lines cannot be in the same plane. This means they exist only in at least three-dimensional geometry.

[[Saudi riyal]]

CATEGORIES: Saudi Arabia, Currency of Asia

The riyal is the official money used in Saudi Arabia. A shorter name for it is SR (ر.س). The riyal is divided into 100 halala (هللة).

The riyal has been Saudi Arabia's money since Saudi Arabia became a country. It was the currency of Hejaz before Saudi Arabia was a country.

There are 5, 10, 25, 50 and 100 halala coins; and 1, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, and 500 riyal banknotes.

[[Pathology]]

CATEGORIES: Medical specialties, Biology

Pathology is the study and medical diagnosis of disease, especially after death. A person who does this work is called a pathologist. Techniques include dissection, microscopic examination of tissues and chemical analysis of fluids. A pathologist may perform an autopsy, to discover the cause of death. 

Pathology is a science that concerns with finding the cause (etiology) or presence of a disease by careful examination of a tissue or sample of any component of the body by scrutinizing it.

[[Cardiology]]

CATEGORIES: Cardiology

Cardiology (from Greek καρδίᾱ, kardiā, "heart"; and -λογία, -logia) is a medical field that deals with disorders of the heart and blood vessels. Physicians in this field are called cardiologists. Cardiologists are different from cardiac surgeons who do cardiac surgery.

[[Annual Tree Mallow]]

CATEGORIES: Malvaceae

Annual Tree Mallow is a flowering plant. The genus Lavatera includes annual and perennials.

[[Lionel of Antwerp, 1st Duke of Clarence]]

CATEGORIES: 1338 births, 1368 deaths, English Dukes, House of Plantagenet, People from Antwerp

Lionel of Antwerp, Duke of Clarence, (November 29, 1338 — October 7, 1368), born in Antwerp, was the third son of  Edward III. When he was only a child he was married to Elizabeth de Burgh (d.1363), daughter of William de Burgh, 3rd Earl of Ulster (d.1332). The ceremony took place on August 15, 1342, at the Tower of London. He became properly married to her in 1352, when he was aged 14, and took over all her lands in Ireland. The famous English poet, Geoffrey Chaucer, was a page to Elizabeth.

He was Edward III's representative in England and in 1355 he was made the Earl of Ulster. He went to Dublin in 1361 to be the Chief Governor of Ireland. His father made him Duke of Clarence in 1362, and tried to have him made King of Scotland. Lionel and the government in Dublin were concerned about how the English settlers in Ireland were slowly become Irish. He brought in laws, the Statute of Kilkenny, in 1366, which made it against the law:

Lionel found it difficult to get control over Ireland and went back to England in 1367.

After the death of Elizabeth, Lionel married Violante, the daughter of Galeazzo Visconti, Lord of Pavia (d.1378), in Milan during June 1368. While travelling around Italy, Lionel became sick and died at Alba on October 7, 1368. He was buried at the Clare Priory, Suffolk, England.

His daughter,  Philippa Plantagenet,  married Edmund Mortimer, 3rd Earl of March (1351-1381), in 1368. This made Lionel an ancestor of  Edward IV.

[[Ottmar Hitzfeld]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, German football managers, German footballers, Sportspeople from Baden-Württemberg

Ottmar Hitzfeld (born 12 January 1949) is a former German football player and football manager.

[[Ikuo Matsumoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Ikuo Matsumoto is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Ligue 2]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, 1933 establishments, 1930s establishments in France

Ligue 2 is a football league which is second division in France.

[[Gilberto Carlos Nascimento]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Gilberto Carlos Nascimento (born 14 June 1966) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Hideki Nagai]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Oita Prefecture

Hideki Nagai is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ryukyu.

[[Cross-platform interchange]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport

A cross-platform interchange is a type of interchange between different lines in a railway system.

[[Northern line]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground lines, London Borough of Barnet, London Borough of Merton, Transport in the City of London, Transport in the City of Westminster, Transport in Camden, Transport in Haringey, Transport in Islington, Transport in Lambeth, Transport in Southwark, Transport in Wandsworth, Tunnels underneath the River Thames, 1890 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1890s establishments in England

The Northern line is a deep-level tube line on the London Underground, coloured black on the Tube map. It carries more passengers than any other Underground line; 206,734,000 a year.

For most of its length it is a deep-level tube line. The portion between Stockwell and Borough opened in 1890 and is the oldest section of deep-level tube line on the Underground network. There were about 252 million passenger journeys recorded in 2011/12 on the Northern line, making it the second-busiest on the Underground. (It was the busiest from 2003 to 2010.) It is unique in having two different routes through central London. Despite its name, it does not serve the northern-most stations on the network, though it does serve the southern-most station, Morden, as well as 16 of the system's 29 stations south of the River Thames. There are 50 stations in total on the line, of which 36 have platforms below ground.

The line has a complicated history, and the current complex arrangement of two main northern branches, two central branches and the southern route reflects its genesis as three separate railways, combined in the 1920s and 1930s. An extension in the 1920s used a route originally planned by a fourth company. Abandoned plans from the 1920s to extend the line further southwards, and then northwards in the 1930s, would have incorporated parts of the routes of two further companies. From the 1930s to the 1970s, the tracks of a seventh company were also managed as a branch of the Northern line. An extension from Kennington to Battersea is currently under construction, which may either give the Northern line a second southern branch or may see it split into separate distinct lines with their own identities. It is coloured black on the current Tube map.

[[Circle Line]]

Circle Line can mean:

[[Circle line (London Underground)]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground lines, Transport in the City of London, Transport in the City of Westminster, Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, Transport in Camden, Transport in Islington, Transport in Tower Hamlets, 1949 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in England

The Circle line, coloured yellow on the tube map, is the eighth busiest line on the London Underground. It forms a loop line around the centre of London on the north side of the River Thames. Platforms are 120 metres long in the south and 130 metres long on the part of the track shared with the Metropolitan line.

[[Hammersmith & City line]]

CATEGORIES: London Underground lines, London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham, Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, Transport in the City of London, Transport in the City of Westminster, Transport in Barking & Dagenham, Transport in Camden, Transport in Islington, Transport in Newham, Transport in Tower Hamlets, 1990 establishments in England

The Hammersmith & City line is a line of the London Underground, colored salmon pink on the London Underground Map, running between Hammersmith in West London and Barking in East London.

[[Metropolitan line]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Camden, Transport in the City of London, Transport in the City of Westminster, Transport in Islington, London Underground lines, 1863 establishments in the United Kingdom

The Metropolitan line is part of the London Underground. It is coloured in TfL's Corporate Magenta  on the Tube map and in other branding. It was the first underground railway (or subway) in the world, opening on 10 January 1863. Today, part of that section are no longer served by the Metropolitan line, but by the Hammersmith & City, District and Circle lines. The main line runs from Aldgate in the City of London to Amersham, with branch lines to Uxbridge, Watford and Chesham. The line once went as far as Verney junction. After it was bought by the London Passenger Transport Board, the line was first cut back to Aylesbury, then to Amersham

The line runs parallel to Chiltern Railways London to Aylesbury line from Finchley Road to Amersham. Chiltern railways continues to run services to Aylesbury.

[[Statute of Kilkenny]]

CATEGORIES: History of Ireland, Law, 1367, 14th century in England

The Statute of Kilkenny were a set of laws made by the English in 1367 to try and save the English colony in Ireland. The laws were made by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, Lionel of Antwerp, 1st Duke of Clarence. They were passed at a meeting of the Irish parliament held at Kilkenny.

The English had difficulty in taking over Ireland. The first English settlers, the Anglo-Irish, began to become Irish in the way they viewed the world. They began to put their own interests ahead of those of the English royalty. The government of Ireland had become weak after the battles with Edward Bruce, and the arrival of the Black Death weakened the country even more. Edward III of England became concerned that the Anglo-Irish were becoming too powerful and threatened his rights and interests in Ireland. He attempted three times to control their increasing independence.

Edward III finally sent his third son, Lionel of Antwerp, to Ireland to try and get back control. He was very concerned that the Anglo-Irish had become more Irish than the Irish themselves. The Statute of Kilkenny were laws designed to bring Ireland back under the control of English born nobles, not English descendants in Ireland. These laws were serious, to break one was seen as treason and could be punished by death.

[[Tramlink]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Croydon, Electric railways, Tramlink, 2000 establishments in England, London Travelcard zone 3, London Travelcard zone 4, London Travelcard zone 5, London Travelcard zone 6

Tramlink (also called Croydon Tramlink) is a tramway system in south London in the United Kingdom which began operation in May 2000. The service is operated by First London on behalf of Transport for London (TfL). The TfL team responsible for Tramlink is called London Tramlink, matching London Buses, London Underground, and so on.

[[Docklands Light Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Docklands Light Railway, 1987 establishments in England

The Docklands Light Railway (DLR) is a light metro or light rail system in London, England. It opened on 31 August 1987 to serve the redeveloped Docklands area of East London. It currently  covers several areas of London. To the north, it reaches Stratford. To the south, Lewisham. To the west, Tower Gateway and Bank in the City of London financial district. To the east, Beckton, London City Airport and Woolwich Arsenal. The DLR is fully computer operated. It is automated and the only job is the emergency stop button.

[[London Overground]]

CATEGORIES: London Overground, 2007 establishments in England, Railway operators in London, Train operating companies

The London Overground (LO) is a suburban rail system in London, UK run by Arriva and MTR for Transport for London. The London Overground is made up of 9 lines taken over by TFL. It is coloured orange on the Tube map. It serves a lot of Greater London.

[[First Capital Connect]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct railway companies of the United Kingdom, 2006 establishments in England, 2014 disestablishments, 2010s disestablishments in the United Kingdom

First Capital Connect (FCC) was a train company in England that ran the Thameslink railway line between Brighton and Bedford and services along the East Coast Main Line from King's Cross and Peterborough, Cambridge, and King's Lynn from 1 April 2006 to 13 September 2014. It was owned by First Group and combines the service on  formerly operated by WAGN, often referred to as Great Northern. It failed to keep the franchise, and it was succeeded by Thameslink and Great Northern.

[[Northern City Line]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in the City of London, Transport in Islington, Railway lines of London

The Northern City Line is a railway line from Moorgate to Finsbury Park in London, once part of the Great Northern Electrics line. It should not be confused with the City branch of the Northern line, nor with the North London line.

[[Princess Alexandra, The Honourable Lady Ogilvy]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, House of Windsor, Knights of the Garter, Knights Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order

Princess Alexandra, The Honourable Lady Ogilvy LG GCVO CD (Alexandra Helen Elizabeth Olga Christabel; born 25 December 1936), is a member of the British Royal Family, the youngest granddaughter of King George V and Queen Mary. She had two children, Marina and James Ogilvy with Sir Angus Ogilvy. She is 56th in line for the Throne as of June 2021.  

[[Ask.com]]

CATEGORIES: Search engines

Ask.com is a search engine that was started in 1996. This website helps people find web pages that they are looking for, by typing in the subject they want. For example, if someone is looking for web pages about dogs, they would type in "dogs" or "dog" then press the 'search' button.

Ask.com used to be called "Ask Jeeves" but the name was changed in 2006. Their headquarters is in Oakland, California.

One thing that makes Ask.com different from other search engines is that it lets the searcher see a little picture of the web page before they click it, by putting the mouse cursor over the little binoculars without clicking it.

[[Katsushika Hokusai]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese printmakers, 1760 births, 1849 deaths, Artists from Tokyo

Katsushika Hokusai, also called Hokusai,  was a Japanese artist. He was a master of the ukiyo-e style of woodblock prints and painting.

The artist is best known for The Great Wave off Kanagawa, which is a woodblock print. 

[[Sun Yat-sen]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the Republic of China, 1866 births, 1925 deaths

Sun Yat-sen (12 November 1866 – 12 March 1925) was born in China and was a Chinese political leader. Sun helped overthrow the Qing Dynasty in October 1911. This was the last imperial dynasty of China.He is often called as Father of the Nation. 

He was president when the Republic of China was founded in 1912. He later co-founded the Kuomintang. Sun remains revered in both mainland China and Taiwan. A massive portrait of Sun continues to appear in Tiananmen Square for May Day and National Day.

[[Pierluigi Collina]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Italian footballers, Referees, Sportspeople from Emilia-Romagna, People from Bologna

Pierluigi Collina (born 13 February 1960) is a former Italian football referee.  IFFHS said he was the best football referee ever.

[[TSV 1860 Munich]]

CATEGORIES: 1860 establishments in Europe, 1860s establishments in Germany, German football clubs, Sport in Munich

TSV 1860 Munich (German: T.S.V. 1860 München, Bavarian: TSV 1860 Minga) also known as Sechzig (German: Sechzig, Bavarian: Sechzga, Literal translation 'sixty') is a football club which plays in the second-division tier German Fußball-Bundesliga.

[[Eintracht Braunschweig]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Sport in Lower Saxony, 1895 establishments in Europe, 1890s establishments in Germany

Eintracht Braunschweig is a football club which plays in Germany.

[[Borussia Mönchengladbach]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Mönchengladbach, Sport in North Rhine-Westphalia, 1900 establishments in Germany

Borussia V.f.L. 1900 Mönchengladbach is a football club which plays in the German Bundesliga. Borussia Mönchengladbach has over 40,000 members and is the sixth largest club in Germany.

[[1. FC Kaiserslautern]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Kaiserslautern, Sport in Rhineland-Palatinate, 1900 establishments in Germany

1.F.C. Kaiserslautern, also known as 1. FCK, FCK or simply Kaiserslautern, is a association football club from Kaiserslautern, Rhineland-Palatinate in Germany. On 2 June 1900, Germania 1896 and FG Kaiserslautern came together to become the F.C. 1900. In 1909, they then joined F.C. Palatia (founded in 1901) and F.C. Bavaria (founded in 1902) to create F.V. 1900 Kaiserslautern. In 1929 they once again joined forces with S.V. Phönix to become F.V. Phönix-Kaiserslautern before finally taking on this new name three years later. Kaiserslautern plays in the German Bundesliga, the best league in Germany.

[[VfL Wolfsburg]]

CATEGORIES: German football clubs, Sport in Lower Saxony, Wolfsburg, 1945 establishments in Germany

Verein für Leibesübungen Wolfsburg e. V., commonly known as VfL Wolfsburg (faʊ̯ ʔɛf ʔɛl ˈvɔlfsbʊʁk) or Wolfsburg, is a  football club from Wolfsburg, Lower Saxony. The club plays in the German Bundesliga  The club grew out of a multi-sports club for Volkswagen workers in the city of Wolfsburg and is owned by the Volkswagen Group.

[[Choi Sung-yong]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Choi Sung-Yong (최성용; born 25 December 1975) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Yoo Sang-chul]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers, People from Seoul

Yoo Sang-Chul (18 October 1971 – 7 June 2021) was a South Korean professional athlete.  He was best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

Yoo died in Seoul of pancreatic cancer on 7 June 2021, aged 49.

[[Choi Yong-soo]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers, People from Busan

Choi Yong-Soo (최용수; born 10 September 1973), also known as Choi Yong-Su, is a South Korean football and former player. He was a member of the Korean national team.  He was part of the Korean football team in the 1996 Summer Olympics at Atlanta.

[[Takeshi Aoki]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Gunma Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Kashima Antlers players, Sagan Tosu players, Roasso Kumamoto players

Takeshi Aoki is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Sylvain Wiltord]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, French footballers

Sylvain Wiltord (born 10 May 1974) is a French football player. He plays for Metz.

[[Automatic train operation]]

CATEGORIES: Rail technologies

Automatic train operation (ATO) ensures partial or complete automatic train piloting and driverless functions.

[[Upper Austria]]

CATEGORIES: Upper Austria

Upper Austria (Oberösterreich ˈoːbɐˌʔøːstɐʁaɪ̯ç; East Central Austro-Bavarian: Owaesdaraich) is one of the nine states or Bundesländer of Austria. The capital of this state is Linz.

[[Lambach]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Upper Austria

Lambach is a market town in the Wels-Land district of Upper Austria, Austria. It is on the Ager and Traun Rivers. It had about 3,242 peopleas of 2001. A major stop on the salt trade, it is the site of the Lambach Abbey, built around 1056.

Between 1897 and 1898 lived Adolf Hitler there and attented the school.

[[Tracheotomy]]

CATEGORIES: Medical emergencies

[[Leonding]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Upper Austria

Leonding is a city southwest of Linz in the Austrian state of Upper Austria, in Austria. In 2001, about 22,269 people lived in Leonding. It covers an area of 24.05 km² (9.28 mi²). It borders Puchenau and the river Danube in the north, Wilhering and Pasching in the west, Traun in the south and Linz in the east.

Adolf Hitler lived in Leonding between 1898 and 1905, and attended the school there.

[[Gefreiter]]

CATEGORIES: Military, 16th century establishments in Europe

Gefreiter is a German, Swiss and Austrian military rank. The rank of Gefreiter is usually the second rank or grade to which an enlisted soldier, airman or sailor could be promoted. As a military rank it has existed since the 16th century. From the 1920s on, Gefreiter has expanded into several additional ranks, those being Obergefreiter, Hauptgefreiter, Stabsgefreiter and Oberstabsgefreiter.  

A similar military rank also exists in Russia ("Ефрейтор"; yefreytor, efreitor), Ukraine ("Єфрейтор"; yefreytor, efreitor), Belarus and in the former Soviet Union.

[[Plasma display]]

CATEGORIES: Display technology, Television technology

Televisions with plasma display panel (PDP) are much thinner than cathode ray tubes and are usually higher definition. Only a few television use a PDP.

Plasma screens are made of two sheets of glass with two gases stored between the sheets. The gases are xenon and neon and they fill thousands of tiny chambers, or spaces. Behind each space are a series of red, blue and green phosphors that give off light when struck by radiation. When electricity connects to the plasma chambers the colored phosphors produce the right color on your screen. They work in a very similar way to fluorescent lamps used for lighting.

Plasma screens have been in use since 1964 but only two colors could be produced then. Now we have high definition Plasma screens up to 150 inches in size. In the early 21st century fewer plasma screens were made as people bought more liquid crystal displays.

[[Southern Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Ontario

Southern Ontario is part of the Canadian province of Ontario that is south of the Algonquin Park. It is the farthest south part of Canada.

Over 12 million people live here, more than anywhere else in Canada.

Some cities in Southern Ontario are Toronto, Ottawa, Barrie, Guelph, Hamilton, Kingston, Kitchener, London, St. Catharines-Niagra, Waterloo, and Windsor.

[[Surrender (military)]]

CATEGORIES: Military

Surrender is when soldiers, nations or other combatants stop fighting and eventually become prisoners of war or POW, either as individuals or when ordered to by their officers. A white flag is a common symbol of surrender. Surrender usually occurs when one side of a battle happens to be overpowered by the other and are no longer in the condition to fight any more.

[[David Toms]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1967 births, American golfers, Sportspeople from Louisiana

David Wayne Toms (born January 4, 1967) is an American golfer. He plays on the PGA Tour. He lives in Shreveport, Louisiana. He has 12 PGA Tour wins, including a major championship, the 2001 PGA Championship.

[[Keisuke Tsuboi]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Shonan Bellmare players, Renofa Yamaguchi FC players, 2006 FIFA World Cup players, 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup players, 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup players

Keisuke Tsuboi is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Hiromitsu Isogai]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Gamba Osaka players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, 1995 King Fahd Cup players

Hiromitsu Isogai is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Christophe Dugarry]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, French footballers

Christophe Dugarry (born 24 March 1972) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Teruyoshi Ito]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, Ventforet Kofu players, AC Nagano Parceiro players, Blaublitz Akita players, Azul Claro Numazu players, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 1996 Summer Olympics

Teruyoshi Ito is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Daisuke Ichikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, Ventforet Kofu players, Mito HollyHock players, Fujieda MYFC players, FC Imabari players, Vanraure Hachinohe players, 2002 FIFA World Cup players

Daisuke Ichikawa is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Jorge Dely Valdés]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Central American footballers, Panamanian sportspeople

Jorge Dely Valdés (born 12 March, 1967) is a former Panamanian football player. He has played for Panama national team.

[[Ko Jong-soo]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers

Ko Jong-Soo (born 30 October 1978) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Choi Tae-uk]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, People from Incheon

Choi Tae-Uk (최태욱; born 13 March 1981) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.  He was part of the Korean football team in the 2004 Summer Olympics at Athens.

[[Cho Jae-jin]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Cho Jae-Jin (born 9 July 1981) is a South Korean football player. He plays for Gamba Osaka.

[[Kim Do-hoon]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers

Kim Do-Hoon (born 21 July 1970) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

He received the title of top scorer in the Asian Club Championship the old version with 28 Goal.September 2012

[[Kim Yong-dae]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, South Korean association football goalkeepers

Kim Yong-Dae (born 11 October 1979) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[One World Trade Center]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments in New York (state), Buildings and structures completed in the 21st century, September 11 attacks, Skyscrapers in New York City, Buildings and structures in Manhattan

The One World Trade Center (also known as One WTC or Freedom Tower) is the main building of the new World Trade Center complex in Lower Manhattan, New York City. The building is 1776 tall making it the tallest building in the Americas. Since late 2013, it is the tallest building in the United States. It opened in late 2014. It is mostly used for offices. People can view the city from an observatory near the top.

[[Song Chong-gug]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, People from Busan

Song Chong-Gug (born 20 February 1979) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Yuichiro Nagai]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, Yokohama FC players, Thespakusatsu Gunma players, 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup players

Yuichiro Nagai is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Boudewijn Zenden]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, People from Maastricht, Sportspeople from Limburg (Netherlands)

Boudewijn Zenden (born 15 August 1976) is a Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Alpay Özalan]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Turkish footballers, People from İzmir

Alpay Özalan (born 29 May 1973) is a former Turkish football player. He has played for the Turkish national team.

[[Oleg Salenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Ukrainian footballers, Russian footballers, People from Saint Petersburg

Oleg Salenko (born 25 October 1969) is a former Ukrainian-Russian football player. He has played for Ukraine national team and Russia national team.

[[Fábio Nunes Fernandes]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Porto Alegre

Fábio Nunes Fernandes (born 15 January 1980) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Masahiro Ando]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, Júbilo Iwata players, Yokohama F. Marinos players, Omiya Ardija players, Gamba Osaka players, Vegalta Sendai players, Kyoto Sanga FC players

Masahiro Ando is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Fashion design]]

CATEGORIES: Fashion, Design

Fashion design is the art and profession of designing clothes, costume and related items like hats, purses, bags and shoes.

Fashion designers attempt to design clothes which are functional as well as attractive. They consider who is likely to wear a garment and the situations in which it will be worn. They have a range of materials to work with and a wide range of colors, patterns and styles to choose from. 

Some clothes are made specifically for an individual, as in the case of haute couture or bespoke tailoring. Today, most clothing is designed for the mass market, especially casual and every-day wear.

[[Bombardier Transportation]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Germany, Rail vehicles manufacturers, Companies listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange

Bombardier Transportation is the rail equipment division of the Bombardier Inc.. Bombardier Transportation is the world’s largest company in the rail equipment manufacturing and servicing industry. Its headquarters are in Berlin, Germany.

[[Waldorf-Astoria Hotel]]

CATEGORIES: Hotels, Skyscrapers in New York City, Art Deco buildings, 1890s establishments in New York (state), Buildings and structures in Manhattan, New York City Designated Landmarks

The Waldorf-Astoria Hotel is a famous luxury hotel in mid-town Manhattan, New York City. It has had two landmark buildings.  The first was on the Fifth Avenue site of the Empire State Building.  The present building at 301 Park Avenue in Manhattan is a 47 floor, 625 Art Deco landmark, designed by architects Schultze and Weaver and dating from 1931. The Waldorf Astoria New York is a member of Hilton's Luxury and Lifestyle Brands with Waldorf Astoria Hotels & Resorts, Conrad Hotels & Resorts and Denizen Hotels. The Waldorf Astoria brand is made up of the Waldorf Astoria in New York and The Waldorf Astoria Orlando.

The modern hotel has three American and classic European restaurants, and a beauty parlor off the main lobby. Several shops surround the lobby, which has won awards for its original period character.  An even more luxurious "hotel within a hotel" in its upper section is known as The Waldorf Towers operated by Conrad Hotels & Resorts.

The hotel has its own railway platform as part of Grand Central Terminal, used by Franklin D. Roosevelt, Adlai Stevenson, and Douglas MacArthur, among others. People could go to the platform by using an elevator large enough for Franklin D. Roosevelt's car.

[[Farrah Fawcett]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Corpus Christi, Texas, American crime victims, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in California, 1947 births, 2009 deaths, Deaths from anal cancer

Farrah Fawcett (February 2, 1947 – June 25, 2009) was an American actress. A multiple Golden Globe and Emmy Award nominee, Fawcett rose to international fame when she first appeared as private investigator Jill Munroe in the TV series Charlie's Angels in 1976. Fawcett later appeared off-Broadway to the approval of critics and in highly rated television movies in roles often challenging (The Burning Bed, Nazi Hunter: The Beate Klarsfeld Story, Poor Little Rich Girl: The Barbara Hutton Story, Margaret Bourke-White) and sometimes unsympathetic (Small Sacrifices). Farrah played Marjorie in the movie named Extremities (where Marjorie got abused by the abusive man).

Fawcett was a pop culture figure whose hairstyle was emulated by millions of young women and whose poster sales broke records, making her an international sex symbol in the 1970s and 1980s. While her impact was particularly strong on the teens of the 1970s, her appeal spreads over multiple generations. 

Fawcett married Lee Majors in 1973. They couple separated in 1979 and divorced in 1982. She had a relationship with Ryan O'Neal from 1979 until 1997. She had a relationship with movie producer James Orr, who deliberately injured her, for which he was convicted of assault. In 2001, she resumed her relationship with O'Neal. Fawcett's son Redmond O'Neal was born in January 1985. She died of anal cancer aged 62 in June 2009.

[[Illyrian language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Europe

The Illyrian language was the language spoken by Illyrians. The Greek language still has 1000 words that descend from the Illyrian language. Due to this the Greeks were the first literate people to come into frequent contact with Illyrian speakers.

[[Beverly Hills, California]]

CATEGORIES: Beverly Hills, California

Beverly Hills is a city in the west of Los Angeles County, California, United States. Beverly Hills is near to Los Angeles. It is also surrounded by the cities of Los Angeles and West Hollywood.

Beverly Hills is bordered on the north by Bel-Air and the Santa Monica Mountains, on the east by West Hollywood, the Carthay neighborhood of Los Angeles, and the Fairfax District of Los Angeles, and on the south by the Beverlywood.

The largest homes in Los Angeles and in the United States are in Beverly Hills. These homes can be really large and fancy, to more common and modern homes, and then to smaller homes with less than 3,000 square feet, which is still quite a large area.

In 2007, Coldwell Banker lists Beverly Hills as having the most expensive houses. The houses in Beverly Hills cost a lot. They can cost over 2 million dollars.December 2011 However the houses are large, spacious, and fancy and that is why a lot of celebrities live there, and also because it is close to Hollywood.

[[Pyrrhus]]

CATEGORIES: 4th century BC births, 3rd century BC deaths, Ancient Greek military people, Generals, Battles of the Ancient World

Pyrrhus or Pyrrhos (Πύρρος της Ηπείρου, Pyrrhus of Epirus; 319–272 BC) was a Greek king and statesman of the Hellenistic period. His life was lived in the rather confused times following the death of Alexander the Great. Alexander's successors, known as the Diadochi, were continually at war with each other over bits and pieces of Alexander's vast Empire.

Pyrrhus was king of the Greek Molossian tribe (from ca. 297 BC).  Later he became King of Epirus (306302, 297–272 BC) and Macedon (288–284, 273–272 BC). 

He was one of the strongest opponents of early Rome. However, some of his battles, though successful, cost him heavy losses. From this the term Pyrrhic victory was coined. A Pyrrhic victory is a victory gained at too great a cost. Pyrrhus is the subject of one of Plutarch's Parallel Lives.

[[Ali Pasha]]

CATEGORIES: 1741 births, 1822 deaths, Albanian politicians

Ali Pasha of Tepelena or of Yannina, the "Lion of Yannina", (1741 – January 24, 1822) was an Albanian ruler (pasha) of the western part of Rumelia, the Ottoman Empire's European territory which was also called Pashalik of Janina. His court was in Ioannina.

His name in the local languages was: Albanian: Ali Pashë Tepelena, Aromanian: Ali Pãshelu, Greek: Αλή Πασάς Τεπελενλής Ali Pasas Tepelenlis or Αλή Πασάς των Ιωαννίνων Ali Pasas ton Ioanninon (Ali Pasha of Ioannina) and Turkish: Tepedelenli Ali Paşa.

[[Service mark]]

CATEGORIES: Business, Marketing, Intellectual property law

A service mark or servicemark, is used in some countries as a trademark to identify a service rather than a product. 

[[Kurt Eisner]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 births, 1919 deaths, Assassinated people, German journalists, German murder victims, Jewish German politicians, Jewish German writers, Ministers-President of Bavaria, Murders by firearm in Germany, Politicians from Berlin, Weimar Republic politicians, Writers from Berlin

Kurt Eisner (14 May 1867 in Berlin – 21 February 1919 in Munich) was a Bavarian politician and journalist. As a German socialist journalist and statesman, he organized the Socialist Revolution that took over the Wittelsbach monarchy in Bavaria in November 1918.

He is used as an example of charismatic authority by Max Weber.

Eisner was of Jewish descent.

[[Santa Ana, California]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in California, 1869 establishments in California, Santa Ana, California

Santa Ana is a city in California. It is the county seat and has the most people of any city in Orange County. It is the 53rd biggest city in the United States. In 2007, 339,555 people lived in Santa Ana, and it is guessed that the city had 355,662 people living there in 2009. The city was founded in 1869. It is in Southern California on the Santa Ana River, 10 away from the ocean. The 2000 United States Census said that Santa Ana has the 4th most dense population of US cities with more than 300,000 people.

The Santa Ana Freeway (Interstate 5) goes through the city. It also has the same name as the Santa Ana Mountains and the Santa Ana winds that cause fires in Southern California.

Santa Ana is part of the Greater Los Angeles Area.

[[Riverside, California]]

CATEGORIES: Riverside, California, County seats in California, Cities in California

Riverside is a city in California. It is the county seat of Riverside County. The city, which got its name from being close to the Santa Ana River, is the first place in California in which people sold a lot of citrus fruit. In 2008, about 311,575 people lived in Riverside. The city is the 61st biggest city in the United States and the 12th biggest city in California.

Because houses cost less money in Riverside than most cities in Southern California, people have been slowly moving there. This makes traffic bad as people from Riverside drive to work in Orange County and Los Angeles.

Riverside has a few schools, including La Sierra University, California Baptist College, and the University of California-Riverside. The city also has Riverside Municipal Museum, the California Museum of Photography, and the California Citrus State Historic Park. In 1873, the Parent Washington Navel Orange Tree was planted in Riverside, and it is one of two original orange trees in California. The historic Mission Inn is another popular place.

Riverside is part of the Greater Los Angeles Area.

[[Columbiformes]]

CATEGORIES: Columbiformes

Columbiformes are orders of birds includes the very widespread and successful doves and pigeons, classified in the family Columbidae. 313 species, found worldwide, comprise the Columbiformes order.  A cosmopolitan order of land birds with four unwebbed toes, short legs, small heads, and usually little visible difference between the sexes that includes the sandgrouse and the pigeons and doves together with their extinct relatives, the dodo and solitaire.

[[Word search]]

CATEGORIES: Puzzles

A word search is a puzzle that uses words and puts them in a grid. The point of the game is to find all of the words hidden in the grid.

The puzzle consists of a grid of letters that is usually a rectangle or square shape, but different shapes are possible, some that even look like an object like a plant or animal. Besides the grid is a list of words. The letters in the word appear in order somewhere in the grid, and can be placed horizontally, vertically or diagonally. A letter in the grid can be used in more than one word, and not all the letters in the grid have to appear in a word.

To solve the puzzle, a person has to find the place where each word is hidden in the grid, and when he or she finds that place, he or she circles all the letters in the word (as shown in the example), and then crosses the word off the list so that he or she knows not to look for that word again. It is easier to find the bigger words first since they have more letters.

Many word search puzzles have a theme, so all the hidden words are related. Sometimes, once all the words have been found, the letters which have not been used in any of the words (that is, the letters which have not been circled at least once) spell another word or even a short message. An example of a word search with both a theme and a word made up of unused letters is Wonderword.

Like other puzzles, word searches are commonly found in newspapers and magazines, which print a different puzzle every day and show the solution in another place or in the next issue. There are also books containing collections of these puzzles, and they can also be played over the Internet or using mobile apps.

[[The Secret Life of the American Teenager]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 American television series debuts, 2013 American television series endings, 2000s American drama television series, 2000s teen television series, 2010s American drama television series, 2010s teen television series, ABC Family series, American teen drama television series, Television series about families, Works about divorce, English-language television programs

The Secret Life of the American Teenager is an American teen drama television series. It was shown on ABC Family. The show is about Amy (played by Shailene Woodley) becoming pregnant at 15 after being pressured into having sex with Ricky Underwood (played by Daren Kagasoff). Amy is also facing the difficulties of her family coming apart, and other problems with her friends and boyfriend Ben Boykevich (played by Kenny Baumann).

[[Ástor Piazzolla]]

CATEGORIES: Composers, 1992 deaths, 1921 births

Ástor Pantaleón Piazzolla (March 11, 1921 – July 4, 1992) was an Argentine tango composer and bandoneón player. He revolutionized the traditional tango into a new style known as nuevo tango, by mixing elements from jazz and classical music.

[[Electric blue (color)]]

Electric blue is a color that is a bright tone of cyan.

The first recorded use of electric blue as a color name in English was in 1884.

[[Volksschule]]

CATEGORIES: Education

A Volkschule was part of an 18th-century system of state-supported primary schools established in the Habsburg Austrian Empire. Attendance was supposed to be compulsory. However, a 1781 census found that only one fourth of the school-age children attended. At the time, this was one of the few examples of state-supported schooling.

The Volkschule still exist in Austria today, Volksschule is the Austrian equivalent to the German word Grundschule and the Swiss German word Primarschule, i.e. primary school.

[[Ares V]]

CATEGORIES: NASA, Rockets

The Ares V was a plan to create a cargo rocket for the cancelled Constellation program.  Ares V was planned to launch the Earth Departure Stage and Altair lunar lander for a plan to return to the Moon in 2019.  The Ares V was supposed to complement the Ares I, which was being designed as a crew launch vehicle.  The Ares designs were selected for their anticipated overall safety, reliability and cost-effectiveness.  

The Ares V was planned to be able to carry about 188000 to Low Earth orbit (LEO), and 71000 to the Moon.  Upon completion the Ares V was planned to be the most powerful rocket ever built, lifting more into orbit than even the Saturn V.  Ares V, Ares IV, and Ares I are named after Ares, the Greek god, which is the equivalent to the Roman god Mars.

[[ScienceWorld]]

CATEGORIES: Science websites

ScienceWorld, also known as Eric Weisstein's World of Science, is a Web site that opened to the general public in January 2002. As of November 2007, ScienceWorld includes more than 4,000 entries in fields of science including astronomy, chemistry, physics, as well as biographies of many scientists.  It is administered by Eric Weisstein of Wolfram Research, Inc., who is the chief encyclopedist assigned to the project.

[[Cuba Gooding, Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from New York City, African American actors, African American musicians, American R&B singers, American soul musicians, Singers from New York City, American movie actors

Cuba M Gooding Sr. (April 27, 1944 – April 20, 2017) was the lead singer of the soul group The Main Ingredient and actor. 

This group is most notable for the songs "Everybody Plays the Fool" (1972) and "Just Don't Want to Be Lonely" (1974). Gooding also had a brief solo career on Motown Records during the late 1970s and early 1980s. His most successful song internationally was "Happiness Is Just Around the Bend" in 1983. In recent times this song been sampled by several R&B artists, as well as hitting the charts again as a remix by UK Hardcore Rave pranksters/genii Altern-8 in 1991.

Gooding was born in New York City. He has four children, including actors Cuba Gooding, Jr. (born 1968) and Omar Gooding (born 1976).

Gooding was found dead in his car on the afternoon of April 20, 2017 in Woodland Hills, California, aged 72. Police believe he died from a suspected drug overdose.

[[Alexander Pope]]

CATEGORIES: 1688 births, 1744 deaths, English poets, English writers

Alexander Pope (21 May 1688 – 30 May 1744) is usually thought of as the greatest English poet in the eighteenth century. He is best known for his satirical writing and for his translation of Homer. He is the third most often quoted writer in The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations, after Shakespeare and Tennyson. Pope was a master of the heroic couplet.

[[Alfred, Lord Tennyson]]

CATEGORIES: 1809 births, 1892 deaths, English poets, United Kingdom Barons, People from Lincolnshire, People buried in Westminster Abbey, British poets laureate

Alfred Tennyson, 1st Baron Tennyson, FRS (6 August 1809 – 6 October 1892) was Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom in the Victorian era. He remains one of the most popular poets in the English language.

Tennyson was excellent at writing short lyrics like In the valley of Cauteretz, Break, break, break, The Charge of the Light Brigade, Tears, idle tears and Crossing the Bar. Much of his verse like The Lotus Eaters was based on classical mythological themes. Tennyson also wrote some notable blank verse including Idylls of the King, Ulysses, and Tithonus. During his career, Tennyson attempted drama, but his plays were not very successful.

[[Rheumatic fever]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by bacteria

Rheumatic fever is an inflammatory disease that happens in children and young adults as a result of becoming infected by group A streptococci bacteria. The first attack usually happens between the ages of 5 and 15. It affects the heart, skin, joints and the central nervous system. It is most common in the Middle East, eastern Europe, South America and the Far East and is rare in western Europe and North America. Treatment includes resting in bed and antibiotics.

Wolfgang Mozart, the famous composer famously died of rheumatic fever.

[[The Main Ingredient]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 establishments in the United States, 1960s American music groups, 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, African-American musical groups, American R&B bands, Musical groups established in 1964, Musical groups from New York City, Soul bands

The Main Ingredient is an American soul and R&B group best known for their 1972 hit song, "Everybody Plays the Fool".

[[Secondhand Serenade]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Emo bands, Indie rock bands, Musical groups from California, Menlo Park, California

[[Edward Downes]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2009 deaths, British conductors, Deaths by euthanasia, Drug-related suicides, Musicians from Birmingham, Musicians who committed suicide

Sir Edward Downes, (born Birmingham, England, 17 June 1924; died Switzerland, 10 July 2009) was an English conductor.  He was famous for conducting opera, but also conducted orchestral concerts.  He worked a lot with the orchestra of the Royal Opera House as well as Opera Australia.

When he was old he was almost totally blind and deaf and his wife was dying of cancer, so they both decided that they wanted to die together.  They went to Switzerland where they were allowed to commit assisted suicide.

[[Assisted suicide]]

CATEGORIES: Suicide, Euthanasia

Assisted suicide is when somebody who wants to commit suicide (wants to die) is helped to do this by someone else.  Normally, people who ask for assisted suicide are very ill and in a lot of pain, so they want someone to help them to die, for example by being given access to drugs which will kill them. Some people prefer the terms aid in dying or death with dignity to describe assisted suicide. The term euthanasia is sometimes used, although euthanasia is generally regarded as different to assisted suicide, as it involves causing a person to die rather than helping them to kill themselves.

The law about this varies a lot in different countries.  In Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland and in three American states it is legal to help someone to die in these circumstances.  However, in many countries it is not allowed, and the person who helps someone to die may be arrested and sent to prison.

Some people who are very ill and want to die may go to these countries, such as Switzerland, in order to end their life.

[[Dignitas (euthanasia group)]]

CATEGORIES: Euthanasia, Switzerland

Dignitas is a Swiss group that helps people with assisted suicide. This means that, if a person is very ill and wants to die, the doctors and nurses help them to end their life. Only people who have a terminal illness or very bad physical or mental illnesses are allowed to be helped. The patients must be able to understand what is happening and decide for themselves that death is what they want.

Dignitas was started in 1998 by Ludwig Minelli, a Swiss lawyer. The law in Switzerland says that someone can help in an assisted suicide so long as they do not have any self-interest (for example, so long as they are not going to inherit money from the person who dies). The doctor has to meet the person on two occasions and make sure that the person really does wish to die. There must be evidence for this, i.e. the patient has to sign a paper, and two witnesses have to sign to say they saw the patient signing. If the patient is too ill to sign, a video film can be made. The patient is asked several times whether that is what they want. If everyone is absolutely sure, then he or she is given a drug which will kill them.

Some people travel from other countries such as Britain to the Dignitas clinic in Switzerland so that they can be helped to die. For example, the rugby player Daniel James, who was 23, had a terrible injury to his spine which left him paralysed from his chest down, travelled there with his parents to die. In 2009 the British conductor Edward Downes and his wife both travelled to Dignitas where they died together.

[[Euthanasia]]

CATEGORIES: Euthanasia

Euthanasia is when a person's life is ended because of disease or pain, which has made them suffer. This is different from assisted suicide, where a person helps someone kill themselves. It is also different to murder, where the reason is not suffering, but to kill for the killer's own ends. Euthanasia can be voluntary, where the person who dies asks for help in ending their life. Where the person is unable to make their decision known, it is usually called non-voluntary euthanasia.  Where someone is killed against their will, it is usually called murder.

Euthanasia is illegal in most countries. It is permitted in a small number of countries, such as the Netherlands, Belgium and Victoria, Australia. The New Zealand Parliament voted 69 - 51 to pass the End of Life choice Bill. In Is it Time to Kill the Kiwi https://web.archive.org/web/20200221235730/https://taituaarboretumhamiltoncity.blogspot.com/2020/02/is-it-time-to-kill-kiwi.html the Rt Hon Simeon Brown said international precedents show that euthanasia regimes result in the involuntary death of innocent lives, often those who are marginalized and vulnerable. The final decision will be made in a binding public referendum.  Where it is permitted there are many rules, and only in cases where the patient is terminally ill. Though euthanasia is not legal in the United States, doctors can assist people to kill themselves. This is legal in Washington, Oregon, and Montana. Physician Assisted Suicide (PAD) is different to euthanasia; it is about who gives the medication to end a patient’s life. The World Federation of Right to Die Societies says physician-assisted suicide means "making lethal means available to the patient to be used at a time of the patient’s own choosing." In these cases the patient takes the legal dose of poison themselves, it is not given by the doctor. It is euthanasia when the doctor has the main role in ending the patient’s life by giving the poison. 

[[Terminal illness]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Death

Terminal illness is a term used to describe an illness which cannot be cured and will almost definitely end in the death of the patient. The term is mostly used for progressive diseases such as cancer or advanced heart disease.  Someone who has a terminal illness may be described as a terminal patient or as being terminally ill. Usually a patient is called "terminally ill" when they are not expected to live more than 6 months.  Medical conditions such as AIDS are not called terminal illnesses because the patient may live for many years before eventually dying of the illness.

Very often, terminally ill patients are given palliative care to give them a better quality of life. Sometimes, they go to a hospice to be looked after.

[[Now (magazine)]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines of Canada, Newspapers published in Canada

NOW is a free weekly newspaper/magazine published in Toronto, Canada. It has been online since 1993, first at now.com and then it was changed to nowtoronto.com in 2000.

[[Ralph Downes]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1993 deaths, English organists, People from Derby

Ralph Downes (born Derby, 16 August 1904; died London, 24 December 1993) was an English organist and organ designer.

He was assistant organist at Southwark Cathedral from 1923 until 1925.  Then he continued his education at Keble College, Oxford.  He was music director and organist of the new chapel at Princeton University between 1928 and 1935.  During his time in America he learned a lot about organ building and listened to musicians playing baroque music.

He soon became famous for his recitals and radio broadcasts in which he played music using historical performance styles.  He gave first performances of pieces by composers such as Darius Milhaud, Paul Hindemith and Arnold Schoenberg. Benjamin Britten invited him every year to perform at the Aldeburgh Festival.

In 1948, he was asked to design an organ for the new Royal Festival Hall.  When the organ was first played in 1954 not everyone agreed that it was good, but soon it was realised that it was an excellent instrument for playing music from the Baroque and Classical music periods and it had a big influence on the way that other organs were built. 

Downes was Professor of Organ at the Royal College of Music from 1954 to 1975 and was the best known British organ teacher of his day.  His students included Gillian Weir and Trevor Pinnock.  He made many recordings and wrote a book about organ design.

He was given the honour of CBE in 1969.  He died in London in 1993.  There was no organ music at his funeral.  Instead, he had asked for Gregorian chant to be sung.

[[Downes (surname)]]

Downes is a surname, and may refer to:

[[Downes]]

Downes may refer to:

[[Symmetry (biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Animal anatomy, Developmental biology

Symmetry in biology is about the overall shape of the body and its parts. The body plans of most multicellular organisms have some form of symmetry, radial symmetry, bilateral symmetry or spherical symmetry. A few have no symmetry, and are asymmetric. 

In nature and biology, symmetry is approximate. For example, plant leaves, which are more or less symmetrical, will rarely match up exactly when folded in half.

[[William Morris]]

CATEGORIES: 1834 births, 1896 deaths, English architects, English writers, English poets, Designers, Socialists, Textile artists

William Morris (24 March 1834 – 3 October 1896) was an English architect, furniture and fabric designer, artist, writer, and socialist. He was born in Walthamstow in East London.

Morris was educated at Marlborough and Exeter College, Oxford. In 1856, he became an apprentice to Gothic revival architect G. E. Street. That year he founded the Oxford and Cambridge Magazine. In 1861, Morris founded a design firm in partnership with the artist Edward Burne-Jones, and the poet and artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti. This had a great impact on the decoration of churches and houses in the early 20th century. Morris's major contribution was as a designer of repeating patterns for wallpapers and textiles. This was mainly based on a close observation of nature. He was also a major contributor to the resurgence of traditional textile arts and methods of production.

Morris wrote and published poetry, fiction, and translations of ancient and medieval texts throughout his life, among others Story of Sigurd the Volsung and the Fall of the Niblungs (1876). His best-known works include The Defence of Guenevere and Other Poems (1858), The Earthly Paradise (1868–1870), A Dream of John Ball (1888) and the utopia News form Nowhere (1890). His poetry was strongly influenced by Geoffrey Chaucer's work. This influence can be seen in the use of rhyme royal.

William Morris designed his own furniture. He was frustrated, because he could not find any furniture he liked, so he decided, he wanted to design his own furniture, but it was mostly wallpaper designs.

Morris was an important person in the emergence of socialism in Great Britain. He founded the Socialist League in 1884. However, he broke with the movement over goals and methods by the end of that decade. He devoted much of the rest of his life to the Kelmscott Press, which he founded in 1891. The 1896 Kelmscott edition of the Works of Geoffrey Chaucer is considered a masterpiece of book design.

[[Cliveden]]

CATEGORIES: Buckinghamshire, Hotels

Cliveden is the name of a large house in Buckinghamshire near London, England. There have been three houses on this site. The first house was built in 1666 and burnt to the ground in a fire in 1795. A new house was built but this one also burnt down in a fire in 1849. The house which can be seen today was made in 1851 by Sir Charles Barry, an architect.

Cliveden House sits in a large garden and woodland, (375 acres). The garden contains many statues and fountains made from stone as well as areas of flowers. Cliveden is very close to the River Thames.

Many famous and important people have lived at Cliveden. Some of these are:

The house is now used as a hotel.

[[Sears Tower]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 establishments in Illinois, 2009 disestablishments in the United States, 2000s disestablishments in Illinois

[[Josef Krips]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1974 deaths, Austrian conductors, Musicians from Vienna

Josef Krips (born Vienna, 8 April 1902; died Geneva, 13 October 1974) was an Austrian conductor and violinist.

Krips was born into a Jewish family. He became a pupil of Eusebius Mandyczewski and Felix Weingartner. From 1921 to 1924, he was Weingartner's assistant at the Vienna Volksoper where he worked as repetiteur and chorus master.  Afterwards he became conductor of several orchestras, including the orchestra in Karlsruhe from 1926 to 1933.  In 1933 he returned to Vienna as conductor of the Volksoper. He also became a professor at the Vienna Academy of Fine Arts in 1935. He often conducted at the Salzburg Festival between 1935 and 1938.

In 1938, when the Nazi's took power in Austria, (the Anschluss), Krips had to leave the country because he was Jewish and Roman Catholic.  He worked in Belgrade until Yugoslavia also became involved in World War II.  For the rest of the war he worked in a food factory.

In 1945 he went back to Austria, where he was one of the few conductors who were allowed to work, because he had not worked under the Nazi regime.  He was the first person after the war to conduct the Vienna Philharmonic and the Salzburg Festival where he conducted Mozart's opera Don Giovanni.

From 1950 to 1954 Krips was principal conductor of the London Symphony Orchestra. Afterwards he conducted the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra and the San Francisco Symphony (from 1963 to 1970). He gave his first performance at Covent Garden in 1963 and appeared at the Metropolitan Opera in 1966.  From then on he often conducted there.  In 1970, he became conductor of the Deutsche Oper in Berlin.  Between 1970 and 1973, he was the principal conductor of the Vienna Symphony Orchestra.

Krips died in Geneva, Switzerland in 1974.

His brother Henry was also a musician.  He emigrated to Australia where he conducted the orchestra in Adelaide.  Then he returned to London where he often conducted Viennese light music.

[[Répétiteur]]

CATEGORIES: Opera terminology, Ballet terminology

A Répétiteur is a musician who helps opera singers to learn their parts for an opera.

The word Répétiteur is a French word which comes from the verb "répéter" meaning: "to repeat". The meaning here is "to rehearse", because when a musician rehearses (practises) he will go over the music many times until he has learned it really well. The German word is Korrepetitor.

A répétiteur will be a very skilled musician. He will be an excellent pianist who can play music on the piano which is normally played by an orchestra. He will often be able to help the singer to get to know the music by singing another part that is going on at the same time. He will be able to help the singer with technical problems with their voice, and also with pronunciation and musical interpretation.

Some répétiteurs may go on to become famous conductors, e.g. Josef Krips,  Howard Goodall, and Georg Solti.

In ballet, a répétiteur teaches the steps and interpretation of the roles to some or all of the company performing a dance.

[[Hamilton Harty]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1941 deaths, Irish composers, Romantic composers, 20th century composers, Knights Bachelor

Sir Hamilton Harty (born Hillsborough, Co. Down, Ireland, 4 December 1879; died Brighton, 19 February 1941) was an Irish composer, conductor and accompanist.  He is particularly remembered for his work in Manchester with the orchestra called The Hallé.

[[Albert Coates]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1953 deaths, English composers

Albert Coates (born Saint Petersburg, 23 April 1882; died Cape Town, 11 December 1953) was an Anglo-Russian conductor and composer.

[[Creed (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 1990s establishments in Florida, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, 2012 disestablishments in the United States, American rock bands, Musical groups established in 1994, Musical groups disestablished in 2012, Musical groups from Florida, People from Tallahassee, Florida, Post-grunge bands, American Music Awards

Creed was a rock band from Florida. The members of this band were vocalist Scott Stapp, guitar player Mark Tremonti, drum player Scott Phillips, and bass guitar player Brian Marshall.

[[.pf]]

CATEGORIES: French Polynesia

[[.sg]]

CATEGORIES: Top-level domains, Singapore

.sg is the country top level domain for Singapore (ccTLD). It started in 1988. It is  managed by the Singapore Network Information Centre (SGNIC). It is only for residents of Singapore. However, there are some second-level domains that have more rules when registering.

[[.va]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 establishments, Top-level domains, Vatican City

.va is the Internet country code top-level domain (ccTLD) for the State of the Vatican City.

[[.ws]]

CATEGORIES: Samoa

.ws is the Internet country code top-level domain (ccTLD) for Samoa. It is administered by SamoaNIC, for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Samoa.

[[Zango]]

CATEGORIES: Advertising, Malware

Zango (used to be 180solutions) was a controversial software company founded in 1999. It went out of business after a British company called blinkx bought it. It was controversial for installing adware, or a type of software that displayed ads without your permission, on your computer.

[[Tropical Storm Alma]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 Pacific hurricane season, East Pacific tropical storms, Retired tropical cyclone names, Hurricanes, History of Costa Rica, 2000s in Nicaragua, 2008 in North America

Tropical Storm Alma was a tropical cyclone in the 2008 Pacific hurricane season. It formed off the coast of Costa Rica on May 29. At first, it was forecast to be a weak storm, However, it quickly gained strength. It then hit land on Nicaragua. 

Alma was the first tropical storm to ever hit the Pacific coast of Nicaragua. Lots of rain from the storm caused flooding, and eleven people were killed in the area. The remains later became Tropical Storm Arthur in the Atlantic.

[[Herne Hill railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in London

Herne Hill railway station is a train station in Herne Hill, a location in the London Borough of Lambeth, South London, England. Its location is TQ319744. 

Transport for London has thought of making the Victoria line go to Herne Hill to give faster turnaround at the southern end of the line. The extension is not a high thing for TfL as it has a weaker business case than other projects.

[[Sparkling wine]]

CATEGORIES: Wine

Sparkling wine is the name for a number of wines which have a lot of carbon dioxide in them. This will make the wine fizzy. The carbon dioxide may be the result of the fermentation process, or it may have been added later. One of the best-known examples is probably Champagne, but there are many other such wines. In Spain such wines are called Cava, in Italy Asti or Spumante and in German Sekt. In French the terms "Mousseux" or "Crémant" are used for such wines, as well, especially for those which are not produced in the Champagne. Crémant d'Alsace, Blanquette de Limoux and Clairette de Die are  examples of sparkling wines made in France outside the Champagne region. 

Most sparkling wines are made from white wine or rosé.

[[Crémant d'Alsace]]

CATEGORIES: French wines, Alsace, 1900 establishments in France

Crémant d'Alsace is a protected designation of origin for sparkling wines made in Alsace, France. 

A big part of the wine production in Alsace is used to make Crémant d'Alsace. About 18% of the region's vineyards used for this purpose. 223 942 hectoliter of Crémant d'Alsace, about 30 million bottles, were produced in 2006.

Crémant d'Alsace has been produced in Alsace since about 1900.  Julien Dopff successfully tried to make wines using the "champagne method" then.

[[Clairette de Die]]

CATEGORIES: French wines

Clairette de Die is a kind of sweet white sparkling wine made from the Muscat Blanc à Petits Grains (75% minimum) and Clairette (25% maximum) grape varieties. It is produced in the Drôme department of France, in a part of the Rhône valley near the town of Die (pronounced "Dee"). The vineyards are some of the highest in France, between 400 and 700 metres above sea level. The region has a very long history of wine-growing, going back to Roman times.

The wine is bottle fermented. The muscat grapes which ripen first are kept separate from the clairette grapes. The grape juice is kept a low temperature, about 7°C, which means the fermentation will be slow and takes time. After filtering, but leaving some yeast the juice is blended in the bottle. It must be fermented in the bottle for at least another four months. The wine is then filtered again and put into new bottles for sale.

[[Interchange]]

An interchange is a meeting of two or more things. They usually perform some kind of exchange (trade), and possibly go on their ways again. Interchange is usually used for roads and information, but can be used for other things.

In transport:

[[Shinkichi Kikuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Tokyo Verdy players, Kawasaki Frontale players, 1995 King Fahd Cup players

Shinkichi Kikuchi is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His brother Toshimi Kikuchi is also a former footballer.

[[Blanquette de Limoux]]

CATEGORIES: French wines

Blanquette de Limoux is the name given to a number of sparkling wines from the Languedoc, in France. 

[[List of Premier League clubs]]

CATEGORIES: Premier League, Lists of football teams, Lists about England

This is a list of clubs who have played in the English Premier League at any time since 1992 to the current season. English Premier League teams playing in the 2019–20 Premier League season are in bold. Founding members of the Premier League are shown in italics. A total of 49 teams have played in the Premier League (Bournemouth, Brighton and Huddesfield are missing from the table).

[[Debby Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American child actors, Singers from Huntsville, Alabama, American guitarists, Disney actors, Disney singers, Writers from Huntsville, Alabama, Musicians from Huntsville, Alabama, Actors from Huntsville, Alabama

Deborah Ann "Debby" Ryan (born May 13, 1993, in Huntsville, Alabama) is an American actress, singer, and songwriter. She is best known for her role in The Suite Life on Deck.

[[Albert Goldfield]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of New South Wales, 19th century in Australia

The Albert Goldfield is an area of 1300 square kilometres (500 square miles) where gold was discovered in the outback of New South Wales in 1880. Gold was found at Mount Browne, which is 53 south west of Tibooburra. There were other finds at Good Friday, Easter Monday, Nuggerty, Pioneer Reef and Warratta Creek.

This is a very hot and dry area of Australia. Because of the shortage of water, towns were started at Milparinka and Tibooburra where there was water available. Towns at Albert and Mount Browne did not last for long because of the lack of water. By 1881 there were more than 2000 people living on the gold diggings or in the towns. Geologist William Henry John Slee was appointed resident Goldfield Warden.  The miners had to either take their dirt to one of the towns to use water to pan for the gold, or use a method called dry blowing. Dry blowing means breaking the dirt into fine particles and letting the wind blow away the dirt leaving the heavier gold behind. Life on the goldfields was hard, water was scarce, fresh fruit and vegetables were not available, and basics like flour were very expensive. Disease, including dysentery and typhoid were common.

By 1893 the gold rush had ended and most people had left the goldfields.

[[Edward Bawden]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1989 deaths

Edward Bawden, CBE, Royal Academy (1903 – 1989) was a British painter and an artist who drew pictures graphics. He was also famous for his prints, book covers, posters, and metal garden furniture. During an interview, Edward Gorey said that Bawden was one of his trusted artists, making the fact interesting that not many people knew or know about this fine artist well.

[[Cross-City Line]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in England, West Midlands (region)

The Cross-City Line is a suburban railway line in the West Midlands region of England. It runs from Redditch, Worcestershire, its southern terminus, to Lichfield, Staffordshire, its northern terminus. It goes through Birmingham New Street. It services on the line are currently operated by London Midland.

[[Book cover]]

CATEGORIES: Books

A book cover is any protective covering used to bind together the pages of a book. The covering may be of paper, or hard paper boards, or even plastic. The boards may be covered with paper, cloth or leather. They may be laminated, with a plastic layer onto paper.

There is a distinction between hardbacks and softbacks, which are usually sold at different prices. Hardbacks may be covered with a dust jacket designed to attract readers. Softbacks are almost always designed to attract sales in bookshop displays.

The evolution of printing methods has made the production of books very much cheaper than was the case with early printed works. As a result, books are bought and read in great numbers. They compete against each other in the marketplace. The function of book design is partly to help the reader, but even more to persuade the reader to buy the book.

[[Lawn mower]]

CATEGORIES: Cutting tools, Gardening tools, Agricultural machinery

A lawn mower (or lawnmower) is a machine that uses blades to cut a lawn. There are different types of lawn mowers. The smallest are pushed by a human, they are good for small lawns and gardens. Ride-on mowers are good for larger lawns. The largest are pulled behind a tractor, they are made for grass at places like golf courses and parks. Always wear safety equipment while working with these machines.

A lawn mower functions by spinning either a thin blade, or a small piece of cable, to cause lacerations on the stems of grass & other plants. Severing the plant and reducing the height of the plant to a more pleasing appearance. 

[[Golf course]]

CATEGORIES: Golf

A golf course is where the game of golf is usually played. It is made up of a series of 'holes', each consisting of certain key areas. A teeing ground is used to start playing the hole. A Fairway is the area between the tee and the green, where the grass is kept short for ball play. The green (or putting green) is a closely mowed area of grass surrounding the hole. It has a flagstick so the golfer can see the hole at longer distances. The hole itself has a diameter of 4¼ inches (108mm). Other areas of a golf course are called hazards. These include sand hazards and water hazards. Hazards are designed to make the game more challenging.

A standard round of golf consists of playing eighteen holes. Many golf courses are designed with eighteen holes.  Some, however, only have nine holes, and the course is played twice per round.

[[Tom Eckersley]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1997 deaths, English artists, People from Lancashire

Tom Eckersley (30 September 1914, Lancashire – 4 August 1997) was an English poster artist and teacher of design.

[[Leaf blower]]

CATEGORIES: Gardening tools

A leaf blower is a gardening tool uses air to move yard debris like leaves. Some leaf blowers can also suck leaves through a vacuum, and shred (break into small pieces) them into a bag.

[[Hose]]

CATEGORIES: Gardening tools

A hose is a tube made to take fluids  or gasses from one place to another. Hoses are also called tube or pipes. The shape of a hose is usually cylindrical.

[[Watering can]]

CATEGORIES: containers, Gardening tools

A watering can is a container that is used to water plants by hand.

[[Irrigation sprinkler]]

CATEGORIES: Gardening tools

Sprinkler irrigation is a way of artificially watering plants. A sprinkler irrigation system is a pressurized system, which means it needs water under pressure to work. There are many different types of irrigation sprinklers. Some are used in home gardens, and some are used on farms.

[[Doctor]]

Doctor could refer to:

[[Skagit River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Washington (U.S. state)

The Skagit River is a river in Canada and the United States. It flows about 120 from British Columbia to the state of Washington, where it flows into the Pacific Ocean north of Seattle. The river begins by flowing south. It then enters North Cascades National Park, where it is dammed by Ross Dam, which forms Ross Lake, a reservoir. 

[[North Cascades National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in the United States, Washington (U.S. state), 1968 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Washington (state)

North Cascades National Park is a national park in the U.S. state of Washington. It was established on 2 October 1968. The park covers 634,000 acres of the Cascade Range (specifically the North Cascades).

[[Green River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Utah

The Green River is a river in the states of Wyoming and Utah, in the United States. It is the largest tributary of the Colorado River, at about 730 miles (1,175 km) long. Its headwaters are in the west part of Wyoming, in a subrange of the Rocky Mountains known as the Wind River Range. From there, it flows south, then turns east for a short while, then flows south, west, and south into the Reservoir, formed by Fontenelle Dam, and Flaming Gorge Reservoir, which is formed by the Flaming Gorge Dam. 

After it exits the dam, it flows east around the Uinta Mountains, and enters the desert-like Colorado Plateau. Here, it flows in a series of deep and spectacular canyons. It meets both of its largest tributaries, the White River and the Yampa River, from the east. In Canyonlands National Monument, it meets the Colorado. Shortly after the two rivers meet, they flow into Lake Powell, formed by Glen Canyon Dam.

[[Mono Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of the United States, Bodies of water of California, Mono County, California

Mono Lake is a saline lake on the east side of the Sierra Nevada, in the U.S. state of California. It is endorheic, meaning that it does not connect with the sea. It is fed by streams flowing off the east side of the mountain range, including Rush Creek, Lee Vining Creek and Mill Creek. Lee Vining Creek has its headwaters near Tioga Pass, near Yosemite National Park. 

The lake covers 69 square miles (180 square kilometers) and is about 4.7 long. It is a very ancient lake, and is thought to have formed 760,000 years ago. In the 20th century, the city of Los Angeles began to take water from the streams feeding Mono Lake. This caused the lake to fall, exposing unique tufa formations.

[[Thelyphonida]]

CATEGORIES: Arachnids

Thelyphonida is an order of arachnids commonly known as vinegarroons.

They give out a vinegar-like mist (containing mostly acetic acid). The Vinegarroon is not venomous and is not a true scorpion. It is related to spiders, true scorpions, and ticks. They are also known as whip scorpions because they look like true scorpions and because of their whip like tails.

[[Mount Shasta]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of the United States, Mountains of California, Siskiyou County, California

Mount Shasta is a dormant volcano in northern California in the United States.

The volcano is part of the Cascade Range. It has a smaller peak abutting it, Shastina, and seven glaciers. The mountain stands alone in a large expanse of flatter land, rising 9,822 feet above the surrounding terrain. The Sacramento River flows south near the west edge of the mountain. The town of Mount Shasta and Shasta Lake Reservoir, formed by Shasta Dam, are all named for Mount Shasta. This stratovolcano is expected to erupt again someday.

[[List of rivers of Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Washington (U.S. state), Lists of rivers of the United States

This is a list of rivers in the U.S. state of Washington.

[[Zhu Xi]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese scholars, Chinese philosophers, 1130 births, 1200 deaths

Zhu Xi or Chu Hsi (朱熹, 18 October 1130 – 23 April 1200) was a Confucian scholar during the Song Dynasty. Zhu Xi was one of the three most important Confucian philosophers. He organized the classic works of Confucianism and contributed to the philosophy of Neo-Confucianism.He was from Fujian province in China. 

[[Plym Valley Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Heritage railways in England

The Plym Valley Railway is part of the closed South Devon and Tavistock Railway near Plymouth. It is a branch line of the Great Western Railway in Devon.

[[Swanage Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Heritage railways in England

The Swanage Railway is a six-mile (10 km) long heritage railway in the Purbeck district of Dorset, England.  The railway follows the route of the Purbeck branch line between Norden railway station, Corfe Castle railway station, Harman's Cross railway station, Herston Halt railway station and  Swanage. The line was  re−connected to the mainline at Wareham, Dorset along a stretch of the branch line. This had previously only remained open to freight traffic until 2005. Trains operate on the Swanage Railway between Swanage and Norden Park & Ride every weekend and Bank Holiday from mid-February to the end of the year. From April to October, they operate all seven days in the week; with Santa Special services in December. The link between the Swanage Railway and the main line at Wareham has been used used for materials deliveries, special excursions. The line has now reopened to its first through traffic from London with occasional special services.

[[Mangapps Railway Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Heritage railways in England

The Mangapps Railway Museum (previously Mangapps Farm Railway Museum) is a heritage railway located near Burnham-on-Crouch in Essex. The 3/4 mile stretch of standard gauge track and museum are owned and operated by the Jolly family. They are assisted by a dedicated staff of volunteers.  It was never part of the national rail network. 

[[West Somerset Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Heritage railways in England

The West Somerset Railway (WSR) is a heritage railway. It runs along the edge of the Quantock Hills in Somerset, England, between Bishops Lydeard and Watchet. The line then turns inland to Washford. It then returns to the coast for the run to Minehead. The Exmoor National Park is nearby.

[[Vale of Glamorgan Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in Wales

The Vale of Glamorgan Railway Company are a Welsh railway preservation society originally called the Butetown Historic Railway Society.

In 1979, the Butetown Historic Railway Society was formed at Bute Road Station in the docklands are of Cardiff. The aim was to restore the then derelict Taff Vale Railway station, and establish a steam hauled passenger service to Cardiff Queen Street station. By 1994, a short section of track existed, and the steam locomotive Sir Gomer hauled short passenger trains.

By 1997, the Cardiff Bay Development Corporation was in charge of the redevelopment of Butetown, and dismissed the idea of a rejuvenated steam railway as part of their plans.

Even prior to 1997 the railway started negotiations with the Vale of Glamorgan Council and moved in during 1998 to its new base at Barry Island Railway. It renamed it self the Vale of Glamorgan Railway Company and were based there till early 2009 operating heritage services both steam and diesel over an expanding network of lines.

Following the December 2007 decision by landlords, the Vale of Glamorgan Council to terminate the £65,000 funding of the Barry Island Railway, the society maintain a service. However less than six months after withdrawing financial support, the council with out warning decided to put the railway site out to tender under a long term lease.  There were three bids submitted with the sucsefull bidder being the commercial company Cambrian Transport who have been the councils railway adviser and contractor since the Barry Railway Project started.

The other bidder NEWCO was submitted by Graham Lee owner of the LH Plant, Hunselt Engine Company, Statfold Barn Railway and Mike Thomson owner of Arrowvale who make black boxes for the rail industry.  NEWCO had spoken to the VGR in advance and agree a method of working together.  Had this bid been successfully the VGR would have continued operating at Barry.

The Railway has recently sold assets following the break down of talks with Cambrian Transport which an has been forced to leave Barry. It is now the intention for the railway to relocate to the Bridgend Valleys Railway, with some stock also going to the Dean Forest Railway and further a field.

The Railway is now working with the Bridgend Valleys Railway to develop the 4.5 miles of line in place north of Bridgend.

[[Northampton & Lamport Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Heritage railways in England

The Northampton & Lamport Railway is a standard gauge heritage railway in Northamptonshire, England. It is based at Pitsford and Brampton station, near the villages of Pitsford and Chapel Brampton. This is roughly 5 north of Northampton.

[[Epping Ongar Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Heritage railways in England, Transport in Epping Forest, Epping Ongar Railway

The Epping Ongar Railway is a preserved railway. It runs along the last section of the old Great Eastern Railway and London Underground Central line branch line. The line runs between Epping and Ongar. There is also an intermediate stop at North Weald. The line was reopened in late 2004 after 10 years of being closed. It runs a Sunday and Bank Holiday service using a Class 117 diesel multiple unit. The service runs between Ongar and Coopersale. The service is provided by volunteers who take care for the line as well as run the trains. The land and infrastructure are owned by Epping Ongar Railway Ltd.

[[Ecclesbourne Valley Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Train operating companies, Derbyshire, Heritage railways in England, 1867 establishments in England

The Ecclesbourne Valley Railway is a heritage railway in Derbyshire. Its operations are based at Wirksworth station. It is currently planned to extend the railway along the former Midland Railway branch line which joined the main-line at Duffield. 

When complete it will be one of the few Heritage Railways that operates a whole branch line in its original form and entire length.

The line is operated by diesel locomotives, which haul former multiple unit trailer cars and also uses heritage diesel multiple units.

[[Crossrail 2]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in London

The Chelsea-Hackney (or "Chelney") line is a safeguarded route for an underground railway running from south-west London to north-east London. As of 2008, the plan is being developed by Cross London Rail Links Ltd. who are the developers of Crossrail. It is therefore sometimes known as Crossrail 2.

[[River Lee]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England

The River Lee or River Lea is a river in England. It begins in Leagrave Park 51.910338, Leagrave, Luton in the Chiltern Hills. It flows generally southeast, east, and then south to London where it meets the River Thames 51.507113. The last section is known as Bow Creek.

A section of the river runs through Hertford castle and shares a valley with the river Beane at Hartham common. Morgans School, in Hertford, have named one of their houses after the river Lea.

[[Naval mine]]

CATEGORIES: Explosives

A naval mine is a bomb placed in water to destroy ships or submarines. Unlike depth charges, mines are put in the water and left to wait until they make contact with a ship. Naval mines can be used offensively, to make it harder for enemy ships to sail easily, or trap them into a harbour. They can also be used defensively, to protect friendly ships and create "safe" zones.

Mines can be laid in many ways: by specially built minelayers, refitted ships, submarines, aircraft, or even by dropping them into a harbour by hand. They are a cheap weapon with a basic mine costing as little as US$1000. There are very advanced mines which can cost millions and have several kinds of sensors, and deliver a warhead by rocket or torpedo.

International law says that nations have to say when they put mines in an area. This is to make it easier for civil shipping to avoid the mines. The warnings do not have to be specific; during World War II, Britain said simply that it had mined the English Channel, North Sea, and French coast.

[[Alan Fletcher (graphic designer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2006 deaths

Alan Gerard Fletcher (27 September 1931 – 21 September 2006) was a British graphic designer. He was described by The Daily Telegraph as "the most highly regarded graphic designer of his generation, and probably one of the most prolific".

[[The Edge Chronicles]]

CATEGORIES: Fantasy books

The Edge Chronicles are books of young-adult and fantasy wrote by Paul Stewart and Chris Riddell. It contains three trilogies. All in the books is surealist. Characters, cities, places, monuments, animals, plants, transportation and more were invanted by the writers.

[[Rake]]

CATEGORIES: Gardening tools

A rake is an garden and farm tool. People use rake to gather loose things like leaves, hay, and grass.

In gardening, a rake loosens soil, and removes weed and dead grass from lawns.

[[Scythe]]

CATEGORIES: Cutting tools, Gardening tools, Farming tools

A scythe (ˈsaɪð, from Old English siðe.) is an agricultural tool for mowing grass or reaping crops.  It was replaced by horse-drawn machines and then tractors, but is still used in some areas of Europe and Asia.

[[Neil Finn]]

CATEGORIES: Rock musicians, 1958 births, New Zealand singers, Living people

Neil Finn, GBR (born 27 May 1958) is a rock singer. He was born in New Zealand. Together with his brother Tim, he was the lead singer for Split Enz. He is the frontman of Crowded House. He has released solo albums. He has created the 7 Worlds Collide project and the Pajama Club band.

[[Francisco Correa de Arauxo]]

CATEGORIES: 1584 births, 1654 deaths, Spanish organists, Renaissance composers, Spanish composers, Baroque composers

Francisco Correa de Arauxo (or Araujo) (b. Seville, 1584; d. Segovia, 1654) was an important Spanish organist, composer, and theorist in the last years of the Renaissance and early years of the Baroque period.

[[Collaboration]]

CATEGORIES: Social sciences, Human communication

Collaboration is when people work with each other to complete a task. It involves co-operation and teamwork and the sharing of ideas, knowledge and skills to reach the same objective. The objective is usually creative in nature. Most collaboration needs leadership or some kind of co-ordination, although responsibilities can be shared within an egalitarian group.

Each person plays a tightly or loosely defined role in the process of collaboration. For instance, to make a movie a writer, director, producer and actors are needed. There may also be a need for a costumer, a cameraman (if the director cannot do it all), an audio engineer, and a film editor if the project is big enough and the schedule tight enough.

[[Apollo 14]]

CATEGORIES: Apollo program

Apollo 14 was the eighth crewed mission in the Apollo program. It was the third mission to land on the Moon. The nine-day mission left the Earth on January 31, 1971, and landed on the Moon on February 5. The Lunar Module landed in the Fra Mauro formation; this had been the target of the ill-fated Apollo 13 mission. During the two walks on the Moon's surface, 93.2 of moon rock was collected. Several experiments, including seismic studies, were carried out. Commander Alan Shepard famously hit two golf balls on the lunar surface with a makeshift club he had brought from Earth. Command Module Pilot Stuart Roosa took several hundred seeds on the mission, many of which were planted on return, resulting in the so-called Moon trees. The pilot of the Lunar Module was Dr. Edgar Mitchell.

[[Yoshio Kikugawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players

Yoshio Kikugawa is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Libyan Premier League]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, 1963 establishments in Africa, 20th-century establishments in Libya

Libyan Premier League is a football league which is top division in Libya.

[[Giuseppe Meazza]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1979 deaths, Italian footballers, Italian football managers

Giuseppe Meazza (23 August 1910 – 21 August 1979) is a former Italian football player. He has played for Italy national team. He is regarded as one of the greatest footballers of all time.

[[Zola]]

Zola can mean:

People:

Places:

In fiction:

Other:

[[Sérgio Conceição]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, Portuguese football managers

Sérgio Conceição (born 15 November 1974) is a former Portuguese football player. He has played for Portugal national team.

[[Yutaka Akita]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Kashima Antlers players, Nagoya Grampus players, Kyoto Sanga FC players, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, 2002 FIFA World Cup players, 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup players, 1996 AFC Asian Cup players

Yutaka Akita is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Takahiro Futagawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, Gamba Osaka players, Gamba Osaka U-23 players, Tokyo Verdy players, Tochigi SC players

Takahiro Futagawa is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Éldis Fernando Damasio]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Éldis Fernando Damasio (born 13 January 1981) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Vegalta Sendai.

[[Clemerson de Araújo Soares]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Clemerson de Araújo Soares (born 8 August 1977) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Al-Gharafa in Qatar after recently moving from Cruzeiro on July 31 2007, in a 3-year deal. He is all-time goias top scorer with 136 goals. He scored 52 goals in 73 matches in Goiás State League. He scored 19 goals in 39 matches with Cruzeiro

Araujo played for Japanese side Gamba Osaka in 2005 his 34 league goals helped Gamba to the 2005 J-League title. But 2005 was his last season in Japan. Araujo left for his homeland to sign for Cruzeiro. But 2 years later Araujo left for Qatar. He won the 2007/08 season top scorer award there.

[[Sidiclei de Souza]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Sidiclei de Souza (born 13 May 1972) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Naoshi Nakamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Nagoya Grampus players

Naoshi Nakamura is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Ryoichi Maeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, Júbilo Iwata players, FC Tokyo players, FC Tokyo U-23 players, FC Gifu players, 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup players

Ryoichi Maeda is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Akira Narahashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Shonan Bellmare players, Kashima Antlers players, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup players

Akira Narahashi is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Joubert Araújo Martins]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Mato Grosso

Joubert Araújo Martins (born 7 January 1975) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Kozo Tashima]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, JEF United Chiba players

Kozo Tashima is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. He is current president of Japan Football Association.

[[Daisuke Sakata]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Yokohama F. Marinos players, FC Tokyo players, Avispa Fukuoka players

Daisuke Sakata is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Plantain]]

CATEGORIES: Fruits, Musaceae

The plantain is a crop from the genus Musa. Its fruits are edible, and are generally used for cooking. This is different from the soft and sweet banana (which is often called dessert banana). Dessert bananas are more common to import in countries in the European Union or the United States.

The way certain species are called often show how they are used:  cooking plantain, banana plantain, beer banana, bocadillo plantain (the little one), etc. All members of the genus Musa are indigenous to the tropical region of Southeast Asia, including the Malay Archipelago and northern Australia.

Plantains are often firmer than dessert bananas; they also have less sugar. Dessert bananas are often eaten raw; plantains are usually cooked or otherwise processed before they are eaten. Plantains are a staple food in tropical regions, treated similarly to potatoes. They also have a similar taste.

Primary cultivation originated in Southeast Asia, secondary in West Africa. Other regions with Plantain crops include the Southern United States, the Caribbean, Central America, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Southern Brazil, the Canary Islands, Madeira, Egypt, Cameroon, Nigeria, Uganda, Okinawa, Kerala and Taiwan. Farmers grow plantains as far north as Northern California and as far south as KwaZulu-Natal.

[[Staple food]]

CATEGORIES: Foods

A staple food is a food item that can be stored easily and eaten throughout the year. Different kinds of staple foods are used in different parts of the world.   

The term means the common basis of the everyday diet in a place. Potatoes and rice are the most usual examples, but bread is not a staple food because it is a manufactured food which cannot be stored. Of course, it can always be made, since wheat is a staple food. Fruit is not a staple because it usually grows at a certain time of year. Meat is not a staple because it may not be available, or is expensive to buy. Green vegetables may be a staple in some countries, but not others. Foods which need special facilities, such as refrigeration are not staple foods.

Here are some examples of staple foods:

[[Zhengzhou]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China, Capital cities in Asia

Zhengzhou (郑州, pinyin: zhèngzhōu) is the capital of Henan Province in the People's Republic of China. It is in the northcentral part of Henan.

Zhengzhou is on the southern bank of the Yellow River. It is one of the Eight Great Ancient Capitals of China. In 2010, 9,378,000 people lived there.

[[Braidwood, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Braidwood (35) is a town in the Southern Tablelands of New South Wales, Australia. It is in the Palerang Shire. In 2006 there were 1,108 people living in Braidwood. It was used as a location for the movie Ned Kelly starring Mick Jagger in 1969.

[[Hunan]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of China

Hunan (湖南; zh-Hunan.ogg) is a province of South Central China, in the middle reaches of the Yangtze River and south of Lake Dongting (The characters in the name Hunan mean "lake" and "south"). Hunan is sometimes called 湘|湘 (Xiāng) for short, after the Xiang River which runs through the province.

Its major cities are Changde, Changsha, Chenzhou, Hengyang, Huaihua, Loudi, Shaoyang, Xiangtan, Yiyang, Yongzhou, Yueyang, Zhangjiajie and Zhuzhou.

[[Guangxi]]

CATEGORIES: Autonomous regions of China

Guangxi is a provincial-level autonomous region of the People's Republic of China where mostly Zhuang people live.

Guangxi's capital in Nanning. Other major cities are Baise, Beihai, Chongzuo, Fangchenggang, Guigang, Guilin, Hechi, Hezhou, Laibin, Liuzhou, Qinzhou, Wuzhou and Yulin.

It is near Vietnam and has many mountains. It is one of the border frontiers of Chinese civilization. Even in the 20th century it was considered an open, wild territory. The current name "Guang" itself means "expanse", and has been associated with the region since the creation of Guang Prefecture in 226 AD. It was given provincial level status during the Yuan Dynasty and in 1949 was reformed as one of China's five autonomous regions.

[[Season structure of the NHL]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League seasons

The National Hockey League (NHL) season is divided into the regular season and the Stanley Cup playoffs. In the regular season, teams play 82 games which determine their standings. The eight top teams in each conference enter the playoff elimination tournament to determine the Stanley Cup champion.

[[2009 Formula One World Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One seasons, 2009 in sports

The 2009 Formula One season was the 60th FIA Formula One World Championship season. There were ten teams signed up to compete in the championship. Jenson Button became the Drivers' World Champion and Brawn GP won the Constructors' title.

The season is scheduled to take place over 17 rounds, and started with the Australian Grand Prix on 29 March 2009. It will end on 1 November 2009 with the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, which is included on the race calendar for the first time and will be held at the new Yas Marina Circuit. The French and Canadian Grands Prix, which were both included in the 2008 championship, have been dropped.

Several rule changes will be implemented by the FIA, in a bid to cut costs due to the global financial crisis and to improve the on-track spectacle. New rules governing tyres, aerodynamics and Kinetic Energy Recovery Systems (KERS), among others, are some of the biggest changes in the Formula One regulations for several decades. FIA initially declared a change in deciding the World Driver's Championship, with the driver winning the most races to be declared as the champion. However, this decision was later reversed following protests from Formula One Teams Association.

[[Bucegi Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of the Carpathians, Mountains of Romania

The Bucegi Mountains (Munţii Bucegi) are in central Romania to the south of the city Braşov. They are part of the Southern Carpathians group of the Carpathian Mountains of Europe.

To the east, the Bucegi Mountains have a very steep slope. This is towards the popular tourist destination Prahova Valley. At a higher elevation is the Bucegi Plateau, where wind and rain have turned the rocks into brilliant figures such as the Sphinx and Babele.

The Bucegi is thought to be the Dacian holy mountain Kogainon. Here, the mythical figure Zalmoxis resided in a cave.

[[Private First Class]]

CATEGORIES: Military ranks

In many armed forces in the world, Private First Class (PFC) is a rank held by junior enlisted persons.

[[Lance Corporal]]

CATEGORIES: Military ranks

Lance corporal is a military rank, used by many armed forces around the world, and also by some police forces and other uniformed organizations. It is below the rank of Corporal, and is typically the lowest Non-commissioned officer, usually equivalent to the NATO Rank Grade OR-3.

[[Ned Kelly (1970 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 movies, Australian biographical movies, Australian crime movies, 1970s western movies, Movies set in Australia, Movies directed by Tony Richardson

Ned Kelly is the name of a 1970 movie. It was the second Australian feature length movie about Australian bushranger Ned Kelly. The first was The Story of the Kelly Gang made in 1906, the world's first feature movie.

Ned Kelly was directed by Tony Richardson, and starred Mick Jagger as Ned Kelly. Scottish-born actor Mark McManus played the part of Kelly's friend Joe Byrne. It was a British production, but was filmed entirely in Australia, shot mostly around Braidwood in southern New South Wales, with mainly Australian actors.

[[Spring Offensive]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 in Europe, 1910s in France, Battles of the Western Front (World War I)

The 1918 Spring Offensive or Kaiserschlacht (Kaiser's Battle), also known as the Ludendorff Offensive, was a series of German attacks along the Western Front during World War I, which marked the deepest advances by either side since 1914. The German authorities had realised that their only remaining chance of victory was to defeat the Allies before the overwhelming human and matériel resources of the United States could be deployed. They also had the advantage of nearly 50 divisions freed by the Russian surrender (Treaty of Brest-Litovsk). 

The first and most important part was called Operation Michael. It used new infiltration tactics. After the offensive, not enough German soldiers were still alive to win the war anymore.

[[Tang Enbo]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1959 deaths, Chinese generals

Tang Enbo (1898-1959) was a Nationalist general in the Republic of China. Along with Hu Zongnan and Xue Yue, Tang was one of the Kuomintang generals most respected by the Japanese during the Second Sino-Japanese War. 

[[Xue Yue]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1998 deaths

Xue Yue (1896-1998) was a Nationalist general in the Republic of China. Xue joined the Chinese army in 1914, at the age of 18. Along with Hu Zongnan and Tang Enbo, Xue was one of the Kuomintang generals most respected by the Japanese during the Second Sino-Japanese War. Xue was in the defense of greater Wuhan, commanding the 1st Army Corps. In the mountains Xue's army succeeded in nearly destroying the 106th division of the Japanese army. During the battle, most of the Japanese officers were killed and the Japanese had to drop 300 officers by parachute into the battlefield. 

Xue lived to 101 years old.July 2010

[[Shunroku Hata]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1962 deaths, Criminals, Japanese military people, Military personnel of World War II, People from Fukushima Prefecture

Shunroku Hata, was a Japanese general.  

Hata was minister of war in 1939.  He was commander-in-chief of the Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) in China in 1941. 

He was the last surviving Japanese military officer with a rank of Field Marshal. He was jailed at the end of World War Two and released in 1955.

[[Bai Chongxi]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1966 deaths

Bai Chongxi (18 March 1893 – 1 December 1966), also spelled Pai Chung-hsi, was a Chinese Muslim general in the National Revolutionary Army of the Republic of China. He was a warlord in the Guangxi Province, commanding his own troops and governing Guangxi (though part of the Republic of China). He was often an ally of Chiang Kai-Shek in the politics of the Republic of China. 

[[Letter of Jeremiah]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament books, Septuagint

The Letter of Jeremiah, also known as the Epistle of Jeremy. This is a deuterocanonical (or apocryphal) book of the Old Testament. The letter is believed to have been made by Jeremiah to the people who were to be taken prisoner into Babylon. It is included in Catholic Bibles as the last part of the Book of Baruch. It is also in Orthodox Bibles as a standalone book.

[[AllMovie]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment websites, 2011 establishments

AllMovie is a commercial database with information about movie stars, movies and television shows. It was started by Michael Erlewine, who also started AllMusic and AllGame.

[[Revelation]]

CATEGORIES: Theology

Revelation is when something is made clear or obvious that was hidden before. Most of the time, the term is used to speak about religious revelations. That means that the revelation is done by communication with the divine. Revelation can be through a deity who may send a messenger. Messengers that are supernatural are often called angels (Angel literally means messenger). Human messengers tend to be called prophets.

[[Sebastián Aguilera de Heredia]]

CATEGORIES: Renaissance composers, Spanish composers, Baroque composers, Spanish organists, 1561 births, 1627 deaths

Sebastian Aguilera de Heredia (1561-1627) was a Spanish organist and composer.

Aguilera was born in Zaragoza, Spain on about August 15, 1561.

We do not know much about his early life. He was ordained as a priest in January 1584. In 1585 he became organist at Huesca Cathedral, where he supervised the building of a new organ at the cathedral during 1588.  In 1603 he became a priest and organist at the Cathedral of La Seo, Zaragossa.  He looked after the organ at the cathedral and often had work done to improve it. He remained at the cathedral until his death on December 16, 1627.

All his compositions were for the church: both his organ music and vocal music.  His organ works show that he learned from composers such as Antonio de Cabezón, but he put new, modern ideas in his music which later influenced younger composers such as Correa de Arauxo. His students became the cathedral organists after his death, and were part of a tradition and style of paying which lasted for over 100 years.

A very important new technique which he used was the use of a divided keyboard (medio registro) which allowed different sounds in the upper half and the lower half of the keyboard (on today's organs one would need a two-manual organ to get the same effect).  He wrote 36 settings of the Magnificat, called Canticum Beatissimae Virginis Deiparae Mariae (1618).  His vocal work shows a skilful use of polyphony.

[[Shahnameh]]

CATEGORIES: Persian literature

The Shahnameh or Shāhnāma (Book of Kings, شاهنامه) is a large poetic opus by the Persian poet Ferdowsi. The book was written between circa 977 to 1010 AD. The Shahnameh is about the mythical and historical past of Persia/Iran. It is the national epic of Persia/Iran and one of the greatest literary works of the Persian language.

Shahnameh has been composed of 3 main parts: 1. mythical, 2. heroic, 3. historical.

[[Papal conclave]]

CATEGORIES: Popes

A Papal conclave is a meeting of cardinals. The cardinals meet to elect the next bishop of Rome, to become pope. This becomes necessary when the old pope dies or resigns. Usually, popes do not resign, though. The last pope to resign was Pope Benedict XVI. On 11 February 2013, the Vatican confirmed Pope Benedict would resign the papacy and on 13 March it announced the new and current pope as Pope Francis.

The word conclave is from Latin. It refers to the fact that the cardinals are locked up together, until they have agreed on a new pope. Today, this happens in the Sistine Chapel. 

Originally, the conclave was started in Italian city states, in the 12th century. These cities needed to elect officeholders, and the election needed to be free of party politics. Events such as the Investiture Controversy in medieval Europe led to people wanting "free" elections, with a medieval understanding of free. Methods were often combined, the elements used were Acclamation, naming of candidates by predecessors, or by univolved people, and using "electrors" who would agree on the successor, behind closed doors. Earliest examples are that of Genua, in 1157, Pisa, in 1162-64, or Pistoia. 

Pope Nicholas II published a papal bull called In Nomine Domini, in 1059, which introduced the conclave as the way to elect his successor. 

[[Seminary]]

CATEGORIES: Types of educational institutions, Seminaries

A seminary, theological college or divinity school is a university that specializes in theology or philosophy. Very often the students live at the seminary. Usually, priests have to study at a seminary at the start of their career.

[[Hunger]]

CATEGORIES: Hunger

Hunger is the feeling of wanting to eat. Ghrelin is a hormone that makes people feel hungry. The opposite of hunger is called satiety or fullness. Leptin causes this feeling. People can survive weeks without eating, but they will start to feel hungry after they have not eaten for a few hours. Hunger is generally considered quite uncomfortable. People who have eaten food usually will feel less hungry, or not hungry at all. People can live longer without food than without water.

Hunger is also used to refer to people who generally have little to eat, and are therefore often hungry. This can lead to starvation.

[[Chanakya]]

CATEGORIES: Indian people, Jainism

Chanakya (चाणक्य Cāṇakya, சாணக்கியர்; c. 350-283 BCE) was an adviser and a prime minister to  Chandragupta Maurya (c. 340-293 BCE). Chanakya helped Chandragupta create the Maurya Empire. Chanakya is considered a pioneer (someone who explores a new area) in economics. He wrote about economics a very long time before Ibn Khaldun.

[[Trowel]]

CATEGORIES: Gardening tools, Tools

A trowel is a small tool used for digging, smoothing, or moving around small amounts of material.

[[Juniper]]

CATEGORIES: Cupressaceae

Junipers is the name for a number of species of coniferous plants in the genus Juniperus. They are related to the  family Cupressaceae (the cypress). There are between 50 and 67 species of juniper. Junipers grow in the northern hemisphere. 

Junipers are evergreen. They vary in size from low shrubs to tall trees, which grow to between twenty and forty metres tall. 

[[Juniper berry]]

CATEGORIES: Cupressaceae, Spices

The juniper berry is the female seed cone made by the different kinds of junipers. It is not a true berry, but its unusual roundness and merged scales make it look like a berry. Some of the cones are used as spices. Juniper berries are also used to flavour gin. According to a FAO document, juniper berries are the only spice that comes from conifers. However, tar and bark from pine trees are sometimes thought of as spices, too.

[[Henry Kissinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, Living people, American autobiographers, American military personnel of World War II, American Nobel Prize winners, American political scientists, Chancellors of the College of William & Mary, German Jews, Harvard University alumni, Jewish American politicians, Jewish American writers, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Nobel Peace Prize winners, People of the Vietnam War, Politicians from Bavaria, Time People of the Year, United States Secretaries of State, German Nobel Prize winners

PeaceHenry Alfred Wolfgang Kissinger (born Heinz Alfred Wolfgang Kissinger on May 27, 1923), ˈkɪsɪndʒər, is an American political scientist, diplomat, and winner of the Nobel Peace Prize. He served as  both National Security Advisor and later as Secretary of State in the Nixon Administration and the Ford Administration.

[[Akihiro Endō]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture, J1 League players, J2 League players, Yokohama F. Marinos players, Vissel Kobe players, Footballers at the 1996 Summer Olympics

Akihiro Endo is a former Japanese football player. His brother Yasuhito Endo is also a footballer.

[[Fernando Moner]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

Fernando Moner (born 30 December 1967) is a former Argentine football player.

[[Toshiaki Imai]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Toshiaki Imai (born 29 December 1954) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Fujitsu.

[[Vanderlei Luxemburgo]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Brazilian football managers

Vanderlei Luxemburgo (born 10 May 1952) is a former Brazilian football player and football coach. He has been four times winner of Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, which is a record.

[[Shinya Aikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Shinya Aikawa (born 26 July 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takuto Hayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Takuto Hayashi (born 9 August 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vegalta Sendai.

[[Norihiro Yamagishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Norihiro Yamagishi (born 17 May 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Urawa Red Diamonds.

[[Ryota Tsuzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Nara Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Gamba Osaka players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Shonan Bellmare players, 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 2000 Summer Olympics

Ryota Tsuzuki is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Robson Ponte]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Robson Ponte (born 6 November 1976) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Urawa Red Diamonds.

[[Tomislav Marić]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Tomislav Marić (born 28 January 1973) is a former Croatian football player. He has played for Croatia national team.

[[Ichiei Muroi]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Ichiei Muroi (born 22 June 1974) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Boeremusiek]]

CATEGORIES: Folk music

Boeremusiek (Afrikaans for Boer music) is a kind of South African instrumental folk music.  Its was made to go with social dancing at parties and festivals.

[[Military Merit Cross (Austria–Hungary)]]

CATEGORIES: Military honors, Orders, decorations, and medals, Austria-Hungary

The Military Merit Cross (German: Militärverdienstkreuz, Croatian: Vojni križ za zasluge) was a decoration of the Empire of Austria and, after the establishment of the Dual Monarchy in 1867, the Empire of Austria-Hungary. It was first established on 22 October 1849 and underwent several revisions to its design and award criteria over the years of its existence. It became obsolete in 1918 with the fall of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.

[[Ray Gordy]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Tennessee, People from Chattanooga, Tennessee, Former WWE wrestlers

Terry Ray Gordy, Jr. (born 23 March 1979) is a retired American professional wrestler who is best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) where he appeared on their SmackDown brand under the ring names Jesse and Slam Master J. In WWE, he was known for tagging with Drew Hankinson where they made the team of Jesse and Festus. He is the son of the wrestler Terry Gordy of the Fabulous Freebirds. Gordy currently works as a police officer in Atlanta, Georgia.

[[Bing]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in the United States, Microsoft websites, Websites, Search engines

Microsoft Bing (before called Windows Live Search and MSN Search) is a search engine. Microsoft calls it a "decision engine", meaning that Bing tries to interpret search queries and give people better search results compared to a typical search engine, helping the user make better decisions. Bing concentrates on four major areas: shopping, travel, local and health. A preview version was made available for everyone to use on June 1, 2009, and the website was fully launched on June 3, 2009. The website quickly became popular after a few weeks.

On July 29, 2009, Microsoft and Yahoo! announced that Bing would power Yahoo! Search. All Yahoo! Search global customers and partners will be shifted to Bing by early 2012.

In October 2011, Microsoft announced "Tiger", a new internal search computer program for Bing. When it was finished, Bing delivered faster and more relevant search results for users. It has been incorporated into Bing since August 2011.

[[Boy Scouts of America]]

CATEGORIES: Scouting

The Boy Scouts of America or BSA is an organization for children and teens with over 5 million members across the United States. They try to give young people life values. BSA includes Cub Scouts, which is for children ages 6–11, Scouts BSA, which is for youth ages 11–17, and Venturing and Sea Scouts, for youth ages 14–20. Scouts BSA was called Boy Scouts until it started allowing girls in 2019.

[[Counterfeit]]

CATEGORIES: Organized crime

Counterfeit is the sale or manufacture of items that have not been made by real companies or have been made illegally. Nearly anything can be counterfeit, but most counterfeiting is of clothing and other small items such as bags, medicines, money, watches, or jewellery. Most things can be sold without people realizing that they are counterfeit and that they could possibly be breaking the law by buying the counterfeit goods.

Money can also be counterfeited. Sometimes people make fake cash, and this is considered to be counterfeit. The United States Secret Service investigates people who do this.

[[Limoux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aude, Subprefectures in France

Limoux (Limós) is a French commune, a subprefecture in the Aude department. It is in the Occitanie region. It is also the capital of the arrondissement of Limoux.

[[Tamaddun Majlish]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in Bangladesh, Islamic organizations

Tamaddun Majlish (পাকিস্তান তমদ্দুন মজলিশ) was an Islamic cultural organization in East Bengal. Tamddun Majlish was the founder of the historic Language Movement.

[[Sindh Valley]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain passes of Pakistan, Valleys

The Sindh Valley, is a valley in a mountain range which is north of Srinagar in Jammu and Kashmir. The valley begins in Gandarbal and ends near Baltal and the start of the Zojila Pass. Sindh Valley is the main route between Kashmir and Central Asia.

[[Paktia Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Afghanistan

Paktia (پکتيا - Paktyā) is a province under Afghanistan. Its capital (city) is Gardez.  There are about 1.3 million people who live in the Province.  Most of the people are Pashtun.

[[Sun Microsystems]]

CATEGORIES: Computers, 1982 establishments in California, Sun Microsystems, Santa Clara, California, Companies based in the San Francisco Bay Area, American technology companies

Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun for short) was an American company that sold computers, computer components, software, and information technology services. Sun contributed to many important computing technologies, such as Unix, RISC processors, thin client computing, and virtualized computing. Sun created the Java programming language, the Solaris operating system, the Network File System (NFS), and the SPARC instruction set. Sun was founded on February 24, 1982. Sun's headquarters were in Santa Clara, California. In January 2010, it was bought by Oracle Corporation.

[[Water strider]]

CATEGORIES: Hemiptera

The water strider (also known as the pond skater) is a true bug, an insect of the family Gerridae. It can run across the surface of water. It lives on ponds and slow-running streams. It rarely goes underwater. The underside of the body is covered with water-repellent hair. There are around 500 known species, commonly placed in around 60 genera. Also called the Jesus bug (walks on water).

[[Bowler]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket

A bowler is a person who bowls or delivers a ball to the batsman in the game of cricket. Unlike the pitcher in a game of baseball, a bowler delivers with a straight arm (see photo). A ball bowled with the elbow bent is a throw, and that is illegal. If the bowler bowls while not in the right part of the nonstriker's ground, or bowls the ball out of the reach of the striking batter, that is also illegal. Illegal bowling gives the batting team 1 point, mostly can't get players out, and doesn't count toward the limit on the number of deliveries in the game. 

A bowler who can also bat well, is called an all rounder. There are different types of bowler, and a cricket team will usually have a mix of different types.

[[Wicket]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket

In cricket, a wicket is:

[[Dynamic and formal equivalence]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics

Dynamic and formal equivalence are concepts from linguistics. 

When a language  is translated into another one, there is a problem: the meaning of a word or a phrase in the first language is not the same as that of the word or phrase in the second language. The first language may also have words, phrases or grammatical structures that do not exist in the second language.

There are two possible ways to solve this problem:

[[The Undertones]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1970s British music groups, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, British pop rock bands, British punk bands, Entertainers from Northern Ireland, Irish rock bands, Musical groups established in 1975

The Undertones are a punk rock/power pop band from Northern Ireland. They formed in Derry in 1975.  

[[Luftfahrtgesellschaft Walter]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation

The Luftfahrtgesellschaft Walter or LGW is a German airline. 

[[3G]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications, Mobile phones

3G, the short form for the third generation, is the third generation of wireless mobile telecommunication technology. It was replaced by 4G.

[[Kin selection]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Genetics

Kin selection or kin altruism is a form of natural selection. Some animals cooperate with relatives, even if this brings risk to themselves. The classic example of this is seen in the family life of mammals, or in colonial insects such as ants.  

Many mammals and birds raise alarms to warn others of danger. Others cooperate in tasks, such as scrub jays help each other with to build nests. In all these cases where animals cooperate, the question is whether there is any biological benefit to themselves. It is now clear that there is benefit if the animals are closely related. This is because related organisms have (to a degree) a shared genetic inheritance.

The first to write about the concept were by R.A. Fisher in 1930, and J.B.S. Haldane in 1955, but it was W.D. Hamilton who truly formalized the concept.  The actual term kin selection was probably coined by John Maynard Smith, when he wrote: 

By cooperating, relatives influence each other's fitness. Under natural selection, a gene which improves the fitness of individuals will increase in frequency. A gene which lowers the fitness of individuals will become rare. 

However, behaviour which enhances the fitness of relatives but lowers that of the actor, may nonetheless increase in frequency. Relatives do, by definition, carry many of the same genes. This is the fundamental principle behind the theory of kin selection. According to the theory, the enhanced fitness of relatives may more than compensate for the fitness loss of the helpers (individuals displaying the behaviour). 

This is a special case of a more general model, called inclusive fitness.

[[Sterile]]

CATEGORIES: Words

Sterile is an important term which has two main meanings.

1. Anything which is not infected by bacteria (or viruses or parasites).

2. Unable to give rise to offspring (children) by birth or fertilisation.

[[Foraging]]

CATEGORIES: Zoology, Hunting

Foraging is the act of hunting or gathering food. For example, cattle forage grass to eat. The idea of animals foraging is called forage theory, and was first proposed in 1966.

Humans that forage are often called hunter-gatherers, who find and eat (wild) animals and plants without domestication of them (people who farm plants are not hunter-gatherers, as they have grown them themselves). 

[[Pacific Northwest]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Canada, Regions of the United States

The Pacific Northwest, also referred to as Cascadia, is a region on the west coast of North America. It refers to the northwestern corner of the United States and the southwestern part of Canada. The U.S. states of Washington, Idaho, western Montana, Oregon and northern California are in the southern part of the Pacific Northwest. The Canadian province of British Columbia and the southeastern part of the U.S. state of Alaska is in the northern part. The entire region is bordered by the Pacific Ocean to the west.

Historically, the Pacific Northwest had many Native Americans. Starting from about 15,000 years ago, Native Americans settled along the coastline and along the major rivers. From the 1500s to the 1700s, Europeans explored the region, beginning with the discovery of Oregon and Washington. In the early 1800s, the famous Lewis and Clark expedition arrived in Washington State. From the 19th century to present day, the region began to become settled. Today, the largest cities in the Northwest include Vancouver, Seattle and Portland.

The rugged mountains of the Northwest consist of the Coast Range, which is nearer the coast, and the Cascade Range. In northern Washington, the Cascade Range is called the North Cascades. In British Columbia, it is called the Canadian Cascades. The many rivers of the Northwest result from its wet climate - the mountains trap wet Pacific air, leaving little rain for inland states like Idaho. The rivers once supported large salmon runs, but large power dams have been built on many rivers.

The main language of the Pacific Northwest is English in the United States and Canada; among the Native Americans Chinook Jargon is common. Among the many Asian immigrants, Chinese is being used more in the Northwest.

[[Adaptation]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Ecology

Adaptation is the evolutionary process where an organism becomes better suited to its habitat. This process takes place over many generations. It is one of the basic phenomena of biology.

When people speak about adaptation, they often mean a 'feature' (a trait) which helps an animal or plant survive. An example is the adaptation of horses' teeth to grinding grass. Grass is their usual food; it wears the teeth down, but horses' teeth continue to grow during life. Horses also have adapted to run fast, which helps them to escape their predators, such as lions. These features are the product of the process of adaptation.

The illustration of bird beaks shows an obvious sign of their different ways of life. However, eating a different food also means having a different digestive system, gut, claws, wings and above all, different inherited behaviour. For the major adaptations, what changes is not a single trait, but a whole group of features.

Adaptation occurs because the better adapted animals are the most likely to survive, and to reproduce successfully. This process is known as natural selection; it is the basic cause of evolutionary change. 

[[Amaranth (color)]]

Amaranth is a rose-red color that is the color of the flower of the amaranth plant.

The first written use of amaranth as a color name in English was in 1690.

[[Cobra Starship]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American punk bands, Musical groups from New York City, 2005 establishments in New York (state), Musical groups established in 2005, Musical groups disestablished in 2015, 2015 disestablishments in the United States, 2010s disestablishments in New York (state)

Cobra Starship was an American alternative dance band. The group started in 2005 in New York City. They are most famous for their songs "Snakes on a Plane (Bring It)" and "Good Girls Go Bad". They are currently signed to record label Fueled by Ramen.

Cobra Starship officially dissolved on November 10, 2015.

[[San Felipe de Puerto Plata]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dominican Republic, 1500s establishments in the Spanish Empire

The Dominican city of San Felipe de Puerto Plata, usually called just Puerto Plata is the head municipality of the Puerto Plata province, on the north (Atlantic) coast of the country.

[[North Cascades]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Canada

The North Cascades are a name used for the mountains at the north end of the Cascade Range, south of Canada. The North Cascades are entirely in the United States, in the state of Washington. At the Canadian border, the North Cascades are called the Canadian Cascades. The highest point in the North Cascades is Mount Baker (10,781 ft/3,286m). North Cascades National Park is located at the northernmost end of the North Cascades.

Some of the primary rivers in the North Cascades are the Skagit, Nooksack, Stillaguamish, and Stehekin. Lake Chelan is the largest lake in the North Cascades. Although now termed a reservoir, it was originally a natural lake, but enlarged by a dam. The urban areas of Seattle, Tacoma and Everett are all west of the North Cascades. The Columbia River, Washington's largest river, forms the east and south boundary.

[[The Point!]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 movies, American animated movies, English-language movies

The Point! is a 1971 animated cartoon movie, written by singer-songwriter Harry Nilsson and Carole Beers, and directed by Fred Wolf. It first appeared on ABC television, in the United States. It starred the voices of Mike Lookinland ("Bobby" of The Brady Bunch fame), and actor Dustin Hoffman. (Later editions replaced Hoffman's voice with that of Alan Thicke, then musician Ringo Starr.)

[[Darwinius]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Primates

Darwinius is a genus of primates known from only one fossil. It was discovered in 1983 by an amateur at the Messel Pit. This is a disused shale quarry noted for its astonishing fossil preservation, near the village of Messel, about 35 km (22 miles) southeast of Frankfurt am Main in Germany.

The fosssil dates from the Eocene epoch, 47 million years ago. The genus Darwinius was named to celebrate Charles Darwin on his bicentenary and the species name masillae honors Messel, where the specimen was found. The creature appeared superficially similar to a modern lemur. It is the only known specimen of its species.

The fossil, nicknamed 'Ida', was divided into a slab and partial counterslab after the excavation. The two parts were sold separately, was not reassembled until 2007. 

[[Redmond Barry]]

CATEGORIES: Australian judges, Ned Kelly, People from County Cork, 1813 births, 1880 deaths

Redmond Barry (1813—1880), was a judge in Victoria, Australia. He is famous for being the person who started the University of Melbourne and the State Library of Victoria. As a judge he is famous for sentencing bushranger Ned Kelly to death. He was also the judge in the trials of the rebel miners from the Eureka Stockade in Ballarat, Victoria.

[[Transport network]]

CATEGORIES: Networks, Transport infrastructure

A transport network, or transportation network is a network of roads, streets, pipes, power lines, or any structure that lets either movement of vehicles or flow of some commodity.

[[Buxton]]

CATEGORIES: Spa towns in the United Kingdom, Towns in Derbyshire

Buxton is a spa town in Derbyshire, England.  It is the highest market town in England.  Buxton is near to Cheshire and Staffordshire. Buxton is described as "the gateway to the Peak District National Park". Buxton is also close to Manchester.

Poole's Cavern, a limestone cavern, and St Ann's Well are in Buxton.  Also in the town is an Opera House.

[[Alice's Adventures in Wonderland]]

CATEGORIES: English novels, Books by Lewis Carroll, Fantasy books, Children's books, English-language novels, 1860s books

Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll is an 1865 childrens’ story written by Charles Dodgson and illustrated by John Tenniel. Dodgson used Lewis Carroll as a pen name when writing poetry and fiction.

The story is more well known as Alice in Wonderland and is the basis for many adaptations in films, art and music.

One of the very commonly used phrases today - “down the rabbit hole” - comes from the beginning of the story. Alice is a young girl who, while falling asleep outside on a golden afternoon, sees a white rabbit and follows it into a rabbit hole. When she falls down the rabbit hole, she begins her fantastical adventures in Wonderland. 

Her adventures include distortions of time and proportion. Throughout the story she shrinks and grows repeatedly as she meets characters of all kinds  and sizes, including the iconic Caterpillar who asks “Who are you?” and Cheshire Cat who asks her “Where do you want to go?”

[[Penny sterling]]

CATEGORIES: British currency

The penny sterling (plural pence) is a subdivision of Pound sterling, the currency for the United Kingdom.

[[Montreal Wanderers]]

CATEGORIES: 1900s establishments in Canada, 1903 establishments in North America, 1918 disestablishments, 20th century disestablishments in Canada, Defunct National Hockey League teams, National Hockey Association

The Montreal Wanderers were a professional men's ice hockey team that played in Montreal, Quebec at the Montreal Arena, and were one of the founding franchises of the National Hockey League in the 1917–18 NHL season. The Wanderers won a total of eight Stanley Cup challenges within a span of five seasons from 1906 to 1910. Prior to the formation of the NHL, the "Redbands" were one of the most successful teams in hockey.

[[£sd]]

CATEGORIES: British currency

£sd (pronounced, and sometimes written, L.s.d.) was the popular name for the pre-decimal currencies (sterling) used in the United Kingdom and in most of the British Empire. This abbreviation meant “pounds, shillings, and pence”. It is different when compared to American currency.

[[Quebec Bulldogs]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 establishments in Canada, Ice hockey teams in Quebec, Sport in Quebec City

The Quebec Bulldogs were a men's senior-level ice hockey team officially known as the Quebec Hockey Club, later as the Quebec Athletic Club. Their recorded play goes back as far as the Amateur Hockey Association of Canada (AHAC) in 1889, although the Quebec Hockey Club is known to have played in tournaments prior to that date. The club continued as an amateur team through various leagues, eventually becoming professional in 1908, and eventually playing in the National Hockey League. The Bulldog name was given by the media and was so popular with the fans a Bulldog mascot was created but was never officially changed until the team moved to Hamilton, Ontario in 1920 and became the Tigers.

[[Three-body problem]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Astronomy

The three-body problem is a problem in the field of physics that experts find interesting. The goal is to find how three things move when they attract each other with gravity. It would be for instance the problem of the movement of the Sun, the Earth and the Moon. Physicists do not have a general solution that always works. 

[[Yossi Benayoun]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Israeli footballers, Jewish Israeli sportspeople

Yossi Benayoun (יוסי בניון; born 5 May 1980) is an Israeli football player. He currently plays for Chelsea in the Premier League. Benayoun plays as an attacking midfielder, and he is the captain of the Israeli national team.

[[Plum Warner]]

CATEGORIES: English cricketers

Sir Pelham Francis Warner, known as Plum, (born 2 October 1873 in Port of Spain, Trinidad – died 30 January 1963 at West Lavington, West Sussex), was an England cricketer and a tour manager for England. He was tour manager during the 1932-33 "bodyline" tour of Australia where England bowled high and fast balls to the body of the Australian batsman, especially the famous Don Bradman.

[[Douglas Jardine]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1958 deaths, British Army officers, British military personnel of World War II, English cricketers, Majors, People of British India

Douglas Robert Jardine (Bombay, Indian Empire 23 October 1900 – Montreux, Switzerland 18 June 1958) was an English cricketer and captain of the England cricket team from 1931 to 1933–34. A right-handed batsman, he played 22 Test matches for England, captaining the side in 15 matches, winning nine, losing one and drawing five.

[[The Oval]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket

The Oval is a place in London, England where important cricket matches are played. The Oval is the home place for Surrey County Cricket Club when they play other counties and England often play their last home test matches there at the end of the summer.

The Oval is located in Kennington, South London. The nearest tube station is also called Oval but you can get to the place easily from Vauxhall station.

[[Trophallaxis]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology

Trophallaxis in biology refers the sharing of food by members of a community. 

It is most highly developed in social insects such as ants, termites, wasps and bees. The word was introduced by the entomologist William Morton Wheeler in 1918. The behaviour has been used to explain theories of how social behaviour developed in insects. The French psychologist and entomologist August Forel also believed that food sharing was key to ant society. He used an illustration of it as the frontispiece for his book The social world of the ants compared with that of man.

Trophallaxis serves as a means of communication, at least in bees and ants. In some species of ants, it may play a role in spreading the colony odour that identifies members.

[[Oval tube station]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Line stations, Transport in Lambeth, London Travelcard zone 2

Oval tube station in Kennington is a station on the Northern line of the London Underground. It is between Stockwell and Kennington stations. It is the only station on the Morden branch of the Northern line whose name begins with a vowel. It is one of only two stations on the London Underground with only four letters in its name. The other station is Bank. Oval station is in Travelcard Zone 2. It is named for The Oval, which it serves.

[[Nikolaus Harnoncourt]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Austrian conductors, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from Berlin, People from Graz, Performers of early music

Nikolaus Harnoncourt (born Berlin, 6 December 1929, died St. Georgen im Attergau, 5 March 2016) was an Austrian conductor.  He was famous for his conducting music from many years ago using orchestras with period instruments.

[[Roger Norrington]]

CATEGORIES: British conductors, Performers of early music, 1934 births, Living people, Grammy Award winners, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, Knights Bachelor

Sir Roger Norrington OBE (born 16 March 1934) is a British conductor who is famous for conducting music from historical periods using period instruments.

[[Surrey County Cricket Club]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket clubs

Surrey County Cricket Club are a cricket team who play first class county leagues. They play their home games at The Oval in Kennington, South London.

[[Gustav Leonhardt]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2012 deaths, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch conductors, Dutch educators, Harpsichordists, Organists, People from North Holland, Performers of early music

Gustav Leonhardt (born 's-Graveland, Netherlands, 30 May 1928, died Amsterdam, 16 January 2012) was a famous Dutch harpsichordist, organist and conductor who became well known for playing music from historical periods on period instruments. At the beginning of his career the harpsichord was not yet a popular instrument and music from the Renaissance and Baroque periods was usually played in the same way as music from later centuries. Gustav Leonhardt made his audiences aware of what music by Johann Sebastian Bach would have sounded like in Bach's day.

[[Vienna Symphony]]

CATEGORIES: Orchestras, Vienna

The Vienna Symphony (Wiener Symphoniker) is an orchestra in Vienna, Austria.

[[Liber Linteus]]

CATEGORIES: Etruscan civilization, Zagreb

The Liber Linteus Zagrabiensis (or Liber Agramensis) (Latin: Linen Book of Zagreb or Book of Agram) is the longest Etruscan text and the only existing linen book. 

Most of the text has not been translated, because the Etruscan language is only known little. According to the few words that can be understood, the text is probably a ritual calendar.

The fabric of the book was preserved when it was used to wrap a mummy from Ptolemaic Egypt.  The mummy and the manuscript are now kept in a refrigerated room at the Archaeological Museum in Zagreb, Croatia.

[[Eel River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of California, Mendocino County, California, Humboldt County, California, Lake County, California, Trinity County, California

The Eel River is a river in the north part of the U.S. state of California. It flows north about 200 mi (322 km) to the Pacific Ocean, draining 3,684 square miles (9,542 square km). Its largest tributary is the Middle Fork Eel River, followed by the South Fork, Van Duzen River, and North Fork. The river is dammed near its headwaters to divert water into the Russian River valley. The two dams form Van Arsdale Reservoir and the larger Lake Pillsbury. Most of the river is in the humid Coast Ranges of California. Much of the river is isolated, in steep and rugged terrain. 

Towns along the Eel include Ferndale, Rio Dell, and Dos Rios (at the confluence with the Middle Fork). Weott is near the South Fork confluence.

U.S. Highway 101 follows the river until the South Fork confluence, and the Great Northern Railway also follows a portion of the river. 37 bridges cross the Eel and 24 cross the South Fork. The South Fork is the longest tributary. The Middle Fork has the largest watershed.

[[Cultivar]]

CATEGORIES: Botany

A cultivar is a plant that has been selected for planting and sale because it has certain characteristics. It keeps its traits when it is propagated because they are inherited. 

Usually, cultivars are given a name which is not related to their biological taxon. There is a system of naming run by the International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants (the ICNCP), commonly known as the Cultivated Plant Code. 

[[Plant propagation]]

CATEGORIES: Plant physiology

Plant propagation is when a plant is distributed. There are several ways to do this:

[[Cardamom]]

CATEGORIES: Zingiberales, Spices, Middle Eastern foods

Cardamom is the name used for two herbs related to ginger. Their seeds are used as a spice. The two species are named Elettaria and Amomum. The seeds grow in a small seedpod. This seedpod is triangular in cross-section and has the shape of a spindle. There is a thin papery outer shell and small black seeds. Elettaria pods are light green in color,  Amomum pods are larger and dark brown.

Elettaria is commonly known as cardamom, green cardamom or true cardamom. It grows from India to Malaysia. 

Amomum is usually called black cardamom, or white cardamom. It grows in Asia and Australia.

[[Hayden Foxe]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Sydney

Hayden Foxe (born 23 June 1977) is a Australian football player. He has played for Australia national team.

[[Sergio Escudero (footballer, born 1988)]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, People from Granada

Sergio Escudero is an Argentine-Japanese football player. He plays for Urawa Red Diamonds.

[[Sergio Escudero (footballer, born 1964)]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Sergio Escudero is a former Argentine-Japanese football player.

[[Osvaldo Escudero]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Osvaldo Escudero (born October 15, 1960) is a former Argentine football player.

[[Giorgio Chiellini]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, Italian footballers, People from Pisa, Sportspeople from Tuscany

Giorgio Chiellini (born 14 August 1984) is an Italian football player. He plays for Juventus and Italy national team.

[[Jonathan Zebina]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, French footballers, Sportspeople from Paris

Jonathan Zebina (born 19 July 1978) is a French football player. He plays for Juventus.

[[Alessio Tacchinardi]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Alessio Tacchinardi (born 23 July 1975) is a former Italian football player. He has played for Italy national team.

[[Dininho]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Irondino Ferreira Neto (born 23 July 1975) is a Brazilian football player. 

[[Júlio Baptista]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Júlio Baptista (born 1 October 1981) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Roma and Brazil national team.

[[Dido Havenaar]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Association football goalkeepers, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from South Holland

Dido Havenaar (born 26 September 1957) is a former Dutch-Japanese football player.

[[Miguel Ángel Angulo]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, People from Oviedo

Miguel Ángel Angulo Valderrey (miˈɣel ˈaŋxel aŋˈɡulo; born 23 June 1977) is a Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Manuele Blasi]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Manuele Blasi (born 17 August 1980) is an Italian football player. He plays for Città di Palermo.

[[Stephen Appiah]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Ghanaian footballers, People from Accra

Stephen Appiah (born 24 December 1980) is a Ghanaian football player. He played for Ghana national team.

[[Ancyloxypha]]

CATEGORIES: Hesperiidae

Ancyloxypha is a genus of butterflies in the family Hesperiidae.

[[Developed country]]

CATEGORIES: Countries, Country classifications, Development, Economic geography

A developed country (also known as an industrialised country or more economically developed country (MEDC)) is a country that has more businesses and infrastructures (roads, airports, electricity, etc) than a developing country.  The numbers most used for measuring economic growth is gross domestic product (GDP) and per capita income (average money per person). Others include the amount of industry, how much infrastructure there is, literacy, life expectancy and the basic standard of living.  There is no exact way of saying what country is developed or developing.  People often discuss the question of whose countries are the most developed ones,

Developed countries have post-industrial economies, which means that the service sector becomes more important, and the industrial sector is less important.  Service sector jobs are those where a person does something for another, like selling or fixing a product. Industry sector jobs are actually making a product, usually in a factory.  In a developed country, industry jobs may be moved (outsourced) to less developed countries that pay workers less money. Developing countries may be in the process of industrialization (building the factories and infrastructure) and underdeveloped countries usually depend on agriculture, often subsistence farming.

The first industrialised country was the UK, followed by Belgium. Later industrialised countries were Germany, the US, France and other Western European countries. According to Jeffrey Sachs, the current split between the developed and developing world is mostly an event of the 20th century.

[[Market town]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Towns, Retail markets

Market town is a word in law that came from the medieval period. It means a settlement in Europe that has the right to have markets. This separates them from villages and cities. A town may be described as a market town or as having market rights even if it does not have a market anymore, provided the right to do so still holds.

[[Moped]]

CATEGORIES: Land vehicles

A moped is a vehicle with two wheels and a motor, like a motorcycle but smaller. It usually has pedals, like a bicycle.

The size of the motor is usually 49cc, much smaller than most motorcycle motors. Because of the small motor, mopeds usually can not go faster than 50 kph (30 mph). Mopeds use less fuel than motorcycles, but some people complain that mopeds create more air pollution than motorcycles. Most of the time, you need a special license to ride a motorcycle but you only need an ordinary driver's license to ride a moped. It is usually illegal to ride a moped without a helmet.

[[Hagerstown, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Maryland, County seats in Maryland, 1762 establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in Maryland

Hagerstown (ˈheɪɡərztaʊn) is a city in northwestern Maryland, United States. It is the county seat of Washington County,6 and one of the largest cities in a region known as Western Maryland. The population of Hagerstown city according to 2008 estimates by the United States Census Bureau is 39,728, and the total 2000 Urbanized Area population is 120,326 (~80,000 in MD). 

Hagerstown anchors the Hagerstown-Martinsburg, MD-WV Metropolitan Statistical Area, which lies just northwest of the Washington-Baltimore-Northern Virginia, DC-MD-VA-WV Combined Statistical Area in the Great Appalachian Valley. The population of the metropolitan area in 2000 was 222,771 and the 2008 estimate is 263,753 (U.S. Rank 169). It is the fastest growing metro area in the State of Maryland and among the fastest growing in the United States. 

Hagerstown is a center of transit and commerce. Interstates 81 and 70, CSX, Norfolk Southern, and the Winchester and Western railroads, and Hagerstown Regional Airport cross in the city. Hagerstown is also the chief commercial and industrial hub for a greater Tri-State Area that includes much of Western Maryland as well as great extents of South Central Pennsylvania and the Eastern Panhandle of West Virginia. Hagerstown has often been referred to as and is nicknamed the Hub City.

[[Matteo Brighi]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Matteo Brighi (born 14 February 1981) is an Italian football player. He played for Roma and Italy national team.

[[Tomokazu Myojin]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, Kashiwa Reysol players, Gamba Osaka players, Nagoya Grampus players, AC Nagano Parceiro players, 2002 FIFA World Cup players, 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup players, 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 2000 Summer Olympics, 2000 AFC Asian Cup players, AFC Asian Cup-winning players

Tomokazu Myojin is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Seiichiro Maki]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, JEF United Chiba players, Tokyo Verdy players, Roasso Kumamoto players, 2006 FIFA World Cup players

Seiichiro Maki is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His brother Yuki Maki is also a former footballer.

[[Eiji Kawashima]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Omiya Ardija players, Nagoya Grampus players, Kawasaki Frontale players, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, 2018 FIFA World Cup players, 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup players

Eiji Kawashima is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Tomoyuki Sakai]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, JEF United Chiba players, Nagoya Grampus players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Vissel Kobe players, Fujieda MYFC players, Footballers at the 2000 Summer Olympics

Tomoyuki Sakai is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Vladimir Jugović]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Serbian footballers

Vladimir Jugović (born 30 August 1969) is a former Serbian football player. He has played for Yugoslavia national team and Serbia national team.

[[Algorithmic information theory]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

Algorithmic information theory is a field of theoretical computer science. It is concerned with how information and computation are related. Most information can be represented as a String (or a sequence of characters). Algorithmic information theory studies the complexity of information represented that way (In other words, how difficult it is to get that information, or how long it takes). Unlike regular information theory, it uses Kolmogorov complexity to describe complexity, and not the measure of complexity developed by Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver. Kolmogorov complexity was developed independently by Andrey Kolmogorov and Gregory Chaitin .

[[Tawhīd]]

CATEGORIES: Islam

Tawhid is the concept of God in Islam which says that only one God exists. It says that God is unique and one and He has no equal. It also says that since the God is the only creator, there is no room for lesser Gods or deities. Any lesser gods are therefore false. Tawhid is an essential part of Islam. To become a Muslim it is necessary to accept it. The concept of Tawhid has many implications. Since God is the only power, both good and bad flow from God. So, whatever good or bad occurs to an individual, both are from God and both should be accepted by the individual. Since God is the only power worth worshipping, reliance on any other source for help is not permissible.

The Qur'an explains the nature of God in Chapter 112:

Say: He is Allah, the One and Only; Allah, the Eternal, Absolute; None is born of Him, nor is He born; And there is no one like him.

Associating any other thing or person as being comparable to God is called shirk in Islam. This is the only sin in Islam which cannot be forgiven by God, unless a person turns repentant on Earth. The Koran can also be interpreted as telling Muslims to not follow the idea of the "trinity," the Christian concept for explaining God. Since the trinity views God as being made up of three different parts, many Muslims view this as shirk. On the other hand, Christians will say that they view the trinity as making up one God, so it is not shirk. The Koran also says that Jesus did not claim to be anything more than a human being, while in Christianity he is part of the trinity. According to Muslim scripture, Jesus claims to be prophet chosen by God, different from the divine status he has in Christianity.

[[Nobuhisa Yamada]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup players

Nobuhisa Yamada is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Keita Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players

Keita Suzuki is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Sidmar Antônio Martins]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Sidmar Antônio Martins (born June 13, 1962) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Tadaaki Hirakawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Tadaaki Hirakawa is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Toru Chishima]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Toru Chishima (born 11 May 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Satoshi Horinouchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Satoshi Horinouchi (born 26 October 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Urawa Red Diamonds.

[[Fábio Camilo de Brito]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fábio Camilo de Brito (born 6 June 1975) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Coritiba.

[[Apennine Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Italy

The Apennines are mountains in Italy. Their highest mountain is Corno Grande which is 2,912 metres high. The Apennines have three main parts: the Northern Apennines, the Central Apennines and the Southern Apennines.

[[Supercheap Auto]]

CATEGORIES: Automobile companies, Companies of Australia

Supercheap Auto is an Australian-based automotive retailer. Over the past 15 years, Supercheap Auto has experienced more than 25% compound annual revenue growth. The managing director is Peter Birtles. 

[[Takuya Yokoyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Fujieda MYFC players

Takuya Yokoyama is a Japanese football player.

[[Cristiano Lucarelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Italian footballers, People from Livorno

Cristiano Lucarelli (born 4 October 1975) is an Italian football player. He plays for Livorno.

[[Yuriy Nikiforov]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Ukrainian footballers, Russian footballers

Yuriy Nikiforov (born 16 September 1970) is a former Ukrainian-Russian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team, Ukraine national team and Russia national team.

[[Lake Iseo]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Italy

Lake Iseo or Lago d'Iseo or Sebino is the fourth largest lake in Lombardy, Italy. Water flows into it from the Oglio river.

[[International Year of Natural Fibres]]

CATEGORIES: Fibers, United Nations, 2009

The United Nations General Assembly declared 2009 as the International Year of Natural Fibres.

The proposal for this International year originated in FAO at a joint meeting of the Intergovernmental Group on Hard Fibres and the Intergovernmental Group on Jute in 2004, and was endorsed by FAO Conference in 2005. It is one of many International observances declared for specific days, months and years.

[[Constanța]]

CATEGORIES: County capitals of Romania, Municipalities of Romania

Constanţa is the largest Romanian seaport on the Black Sea. It is the largest city in Dobruja. It is also the capital of Constanţa County and one of the biggest cities in Romania.

[[Mureş River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Hungary, Rivers of Romania

The Mureş (Romanian) (Maros, Latin: Marisus, Croatian: Moriš, German: Mieresch, Marosch or Muresch, Serbian: Мориш, Муреш) is a 761 km (473 mi) long river in Eastern Europe. 

[[Olt River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Romania

The Olt River (Romanian and Hungarian; German: Alt; Latin: Aluta or Alutus) is a river in Romania. It flows in the Romanian counties Harghita, Covasna, Braşov, Sibiu, Vâlcea and Olt. The river was known as Alutus or Aluta in Roman times.

[[Siret River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Ukraine, Rivers of Romania, Tributaries of the Danube

The Siret River (Ukrainian: Серет, Russian: Сирет , Hungarian: Szeret) is a river that comes up from the Carpathians in the northern Bukovina region of Ukraine. It flows southward into Romania for about 470 kilometers before it joins the Danube.  It was named Hierasus in times of old.

[[Prut]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Ukraine, Rivers of Moldova, Tributaries of the Danube

Prut, or Pruth, (Прут) is a 953 km long river in Eastern Europe. It flows to the southeast to join the Danube river near Reni.  This is east of Galaţi. 

[[Asperger syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Autism, Pervasive developmental disorders

Asperger syndrome (often Asperger's syndrome) is a form of autism spectrum disorder. It affects the way in which a person understands, talks and acts with other people. A person who has Asperger syndrome may not fit in well with other people, and may be unable to act like everyone else in different social situations. Neurotypical (or NT) is a term that was coined in the autistic community as a label for those other people who are not on the autism spectrum. Asperger syndrome is thought to manifest as a developmental disorder, and is not considered a mental illness. Most adults with Asperger syndrome can learn how to make friends, do useful work, and live successful lives. 

People who have it will have to deal with it for the rest of their lives. However, they can try many solutions to help them and learn how to be able to reduce the impact in their life. One solution can be medication to restrict the different symptoms like aggression. The big problem with people affected by Asperger's is that they cannot understand emotions or how people think. Therapists attempt to help the person with that. They will do many activities like acting an emotion and let the Asperger people guess what it is.

[[Dig Dug]]

CATEGORIES: Arcade games, Namco video games

Dig Dug is a game made by Namco in 1982. A well known game based on a simple concept.  It was also released as a video game on many consoles.

Dig Dug was rated the sixth most popular coin-operated video game of all time by the Killer List of Video Games website.

It has been said that the music for the game show Starcade was taken from the music for Dig Dug.

In the video for the song "We Are All Made of Stars" from electronic musician Moby, a scene is shown where a person of Moby himself, dressed as an astronaut, is in the middle of a Dig Dug game.

[[Virtual Kasparov]]

CATEGORIES: Chess, Game Boy Advance games, PlayStation games, 2001 video games

Virtual Kasparov is a chess video game. It was by Titus Software for the PlayStation and Game Boy Advance. It was released for the PlayStation in 2001. It was released for the Game Boy Advance in 2002.

The game can be played alone or against another person. There are games that Garry Kasparov played during his career and interviews that can be viewed in the game.

[[Portland Sea Dogs]]

CATEGORIES: Portland, Maine, Baseball teams

The Portland Sea Dogs are a locally based baseball team in Portland, Maine. They play at Hadlock Field.

[[Moby]]

CATEGORIES: American DJs, Musicians from Connecticut, American rock musicians, Electronic musicians, Punk musicians, American songwriters, 1965 births, Living people

Moby or Richard Melville Hall (born September 11, 1965) is an American DJ, songwriter and musician. He is famous for his songs "Porcelain" and "Why Does My Heart Feel So Bad?". The video for another one of his songs, "We Are All Made Of Stars", shows him dressed as an astronaut in a space suit.

He was a member of a punk band called Vatican Commandos before becoming a DJ.

In 2002, Moby started a cafe called Teany with his ex-girlfriend Kelly Tisdale.

[[Röyksopp]]

CATEGORIES: Tromsø, Musical groups from Bergen, Musical groups established in 1998, 1998 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Norway

Röyksopp is an electronica musical group from Tromsø, Norway that formed in 1998. They are currently based in Bergen. The members are Svein Berge and

Torbjørn Brundtland. They won an award for best music video in 2002 by MTV Europe for their song, "Remind Me". They have released four studio albums and one EP. 

Berge and Brundtland formed a band with Kolbjørn Lyslo and Gaute Barlindhaug called Aedena Cycle. They released a vinyl EP called Traveler's Dreams under Apollo Records in 1994. After this they left to form Röyksopp. Their first single "So Easy" was released by Tellé. It was used in a T-mobile advert in the UK. 

Brundtland was a member of Those Norwegians in 1997. 

They have worked with many other musicians. They released a single called "Running to the Sea" and a cover version of "Ice Machine" by Depeche Mode from their album Late Night Tales: Röyksopp in 2013. Both songs have vocals from Susanne Sundfør.

Their first album Melody A.M. has two songs with Erlend Øye, "Poor Leno" and "Remind Me".

'Røyksopp' is a Norwegian word that means puffball fungus.

[[Deportivo Alavés]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

Deportivo Alavés is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Hércules C.F.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Alicante

Hércules C.F. is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[RC Celta de Vigo]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s establishments in Spain, 1923 establishments in Europe, Spanish football clubs

R.C. Celta de Vigo is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Real Murcia]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Murcia

Real Murcia C.F. is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Granada C.F.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Granada, 1931 establishments in Europe, 1930s establishments in Spain

Granada C.F. is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[CE Sabadell F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

C.E. Sabadell F.C. is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[C.D. Alcoyano]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

C.D. Alcoyano is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Real Valladolid C.F.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Valladolid

Real Valladolid Club de Fútbol is a Spanish football team (also known as Pucela). It was founded on 20 june, 1928 and holds its matches at Nuevo José Zorrilla stadium, Valladolid, Castile and León.

Valladolid plays in the LFP (Spanish Football League).

The team has a reserve team in the Third División (4th tier of the Spanish league).

Its the just team from its region in play Europeans competitions: UEFA Cup (1984-85, 1997-98) and UEFA Cup Winners' Cup (1989-90).

At 1983-84 they made its most succesful season after won the former League Cup to Atlético de Madrid 0-3.

[[Maghreb Athletic Tétouan]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs, 1922 establishments in Africa, 20th-century establishments in Morocco

Maghreb Atlético De Tétouan is a football club which plays in Morocco.

[[Málaga C.F.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Malaga

Málaga C.F. are a football club which plays in Spain.

[[C.A. Osasuna]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Pamplona

C.A. Osasuna is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Real Jaén C.F.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

Real Jaén C.F. is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Cultural Leonesa]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

Cultural Leonesa is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Elche C.F.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

Elche C.F. is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[R.C.D. Mallorca]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

R.C.D. Mallorca is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[CD Tenerife]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Santa Cruz de Tenerife

C. D. Tenerife is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Córdoba CF]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

Córdoba C.F. is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Pontevedra C.F.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Galicia, 1941 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Spain

Pontevedra C.F. is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Mini]]

CATEGORIES: Automobiles

The Mini is a small car made by the British Motor Corporation (BMC), British Leyland and Rover from 1959 to 2000. It used a transverse engine and front-wheel drive, where the turning power was put on the front wheels of the car rather than the back wheels. Its design saved a large amount of space. It allowed most of the car's size to be used for passengers and luggage. It had only two doors, but could seat up to four passengers.

The design was very influential for car-making in the second half of the 20th century. In 1999, the Mini was voted the second most influential car of the 20th century, behind the Ford Model T. The original model is considered an icon of the 1960s in Britain.

The original Mini was designed for BMC by Alec Issigonis.

It was first released in August 1959. Rover ceased production in October 2000. It was marketed under the names Austin, Morris, Cooper, Wolseley, Riley, British Leyland and Rover.

[[Burgos C.F.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Castile and León, 1994 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Spain

Burgos C.F. is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[A.D. Almería]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, 1971 establishments in Europe, 1970s establishments in Spain

A.D. Almería is a former football club which played in Spain.

[[C.D. Castellón]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

C.D. Castellón is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Albacete Balompié]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, 1940 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Spain

Albacete Balompié is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[U.E. Lleida]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

U.E. Lleida was a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Toshiba]]

CATEGORIES: Computers, Electronics companies, 1939 establishments

Toshiba is a Japanese multinational company. Its diversified products include information technology and communications equipment and systems, electronic components and materials, power systems, industrial and social infrastructure systems, household appliances, medical equipment and lighting.

Toshiba Corporation was started in 1939, by two companies, a telegraph manufacturer and a light bulb maker.

[[R.C.D. Espanyol]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs

R.C.D. Espanyol de Barcelona is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Mérida U.D.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Extremadura

Mérida U.D. is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Levante U.D.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Valencia

Levante U.D. is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Cádiz CF]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Cadiz

Cádiz C.F. is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[C.D. Numancia de Soria]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Castile and León, 1945 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Spain

C.D. Numancia de Soria is a football club which plays in Spain.

[[Xerez C.D.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Jerez de la Frontera, 1947 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Spain

Xerez C.D. is a football club which plays in Spain.

The club formed from a merger of two football clubs ; Xerez FC and CD Jerez in 1947.

[[Edgar Adrian, 1st Baron Adrian]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1977 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, English physicians, Order of Merit, British Nobel Prize winners, Neuroscientists

Edgar Douglas Adrian, 1st Baron Adrian  OM PRS 30 November 1889 - 8 August 1977) was an English doctor. He won the 1932 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Charles Scott Sherrington for the discoveries about the functions of neurons.

[[Hydrogen deuteride]]

CATEGORIES: Hydrogen compounds

Hydrogen deuteride is a diatomic molecule. It is composed of the two isotopes of hydrogen: 1H protium and 2H deuterium.

[[Bond albedo]]

CATEGORIES: Astrophysics

The Bond albedo is the fraction of power in the total electromagnetic radiation hitting an astronomical body which is scattered back out into space. It considers all wavelengths at all phase angles. It is necessary for estimating how much energy a planet or other body absorbs.

[[Geographical pole]]

CATEGORIES: Physical geography

A geographical pole is either of two points on the surface of a rotating planet where the axis of rotation meets the surface of the planet. The north geographical pole of a body is 90 degrees north of the equator. The south geographical pole lies 90 degrees south of the equator.

Relative to Earth's surface, the geographic poles move by a few metres over periods of a few years. 

As cartography requires exact and unchanging coordinates, the average positions of the geographical poles are taken as fixed. These cartographic poles become the points where the body's great circles of longitude intersect.

[[Spheroid]]

CATEGORIES: Three-dimensional shapes, Geodesy

A spheroid is one kind of ellipsoid. It is got by rotating an ellipse about one of its principal axes. This means it is an ellipsoid with two equal semi-diameters.

Spheres are spheroids. Spheroids that are not spheres are either oblate or prolate.

Most celestial objects are oblate spheroids. They usually spin, and as they spin, centrifugal force pulls them into that shape. Few natural objects are prolate spheroids.

[[Invariable plane]]

CATEGORIES: Celestial mechanics

The invariable plane of a planetary system is the plane passing through its barycenter (center of mass). 

In the Solar System, about 98% of this effect is from the mass of the four gas giants (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune).  The invariable plane is within 0.5° of the orbital plane of Jupiter. It is the weighted average of all planetary orbital and rotational planes.

The invariable plane is got from the sum of angular momenta. It is almost invariable (unchanging) over the entire system. 

[[G-Force]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

The g-force of an object is its acceleration relative to free fall. On earth this is 1g, or 9.8 meters per second squared (m/s^2) or equivalently 9.80665 newtons of force per kilogram of mass (N/kg). Astronauts experience unusually high and low g-forces. G-force can also be seen on rollercoasters. When the coaster goes down the drop, you are pushed back into your seat because of g-force. Negative g-forces is when gravity is pushing you downwards causing you to feel weightless. (Going down a rollercoaster) Positive g-forces is when gravity is pushing against you causing you to feel heavier. (Going up a rollercoaster) 

[[Sidereal time]]

CATEGORIES: Celestial mechanics, Measurement

Sidereal time is a time-keeping system. It is used by astronomers to find celestial objects. Using sidereal time it is possible to point a telescope to the proper coordinates in the night sky. 

Sidereal time is a "time scale based on Earth's rate of rotation measured relative to the fixed stars". 

Because the Earth moves in its orbit about the Sun, a mean solar day is about four minutes longer than a sidereal day. Thus, a star appears to rise four minutes earlier each night, compared to solar time. Different stars are visible at different times of the year.

By contrast, solar time is reckoned by the movement of the Earth from the perspective of the Sun. An average solar day (24 hours) is longer than a sidereal day (23 hours, 56 minutes, 4 seconds) because of the amount the Earth moves each day in its orbit around the Sun.

[[Scale height]]

CATEGORIES: Atmosphere, Meteorology

A scale height is a term for a distance over which a quantity decreases by a factor of e (the base of natural logarithms). The scale height is usually shown by a capital letter H.

[[Jupiter impact]]

CATEGORIES: Jupiter

Several impacts have been seen on the face of Jupiter

[[Ja zuster, nee zuster]]

CATEGORIES: Dutch television programmes

Ja zuster, nee zuster (in English: Yes Nurse, No Nurse) was a very popular comedy series on Dutch television in the late 1960s.  It was set in a home for old people.  The Dutch title literally means, "Yes, Sister; No, Sister"; because in the Netherlands, as in Britain and many other countries, female nurses of a certain rank are called "Sister".

The series was broadcast between 1966 and 1968 and consisted of 20 episodes.  

The script was written by Annie M.G. Schmidt who was already very well known as a writer of books for children and scripts for television and radio programmes.  The songs were written by Harry Bannink.

Dutch people today, especially those who remember the original series, are very disappointed that, apart from one programme, the whole series has been lost.  This is because it was recorded on Ampex tape which was very expensive so, after the episodes had been shown on television, other television programmes were recorded on the same tape over the top of it.  Some of the film that was shot outside has been preserved.  15 of the songs from the series have also been preserved.  They were made into a gramophone record (LP) and later into a CD.

A film with the same title, based on the series, was produced in 2002.  It starred Loes Luca as Zuster (Sister) Klivia and Paul Kooij as her landlord and nextdoor neighbour, Buurman Boordevol.

[[Tom Gordon]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Boston Red Sox players, New York Yankees players, National League All-Stars

Tom Gordon (born November 18 1967, in Sebring, Florida) was a pitcher for the New York Yankees.

[[Paul Kalas]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American astronomers

Paul Kalas (August 13, 1967) is an American astronomer. His discovery of a planet outside of our solar system become famous. The planet is referred to as Fomalhaut b.

[[Stewart Cink]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American golfers, Sportspeople from Huntsville, Alabama, People from Florence, Alabama

Stewart Ernest Cink (born May 21, 1973) is an American professional golfer. Cink won the 2009 Open Championship, beating five-time winner Tom Watson in a four-hole playoff. He spent 39 weeks in the top 10 of the Official World Golf Rankings from 2004 to 2008.

Cink was born in Huntsville, Alabama and grew up in Florence, where he attended Bradshaw High School. He completed high school in 1991 and he attended Georgia Tech in Atlanta, where he played golf for the Yellow Jackets; he turned professional in 1995. After winning the Mexican Open and three events on the Nike Tour (now the Nationwide Tour) in 1996, Cink joined the PGA Tour in 1997 and won the Canon Greater Hartford Open in his rookie season. Cink performed consistently on the Tour over the next few years, picking up another win at the 2000 MCI Classic. Until his victory in the Open Championship in 2009, 2004 was his career year to date, with a fifth-place finish on the money list and wins at the MCI Heritage and at the WGC-NEC Invitational, which is one of the World Golf Championships events and was the most prestigious win of his career at the time. In 2009 he won his first career major with a playoff victory over 59-year old Tom Watson in The Open Championship.

On February 24, 2008, Cink was the runner-up in the WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship played in Marana, Arizona, falling 8 & 7 in the 36-hole final to top-ranked Tiger Woods. In June 2008, he reached his highest ever ranking, sixth, in the Official World Golf Rankings with his victory at the Travelers Championship in suburban Hartford.

On July 19, 2009, Cink won his first major title at the 138th Open Championship at Turnberry, Scotland, defeating 59 year-old Tom Watson by six strokes in a four-hole playoff. Cink had birdied the 72nd hole while Watson bogeyed, which forced the playoff.

[[Crocs]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 establishments in the United States, Colorado, Footwear

Crocs are a type of plastic clogs. They have holes in the top of them so your feet can let in air. They also come in many different colours. You can buy different accessories to clip into the holes of the shoe.

The company who make them was founded in 2002 in Colorado.

[[Buxton, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine, 1772 establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in Maine

Buxton is a very small farming town in Maine. Around 7558 people live here.  It is in York County.

[[Searsport, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine

Searsport is a town in northern Maine.  It is where the Penobscot River joins the Penobscot Bay.  Searsport is Maine's second largest deep water port.  It is also an important town on the railroad.

[[Brock Lesnar]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from South Dakota, American professional wrestlers, American mixed martial artists

Brock Edward Lesnar is an American professional wrestler, actor and mixed martial artist.

[[Dover-Foxcroft, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine, County seats in Maine

Dover-Foxcroft is a town in northern Maine. Its ZIP code is 04426.

[[The Border]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 drama movies, 1980s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Texas, Movies directed by Tony Richardson

The Border is a 1982 American crime drama movie by director Tony Richardson. It stars Jack Nicholson, Warren Oates and Harvey Keitel.

The movie is set in Texas and is about a group of US Border Patrol agents who look after the border between the US and Mexico.

[[Hide and Seek (2005 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, 20th Century Fox movies, English-language movies

Hide and Seek is a suspense movie starring Robert DeNiro and Dakota Fanning. It was directed by John Polson.

There is 4 alternative endings.

[[ATP synthase]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry, Enzymes

ATP synthase is an enzyme found in cells that makes ATP from ADP(adenosine di-phosphate) and inorganic phosphate. The ATP synthase is powered by the difference of concentration of pH between inside and outside the place where the enzyme is located. The exact mechanism in which it does so is unknown, although it is believed to work like a rotating machine. 

[[Bayreuth Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Music festivals, Festivals in Europe, Bayreuth, 1876 establishments, Classical music festivals

The Bayreuth Festival (German: Bayreuther Festspiele, Bavarian: Bareida Festspui, East Franconian: Baraida Fesdspil) is a music festival held every year in Bayreuth, Germany, at which performances of operas by the 19th century German composer Richard Wagner are performed.  It was Wagner's own idea to start a festival for his operas in Bayreuth in a theatre which he designed himself because he was not satisfied with the way that theatres were usually designed.

The theatre that he designed is called the Festspielhaus (Festival House). Wagner watched the theatre being built, making sure that it was done the way he wanted it.  He had some new ideas about theatre design.  For example: he wanted the orchestra pit to be so low that the orchestra would not be seen by the audience.

When the theatre was opened in 1876 his cycle of operas called the  Der Ring des Nibelungen was performed complete for the first time.

The festival immediately became internationally famous.  Almost every serious musician in Europe wanted to go to Bayreuth to hear Wagner's music performed there.  Composers usually either loved it and were strongly influenced by it, or they hated it and reacted against it.

The festival still continues now.  Every August there is a festival of Wagner's operas.  It is extremely difficult to get tickets because so many people want to go.  People often wait for ten years before they can get a ticket.

[[Repertoire]]

CATEGORIES: Music, Theater

Repertoire (pronounce: "Re-per-twahr") is a French word used in music and in the theatre.  It means a list of pieces of music or plays.  Sometimes the English word repertory is used.

When a pianist speaks about his or her "repertoire", it means all the pieces that he can play.  Most famous musicians have a wide repertoire (they can play a lot of pieces).

The "piano repertoire" means all music written for the piano.  The violin has a much larger solo repertoire than the viola.   That means that much more solo music has been written for the violin than for the viola.

A theatre company may have a "repertoire".  That means all the plays that they regularly perform.  Sometimes theatre companies are called "repertory theatres" because they have a particular list of plays that they perform.

[[Working class]]

CATEGORIES: Socialism, Social groups

Working class is a term used to describe people in society who have jobs which are not academic or highly paid. They're usually jobs which are physical, especially when they are paid an hourly wage.

Different societies will have different ideas about what "working class" is. People started talking about the working class after industrialization in the early 19th century.  Karl Marx wrote about the working class.

Working class contrasts with middle class and upper class, which are above working class. The underclass is below the working class.

[[Ludwig II of Bavaria]]

CATEGORIES: 1845 births, 1886 deaths, Kings and Queens in Germany

[[Real Burgos C.F.]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish football clubs, Castile and León

Real Burgos C.F. is a football club that played in Spain.

[[Folio]]

CATEGORIES: Literature

When talking about manuscripts, and printing in general, a folio is a sheet, which is used on both sides. One of the sides is known as recto, the other one as verso.

[[Ivan Regen]]

CATEGORIES: 1868 births, 1947 deaths, Biologists, Slovenian scientists

Ivan (Janez) Regen (called Johann Regen) (December 9, 1868 – July 27, 1947), was a Slovenian biologist. He is best known for his studies in bioacoustics, the science of hearing and communicating.

[[Mole cricket]]

CATEGORIES: Orthoptera

The mole crickets are the family Gryllotalpidae, of broad insects about 3–5 cm (1-2 inches) long, with large eyes and shovel-like forelimbs for burrowing and swimming.

Mole crickets are omnivores or meat eaters, feeding on larvae, worms, roots, and grasses. Common predators of mole crickets include birds, rats, skunks, armadillos, raccoons and foxes.

[[Hisashi Tsuchida]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Okayama Prefecture, J1 League players, J2 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, 1988 AFC Asian Cup players

Hisashi Tsuchida is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yuki Takita]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Yuki Takita is a former Japanese football player.

[[Diego Forlán]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Uruguayan footballers, Sportspeople from Montevideo

Diego Forlán (born 19 May 1979) is a Uruguayan football player. He played for Atlético Madrid and the Uruguay national team and is currently a free agent searching for new offers.

[[Augusto Pedro de Souza]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Brasília

Augusto Pedro de Souza (born 5 November 1968) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Ned Zelić]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Sydney

Ned Zelić (born 4 July 1971) is a former Australian football player. He has played for Australia national team.

[[Baccarat, Meurthe-et-Moselle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Meurthe-et-Moselle

Baccarat is a town in the Meurthe-et-Moselle area in northeastern France.

[[Gun dog]]

CATEGORIES: Working dogs

Gun dogs or gundogs, also called bird dogs, are types of dogs used to assist hunters in finding and retrieving game, usually birds. Gundogs are divided into three primary types: retrievers, flushing dogs, and pointing breeds. Flushing dogs flush game from hiding. Pointer dogs point their muzzle towards game to allow the hunter to locate the animal. Retrievers retrieve game once it is killed. Some kennel clubs define a Gundog Group for gundogs, while other kennel clubs include them in the Sporting Group. The three most popular types are: Spaniel, Golden Retriever and Labrador.

[[Alaskan Klee Kai]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

The Alaskan Klee Kai is a northern breed of dog of the spitz type. The term "Klee Kai" was derived from Alaskan Athabaskan (Eskimo) words meaning "small dog". The breed was developed to create a pet sized version of the Alaskan Husky, but it more closely resembles the Siberian Husky. This result makes it an energetic, intelligent, apartment-sized dog with an appearance that reflects its northern heritage.

These dogs can come in a variety of different coat colors: black and white, gray and white, red and white and all white. They have a double coat, which means it is thicker.

In 1997, the United Kennel Club recognized the Alaskan Klee Kai.  It is a rare breed with not very many dogs.

[[Alaskan Malamute]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

The Alaskan Malamute is a breed of domestic dog. It was originally bred for use as an Alaskan sled dog. This dog is usually large in size. It is sometimes mistaken for a Siberian Husky. The Alaskan Malamute is strong and powerful and was used to carry heavy loads for long distances. 

This dog is the largest and oldest of the Arctic sled dogs. Malamutes can be family pets, but are very active.  They enjoy sledding, running and swimming with their owners. Their coat  is thick and comes in colors from light gray to black or from sable to red. They have a plumed tail.  

[[Aidi]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds, Working dogs

The Aidi or Chien de l'Atlas is a Moroccan dog breed used to protect flocks of sheep and goats. It also can hunt and smell very well.. In its native Morocco it is often paired in hunting with the Sloughi, which chases down prey that the Aidi has found by sniffing it out.

[[Airedale Terrier]]

CATEGORIES: Terriers

The Airedale Terrier (often shortened to "Airedale") is a breed of the terrier type, that first came from Airedale, a geographic area in Yorkshire, England. 

It traditionally was called the "King of Terriers" because before the creation of the Black Russian Terrier, the Airedale was largest of the terrier breeds. The breed has also been called the Waterside Terrier, because it was bred to hunt otters in and around the valleys of the River Aire in Airedale. In England this breed has also been used as a police dog.

[[Xinjiang]]

CATEGORIES: Xinjiang

Xinjiang (also transliterated as Sinkiang) is a northwestern region of the People's Republic of China. Like all of China, it is also claimed by the Republic of China. It is a large area with few people. It is over 1.6 million km2, which takes up about one sixth of the country's land. It is mainly inhabited by Uyghurs who are Turkic people.

In the 19th century, when the name of the Silk Road was first used by a German geographer, it just included the land route from Xinjiang to Central Asia. Xinjiang sits at the heart of the Silk Road in China. At that time, the country was often called "Chinese Turkestan" for its many Turkic peoples.

Xinjiang borders the Tibet Autonomous Region and Jammu and Kashmir's Leh District to the south and Qinghai and Gansu provinces to the southeast, Mongolia to the east, Russia to the north and Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan to the west, Pakistan and Kashmir region  to the southwest.

Ürümqi is the capital of Xinjiang and the largest city in Western China. It also holds the world record for being the most remote city from any sea in the world; it is 2,500 km from any coastline.

The east-west chain of the Tian Shan Mountains separate Dzungaria in the north from the Tarim Basin in the south. Dzungaria is dry steppe. The Tarim Basin is desert surrounded by oases. In the east is the Turpan Depression. The Taklamakan Desert is also in Xinjiang. Ürümqi, the capital, Turpan, Kashgar, Karamay, Yining and Shihezi are the major cities.

[[Caspian Airlines Flight 7908]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 aviation disasters, 2009 in Asia, 21st century in Iran, Aviation disasters in Asia, July events

Caspian Airlines Flight 7908 was a scheduled commercial flight from Tehran, Iran, to Yerevan, Armenia, that crashed near the village of Jannatabad, outside the city of Qazvin in north-western Iran, on 15 July 2009.

[[Ancyloxypha numitor]]

CATEGORIES: Hesperiidae

The least skipper (Ancyloxypha numitor) is a butterfly in the family Hesperiidae.  It is native to North America.  They have a weak, bouncy flight.

The least skipper can be found in damp or wet habitats with tall grasses. In the northern part of the its range, adults may be seen from May to September.  In the southern part of its range, adults can be found from February to December. It may be seen all year in southern Florida.

[[Timothy Geithner]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, United States Secretaries of the Treasury, Living people, American Christians, American economists, Politicians from New York City

Timothy Franz Geithner (pronounced /ˈɡaɪtnər/; born August 18, 1961), was the 75th United States Secretary of the Treasury from 2009 to 2013. He served under President Barack Obama. Before becoming Secretary of the Treasury, he was  president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

Geithner was born in Brooklyn, New York.

[[Janet Napolitano]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Governors of Arizona, People with cancer, Politicians from New York City, United States Secretaries of Homeland Security

Janet Ann Napolitano (born November 29, 1957) is an American politician who is currently president of the University of California system. She became the first woman to serve as Secretary of Homeland Security on January 21, 2009. Before becoming Secretary of Homeland Security, she was the Governor of Arizona and Attorney General of Arizona. She announced her resignation of Homeland Security in July 2013 to become president of the University of California. She assumed presidency of the University of California on September 30, 2013, and is the first woman in the post.

[[Wakhan]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Afghanistan

Wakhan or "the Wakhan" (also spelt Vakhan; Persian and واخان, is a region of Afghanistan. It is part of the Pamir Mountains and the Karakoram Range. Not very many people live there.

[[Factor VIII]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic disorders, Blood disorders

Factor VIII (FVIII) is a blood clotting factor that is also called anti-hemophilic factor (AHF).  In humans, Factor VII is in the F8 gene.  If there is something wrong with this gene, you get hemophilia A, which is a recessive disorder.  The gene for Factor VIII is on the X chromosome.

[[X chromosome]]

CATEGORIES: Biological reproduction, Chromosomes

The X chromosome is one of the two sex chromosomes in mammals. They decide the sex (gender) of an individual. The other sex chromosome is the Y chromosome.

Females have two X chromosomes, males have one X and one Y. An egg always carries a single X, while sperms carry either an X or a Y. That is how sex is determined in humans, and in most other mammals. Although females have two X chromosomes, each cell can only have one X chromosome active. During early development, a process called X-inactivation occurs. In each cell one of the X chromosomes randomly deactivates. This causes different parts of the body to have different X-linked genes, and is responsible for the black and orange coloration of calico cats.

[[Chance]]

Chance is a word that refers to:

[[Edmonton tornado]]

CATEGORIES: Alberta, Tornadoes in Canada, 1987, 1980s in Canada

The Edmonton tornado was a powerful and devastating tornado that hit the eastern part of Edmonton, Alberta on the afternoon of July 31, 1987. It destroyed more than 300 homes. It was rated as a strong F4 to a weak F5 tornado on the Fujita scale. It cost $332.27 million in total damage. It killed 27 people and injured more than 300 people and was the second deadliest tornado in Canadian history.

[[Vale of White Horse]]

CATEGORIES: Oxfordshire

The Vale of White Horse is a local government district of Oxfordshire in England.  The main town is Abingdon, other places are Faringdon and Wantage.  There are 68 parishes within the district.

It is a region between the Berkshire Downs and the River Thames. It was named after the prehistoric Uffington White Horse.  The district was formed on 1 April 1974, under the Local Government Act 1972. The area is often referred to as the ‘Vale of the White Horse’.

[[Slipper]]

CATEGORIES: Footwear

A slipper is a light shoe worn indoors. They keep feet warm. People also wear them to keep their feet or socks clean. They are usually made of a something comfortable like a towel material or thin leather. They come in all sorts of shapes and sizes. 

[[Masaki Tsuchihashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players

Masaki Tsuchihashi is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Osamu Hirose]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Osamu Hirose is a former Japanese football player.

[[Alen Bokšić]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Alen Bokšić (born 21 January 1970) is a former Croatian football player. He has played for the Croatian national team.

[[Harison da Silva Nery]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Belém

Harison da Silva Nery (born 2 January 1980) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Tomohiro Katanosaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Tomohiro Katanosaka (born 18 April 1971) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tomohiro Hasumi]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Tomohiro Hasumi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Celso Vieira]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Celso Vieira (born 25 September 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Kazuaki Tasaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Shonan Bellmare players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, Cerezo Osaka players

Kazuaki Tasaka is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Luxembourg (Belgium)]]

CATEGORIES: Luxembourg (Belgium)

Luxembourg (Dutch and German: Luxemburg, Luxembourgish: Lëtzebuerg, Walloon: Lussimbork) is the southernmost province of Belgium and Wallonia. With 4443, it is the largest province of Belgium.

The capital is Arlon, in the south-east of the province. It is called also as "Belgian Luxembourg" and should not be confused with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.

[[Bus]]

CATEGORIES: buses, Buses

A bus is a large wheeled vehicle meant to carry many passengers along with the driver.  It is larger than a car. The name is a shortened version of omnibus, which means "for everyone" in Latin. Buses used to be called omnibuses, but people now simply call them "buses".

Buses are an important part of public transport in places all over the world. Many people who do not have cars, especially the third world countries, use buses to get around. Buses make it easy for them to get to where they want to go.

A place where people wait for a local bus is called a bus stop.  A building where people wait for a long-distance bus or where many buses meet is called a bus station.

There are many types of bus around the world.

[[Alyaksandr Hleb]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Belarusian footballers, People from Minsk

Alyaksandr Hleb (born 1 May 1981) is a Belarusian football player. He plays for Stuttgart and Belarus national team.

He will Return to Barcelona on January of 2012

[[Chang Woe-Ryong]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers

Chang Woe-Ryong (born 5 April 1959) is a former South Korean football player. He has played for Korea Republic national team.

[[John Hartson]]

CATEGORIES: Welsh footballers, People from Swansea, 1975 births, Living people

John Hartson (born 5 April 1975) is a former Welsh football player. He has played for Wales national team.

[[Ricardo Carvalho]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers

Ricardo Carvalho (born 18 May 1978) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Real Madrid and Portugal national team.

[[Robbie Savage]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, British radio personalities, Strictly Come Dancing participants, Welsh footballers

Robbie Savage (born 18 October 1974) is a retired football player. He played for Derby County. He was born in Wrexham and started as a trainee at Manchester United. He later moved to Crewe Alexandra, then to Leicester City where he played for five seasons from 1997—2002. He then played with Birmingham City, and joined Blackburn Rovers in 2005. He started playing with Derby in 2008 after a transfer fee of £1.5 million. He is now a football commentator. He was a contestant in the 2011 series of Strictly Come Dancing.

[[Danny Gabbidon]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Welsh footballers

Danny Gabbidon (born 18 August 1979) is a football player. He plays for West Ham United.

[[Takeshi Oki]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Takeshi Oki (born 16 July 1961) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Fujitsu.

[[França]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

França (born 2 March 1976) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Kashiwa Reysol.

[[Depot]]

In transportation, Depot may mean:

[[Dimitar Berbatov]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Bulgarian footballers

Dimitar Berbatov (born 30 January 1981) is a Bulgarian football player. He plays for Fulham and Bulgaria national team.

[[Santiago Bernabéu Yeste]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1978 deaths, Spanish footballers

Santiago Bernabéu Yeste (8 June 1895 – 2 June 1978) is a former Spanish football player.

[[Simone Inzaghi]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Simone Inzaghi (born 5 April 1976) is an Italian football player. He plays for Lazio.

[[Akira Matsunaga (footballer, born 1948)]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Kashiwa Reysol players

Akira Matsunaga is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shingo Kumabayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Akita Prefecture, Blaublitz Akita players

Shingo Kumabayashi (born 23 June 1981) is a retired Japanese football player. He used to play for Thespa Kusatsu.

[[Paulo Futre]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers

Paulo Futre (born 28 February 1966) is a former Portuguese football player. He has played for Portugal national team.

[[Makoto Atsuta]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Makoto Atsuta (born 16 September 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Paolo Di Canio]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Italian footballers, Sportspeople from Rome

Paolo Di Canio (born 9 July 1968) is a former Italian football player.  Di Canio is also famous for his fascist tattoo, for example his Mussolini back tattoo. His tattoos even got him suspended during a Sky Sports live tv show in September 2016, because people were complaining about it. 

Di Canio was appointed manager of Swindon Town in July 2011. His first match was a 3-0 win against Crewe Alexandra.

[[Cymbidium]]

CATEGORIES: Orchids

Cymbidium is a genus of botanical plant. There are 52 evergreen species in the orchid family Orchidaceae.

[[Pierre van Hooijdonk]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from North Brabant

Pierre van Hooijdonk (born 29 November 1969) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Gerald Vanenburg]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Dutch football managers, Sportspeople from Utrecht (city)

Gerald Vanenburg (born 5 March 1964) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for the Dutch national team.

[[Takehito Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Takehito Suzuki (born 11 June 1971) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tomokazu Hirama]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyagi Prefecture

Tomokazu Hirama (born 30 June 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kazushi Isoyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Kazushi Isoyama (born 8 January 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Frank Ordenewitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Lower Saxony

Frank Ordenewitz (born March 25, 1965) is a former German football player. He has played for the German national team.

[[Rafael van der Vaart]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from North Holland

Rafael van der Vaart (born 11 February 1983) is a Dutch football player. He plays for Tottenham Hotspur and Netherlands national team.

[[Al-Ahly Tripoli]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Tripoli, 1950s establishments in Libya

Al-Ahly Tripoli is a football club which plays in Libya.

[[Al-Ittihad Tripoli]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Tripoli, 20th-century establishments in Libya, 1944 establishments

Al-Ittihad Tripoli is a football club which plays in Libya.

[[Al-Tahaddy Benghazi]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Benghazi, 1950s establishments in Libya

Al-Tahaddy Benghazi is a football club which plays in Libya.

[[Al-Ahly Benghazi]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Benghazi, 1947 establishments in Libya

Al-Ahly Benghazi is a football club which plays in Libya.

[[Al-Madina Tripoli]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Tripoli, 1950s establishments in Libya, 1953 establishments

Al-Madina Tripoli is a football club which plays in Libya.

[[Al-Dhahra Tripoli]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Tripoli, 1947 establishments in Libya

Al-Dhahra Tripoli is a football club which plays in Tripoli, Libya.

[[Al-Nasr Benghazi]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Benghazi, 1950s establishments in Libya

Al-Nasr Benghazi is a football club which plays in Libya.

[[Al-Shat Tripoli]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Tripoli, 20th-century establishments in Libya, 1982 establishments in Africa

Al-Shat Tripoli is a football club which plays in Libya.

[[Al-Mahalah Tripoli]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Tripoli, 20th-century establishments in Libya, 1977 establishments in Africa

Al-Mahalah Tripoli is a football club which plays in Libya.

[[Al-Olympic Az-Zwiyah]]

CATEGORIES: Libyan football clubs, 1947 establishments in Libya

Al-Olympic Az-Zwiyah is a football club which plays in Libya.

[[Washington (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Brasília

Washington (born 1 April 1975) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Fluminense.

[[Marc Overmars]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Gelderland

Marc Overmars (born 29 March 1973) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Satoru Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Satoru Suzuki (born 19 July 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Salou]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Salou is a small city in Catalonia, Spain. It is near PortAventura, a theme park.

[[PortAventura World]]

CATEGORIES: Catalonia, 2002 establishments in Europe

PortAventura World is a recreational resort in Salou, Catalonia, Spain. It is home to three theme parks (PortAventura Park, PortAventura Caribe Aquatic Park and Ferrari Land), six themed hotels, three golf courses and a convention center. It receives around 5 million visitors per year. PortAventura Park receives roughly 3.5 million visitors per year which makes it the most visited theme park in Spain and 6th most visited themepark in Europe. Ferrari Land receives 1 million visitors annually and PortAventura Caribe Aquatic Park receives 300,000 visitors per year. 

[[Sakis Rouvas]]

CATEGORIES: Pop musicians, Greek singers, Greek actors, Choreographers, 1972 births, Living people

Anastasios "Sakis" Rouvas (b. January 5, 1972) is a Greek pop/rock singer, dancer, songwriter, record producer and actor. He also was a pole vaulter for a time. He is one of the most successful artists of all time in Greece and Cyprus. Rouvas with sales of two million albums. Rouvas was one of the first pop singers and stage performers in Greece. He made music genres of the western world popular. He is known as a sex symbol for his sexualized stage shows and music videos and for having a very large fan base. His personal life is also widely reported. Rouvas has been a large pop culture icon for nearly two decades. 

Rouvas has won many Hellenic Music/Arion Awards, MAD Video Music Awards, and a World Music Award as well as many other awards. He represented Greece in the Eurovision Song Contest 2004 with the song "Shake It". He won third place. He was also in Eurovision Song Contest 2009 with the song "This Is Our Night". This time he placed 7th. Rouvad hosted the 2006 contest in Athens. Rouvas has made 14 albums, starred in five movies and hosted many television events.

[[Life vest]]

CATEGORIES: Protective clothing, Sailing

A life vest (also called Personal flotation device, lifejacket, or cork jacket) is a special type of clothing. The vest makes people float in water. It also keeps their head out of the water so that they can breathe. There are different categories of life vests. They are mainly different in how much flotation they provide. Some life vests inflate all by themselves, others need to be filled with air manually.

A life vest has one very important  property:  The part of keeping the head outside the water  works even if the persion is unconscious, or unable to do anything. A swimming aid will simply help the person in the water, and make swimming easier. It will not work on its own.

People doing watersports, for example sailing, usually wear life vests.

[[Pocket watch]]

CATEGORIES: Clocks

A pocket watch is a timepiece that is kept in the pocket rather than worn on a wrist (wristwatch). It is thought to be invented by Peter Henlein.

The pocket watch usually has a chain to connect to a certain clothing, so the watch would not fall out of the pocket and get broken. This watch was popular before the wristwatch become popular. Because of wristwatches, the pocket watch became less common and popular. Still, some people today wear pocket watches, and a golden pocket watch is often a token of a person's retirement.

[[Adam Brody]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from San Diego, California

Adam Jared Brody (born December 15, 1979) is an American television and movie actor most known for his work on The O.C where he played the character of Seth Cohen.

[[The O.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 American television series debuts, 2007 American television series endings, 2000s American drama television series, 2000s soap operas, 2000s teen television series, American soap operas, American teen television series, Television series set in California, English-language television programs

The O.C. is an American teenage drama television series based in Orange County, California. It was on for 4 seasons between August 5, 2003 and February 22, 2007.

[[Ouanaminthe]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Haiti

Ouanaminthe (Kréyòl: Wanament) is a city in northeast Haiti. It is the most important city of the Nord-Est Département. In Spanish, the city is called sometimes Juana Méndez.

The city is part of an arrondissement (a part of a department) with the same name, along the northern border with the Dominican Republic. The Dajabón River is between Ouanaminthe and the Dominican city of Dajabón. The border crossing to Dajabón is one of the four chief land crossings from Haiti to the Dominican Republic and Haitians living in Ouanaminthe are allowed to cross the border to Dajabón only two days per week.

[[Developing country]]

CATEGORIES: Country classifications

[[Malden Island]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific islands, Kiribati, Uninhabited islands

Malden Island is an island in the Pacific Ocean. Today, the island belongs to Kiribati. It is one of the Line Islands. In the 19th century the island used to be called Independence Island at times. The island is uninhabited today, it has been made into a nature reserve for breeding seabirds.

[[Scandinavian Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 establishments in Europe, Airlines of Europe, Star Alliance, 20th century establishments in Denmark, 20th century establishments in Norway, 1940s establishments in Sweden, IATA members

Scandinavian Airlines (fd. Scandinavian Airlines System) (SAS) is the flag carrier of Sweden, Norway and Denmark. On August 1, 1946, the airline was founded.  The first flight was held on September 17, 1946.  In 1959, it bought its first jet aircraft.  The Boeing 747 and DC-10 wide-body airplanes were bought the early 70s  In 1976, SAS started a partnership with Thai Airways and in 1989, SAS started another partnership with Continental Airlines.  SAS launched its frequent-flyer program in 1992.  SAS helped start the Star Alliance in 1997.  Starting in 2012, SAS started having many financial troubles. In 2013, the airline introduced new classes on its planes to compete with budget airlines.  The airline currently operates many routes in Europe, Africa, Asia and North America.

[[York Minster]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in England, Anglican Cathedrals, York

York Minster is the largest Gothic cathedral in Northern Europe. The title Minster is given to churches which in the Anglo-Saxon period were missionary teaching churches. 

York Minster is in the city of York, North Yorkshire, England. It is the 'seat' of the Archbishop of York, the second-highest-ranking bishop in the Church of England. The Minster is run by a Chapter (committee) under the Dean of York, who manages the affairs of the Minster. The current archbishop (since 2005) is Dr. John Sentamu.  

[[High School Musical 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 comedy-drama movies, 2000s musical movies, 2000s teen comedy movies, 2000s teen drama movies, 2007 television movies, American musical movies, American comedy-drama movies, American sequel movies, American teen comedy movies, American teen drama movies, American television movies, High School Musical, Movies directed by Kenny Ortega, Movies set in New Mexico

High School Musical 2 is a 2007 Disney television movie movie. It is a sequel to High School Musical. The movie was very popular. It had a record number of viewers for a made-for-television movie. High School Musical 2 also set the record for most viewers for a pay-television movie in Australia. This movie stars Zac Efron, Vanessa Anne Hudgens, Corbin Bleu, Monique Coleman, Ashley Tisdale, and Lucas Grabeel. Its sequel is High School Musical 3: Senior Year.

[[Delikanlım]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 albums

Delikanlım is the first album from Turkish singer Yıldız Tilbe.

[[Yıldız Tilbe]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, People from İzmir, Turkish singers

Yıldız Tilbe is a Turkish pop folk singer and one of the best selling musical artists in Turkey, known especially for her eastern-infused ballads.

[[Bijou Phillips]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, American movie actors, American voice actors, Actors from Greenwich, Connecticut, Models from Connecticut

Bijou Lilly Phillips (born April 1, 1980) is an American actress, fashion model, and singer. Some of her larger movie roles include Bully, Havoc, Hostel: Part II, and Tart.

She is the daughter of singer John Phillips, of the 1970s group The Mamas & the Papas. Her sisters are actress Mackenzie Phillips and singer Chyna Phillips. She married actor Danny Masterson, of That '70s Show in 2011. She was previously engaged to singer Sean Lennon.

Phillips released an album I'd Rather Eat Glass in 2002. The title was based on her experience modeling in her teens.

[[The Mamas & the Papas]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 establishments in New York (state), 1960s American music groups, 1970s American music groups, Folk music groups, Musical groups disestablished in the 1970s, Musical groups established in 1965, Musical groups from New York City, 1971 disestablishments in the United States, 1960s disestablishments in New York (state)

The Mamas & The Papas were a popular pop music singing group in the 1960s. The group recorded and performed from 1965 to 1968 with a short reunion in 1971, releasing five albums and ten hit singles. They have sold nearly 40 million records worldwide.

The members of the group were John Phillips, his wife Michelle Phillips, Dennis Doherty, and Cass Elliot. They formed in New York City in 1964 and broke up in the early 1970s. Some of their famous songs are California Dreamin', I Saw Her Again and Creeque Alley.

[[Chocobo]]

CATEGORIES: Final Fantasy, Fictional birds

Chocobos are fictional creatures featured in the game series called Final Fantasy. They look like giant, ostrish-like yellow birds.

They first appeared in Final Fantasy 2 and were used in most Final Fantasy sequels after that. They can be used to travel around the game, or play mini-games.The origin of Chocobo is 'Kyoro-chan'.Chocobo likes 'Vegetable of Gizarle'. They have special smell.

[[Sephiroth (Final Fantasy)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1997, Final Fantasy, Kingdom Hearts characters, Video game antagonists, Video game bosses

Sephiroth is the main villain of Final Fantasy VII. He was created by Tetsuya Nomura. He was soldier in the Shinra Company, but he became a monster. This story is in Final Fantasy VII: Crisis Core. His goals are to destroy earth with a giant meteor, with the help of the Black Materia and become a god, possessed by JENOVA's genes.

He is known to have a very long sword called Masamune, that he uses to fight, and happen to have a raven wing on his back. His main opponent is Cloud, and gets beaten by him both in Final Fantasy VII and Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children. He also appears in other games such as Kingdom Hearts, Final Fantasy Dissidia and Ehrgeiz. His theme song is called One Winged Angel, and was composed by Nobuo Uematsu.

[[Helicopter carrier]]

CATEGORIES: Ship types

A Helicopter carrier is a type of aircraft carrier. A helicopter carrier carries helicopters and sometimes airplanes as well. Many countries have helicopter carriers because they are cheaper than aircraft carriers.

[[Panzerfaust]]

CATEGORIES: Nazi Germany, Rifles

A Panzerfaust is a recoilless rifle that was invented by Germany. A Panzerfaust can only be used once unlike the Panzerschreck or the Bazooka. The Panzerfaust was used heavily late in World War II, especially during the Battle of Berlin. They were made in very large numbers. They were less powerful than later Rocket-propelled grenades. 

[[Ambush]]

CATEGORIES: Military, Military terminology

An ambush ( also called a surprise attack) is a long-established military tactic. It is a surprise attack from a hidden position against an enemy. The enemy may be moving or they may have stopped. Ambush uses the element of surprise to confuse the enemy soldiers long enough to be successful. 

Unlike other surprise attacks, the point of an ambush is not to gain territory. Instead it may be used to harass an enemy. It may also be used to capture or destroy key assets (people, equipment, supplies, etc.).

[[Grapeshot]]

CATEGORIES: Ammunition

Grape shot is a hollow ball, packed with small "grape" sized metal balls which can be fired by a gun or a cannon. The hollow ball is fired as a single round that breaks apart upon leaving the muzzle of a cannon. Grapeshot was much used until became obsolete during the 19th century. 

An artillery shell is a hollow ball packed with explosive and a fuse. The fuse is lit by the explosive charge that sends the shell towards its target. It is designed to explode when it reaches its target. Grape shot does not wait. It begins to spread as soon as it leaves the gun or cannon. Grape shot is quite different from a shell or shrapnel rounds.

Shrapnel, while similar to both, is different and more deadly. Invented by a British officer during the Napoleonic Wars, it is a fused explosive shell filled with many small balls or iron/lead bits. When the shell bursts the small bits scatter in a more or less spherical pattern with usually fatal force. 

All three of these rounds, grape shot, shell, and shrapnel, are extremely effective against troops, horses and other livestock. They can also destroy wooden structures from their fragments. Shells have historically been particularly effective as incendiaries against wooden targets, which they ignite from the heat of their explosive blast. Grape shot sends out mini-missiles across a wide pattern. This is best for people targets, but it may be quite damaging against nearby wooden structures.

[[Banzai charge]]

CATEGORIES: World War II, Military of Japan, 1940s in Japan

A Banzai charge (or "''banzai'' attack") (萬歳突撃) was a tactic used by Japanese soldiers against the American soldiers when they were losing World War II. Banzai charges were usually suicide charges. This was so they would have an honourable death without surrender. Also, the charges were a final attempt to gain success against the Allied forces, which usually had more troops.

[[Paratrooper]]

CATEGORIES: Military

Paratroopers are soldiers trained in parachuting and generally operate as part of an airborne force. Using paratroopers is called paradrop operations.

[[Daisuke Nakaharai]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Daisuke Nakaharai (born 22 May 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Andy van der Meyde]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, People from Arnhem, Sportspeople from Gelderland

Andy van der Meyde (born 30 September 1979) is a Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Shunsuke Maeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Nara Prefecture

Shunsuke Maeda (born 9 June 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Oita Trinita.

[[Víctor Valdés]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Spanish association football goalkeepers, Manchester United F.C. players

Víctor Valdés (born 14 January 1982) is a retired Spanish football player. He most notably played for Barcelona.

[[Marcus Vinicius de Morais]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Marcus Vinicius de Morais (born 25 February 1974) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Toulouse FC]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, Toulouse, 1970 establishments in France

Toulouse F.C. is a football club which plays in France.

[[Stade Rennais F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1901 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in France

Stade Rennais F.C. is a football club which plays in France.

[[F.C. Lorient]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1926 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in France

F.C. Lorient is a football club which plays in France.

[[Valenciennes F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1913 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in France

Valenciennes F.C. is a football club which plays in France.

[[Grenoble Foot 38]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, Grenoble, 1892 establishments in Europe, 1890s establishments in France

Grenoble Foot 38 is a football club which plays in France.

[[A.S. Nancy-Lorraine]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s establishments in France, 1967 establishments in Europe, French football clubs, Nancy

A.S. Nancy-Lorraine is a football club which plays in France.

[[Le Mans FC]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s establishments in France, 1985 establishments in Europe, French football clubs, Le Mans

Le Mans U.C. 72 is a football club which plays in France.

The club formed from a merger of two football clubs ; Union Sportive du Mans and Stade Olympique du Maine in 1985.

[[S.M. Caen]]

CATEGORIES: 1910s establishments in France, 1913 establishments in Europe, French football clubs, Caen

S.M. Caen is a football club which plays in France.

[[Le Havre AC]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century establishments in France, 1870s establishments in Europe, 1872 establishments, French football clubs, Le Havre

Le Havre AC is a football club which plays in France. It is based in Le Havre.

[[FC Metz]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s establishments in France, 1932 establishments in Europe, French football clubs

F.C. Metz is a football club which plays in France.

[[Tours F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1919 establishments in France

Tours F.C. is a football club which plays in France.

[[Angers SCO]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 establishments in France, French football clubs

Angers S.C.O. is a football club which plays in France.

They play for the 2015/2016 season in Ligue 1, the French first league.

[[C.S. Sedan Ardennes]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 establishments in France, French football clubs

C.S. Sedan Ardennes is a football club which plays in France.

[[SC Bastia]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1905 establishments in France

S.C. Bastia is a football club which plays in France.

[[En Avant de Guingamp]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1912 establishments in France

En Avant de Guingamp is a football club which plays in Guingamp, in France.

[[Stade Brestois 29]]

CATEGORIES: 1900s establishments in France, 1903 establishments in Europe, French football clubs, Brest, France

Stade Brestois 29 is a football club which plays in France.

[[LB Châteauroux]]

CATEGORIES: 1880s establishments in France, 1883 establishments in Europe, French football clubs

L.B. Châteauroux is a football club which plays in France.

[[AC Ajaccio]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1910 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in France

A.C. Ajaccio is a football club which plays in France.

[[Nîmes Olympique]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1937 establishments in Europe, 1930s establishments in France

Nîmes Olympique F.C. is a football club in France.

[[R.C. France]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1882 establishments in France, 1932 disestablishments, 1930s disestablishments in France, 1967 establishments in Europe, 1960s establishments in France, 1983 disestablishments in Europe, 1980s disestablishments in France, 2006 establishments in France, 2007 disestablishments in Europe, 2000s disestablishments in France

[[S.C.O. Roubaix]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, Roubaix

S.C.O. Roubaix is a former football club which played in France.

The club formed from a merger of two football clubs ; Racing Stade Roubaisien and Roubaix Football in 1990.

[[Olympique Alès]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1923 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in France

Olympique Alès is a football club which plays in France.

[[F.C. Mulhouse]]

CATEGORIES: 1890s establishments in France, 1893 establishments in Europe, French football clubs, Mulhouse

F.C. Mulhouse is a football club which plays in France.

[[A.S. Cannes Football]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, Cannes, 1902 establishments in France

A.S. Cannes Football, sometimes referred to as Cannes or A.S. Cannes, is a football club which plays in Cannes, France.

[[Red Star F.C. 93]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1897 establishments in Europe, 1890s establishments in France

Red Star F.C. 93 is a football club which plays in France.

[[F.C. Antibes Juan-les-Pins]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1912 establishments in France

F.C. Antibes Juan-les-Pins is a football club which plays in France.

[[F.C. Rouen 1899]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, Rouen, 1899 establishments in France

F.C. Rouen 1899 is a football club which plays in France.

[[F.C. Nancy]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, Nancy

F.C. Nancy is a former football club which played in France.

[[Stade Français]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1888 establishments in Europe, 1880s establishments in France

Stade Français is a football club which plays in France.

[[S.R. Colmar]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1920 establishments in France

S.R. Colmar is a football club that plays in France.

[[E.S. Troyes A.C.]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1900 establishments in France

E.S. Troyes A.C. is a football club which plays in France.

[[A.S. Béziers]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs

A.S. Béziers is a former football club which played in France.

[[Sporting Toulon Var]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s establishments in France, 1944 establishments in Europe, French football clubs, Toulon

Sporting Toulon Var is a football club which plays in France.

[[Angoulême C.F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 establishments in France, French football clubs

Angoulême C.F.C. is a football club which plays in France.

[[Paris F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, Paris, 1969 establishments in Europe, 1960s establishments in France

Paris F.C. is a football club which plays in France. They play in the Championnat National, which is the third league of football in France. They play their home games at the Stade Charléty located in the capital of France, which is Paris, Île-de-France.

[[Chamois Niortais F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s establishments in France, 1925 establishments in Europe, French football clubs

Chamois Niortais F.C. is a football club which plays in France.

[[Pikachu]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1996, Pokémon monsters

Pikachu is a yellow mouse Pokémon from the fictional Pokémon world that was created by Satoshi Tajiri. Pikachu is the mascot of the Pokémon franchise, and one of the main characters of the Pokémon anime series. It has also appeared in most Pokémon video games and merchandise.  In the video game Pokémon Yellow, it is the player's starter Pokémon. In the anime series, Pikachu is Ash's first Pokémon.

Pikachu is an electric-type Pokémon, which attacks using electricity from two red pouches on its cheeks.

Pikachu evolves from a baby Pokémon called Pichu if it loves its trainer. Pikachu can evolve into Raichu, which is bigger and stronger than Pikachu.

[[Gina McKee]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Actors from County Durham, English movie actors, English television actors

Gina McKee (born 14 April 1964) is an English actress that was in the television mini series The Forsyte Saga alongside Damian Lewis.

[[Florida State Road 540]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Florida

State Road 540 is an east-west road in Central Florida, serving Polk County.  It runs 24.3 from US 27 to the south side of the city of Lakeland.  SR 540 also runs along the entrance to Cypress Gardens. It is a major road along the south side of Winter Haven, where it is known as Cypress Gardens Boulevard, and an important link between Winter Haven and Lakeland, the Polk Parkway, and also Interstate 4 and the Tampa Bay area.

SR 540 is known by the following names:

[[Mr. Bean]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 British television series debuts, 1995 British television series endings, 1990s British sitcoms, ITV comedy, Television series set in London, English-language television programs

Mr. Bean is a British sitcom and comedy show. It is about a man who lives in London and has problems and finds unusual ways to solve them. It is physical humor and has less dialogue than is usual for a sitcom. It has fourteen 25-minute episodes. All of them were written by and star Rowan Atkinson as the main character. Different episodes were also written by Robin Driscoll, Richard Curtis and one by Ben Elton. The first episode was shown on ITV on 1 January 1990. The last television episode, "Goodnight Mr. Bean" broadcast on 31 October 1995. The final episode, "Hair by Mr. Bean of London", was a video released on 15 November 1995, but not shown in the United Kingdom until 2006.

[[Rowan Atkinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Actors from County Durham, Actors who played in James Bond movies, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British stand-up comedians, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, English christians, English people of Armenian descent, English comedians, English movie actors, English radio actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English television writers, English voice actors

Rowan Sebastian Atkinson GBR (born 6 January 1955) is an English actor comedian and writer. He is best known for his characters of Mr. Bean and Blackadder. Rowan has also been in films such as The Lion King voicing  Zazu, the red-billed hornbill and Johnny English.   He has been listed in The Observer as one of the 50 funniest actors in British comedy, and amongst the top 50 comedians ever in a 2005 poll of fellow comedians.

[[Cypress Gardens]]

CATEGORIES: Theme parks in Florida, Botanical gardens in the United States

Cypress Gardens is a theme park near Winter Haven, Florida in the United States.

[[WEKG]]

CATEGORIES: Radio stations in the United States, Kentucky

WEKG (810 AM) is a radio station in Jackson, Kentucky, USA. It plays country music.  As of April 2013, the station was owned by Intermountain Broadcasting Co., Inc.. It has programing from ABC Radio.

[[Valea Voenilor River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Romania

The Valea Voenilor River is a tributary of the Pascu River.

[[South Portland, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Maine

South Portland is a small town in Maine right across the water from Portland.

[[WJBQ]]

CATEGORIES: Radio stations in the United States, Portland, Maine

WJBQ is a radio station from Portland, Maine. It is also known as Q97.9. It has a morning show where Rob Steele does "The Interactive 8 at 8", a countdown of the eight most popular songs of the day.

[[Daisy Duke]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Movie characters, Television characters

Daisy Duke is a fictional character from the Dukes of Hazzard. She is an attractive young woman from Georgia. Her apparel includes low cut blue jeans, which later led to the term "Daisy Dukes" being used for short shorts. She was portrayed by actress Jessica Simpson in the movie.

[[Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Béla Bartók, Sonatas

The Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion is a musical composition by the Hungarian composer Béla Bartók.  It was written for a very unusual combination of players.  Four players are needed to perform this sonata: two pianists and two percussion players.  The two pianists each have a piano, and the two percussion players play seven instruments between them: three timpani, xylophone, one side drum with snares and one without, a suspended cymbal, a pair of cymbals, a bass drum, a triangle and a tam-tam.

In the introduction to the score Bartók gave very precise instructions about how the different percussion instruments should be played, the kinds of beaters to be used, and a plan of how they were to be grouped on stage.

There are three movements: a fast movement, a slow movement and a fast movement.  The first movement starts with a slow introduction.

There are many interesting and unusual things to listen out for in the music.  For example, in the first movement the timpani sometimes play glissandos.  This means that the pitch of the notes slides up or down.  The player needs to have timpani with pedals to do this.  This movement is in sonata form.

The second movement sounds very creepy.  Bartók quite often wrote music which sounded like insects at night.  This is one of his “night pieces”.  In the climax to this exciting music Piano One plays lots of glissandos.

The last movement is a big contrast to the atmosphere in the slow movement.  It is like a lively dance.

The sonata was first performed in Basle in 1938 with the composer playing one piano and his wife Ditta playing the other one.  Fritz Schiesser and Philipp Rühlig played the percussion.   It immediately became very popular and has since been one of his best- known works.  Bartók also made a version for the two pianos to play with an orchestra, but it is not normally performed like that.

[[Concerto for Orchestra (Bartók)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Béla Bartók, Orchestral works

Concerto for Orchestra is the title of a work for orchestra by the Hungarian composer Béla Bartók. It is one of the most famous orchestral pieces of the mid-20th century.

Several composers have written works to which they gave the title “Concerto for Orchestra”. It is an unusual title because a concerto is normally a work for one solo instrument and an orchestra. The soloist is given a lot of opportunity to show off his (or her) talent. In a “Concerto for Orchestra” there is no soloist, but the composer thinks it is different from a symphony because a lot of the instruments in the orchestra are treated like soloists during the piece. This is what happens in Béla Bartók’s concerto.

The work was written in 1943 and it was first performed on 1 December 1944 in the Boston Symphony Hall by the Boston Symphony Orchestra with the conductor Serge Koussevitzky. It was immediately a great success. Koussevitszky asked Bartók to write this piece. Bartók had just arrived in United States from Hungary. He had to flee because of World War II. Bartók had no money and so he was glad to get some work.

[[Bluebird K7]]

CATEGORIES: Boats

Bluebird K7 was a boat built for Donald Campbell to break the World Water Speed Record.  Bluebird was a special kind of boat, called a hydroplane, that  skims over the top of the water instead of pushing through it like a normal boat. Bluebird was powered by a jet engine. It set new world water speed records seven times; the fastest  was 276 mph (445 km/h).  Bluebird was destroyed when Campbell tried to set an eighth record by going faster than 300 mph (480 km/h) on Coniston Water in 1967.

[[TM 65 77]]

CATEGORIES: Explosives

The Telamiina 65 77 (Track mine model 66, with detonator model 77) is a Finnish Army standard issue anti-tank mine. The mine is made of 9.5 kg (~21 lbs) of cast TNT.  The mine is armed with a detonator that is set to explode when at least 100 kg (~220 lbs) of pressure is applied to it. The blast effect of the mine blows the track off of tanks and damages their driving wheel.

The mine is also known as the Kuntonappi ("Fitness pill") or the Tellu (female name, shortened form of Tellervo9).

[[Well, Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Hampshire

Well is a small village in Hampshire in between Odiham and Farnham. It is next to Lord Wandsworth College. The local pub is called The Chequers Inn.

[[Where Sleeplessness Is Rest from Nightmares]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 albums, Rock albums

Where Sleeplessness Is Rest from Nightmares is the very first album by Chicago metalcore band Arma Angelus.

[[Arma Angelus]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 establishments in the United States, 2002 disestablishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 1990s establishments in Illinois, 2000s American music groups, Post-hardcore bands, Metalcore bands, Musical groups disestablished in 2002, Musical groups established in 1998, Musical groups from Chicago

Arma Angelus was a metalcore band from Chicago. The band started in 1998 and broke up in 2002. The members of the band were Peter Wentz (singer, now plays bass guitar in Fall Out Boy), Tim McIlrath (played bass guitar, now lead singer of Rise Against), Jay Jancetic (played guitar, now plays guitar for the Chicago band Holy Roman Empire), Daniel Binaei (played guitar), Adam Bishop (played guitar, now an English teacher at San Dieguito High School Academy in Encinitas, California), and Timothy Miller (played the drums).

After Tim quit to start a new band called Rise Against, he was replaced in 1999 by Christopher Gutierrez. Gutierrez is now a touring author and spoken word artist.  He was replaced as the bass guitar player for one tour by Joseph Trohman (now plays guitar in the band Fall Out Boy). Trohman was not a good fit for the band in terms of knowing about the music style and in terms of stage presence.  He was replaced mid-tour when the band flew Chris Gutierrez out to New York for the final half of their tour, including a stop at CBGB's.  

In the last Arma Angelus concert, Patrick Stump played drums, Pete Wentz sang, Joe Trohman played guitar along with Adam Bishop, and Christopher Gutierrez on bass.

[[51 Pegasi]]

CATEGORIES: Stars

51 Pegasi is a star that is like our Sun and can be found 15.4 parsecs (50.1 light-years) away from the Earth in the constellation Pegasus. It was the first Sun-like star, other than the Sun, found to have a planet orbiting it, this discovery was first made public in 1995.

The exoplanet's discovery was made public on October 6, 1995 by Michel Mayor and Didier Queloz.  The discovery was made using the radial velocity method at the Observatoire de Haute-Provence, using a tool called the ELODIE spectrograph that is used to find planets that are outside our Solar System. 

The star itself has an apparent brightness of 5.49, and because of this it is able to be seen from the Earth with binoculars, or with the naked eye if it is dark outside. 51 Pegasi is a yellow dwarf star that is thought to be around 7.5 billion years old, which is somewhat older than our Sun. 51 Pegasi is also 4-6% more massive than our Sun with more metal content. However, it is running low on hydrogen. 

In 1996 astronomers Baliunas, Sokoloff, and Soon calculated that it takes 51 Pegasi b 37 days to orbit 51 Pegasi.

[[Gumbasia]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 movies, Short movies, Clay animation movies, English-language movies

Gumbasia is a very short movie made in 1953 by Art Clokey. Gumbasia was a clay animation movie. Clokey became famous for his two series Gumby and Davey and Goliath which also used clay animation.

Clokey made Gumbasia while he was studying at the University of Southern California and being taught by Slavko Vorkapich. It was Clokey's first clay animation movie and it was only 3 minutes and 45 seconds long. The movie showed moving lumps of clay set to music in a copy of Walt Disney's Fantasia. Gumbasia was made in a style Vorkapich taught called Kinesthetic Film Principles. This style, which uses camera movements and stop-motion editing, is used in later Gumby movies. After watching Gumbasia, movie producer Sam Engel decided to give Clokey money to make a 15 minute movie that became the first Gumby movie -- Gumby Goes to the Moon.

[[University of Southern Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Maine, Portland, Maine, 1878 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Maine

The University of Southern Maine is a university in Maine.

[[Belmont, New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Hampshire, 1869 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in New Hampshire

Belmont is a small town in New Hampshire, United States.

Originally called Upper Gilmanton, Belmont was chartered in 1727 as a parish of Gilmanton.  In 1859 Upper Gilmanton was separated from Gilmanton. Then in 1869 the town was renamed Belmont.  This was to honor August Belmont. The townspeople hoped Mr. Belmont would provide financial support but he did not.

[[Joker (comics)]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics supervillains, DC Comics adapted into movies, Batman characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1940, Fictional mass murderers, Mortal Kombat guest characters, The Joker

The Joker is a fictional character, a comic book supervillain published by DC Comics. He is an archenemy of Batman. The character's creator has been disputed between Jerry Robinson, Bill Finger, and Bob Kane, even though many believe Robinson created the character. The Joker first appeared in Batman #1 (Spring 1940).

[[Iceman (Marvel Comics)]]

CATEGORIES: Characters created by Stan Lee, Fictional characters introduced in 1963, Fictional characters with ice or cold abilities, Fictional gay males, Marvel Comics characters, Marvel Comics mutants, Marvel Comics superheroes, Marvel vs. Capcom fighters

Iceman is a superhero. He is a member of the X-Men. His real name is Bobby Drake. Iceman has the power to freeze anything around him. He can also turn his body into ice.

[[70 Virginis]]

CATEGORIES: Stars

70 Virginis is a yellow dwarf star that is around 58 light-years away from the Earth in the constellation Virgo. 70 Virginis is not as big or hot as Earth's Sun.

In 1996, 70 Virginis was found to have an extrasolar planet in orbit around it. There is also a dust disc that orbits the star. The temperature of the disc is 156 K and it is about 3.4 AU from the star.

[[Terry Gerin]]

CATEGORIES: American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni, Sportspeople from Michigan, 1975 births, Living people

Terrance "Terry" Gerin (born October 7, 1975) is an American professional wrestler and actor. He is best known for working with World Wrestling Federation, Extreme Championship Wrestling, and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling under the ring names Rhino and Rhyno. He currently works for Ring of Honor. His finishing move is called the Gore (spear).

[[70 Virginis b]]

CATEGORIES: Exoplanets

70 Virginis b is an extrasolar planet that is around 60 light-years away from the Earth in the constellation of Virgo.  The finding of this planet was announced in 1996 by astronomers Geoffrey Marcy and R. Paul Butler. 70 Virginis was one of the first stars that was known to have planets orbiting it.  When first announced, 70 Virginis b was thought to be inside its star's habitable zone, but proof was later found that the planet has an eccentric orbit, closer to its parent.

[[Peaks Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of the United States, Geography of Maine, Portland, Maine

Peaks Island is an island near Portland, Maine. Ferries go between Portland Harbour and Peaks Island. There is a small beach on the island along with a store and a library.

[[Float On]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 songs

Float On is a song by the indie rock band Modest Mouse. Made in 2004, it appears on their album Good News for People Who Love Bad News. It is their most popular single to date.

[[Blue Hill, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Maine

Blue Hill is a town in eastern Maine, in the United States.

[[15385 Dallolmo]]

CATEGORIES: Asteroids

15385 Dallolmo (1997 SP4) is a Main-belt Asteroid that was found on September 25, 1997 by the Osservatorio San Vittore at Bologna, Italy

It is named after Umberto Dall'Olmo (1925-1980), who was an amateur astronomer with college degrees in both law and physics, who spent most of his time observing Jupiter and studying flare stars. He was also interested in the history of astronomy and worked as a technician at the University of Bologna's Institute of Astronomy.

[[Operation Downfall]]

CATEGORIES: Invasions of World War II

The Operation Downfall was a planned military action, called "Operation Downfall". This was to be the Allied forces invasion of Japan to end the Second World War. It would have two main parts, Operation Olympic would be the biggest amphibious invasion in history, in Kyūshū. Airplanes based in Kyushu would then be used for an even bigger invasion called Operation Coronet. This would invade Honshū. After the Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the Japanese surrendered, so there was no need for an invasion. Operation Downfall was canceled.

[[F.C. Martigues]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s establishments in France, 1921 establishments in Europe, French football clubs

F.C. Martigues is a football club which plays in France.

[[F.C. Gueugnon]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1940 establishments in France

F.C. Gueugnon is a football club which plays in France.

[[Blade (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 horror movies, 1990s superhero movies, African-American superhero movies, American action movies, American horror movies, Blade movies, English-language movies, Film noir, Movies about revenge, Movies based on comics, New Line Cinema movies, Superhero horror movies, Vampires in movies, American superhero movies

Blade is a 1998 American vampire superhero horror movie starring Wesley Snipes. It was followed by Blade II and Blade: Trinity.

[[The Bravery]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments in the United States, 2000s American music groups, 2000s establishments in New York (state), 2010s American music groups, 2011 disestablishments in the United States, American punk bands, Musical groups disestablished in 2011, Musical groups established in 2003, Musical groups from New York City

The Bravery was an American rock band. They were from New York City. The band is best known for their song "An Honest Mistake".

The Village Voice said the Bravery was "New York's Official Next Big Thing". MTV and Rolling Stone praised them as an artist to watch. The band was chosen in the BBC News website's Sound of... poll as 2005's most promising act.

[[Cascada]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s German music groups, 2010s German music groups, German pop music groups, Musical groups established in 2004, North Rhine-Westphalia

Cascada is a German pop group. They are most famous for their songs "Everytime We Touch" in 2005, "What Hurts the Most" in 2007 and "Evacuate the Dancefloor" in 2009. Members of the group are the female singer Natalie Horler  and the two Record Producers DJ Manian and Yanou.

[[Scholasticism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophical movements and positions, Theology

Scholasticism is a way of thinking and teaching knowledge. It was developed in the Middle Ages. It started when people wanted to bring together what is called classical philosophy with the teachings of 

Christian theology. Classical philosophy is the philosophy developed in Ancient Greece. 

Scholasticism is not a philosophy or a theology, but rather a way of teaching and learning. Scholasticism emphasises the use of dialectic. The main purpose of dialectic is to find an answer to a question, or to show that a contradiction can be resolved.

Scholasticism was started by people like Saint Ambrose and St. Augustine. They tried to use philosophy to help explain the doctrine and mysteries of the church. Ambrose and Augustine were among the first Church fathers who brought Christian ideas and Greek philosophy together.

The main figures of scholasticism were Peter Abelard, Albertus Magnus, Duns Scotus, William of Ockham, Bonaventure and, most importantly, Thomas Aquinas. Summa Theologica is an ambitious synthesis of Greek philosophy and Christian doctrine.

In the 13th century, the teachings of Aristotle were considered more important than those of Plato. Scholastic education was very much based on written texts, and with arguments for and against ideas in those texts. In this way it differed greatly from modern science, which is based on observations from nature. In Aristotle the scholastics chose someone who was himself quite an original investigator of the natural world. But the scholastics themselves dealt almost entirely with the world in manuscripts written in two ancient languages. One was in Latin, the language of the Vulgate Bible and the other was Ancient Greek. Greek opened the doors to the writings of the Greek philosophers in their own language, at least so far as their works survived. The motto of Boethius “As far as you are able, join faith to reason” reminds us that all scholastics were mediaeval Christians. Their main concern was to see how the Greek ideas could be fitted into their religious view of the world.

[[916 America]]

CATEGORIES: Asteroids

916 America is a minor planet that is orbiting the Sun in the main belt between Mars and Jupiter.

It was discovered on 7 August 1915 by the Soviet astronomer Grigory Nikolaevich Neujmin at Simeis, Ukraine. It was originally called 916ΣI, but was renamed 916 America on 24 February 1923 after the Council of Astronomers at Pulkovo Observatory decided to pay tribute to "the friendly relations of the astronomical observatories and astronomers". Another possible reason for the name was as a mark of thankfulness for the help given during the famine in Crimea by the American Relief Administration under President Herbert Hoover.

In 1986, believing that the asteroid was of S-type and that it had a diameter of 15 km, the length of 916 America's day was thought to be 38 hours. Observations by the Infrared Astronomical Satellite have since shown that it has a diameter of 33.2±1.3 km, with an absolute magnitude of 11.20 and an albedo (the extent to which it reflects light) of 0.053±0.004.

[[Nick]]

Nick is a short form of the given name Nicholas. People named Nick include:

Nick can also be short for "Nickelodeon", and might mean:

[[Donald]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Donald is a masculine given name. Other common forms are Don, Donny and Donnie.

[[Johnstone]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Scotland

Johnstone (Johnstoun, Baile Iain) is a town in the council area of Renfrewshire, Scotland.

[[Diamond Dallas Page]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from New Jersey, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Dallas Page (born Page Joseph Falkinburg, Jr.; April 5, 1956 in Point Pleasant, New Jersey) is a retired American professional wrestler, fitness instructor and actor who is probably best known for wrestling with World Championship Wrestling (WCW), World Wrestling Federation (WWF), Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) under the ring name, "Diamond" Dallas Page or "DDP" for short. 

[[Sunapee, New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Hampshire

Sunapee is a town in the U.S. state of New Hampshire.

[[Scarborough, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine

Scarborough is a town in Maine. It has aharness racing event called the Scarborough Downs. Scarborough High School is here.

[[Luna (given name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Luna, is a given name meaning "moon"

[[Susan Boyle]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, British Roman Catholics, Scottish Christians, Scottish singers

Susan Magdalane Boyle (born 1 April 1961) is a Scottish singer who became famous through Britain's Got Talent. Her version of "I Dreamed a Dream" from Les Misérables has many video views on YouTube. She appeared on America's Got Talent. Boyle's first album I Dreamed a Dream was released on 23 November 2009. It went straight to number one in the UK Albums Chart. It sold more copies than any other album in the UK in 2009.

She has had two no. 1 albums in the United States.

[[Beat It]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1983 songs

"Beat It" is a popular song written and performed by singer Michael Jackson. It appears on his sixth album Thriller. It was released as the album's third single. There is also a video that goes with the song. The song features a guitar solo by Eddie Van Halen. He chose to do the solo without getting paid. It got the Grammy Awards for Record of the Year and Best Male Rock Vocal Performance in 1984.

"Weird Al" Yankovic made a parody of it called "Eat It". Fall Out Boy covered the song with John Mayer on their 2008 album Folie à Deux.

[[Seiko]]

CATEGORIES: Technology companies of Japan

Seiko Holdings Corporation, Better known as Seiko is a Japanese company that makes watches, clocks and electrical components. Seiko is one of the three main companies of the "Seiko Group" which are the Seiko Holdings Corporation (Seiko), Seiko Instruments Inc. (SII) and the Seiko Epson Corporation (Epson).

[[Gambit (Marvel Comics)]]

CATEGORIES: Marvel Comics superheroes

Gambit is a fictional character who appears in the X men series.  His mutant power is the ability to control, change and create kinetic energy (moving energy) which means he can make things move at his command.  Many scenes in X men Origins: Wolverine can demonstrate this.

[[Coblentz (lunar crater)]]

CATEGORIES: Surface features of the Moon, Impact craters

Coblentz is a small crater that can be found on the far side of the Moon, to the south of the much larger crater Bolyai. This crater has a circular edge, but it has been worn away by asteroid impacts. This is most noticeable at the southern end where a gap exists in the rim. The interior floor has very few features except for several tiny craterlets.

A ridge arcs from the northwest rim of Coblentz to join the southern rim of Bolyai. There are several patches of dark (low albedo) material just to the south and southwest of Coblentz.

[[Max Rockatansky]]

CATEGORIES: Movie characters

"Mad" Max Rockatansky is a fictional character appearing in the Mad Max movies. He is played by Mel Gibson and by Tom Hardy.

[[Tony Montana]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional murderers, Fictional people with antisocial personality disorder, Movie characters, Narcissism in fiction, Fictional mass murderers

Tony Montana is a fictional character in the movie Scarface who is played by actor Al Pacino. Montana is a Cuban immigrant to the United States. He has antisocial and narcissistic personality disorders and is a drug lord who ruthlessly uses violence to gain wealth. He creates many enemies and they come after him at his mansion, shooting him in the back and killing him.

[[Diomede Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific islands, Islands of Alaska, Islands of Russia, Siberia

The Diomede Islands are two islands in the Bering Strait, about halfway between mainland Alaska and Siberia. They are also called Gvozdev Islands in Russian. There are two islands, called Big Diomede and Little Diomede respectively. 

Little Diomede is also known as Krusenstern Island, but there are also other places with this name. The Eskimos who live there call it Ignaluk. 

The other island, Big Diomede, is also known as Imaqliq''', '''Inaliq''', '''Nunarbuk or Ratmanov Island. 

Big Diomede belongs to Siberia, Little Diomede is part of Alaska.

The Chukchi Sea is to the north and the Bering Sea to the south of the islands. 9.3 to the southeast is Fairway Rock, an islet which is usually not considered part of the Diomede Islands.

The islands are separated by an international border and the International Date Line which is approximately 1 from each island. At the closest distance between Little Diomede and Big Diomede, the two islands are only about 4 apart. 

People who live on Little Diomede Island do so in a small village called Diomede, on the west side of the island.

There are plans to build a connection between Siberia and Alaska, either as a bridge or a tunnel (Bering Strait bridge spanning the Bering Strait). In that case, the Diomede Islands would be a halfway point, as they are about the middle of the Bering Strait.

They are sometimes called Tomorrow Island (Big Diomede) and Yesterday Isle (Little Diomede) because the big island is 21 hours ahead of the small one (except when changing daylight saving time, done on different dates).

The people who lived on Big Diomede Island were moved to mainland Russia by the Soviet government. A small Russian military base is currently on the island. Little Diomede has an Inupiat Eskimo population of 170, mostly in the City of Diomede. This village there has a school, and a local store. Some Eskimos there are famous for their ivory carving. Mail is delivered by helicopter, weather permitting.

[[Krusenstern Island]]

Krusenstern Island (and similar names) is a place name honoring the Baltic German explorer Adam Johann von Krusenstern (1770 – 1846). It was and sometimes still is used for a number of places in the Pacific Ocean:

[[Clay animation]]

CATEGORIES: Animation

Clay animation is one of many ways to make a stop motion animation. Each animated piece, either character or background, can be formed and reformed into different shapes. People making a clay animation usually use something soft, like Plasticine clay. 

Most animation is made the same way, whether it is cel animation or stop motion. Each frame, or still picture, is recorded on film or digital media and then played back quickly. When played back at a frame rate of more than 10–12 frames per second, the human mind sees the series of slightly changing, rapidly playing images as movement. To us it seems as if the object is moving by itself. This way of tricking the mind into seeing "movement" is the way that all moving images work, from zoetrope to movies to videogames. The way CGI animations are made is different from the frame by frame method.

[[Carlos Alberto Carvalho dos Anjos Junior]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Salvador, Bahia

Carlos Alberto Carvalho dos Anjos Junior (born 15 September 1977) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Kashima Antlers.

[[Space Race]]

CATEGORIES: Spaceflight, 1950s in the United States, 1960s in the United States, 1950s in the Soviet Union

The Space Race was a 20th-century competition between two Cold War enemies, the Soviet Union (USSR) and the United States (US), to achieve better spaceflight capability than the other. It had its origins in the intercontinental ballistic missile-based nuclear arms race between the two nations following World War II. Both governments saw having better spaceflight technology as necessary for national security. The Space Race enabled the first launches of artificial satellites, uncrewed space probes to the Moon, Venus, and Mars, and human spaceflight in low Earth orbit and ultimately to the Moon.

The competition began on August 2, 1955, when the Soviet Union responded to the US announcement four days earlier of intent to launch artificial satellites during the "International Geophysical Year" (July 1, 1957 to December 31, 1958), by declaring they would also launch a satellite "in the near future". The Soviet Union achieved the first successful artificial satellite launch on October 4, 1957 of Sputnik 1, and sent the first human to space with the orbital flight of Yuri Gagarin on April 12, 1961. The USSR demonstrated an early lead in the race with these and other early firsts over the next few years, including flight durations measured in days instead of hours, the first multi-person crewed spaceflight, and the first spacewalk.

But the USSR lost its early lead after US president John F. Kennedy raised the stakes by setting a goal of "landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth". American spaceflight capability overtook that of the Soviets with flights up to two weeks long; two craft meeting in space (rendezvous) and joining (docking); astronauts working outside spacecraft; and using high-energy liquid hydrogen as rocket fuel in the Saturn family of rockets. Kennedy's Moon landing goal was acheived in July 1969, with the flight of Apollo 11, which sent and returned three men and landed two of them, a singular achievement far outweighing any combination of Soviet achievements. The USSR pursued two crewed lunar programs, but failed to develop a launch vehicle powerful enough to land one human on the Moon before the US, and eventually canceled them to concentrate on Earth orbital space stations, while the US landed five more Apollo crews on the Moon.

A period of détente followed with the April 1972 agreement on a co-operative Apollo-Soyuz Test Project (ASTP), resulting in the July 1975 rendezvous in Earth orbit of a US astronaut crew with a Soviet cosmonaut crew and joint development of an international docking standard APAS-75. Apollo–Soyuz began a period of transition from the Space Race to an age of US / Russian space cooperation by December 1991, when the dissolution of the Soviet Union brought the end of the Cold War and enabled the Shuttle-Mir and International Space Station programs between the US and the newly founded Russian Federation.

[[Oligotroph]]

CATEGORIES: Biology, Extremophiles

An oligotroph is an organism that can survive with relatively few nutrients. Because there are few nutrients, such organisms grow slower. Their metabolism usually runs at a slower rate. The population density is generally low. 

Environments where oligotrophs can be found include the deep oceans.

[[Supersaturation]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry, Thermodynamics

Supersaturation in chemical solutions is when a solution contains more of a solute than can be dissolved in it. This usually makes some of the solute separate itself from the solution.

[[Dyspnea]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems

Dyspnea or dyspnoea (said disp-nee-ah) is shortness of breath. Some research says that about 27% of people suffer it. 

[[Epiglottitis]]

CATEGORIES: Inflammation, Diseases and disorders of the digestive system

Epiglottitis is inflammation of the epiglottis, which is the flap that sits at the base of the tongue, which keeps food from going into the trachea (windpipe). Due to its place in the airway, swelling of this can interfere with breathing and can set up a medical emergency.

[[Lyme disease]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by bacteria, Diseases spread by insects

Lyme disease or borreliosis, is an infectious disease. It is caused by bacteria of the genus Borrelia. The disease is carried by ticks which are parasitic on mammals such as mice and deer. In other words, ticks are the vector which transmits the disease.

It is the most common tick-borne infection in the United States. Although Allen Steere realized in 1978 that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease, the cause of the disease remained a mystery until 1982. It can cause joint swelling, rashes, and neurological disorders. It remains controversial whether if left untreated, Lyme disease can become a chronic condition.

[[Travis Childers]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, United States representatives from Mississippi, US Democratic Party politicians

Travis Wayne Childers (born March 29, 1958 in Booneville, Mississippi, United States) is an American politician. He represented Mississippi's 1st district in the U.S. House of Representatives from the May 2008 special election until 2011. 

Childers did not win re-election in on November 2, 2010, he was defeated by former state senator Alan Nunnelee.

[[Carbonated water]]

CATEGORIES: Drinks

Carbonated water, also known as sparkling water, fizzy water, seltzer, and water with gas, is plain water into which carbon dioxide gas has been dissolved. Most soft drinks have carbonated water as a base.  The process of dissolving carbon dioxide gas is called carbonation. It results in the formation of carbonic acid.

There are special machines that allow to make soda water at home.

The process of carbonation can also occur naturally to produce carbonated mineral water. Beer and wine are carbonated by fermentation.

[[Eastern European Summer Time]]

CATEGORIES: Time zones

Eastern European Summer Time (EEST) is one of the names of UTC+3 time zone. This zone is 3 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time. It is used as a summer daylight saving time in some European, North African, and Middle Eastern countries. During the winter, the Eastern European Time (UTC+2) is used.

[[African Sanctus]]

CATEGORIES: Choral compositions, World music

African Sanctus is a musical composition for choir, soloists, orchestra and prerecorded tape by David Fanshawe.  It was composed in 1972.

African Sanctus is the best-known of Fanshawe's works.  It was composed after Fanshawe had made journeys to Africa up the river Nile between 1969 and 1973.  The shape of his journey forms the shape of a cross.  This had a religious meaning for Fanshawe.  He made recordings on tape of the people he met singing their traditional music.  A lot of this music had never been recorded before.  When he returned home to Britain he composed the African Sanctus.  Some of the recordings he had made in Africa are played as part of the performance.  The choir who sing live at the concert are singing some of the words of the traditional Christian Latin Mass.

The recordings are from Egypt, the Sudan, Uganda and Kenya.

At first it was called African Revelations, but then the title was changed to African Sanctus.  It was first performed in London by the Saltarello Choir in July 1972, and was later played on BBC Radio on United Nations Day.  A documentary film was made three years later showing how the work had been composed.

[[David Fanshawe]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2010 deaths, English composers, World music

David Fanshawe (born 19 April 1942 in Devon, England; died 5 July 2010) was an English composer and explorer. He wrote a large amount of music, especially for television programmes.  His best-known composition is a choral work called African Sanctus.

[[Haley Barbour]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Mississippi, US Republican Party politicians, People from Yazoo City, Mississippi, Governors of Mississippi, 21st-century American politicians

Haley Reeves Barbour (born October 22, 1947) is an American politician. He was the governor of Mississippi from 2004-2012. He was mentioned as a possible candidate for President of the United States in the 2012. In April 2011, Barbour said he will not run for president.

[[Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Saskatchewan

Moose Jaw is a town in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan; about 70 km west of the capital Regina.

[[Playpen]]

CATEGORIES: Children, Furniture

A playpen is where a baby plays in an enclosed structure. It is designed to keep the baby safe when the parent is not there. The earliest use of the word playpen in the Oxford English Dictionary was in 1902.

[[Don't Stop]]

Don't Stop may be:

[[The Planets]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Gustav Holst, Orchestral works

The Planets Op. 32 is a seven-movement orchestral musical series by the British composer Gustav Holst, written between 1914 and 1916. The first complete public performance happened during World War I on 10 October 1918 in Birmingham, with Appleby Matthews directing the orchestra. However, an earlier premiere for only a small group of people was held on 29 September 1918 in the Queen's Hall in London, with the orchestra directed by Adrian Boult.

[[It's A Big Big World]]

CATEGORIES: American children's television series, PBS Kids shows, 2006 television series debuts, 2010 television series endings

It's A Big Big World is a children's television show on PBS Kids.

[[Kota Kinabalu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Malaysia, Capital cities in Asia

Kota Kinabalu (ˈkɔtɑ kɪnɑbɑlʊ), formerly Jesselton, is the capital of Sabah state in Malaysia. It is also the capital of the West Coast Division of Sabah. The city is on the northwest coast of Borneo facing the South China Sea. The Tunku Abdul Rahman National Park is on one side and Mount Kinabalu, which gave the city its name, is nearby. Kota Kinabalu proper has a population of 579,304, while the larger urban area has an estimated population of 700,000. It is the largest urban centre in Sabah and the sixth largest in Malaysia.

Kota Kinabalu is often known as K.K. within Malaysia and internationally. It is a major tourist destination and a popular gateway for travellers visiting Sabah and Borneo. Kinabalu National Park is about 90 kilometres from the city and there are many tourist attractions in and around the city. Kota Kinabalu is also one of the major industrial and commercial centres of East Malaysia. These two factors combine to make Kota Kinabalu one of the fastest growing cities in Malaysia.

[[Temple of Jupiter (Pompeii)]]

The Temple of Jupiter, Capitolium, or Temple of the Capitoline Triad was a temple in the Roman city of Pompeii in Italy. At the beginning this temple was dedicated to Jupiter alone, it was built in the mid 2nd century BC at the same time as the temple of Apollo was being worked on - this was the era at which Roman influence over Pompeii was at its height and so Roman Jupiter beat out the Greek Apollo and Jupiter(, Juno, and Minerva) in towns newly taken over by the Romans.  This was also true for Pompeii, where the Temple of Jupiter that was already there was enlarged and made more Roman when the Romans took over.

Pompeii was taken over by the Romans beginning in 310 BC.  It was still allowed to mostly run itself, however, until the Italic Revolt against Rome at the beginning of the 1st century BC.

The building style of the town was largely borrowed from the Greeks, but Roman rule would soon lead to changes in this style.  As opposed to the previous Samnite rulers of Pompeii, the Romans thought that the building style was very important in religious as well as everyday life. Pompeii was changed into a much more public and open place.  Public buildings and spaces would eventually be able to be found all over the city.  

The temple had been built in 150 BC to be a very noticeable part of the forum, and it became Pompeii's main temple after Rome took over. The inside of the temple housed the main room of the temple, which held the statues of Jupiter, Juno, and Minerva, and which only the priests were allowed to enter.

In 62 an earthquake shook the city of Pompeii, destroying much of the Temple of Jupiter.  After this, the much smaller Temple of Jupiter Meilichios became the main place of worship to Jupiter and his group of three (triad).  The first Temple of Jupiter was still waiting to be fixed when Mount Vesuvius erupted in 79, burying the town of Pompeii under lava and ash.  The hollow temple can still be seen in Pompeii today. also in pompeii the had intercoure (sex) on the porch that indicated wealth.    

[[Milang, South Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Australia

Milang is small town that is found on the shores of Lake Alexandrina, just over 20 kms from Strathalbyn, South Australia.

The town was laid out in December 1853. Milang was a very important port on the Murray River System between 1860 and 1880, before the railway line was built to connect Adelaide to Morgan farther upstream.

[[Gilbert's potoroo]]

CATEGORIES: Marsupials of Australia, Critically endangered species

Gilbert's potoroo (Potorous gilbertii) is an Australian marsupial, sometimes called a rat-kangaroo. It has a pointed  face and it is about the size of a rabbit. Once thought to be extinct, it is listed as being critically endangered.It is the most endangered mammal and marsupial in the whole of Australia. There are only about 40 of the animals now left in the world. Gilbert's potoroo is one of the world's rarest mammals.

They live in a small area, about 1000, on the southwest coast near Albany, Western Australia. This area is in the Two Peoples Bay Nature Reserve.  Gilbert's Potoroos have been released on nearby Bald Island, and are breeding successfully.

[[Bentinho]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Antônio Bento dos Santos (born 18 December 1971) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Yoshinobu Minowa]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Júbilo Iwata players, Kawasaki Frontale players, Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo players

Yoshinobu Minowa is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shusaku Nishikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Oita Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Oita Trinita players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics

Shusaku Nishikawa is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[G-type main-sequence star]]

CATEGORIES: Types of stars

A GV star, or  yellow dwarf, is a main-sequence star. It is of spectral type G and  luminosity class V on the Hertzsprung-Russell Diagram. The term yellow dwarf is a misnomer, because G-type stars actually range in color from white, for more luminous types like the Sun, to only very slightly yellow for the less massive and luminous G-type main-sequence stars. See spectral classification for a chart of star color by light type. 

GV stars are small (about 0.8 to 1.0 solar masses) and have a surface temperature of between 5,300 and 6,000 K. Like other main-sequence stars, a GV star turns hydrogen to helium in its core by means of nuclear fusion.

Our Sun is the most commonly known (and most easily seen) example of a GV star. Each second, it combines around 600 million tons of hydrogen to helium, changing about 4 million tons of matter to energy. Other GV stars include Alpha Centauri A, Tau Ceti, and 51 Pegasi.

Our own Sun looks yellow through the Earth's atmosphere due to Rayleigh scattering. Without that, it would look white. Even though the name "dwarf" is used to compare yellow main sequence stars from giant stars, yellow dwarfs like the Sun are 90% brighter than all of the stars in the Milky Way (which are largely orange dwarfs, red dwarfs, and white dwarfs).

A GV star fuses hydrogen nuclei together and release energy for around 10 billion years. After the hydrogen is used up, the star will grow to many times its earlier size and become a red giant like  Aldebaran. Eventually the red giant will lose its outer layers of gas, which will become a planetary nebula, while the inside of the star (also known as the core) will cool and shrink into a small, very dense white dwarf.

[[Championnat National]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, 1993 establishments in France

Championnat National is a football league which is third division in France.

[[Kōji Nakata]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Shiga Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Kashima Antlers players, 2002 FIFA World Cup players, 2006 FIFA World Cup players, 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup players, 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup players, 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 2000 Summer Olympics

Koji Nakata is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Hayato Okanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Hayato Okanaka (born 26 September 1968) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Antonio Chimenti]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Italian association football goalkeepers, People from Bari

Antonio Chimenti (born 30 June 1970) is an Italian football player. He plays for Juventus.

[[Vítor Baía]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers

Vítor Baía (born 15 October 1969) is a former Portuguese football player. He has played for Portugal national team.

[[Alain Giresse]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, French footballers, French football managers, People from Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Alain Giresse (born 2 August 1952) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Jean Tigana]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, French footballers, French football managers, People from Bamako

Jean Tigana (born 23 June 1955) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Johan Neeskens]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Dutch football managers, Sportspeople from North Holland

Johan Neeskens (born 15 September 1951) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Dirk Kuyt]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch footballers, People from Katwijk, Sportspeople from South Holland

Dirk Kuyt (born 22 July 1980) is a Dutch football player. He plays for Liverpool and Netherlands national team.

[[Ronald Koeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Eredivisie managers, People from Zaanstad, Sportspeople from North Holland

Ronald Koeman (born 21 March 1963) is a retired Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Michael Reiziger]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Eredivisie managers, Sportspeople from North Holland

Michael Reiziger (born 3 May 1973) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Gheorghe Popescu]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Romanian footballers

Gheorghe Popescu (born 9 October 1967) is a former Romanian football player. He has played for Romania national team.

[[Louis van Gaal]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam, Eredivisie managers

Louis van Gaal (born 8 August 1951) is a former Dutch football player and international club manager. He was the manager of Manchester United. 

[[Dick Advocaat]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from The Hague, Eredivisie managers

Dick Advocaat (born 27 September 1947) is a Dutch football coach and former player. He coaches the Belgian football team. In his career as a football player he played at Den Haag, Roda, VVV Venlo, Chicago Sting, Sparta Rotterdam, Berchem Sport, Utrecht. Advocaat started coacing at a small club called DSVP, later on he coached the Dutch football team and others.

[[Choi Soon-ho]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers

Choi Soon-Ho (born 10 January 1962) is a former South Korean football player. He has played for Korea Republic national team.

[[Masayuki Yanagisawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Masayuki Yanagisawa (born 27 August 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama.

[[Takahito Soma]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Takahito Soma (born 10 December 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Marítimo.

On 12 January 2009, after a three-year contract with the Urawa Red Diamonds had come to an end, Soma decided to forgo contract extension talks to pursue a career overseas in Europe. On 29 January 2009 Soma signed with Marítimo of the Portuguese Liga, on a one-and-a-half year contract. At the end of this contract, he left Portugal and signed with German second division club Energie Cottbus.

After six seasons with Vissel Kobe, he announced his retirement.

[[Yoshinari Takagi]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yoshinari Takagi (born 20 May 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagoya Grampus Eight.

[[Atsushi Yoneyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Tokyo Verdy players, Kawasaki Frontale players, Nagoya Grampus players, Tochigi SC players

Atsushi Yoneyama is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Lee Gang-Jin]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Lee Gang-Jin (born 25 April 1986), also romanized at Lee Kang-Jing,  is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.  He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Kenta Togawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Kenta Togawa (born 23 June 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama.

[[Motif]]

CATEGORIES: Art

In art, a motif en-us-motif.ogg is a repeated pattern, image, or theme. Paisley designs are called motifs. Many designs in mosques in Islamic culture are motifs. Two major Roman motifs are egg and tongue, and ball and reel.

Motifs may have iconographic significance within a work of art.

[[Hung (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 American television series debuts, 2011 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American comedy-drama television series, Detroit, Michigan, Works about prostitution, English-language television programs

Hung is an American comedy-drama television series on HBO, created by Dmitry Lipkin and Colette Burson. Thomas Jane acts as "Ray Drecker", a high school basketball coach in suburban Detroit, Michigan, who has little money and who works as a prostitute.

[[Daigo Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Tokyo Verdy players, Omiya Ardija players, Shimizu S-Pulse players

Daigo Kobayashi is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Yoshiyuki Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Albirex Niigata players

Yoshiyuki Kobayashi  is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a Association football or soccer player.

[[Martin Petrov]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Bulgarian footballers

Martin Petrov (born 15 January 1979) is a Bulgarian football player. He plays for Manchester City and Bulgaria national team.

[[Mateja Kežman]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Serbian footballers

Mateja Kežman (born 12 April 1979) is a Serbian football player. He plays for Paris Saint-Germain.

[[Florent Sinama Pongolle]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, French footballers, People from Réunion

Florent Sinama Pongolle (born 20 October 1984) is a French football player. He plays for Sporting Portugal.

[[Two Peoples Bay Nature Reserve]]

CATEGORIES: Western Australia

The Two People's Bay Nature Reserve is a small nature reserve on the south west coast of Western Australia. It is where Gilbert's Potoroo, one of the world's rarest mammals can be found. A bird species thought to have been extinct was also rediscovered at Two Peoples Bay. The area was made a reserve in 1967.

It is 35 east of the city of Albany, Western Australia.

In 1962, the noisy scrubbird was rediscovered here. In 1994, Gilbert's Potoroo was found here too. It had not been seen for more than 120 years.

[[Microsoft OneNote]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft Office

OneNote is a program that helps people make and share notes using digital notebooks. The first version was sold in 2003 as part of Microsoft Office. At first, OneNote let people type notes, record audio and video clips, and turn written notes into text. Microsoft made it more powerful in 2007 and 2010, and keeps improving it today. Now, users can add files, write math equations, save web pages, and draw using a stylus or their finger. People can download OneNote on their computers, cell phones, and tablets, or use OneNote on the Internet.

[[Tim McGraw]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American country musicians, Singers from Louisiana, American movie actors, Actors from Louisiana, People's Choice Award winners, Grammy Award winners

Samuel Timothy "Tim" McGraw (born May 1, 1966) is an American actor, singer and songwriter. His father is of Bohemian Czech, Dutch, English, French Huguenot, German, Irish, Northern Irish (Scotch-Irish) and Scottish descent and His mother is of Italian and Irish descent. He is well known for his singles "I Like It, I Love It", "Please Don't Take the Girl", "Grown Men Don't Cry", and "Live Like You We're Dying".

McGraw had 11 consecutive albums debut at Number One on the Billboard albums charts. Twenty-one singles hit No. 1 on the Billboard Hot Country Songs chart. He has won 3 Grammys, 14 Academy of Country Music awards, 11 Country Music Association (CMA) awards, 10 American Music Awards, and 3 People's Choice Awards.

[[Confederation]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A confederation is a group of countries that, by treaty, have given some of their powers to a central government. They do this in order to coordinate their actions in a number of areas. This is like a federation, but without the association being a new country.

A confederation is not the same as a federation, but they have a similarity. A confederation is a group of countries, a federation is a country.

The only example today is the European Union. Switzerland has the Latin name Confœderatio Helvetica, although it is not a confederation in this sense, but a federation.

[[Little Boots]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English pop singers, English singer-songwriters, People from Blackpool, Singers from Lancashire

Victoria Christina Hesketh (born 4 May 1984),  also known by her stage name Little Boots, is an English pop singer. She auditioned for the ITV Talent competition Pop Idol when she was sixteen. Afterwards she went on tour in Europe with a jazz group. Then she became the lead singer for a band called Dead Disco. After that, she started a solo career.

Little Boots' stage name is from a movie called Caligula. A friend gave her the nickname. She has been compared to other female pop singers like Lady Gaga, Ladyhawke, Florence and the Machine and La Roux. Little Boots got a lot of attention in January 2009 when she came top of a list called the BBC Sound of Music 2009 poll. She also got a BRIT critics choice award nomination that has brought her mainstream media attention.

Her first album, Hands, was released on the 8 June 2009. It got to #5 in the UK Albums Chart. Her second album, Nocturnes, was released on the 5 May 2013. Her highest charting single so far is "Remedy". As a musician Little Boots sings and plays the keyboard, piano, stylophone and a Japanese electronic instrument, called a Tenori-on.

[[Les noces]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Igor Stravinsky, Ballets Russes productions

Les Noces (The Wedding) is a ballet in four scenes, originally for the Ballets Russes of Sergei Diaghilev.  The ballet was choreographed by Bronislava Nijinska and the music and words were written by Igor Stravinsky. The music is written for voices, four pianos, and percussion.

The ballet was first presented on 13 June 1923 at the Théâtre Gaîte-Lyrîqué in Paris. The ballet is sometimes called a "dance cantata", and the music is sometimes performed as a concert piece.

[[Freenet]]

CATEGORIES: Free software, Networks

Freenet is a decentralized (hosted on many machines) network., It is censorship-resistant, which means it is not easy for anyone other than authors to remove content. The data is stored on many machines.  Freenet was made by Ian Clarke. Freenet has a goal to provide freedom of speech and Freedom of information through a peer-to-peer network with protection of user's identity. Freenet works by putting together the volunteer bandwidth and storage space of member machines to allow users to anonymously publish (place or upload) or retrieve (get or download) different kinds of information. From a user's perspective, it can be thought of as simply a large storage device.

Freenet has been under continuous development since 2000; a version 1.0 has not yet been released but current builds are usable. The project has already seen a ground-up rewrite (redoing of programming) for version 0.7. Freenet is free software.

[[Fort-Liberté]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Haiti, 1578 establishments, 1570s establishments in North America, Establishments in the French colonial empire

Fort-Liberté (Kréyòl: Fòlibète; English: "Fort Liberty") is a city in northeast Haiti, on the Atlantic coast. It is the capital city of the Nord-Est Département.

The city is on the Baie de Fort-Liberté ("Fort-Liberté Bay") about 56 km east of Cap-Haïtien and to the west of the Dominican Republic. It is also the chief town of an arrondissement (a part of a department) with the same name. The arrondissement has three communes (a commune is like a municipality): Fort-Liberté, Ferrier (Kreyòl: Ferye) and Perches (Kreyòl: Opèch).

[[Montrichard]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Loir-et-Cher, Former communes in France

Montrichard is a town and former commune in the Loir-et-Cher département (county), in France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Montrichard-Val-de-Cher.

[[Dan Tyminski]]

CATEGORIES: Banjo players, Singers from Vermont, Musicians from Vermont, American country musicians, Bluegrass musicians, 1967 births, Living people

Daniel "Dan" Tyminski (born 1967) is an American bluegrass musician. He is famous for being a member of Alison Krauss and Union Station. He has released two solo albums: Carry Me Across the Mountain (2000) and Wheels (2008).

Tyminski was born in Rutland, Vermont.

[[Deepdale]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 establishments in England, City of Preston, Lancashire, Football stadiums in England, Sport in Lancashire

Deepdale is a football stadium in Preston, Lancashire, England.

It is the stadium of Preston North End F.C. and it is the site of the National Football Museum in England. Preston North End are one of the first teams to play in England's football league and they have played at Deepdale since they first started. Deepdale is the oldest league stadium in the world.

Since 1995 Deepdale has changed a lot, the old stands have been knocked down and now it has brand new all-seater stands. Now that the changes are finished, the stadium has 23,408 seats. Other changes made include a new big screen TV to show highlights of the match and new executive boxes where Preston North End's owners and their guests sit.

[[Convolvulaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Convolvulaceae

The Convolvulaceae, known commonly as the bindweed or morning glory family, is a group of about 60 genera and more than 1,650 species of mostly herbaceous vines, but also trees, shrubs and herbs.

[[John Gilbert (naturalist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1845 deaths, English biologists, English naturalists, English explorers, 1810s births, Exploration of Australia

John Gilbert (1812? – 28 June 1845) was an English naturalist and explorer. He collected animal specimens for English naturalist John Gould. Australia's rarest animal, Gilbert's Potoroo, Potorous gilberti, and the Gilbert-Einasleigh River were named after him.

[[LimeWire]]

CATEGORIES: Software, File sharing

LimeWire is an open source, peer-to-peer computer program that can be used to download and share music, video, other computer programs, and other kinds of files.

In 2010 the Recording Industry Association of America took the makers of LimeWire to the federal court in New York. They said that the software allowed people to download and share music, which was against the law. In June 2010, the National Music Publishers Association also took legal action against LimeWire. LimeWire was shut down in October 2010.

[[Yusuke Gondo]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yusuke Gondo (born 7 October 1982) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Paulo Sousa]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, Portuguese football managers

Paulo Sousa (born 30 August 1970) is a former Portuguese football player. He has played for the Portugal national soccer team.

[[Yuki Ishida]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Yuki Ishida (born 4 November 1980) is a Japanese football player. He has played for Tokushima Vortis.

[[Tsutomu Kitade]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Tsutomu Kitade (born 18 September 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Predrag Mijatović]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Montenegrin footballers

Predrag Mijatović (born 19 January 1969) is a former Montenegrin football player. He has played for Yugoslavia national team and Serbia national team.

[[Javier Portillo]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Javier Portillo (born 30 March 1982) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Osasuna.

[[Vicente Rodríguez]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, People from Valencia

Vicente Rodríguez (born 16 July 1981) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Valencia.

[[Ismael Urzaiz]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Ismael Urzaiz (born 7 October 1971) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Will Robson Emilio Andrade]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Will Robson Emilio Andrade (born 15 December 1973) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Vannes O.C.]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1998 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in France

Vannes O.C. is a football club which plays in France.

[[Clermont Foot Auvergne]]

CATEGORIES: 1910s establishments in France, 1911 establishments in Europe, French football clubs, Clermont-Ferrand

Clermont Foot Auvergne is a football club which plays in France.

[[F.C. Istres Ouest Provence]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1920 establishments in France

F.C. Istres Ouest Provence is a football club which plays in France.

[[Heitor Villa-Lobos]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 births, 1959 deaths, 20th century composers

Heitor Villa-Lobos (born 5 March 1887; died 17 November 1959) was a Brazilian composer. He is thought of as the most important 20th century composer of classical music from South America. He wrote a very large amount of music, including works for orchestra, chamber, instrumental and vocal works. His music was influenced by both Brazilian folk music and by classical music from Europe. The music of Johann Sebastian Bach was especially important for him, and he composed several pieces called Bachianas brasileiras by which he meant: Brazilian music in the style of Bach.

[[A.S. Beauvais Oise]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1945 establishments in France

A.S. Beauvais Oise is a football club which plays in France.

[[C.S. Louhans-Cuiseaux]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1970 establishments in France

C.S. Louhans-Cuiseaux is a football club which plays in France.

[[S.A.S. Épinal]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1940s establishments in France, 1941 establishments in Europe

S.A.S. Épinal is a football club which plays in France.

The club formed from a merger of two football clubs; Stade Saint Michel and L'Athletique Club Spinalien in 1941.

[[Besançon R.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 establishments in France, French football clubs, Besançon

Besançon R.C. is a football club which plays in France.

[[Stade Briochin]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 establishments in France, French football clubs

Stade Briochin is a football club which plays in France. It was founded in 1904. There is a branch for women.

[[E.S. Wasquehal]]

CATEGORIES: French football clubs, 1924 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in France

E.S. Wasquehal is a football club which plays in France.

[[George Antheil]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1959 deaths, 20th century composers, American composers, American pianists, American inventors, Writers from New Jersey

George Antheil (born July 8, 1900 in Trenton, New Jersey; died February 12, 1959 in New York City) was an American composer, pianist, author and inventor. He became known in America and Europe as a composer of very modern sounding music, including his Ballet Mécanique.  His music was very noisy and full of mechanical sounds.  His audiences were often shocked at the music.  He spent some years in Europe, then, in 1930s, he returned to America where he spent a lot of time writing film music for Hollywood and ballets.  His music became less aggressive and more traditional.    

He had many interests, and spent some time researching female endocrinology, as well as writing a mystery novel and newspaper advice and music columns.  Together with the actress Hedy Lamarr he invented and patented a frequency-hopping torpedo guidance system.

[[Wynton Rufer]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Football managers, Oceanic footballers, People from Wellington, Sportspeople from North Island

Wynton Rufer (born 29 December 1962) is a New Zealand former football player. He has played for New Zealand national team.

[[Turbojet]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation, Propulsion, Motors

A turbojet is a kind of jet engine that works by squeezing air into a small space, mixing it with fuel, and setting it on fire. The mixture of fuel and air goes out the back of the engine and pushes it forward. As it leaves the engine it spins a turbine which turns a gas compressor at the front which sucks in more air and compresses it.  

Turbofan engines are more complex. They are more common today because they can make more power for the same amount of fuel than a turbojet. They also make less noise. Supersonic aircraft still use the simpler kind.

[[Insomniac Games]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies, Companies based in California, 1994 establishments in California, Burbank, California

Insomniac Games is an American video game developer. It started in 1994. They have made many games. These include  the first three Spyro the Dragon games for the PlayStation, most of the Ratchet & Clank games for the PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3, and the Resistance series for the PlayStation 3. The first game they made was called Disruptor, for the PlayStation. So far, they have sold 32 million of their games and won lots of awards. Insomniac Games has won eight "best workplace" awards since 2005.

[[Mitro Bahini]]

CATEGORIES: History of Bangladesh, 1970s in India, Bangladesh Liberation War

Mitro Bahini (Bengali language: মিত্রবাহিনী) (Allied forces in Bangla) was the alliance of the Indian Army and the Mukti Bahini ("Freedom Fighters" as representation of the Bangladeshi forces) that engaged the then Pakistani occupied forces on December, 6 in 1971 during the Bangladesh Liberation War. The alliance provided the final blow to the already weakened Pakistan Army which surrendered thirteen days after the formal declaration of war.

[[2001 Indian-Bangladesh border conflict]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 in Asia, 2000s in India, 21st century in Bangladesh

The 2001 Indian-Bangladeshi border conflict  was a short armed conflict between India and Bangladesh over the poorly marked International border between the countries during 2001. Over the issue of Indians trespassing and invaded Bangladeshi territories.

[[Minicoy Island]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the Maldives, Territorial disputes, Occupied territories

Minicoy Island or Maliku (Mahal language: މަލިކު, məliku) is the only inhabited island of the Maliku Atoll. The locals, the Malikun, call their island "Maliku," as do the Maldivians, the closest Maldive island to Minicoy is Thuraakunu. Since 1956, the Indian Government has forbidden contact between people of the same nationals of the two islands despite their geographic proximity and ethnographic similarities. The cultural traits of Minicoy differ from those of any other Indian islands of Lakshadweep. Manners, customs and food are similar to those of the Maldives to the south of Minicoy and Mahl, a dialect of Dhivehi, is the language spoken on the island. This language employs the Tāna script, written from right to left. Minicoy Islanders, like the close islands of the Maldives follow Sunni Islam. The islands were probably Buddhist before like they were in the Maldives. In August 1947 the possessions of the Emperor of British India passed to either the Indian Union or Pakistan according to an agreed demarcation line. The rulers of the independent countries that were vassals of the Emperor had the choice of acceding to either the Dominion of India or Pakistan.

While Maliku was a sovereign possession of the Emperor and not that of an independent country such as, Kashmir or Hyderabad State, it is unclear why India felt it necessary to hold a plebiscite in Maliku in 1956 to determine whether or not the people of Maliku wished to join the Indian Union. However Since 1965 Pakistan wished Maliku to return to the Republic of Maldives.

[[I2P]]

CATEGORIES: Messaging

I2P (means Invisible Internet Project, though it is not commonly referred to by this name anymore) is a mixed-license free and open source project building an anonymous network (or, more accurately, a pseudonymous overlay network).

The network is a simple layer that applications can use to anonymously and securely send messages to each other. Possible uses include anonymous surfing, chatting, blogging and file transfers.

[[Caryophyllaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Caryophyllaceae

The Caryophyllaceae, commonly called the pink family or carnation family, is a family of flowering plants. The species are dicotyledons included in the order Caryophyllales. It is a large family, with 88 genera and some 2,000 species.

[[LG KM900 (Arena)]]

CATEGORIES: LG mobile phones

The LG-KM900, or LG Arena is a mobile phone made by LG Electronics. It was announced at the Mobile World Congress on February 16, 2009.

[[2005 Pakistan earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s in Pakistan, Disasters in Pakistan, Earthquakes in Asia, Earthquakes in the 2000s, October 2005 events

The 2005 Kashmir Earthquake (also known as the Great Pakistan earthquake) was a major earthquake centered in Pakistan-administered Kashmir and in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa near the city of Muzaffarabad. It occurred at 08:52:37 Pakistan Standard Time (03:52:37 UTC) on 8 October 2002

86 000 people died, 32 000 buildings collapsed, and 2.4 million people were left homeless. Kashmir, Pakistan, and Southern part of India were all affected.

[[Keiichi Zaizen]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Keiichi Zaizen is a former Japanese football player. He became coach of Consadole Sapporo in 2013.

[[Yoshikazu Nonomura]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Yoshikazu Nonomura (born 8 May 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jean-Pierre Papin]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, French footballers, French football managers

Jean-Pierre Papin (born 5 November 1963) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Patrik Andersson]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Patrik Andersson (born 18 August 1971) is a Swedish football player. He has played for Sweden national team.

[[Kennet Andersson]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Kennet Andersson (born 6 October 1967) is a former Swedish football player. He has played for Sweden national team.

[[Masataka Sakamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Masataka Sakamoto (born 24 February 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.

[[Hasan Salihamidžić]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Bosnia and Herzegovina footballers

Hasan Salihamidžić (born 1 January 1977) is a Bosnia and Herzegovina football player. He plays for Juventus.

[[Sean Parnell]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Governors of Alaska, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from California, People from Fairbanks, Alaska, Lieutenant Governors of Alaska

Sean R. Parnell (born November 19, 1962) is an American politician. He served as the 12th Governor of Alaska from 2009 to 2014. Parnell assumed the office of governor on July 26, 2009 after Governor Sarah Palin resigned.  He was sworn in at the Governor's Picnic in Fairbanks, Alaska.  After finishing Palin's term, Parnell was elected to a full term as Governor in November 2010, becoming the first unelected Alaska Governor to be later elected in his own right. In 2014, he lost re-election to Independent Bill Walker.

[[Walnut]]

CATEGORIES: Fagales, Edible nuts and seeds

Walnut trees, genus Juglans, are plants which mostly grow in the northern hemisphere. They can reach ten to forty metres (30-130 ft) in height. They are used for timber.  The wood is very hard, and dark in color. It is mostly used in furniture. 

The fruit is eaten and can be used to make oil. The fruit of Juglans are called walnuts. Material of the walnut's outer casing was used by Native American tribes to poison fish.

Walnut trees grow from Europe eastwards to the Himalayas and southwest China. In America they are found in places from Canada to Argentina.  

[[Vasopressin]]

CATEGORIES: Hormones

Vasopressin (ADH, AVP) is the hormone which controls the production of urine in the bladder. It is secreted by the pituitary gland based on the salt concentration of the blood. It is negative feedback: the more concentrated the salt in the blood is, the more vasopressin is secreted, which in turn makes the kidney tubules more permeable, allowing more water to be reabsorbed into the blood and creating less, but more concentrated, urine. It also triggers feelings of thirst.

[[Daniel Merriweather]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Australian singers, Living people, Musicians from Melbourne, R&B musicians

Daniel Paul Merriweather (born February 17, 1982 in Melbourne, Australia) is an Australian R&B singer/songwriter. After several successful collaborations with artists such as Mark Ronson, he released his debut album, Love and War, in June 2009. It entered the UK Albums Chart at number two.

[[Jason Schwartzman]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, actors from Los Angeles, California, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, 1980 births, Living people

Jason Francesco Schwartzman  (born June 26, 1980) is an American actor and musician. He is best known for his starring roles in Funny People, Shopgirl, Spun, Rushmore, I ♥ Huckabees, Marie Antoinette, and The Darjeeling Limited. Schwartzman is in the band Coconut Records. He was a member of the rock band Phantom Planet.

Jason Schwartzman's band Phantom Plantet had the track "California". This song became the theme song for the Fox television series, The O.C. Phantom Planet played with the popular New York band Dopo Yume. Both bands had songs used by The O.C.

Jason was named one of "Top 10 Most Stylish Men in America" by GQ magazine.

[[Epicenter]]

CATEGORIES: Earth

The epicenter or epicentre is the point on the Earth's surface that is directly above the hypocenter or focus. It is the point where an earthquake or underground explosion originates.

[[Eric Burdon]]

CATEGORIES: British rock musicians, English singers, English songwriters, People from Newcastle upon Tyne, 1941 births, Living people

Eric Victor Burdon (*11 May, 1941 in Newcastle, UK) is an English rock singer. He is known for his very loud screaming and performing. 

He began his career in the early 1960s with the R&B/blues-based punk rock band The Animals. They had hits such as "House of the Rising Sun", "See See Rider", "Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood", "Inside Looking Out", "We Gotta Get Out Of This Place", "Don't Bring Me Down" and "It's My Life".

He later formed "Eric Burdon & The Animals" in 1967. He continued to have chart success with songs like "San Franciscan Nights", "When I Was Young", "Good Times", "Sky Pilot", "Monterey" and "Ring of Fire".

In late 1969, he formed the radical funk/soul/jazz band "Eric Burdon & War". They had hits with "Spill the Wine", "Tobacco Road", "Paint it Black" and "They Can't Take Away Our Music". He left them during their European tour in early 1971 to start a solo career, which has seen him in the genres of heavy metal, glam rock, new age, pop rock, reggae, hip hop and many more.

After some successful world tours and acting roles in movies, he went on to record with Brian Auger as a psychedelic fusion rock band in the 1990s. 

After forming several groups such as "Eric Burdon Band" or "The New Animals", he released his first solo album in many years, My Secret Life (2004), which had many musical directions, like hard rock, jazz, progressive and folk.

In the following year he released Athens Traffic Live and Soul of a Man.

[[Hanif Mohammad]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani cricketers, 1934 births, 2016 deaths

Hanif Mohammad (حنیف محمد, born 21 December 1934 in Junagadh State - 11 August 2016) was a former Pakistan cricketer. He died on August 11, 2016 in Karachi.

[[Caucasus Emirate]]

CATEGORIES: Asian countries, European countries, Caucasus, Chechnya, Islamic terrorism, Occupied territories, Unrecognized countries

The Caucasus Emirate (Имарат Кавказ Imarat Kavkaz) is not a country and is not recognised by other countries. It is a self-proclaimed virtual state entity. It claims to be the successor to the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria. It was announced on October 31, 2007 by former President of Ichkeria, Dokka Umarov. Its military branch is the Caucasian Front. It has an area of 235300 and 18,848,917 (2011 est).

[[Moosehead Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of the United States

Moosehead Lake is a large lake in Maine. It looks like a moose head. There are over 80 islands in the lake, the largest being Sugar Island.

[[Rochdale A.F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 establishments in England, English football clubs, Rochdale, Sport in Greater Manchester

Rochdale A.F.C. is an English football club who play in League One of the English Football League. The club was founded in 1907, and has played at the Spotland Stadium throughout its history. They reached the fifth round of the FA Cup for the first time in 1989 and again in 2002 which is as far as they have ever gone in a major competition. June 2020

[[Razakars (Pakistan)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 in Bangladesh, 1971 in Pakistan, Nationalist organizations in Asia, Bangladesh Liberation War

Razakars was the name given to a paramilitary force organized by the Pakistan Army during the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971. The word, originating from Persian, literally means "volunteer". It was composed of mostly pro-Pakistani Bengalis and Urdu-speaking migrants of the former East Pakistan (now Bangladesh). Initially, the force was under the command of local pro-Pakistani committees. But through the East Pakistan Razakar Ordinance (promulgated by General Tikka Khan on 1 June, 1971) and a Ministry of Defence, Pakistan, ordinance (promulaged 7 September,1971), Razakars were recognized as members of the Pakistan Army.

[[Qasim Razvi]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani people, 1902 births, 1970 deaths

Qasim Razvi was the leader of a local militia in India, the Razakars of Hyderabad State, who blocked accession into the Republic of India after the Partition of British Indian empire against the wishes of the local  majority Hindu-population, and fought against the Indian forces during occupation.

Razvi held views that Hyderabad should eventually join Pakistan in a major war against Bharat, as clearly evidenced by some of his speeches and publications in Hyderabadi newspapers. Razvi was politically powerful and a close advisor of the Nizam, whom he encouraged to defy the infidel government, and blocked the invasion of Hyderabad into Republic of India. At the height of the crisis, Razvi had placed his allies in influential posts, and was virtually dictating the Nizam's policy on the issue. Razvi even traveled to Delhi and had a stormy meeting with Indian leader Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. He is quoted to have said "Death with the sword in hand, is always preferable to extinction by a mere stroke of the pen. "prompting the Indian government to call him the "Nizam's Frankenstein monster."

After Indian military intervention, Razvi was placed under house arrest and tried under Indian laws on seditious activities and inciting communal violence. He was released in the 1950s, and he later fled to Pakistan.

[[Razakars (Hyderabad)]]

CATEGORIES: History of India, History of Pakistan, Rebel militia groups in Asia, Hyderabad, India

Razakars were private militia organized by Qasim Razvi which supporter the rule of Osman Ali Khan, Asaf Jah VII and resist the integration of Hyderabad State into India. 

Eventually, the Indian army routed the Razakars and the group was disbanded after  India annexed the state.

Qasim Razvi, the military chief of Hyderabad State, fled to Pakistan where he was granted asylum. Majlis, a contemporary political party in the present Hyderabad owes its foundations to Qasim Razvi.

[[Al-Shams (East Pakistan)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 in Bangladesh, 1971 in Pakistan, Bangladesh Liberation War

Al-Shams (আল শামস) was a militia force formed in East Pakistan in early 1971 by the Pakistan Army.

Al-Shams is an Arabic word meaning 'The Sun'. Al Shams was Pakistani armed groups formed by the Pakistan Army to fight out and resist Mukti Bahini and support the army in its campaigns in the former East Pakistan provincial region.

[[Al-Badr (East Pakistan)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 in Bangladesh, 1971 in Pakistan, Bangladesh Liberation War

Al-Badar (আল বদর) was a paramilitary force formed in East Pakistan in 1971 by the national Pakistan Army.

Al-Badar means The Battlefield of Badar.  The politics of the force were intermingled with jihad, the religious war or holy war of Muhammad 1400 years earlier.  However, the war between Pakistan and Bengali separatists was a nationalistic war, not a religious one.

[[All Jammu and Kashmir Muslim Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Kashmir

The All Jammu and Kashmir Muslim Conference is a major political party of Azad Jammu and Kashmir. 

[[Pinworm]]

CATEGORIES: Parasites

Pinworm is an intestinal infection caused by tiny parasitic worms. One of the most common roundworm infections, pinworm infections affect millions of people each year, particularly children.

[[Cornish nationalism]]

CATEGORIES: Nationalism, Political movements, Politics of Cornwall

The Cornish self-government movement (sometimes referred to as Cornish nationalism) is a social movement which seeks greater autonomy for the distinctive area of Cornwall. The movement's advocates argue that Cornwall is not merely a county of England (which is its current administrative status) but a duchy and a distinctive British nation which has never been formally incorporated into England via an Act of Union of 1707. Supporters of Cornish self-government who assert that Cornwall is, or ought to be, a separate legal entity from England do not necessarily mean to advocate full independence from the United Kingdom, but rather seek official recognition for Cornwall as one of the constituent countries or home nations of the UK.

Some supporters of Cornish self-government question the legitimacy of English rule in Cornwall, due to the failure of the former Parliament of England to ever pass an Act of Union, although their claims are not generally recognised within the United Kingdom (or sometimes within Cornwall itself). However, many see some degree of autonomy as a stepping stone towards this, and are supportive of the Cornish Assembly Campaign. The Cornish National Party (CNP) is a social democratic political party in Cornwall to which some Cornish nationalists belong. It wants Cornish independence from the United Kingdom.

[[Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing]]

CATEGORIES: Radio technology

Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing is a technology related to Frequency Division Multiplexing. With it, many different signals can be sent over the same medium, at the same time. Each signal uses a different basis function. By using the basis function given, the sender and recipient will then see their signal better, the other signals will be clearly separated. 

[[Calculator]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematical tools

A calculator is a machine which allows people to do math operations more easily. For example, most calculators will add, subtract, multiply, and divide. Some also do square roots, and more complex calculators can help with calculus and draw function graphs. Calculators are found everywhere. A smartphone or other computer can also act as a calculator. 

Some calculators, like the abacus, will work without electricity. Others, like the electronic calculator, use batteries. Some calculators are simple, and can only add, subtract, multiply and divide, and sometimes take square roots. Scientific calculators can do many other things, such as use exponents (or powers or indices) and trigonometry functions.

[[John Gilbert]]

People with the name "John Gilbert":

[[Yorkshire Television]]

CATEGORIES: ITV

Yorkshire Television is an ITV franchise based in Leeds.  Yorkshire Television broadcasts to Yorkshire and Lincolnshire.  Yorkshire Television has made successful programmes such as Emmerdale, Heartbeat, The Beiderbecke Trilogy, Rising Damp, Harry's Game, The Darling Buds of May, Only When I Laugh and Duty Free.  Yorkshire Television also produces the Calander news programme.

The headquarters of Yorkshire Television are at The Leeds Studios in the Burley area of Leeds.

[[Racibórz]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Poland

Racibórz is a city in Southern Poland in the Silesian Voivodeship. 56,272 people live there and it is 7496 large.

[[2 World Trade Center]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in New York City, September 11 attacks, Buildings and structures in Manhattan

2 World Trade Center (also known as 200 Greenwich Street) is a part of the planned rebuilding of the new World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan. As of July 3 2011, the building rose 32 up into the air. In 2013 construction was halted as tenants had not been found yet. 

[[Beekeeper]]

CATEGORIES: Agricultural occupations, Beekeeping

A beekeeper is a person who farms bees either for pollinating plants or for the collection of their honey.

[[Microsoft Bob]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft

Microsoft Bob is a computer program that was made by Microsoft. It was created to make Microsoft Windows easier to use. Microsoft Bob looks like a house that the user can move around in. The user's computer programs can be placed in the rooms to look like things in the house, like boxes and pictures.

[[Torquay United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 establishments in England, English football clubs, Torquay

Torquay United F.C. is an English football team currently playing in League Two of the English Football League. They play at the Plainmoor ground in Torquay in the county of Devon. The club was formed in 1899 when two other soccer teams, Torquay Town and Babbacombe FC merged to create one club. The team has never been higher than the third tier of the English Football League. In 2007 they were relegated from the Footall League to the Nationwide Conference for the first time in their history but were promoted back to League Two in 2009 when they beat Cambridge Utd in the Conference Play off final at Wembley Stadium.

[[Punk blues]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music

Punk blues is a genre of music which mixes elements of Punk rock with Blues-rock. It is considered a type of Underground Music as it has not yet achieved mainstream popularity on radio and television and through sales of music. It is most popular in the United States. An example of a Punk blues band is the Imortal Lee County Killers and the Gun Club. One artist who may be considered to have been a big influence on this genre is Captain Beefheart.

[[Hangzhou]]

CATEGORIES: Hangzhou

Hangzhou (杭州, also transliterated as Hangchow) is the capital city of Zhejiang province in eastern China.  It is considered as one of China's most renowned and beautiful historic cities. The top tourist site in Hangzhou is the West Lake, where stands by a Leifeng Pagoda with a famous moving "White Snake Legend".

Tianmu Mountain is nearby.

In 2016, Hangzhou hosted the eleventh G20 summit. In 2022, Hangzhou will host 2022 Asian Games. It the third city in China to host the Asian Games after Beijing 1990 and Guangzhou 2010.

[[West Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of China, Hangzhou

The West Lake (西湖) is a famous fresh water historic lake in the center in Hangzhou. It is known for its natural scenery and for the many historic and cultural sites, such as temples and gardens.

[[Huron River (Michigan)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of the United States, Geography of Michigan

The Huron River is in southeastern Michigan, starting in the Huron Swamp in Indian Springs Metropark in northern Oakland County and ending in Lake Erie.

[[Academic Ranking of World Universities]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities

The Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU), commonly called the Shanghai ranking, is a list of the world's best universities made by Shanghai Jiao Tong University. The rankings have been made since 2003 and they are updated each year. As of 2012, Harvard University remains top. The ranking is used by the Chinese to compare other colleges and universities to their own universities.

The ranking uses a special formula to determine how to rank universities. It uses such things as how many Nobel Prizes university people have won and how many papers university scientists have published in the journals Science and Nature. Over 1,200 universities are ranked.

[[College and university rankings]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities

College and university rankings are lists of universities and colleges in an order made by any number of factors. Rankings can be based on "quality," or on some combination of data or numbers.

[[Tolerance]]

Tolerance might mean toleration,  treating everyone the same, even if your opinions are different to each others , or your race, religion, or practices are. 

Tolerance may also refer to:

[[Cow tipping]]

CATEGORIES: Cattle

Cow tipping is the myth of tipping over a cow.  Cows do not sleep standing up, so cow tipping does not happen. The British media Times Online has posted a document of the force needed to push over a cow.

[[Sojourner Truth]]

CATEGORIES: 1797 births, 1883 deaths, African-American people, American abolitionists, American feminists, People from New York, Slaves

Sojourner Truth (about 1797 – November 26, 1883) was one of the first abolitionists and activists for women's rights. She was born as a slave, but escaped from slavery in 1826. She was born Isabella Baumfree, but renamed herself to 'Sojourner Truth' when she was 46 and announced she would travel to work against injustice.The name Sojourner Truth translates as itinerant preacher. She is one of the most widely known African American women of the 19th century. Her freedom was linked with the passage of a New York State Law in 1799 that began the process of gradual emancipation.

She lectured widely on the cruelties she had experienced as a slave. She is best known for her "Ain't I a Woman?" speech, given at the Woman's Rights Convention of 1851. She also gave out speeches about abolishing slavery. Also, she became active in the Underground Railroad, helping blacks escape to freedom. She could only speak Dutch and at a young age soon learnt English. Sadly, she was beaten for not understanding the commands of her owners John and Sally Dumont. There is evidence that John beat her and Sally sexually abused her. 

[[Quinkana]]

CATEGORIES: Extinct species, Crocodilia

Quinkana is an extinct genus of large land crocodile that reached up to 7 meters (23 feet) in length. It lived in Australia from 24 million years ago to 40,000 years ago.

[[Amaranth]]

CATEGORIES: Amaranthaceae, Grains

Amaranth (Amaranthus species) is a cosmopolitan genus of herbs. About 60 species are recognized, with flower clusters and foliage ranging from purple and red to gold. 

Although several species are often considered weeds, people around the world value amaranths as leaf vegetables, cereals, and ornamentals.

[[Instant Runoff Voting]]

CATEGORIES: Voting systems

Instant runoff voting is a method of electing one political candidate to office from a list of more than two, but it can also be used for other group decisions. Voters rank the candidates from favorite to least favorite, with only their top choices being counted each time. Ballots are counted, and a series of simulated rounds is conducted. If no candidate has a majority of the votes in any round, the candidate with the fewest votes is eliminated, and those voters' next choice votes are then counted. This is repeated until a candidate has a majority.

Instant runoff voting has been used in Australia's lower house for more than 80 years. That house is strongly dominated by two parties. It has also been used to elect mayors in some cities in the United States. Voter turn out is typically the same as with plurality voting.

Proponents believe instant runoff voting allows them to vote for their first choice candidate and still help the lessor of evils if the first choice is eliminated. They believe Instant Runoff Voting to be the only way let voters vote their true intentions and undermine the two-party system. By having more candidates on the ballot, incumbents are more likely to be kicked out of office.

Opponents argue that if at least three candidates have a chance of winning, voting for one's favorite could cause a compromise candidate to lose in the first round. Their favorite might then lose against the least preferred candidate in the second round. Voters' votes cannot be transferred to their second choice if their second choice is eliminated before their first choice is. Voters often use their first choice vote for a compromise vote, the same as with plurality.

While theoretically simple, instant runoff voting often requires computers because the rankings on each ballot matter for determining the elimination order and can not be counted in aggregate. Opponents of Instant runoff voting often oppose computer counting of ballots, since it is difficult for ordinary citizens to count the ballots by hand and catch any fraud. The fact that a candidate has fewer votes does not mean the candidate is less popular but that the candidate was squeezed out on both sides of the political spectrum. Instant runoff voting can eliminate centrists in the last elimination.

[[Harrier Jump Jet]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Air Force aircraft

The Harrier Jump Jet, usually called the Harrier, is a British-designed military aeroplane. It was designed during the 1960s. The Harrier is well known as it can take off vertically.  It can do this by changing the direction of thrust from its engines. It is sometimes called V/STOL, which means "Vertical/Short Takeoff and Landing". It can carry heavier loads with a short takeoff than with a vertical one.

[[Valentina Matviyenko]]

CATEGORIES: Russian politicians, Women politicians, 1949 births, Living people

Valentina Ivanovna Matviyenko (née Tyutina,  born 7 April 1949), is a Russian politician who was Governor of Saint Petersburg from 2003 to 2011. She is Chairman of the Federation Council since 2011. She is the highest-ranking female politician in Russia.

[[Dejan Savićević]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Montenegrin footballers

Dejan Savićević (born 15 September 1986) is a former Montenegrin football player. He has played for Yugoslavian national team and the Serbian national team.

[[Dejan Stanković]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Serbian footballers, People from Belgrade

Dejan Stanković (born 11 September 1978) is a Serbian football player. He plays for Internazionale Milano and Serbia national team.

[[Koki Mizuno]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, JEF United Chiba players, Kashiwa Reysol players, Ventforet Kofu players, Vegalta Sendai players, Sagan Tosu players, Roasso Kumamoto players, SC Sagamihara players

Koki Mizuno is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Hiroki Mizumoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, JEF United Chiba players, Gamba Osaka players, Kyoto Sanga FC players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players, Matsumoto Yamaga FC players, FC Machida Zelvia players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics

Hiroki Mizumoto is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Handley Page Victor]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Air Force aircraft

The Handley Page Victor was a bomber aircraft that was used by the Royal Air Force.  It was one of the V bombers and was used as part of the nuclear deterrent during the Cold War. 

[[Vickers Valiant]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Air Force aircraft

The Vickers Valiant was a bomber aircraft that was used by the Royal Air Force.  It was one of the V bombers and was used as part of the nuclear deterrent during the Cold War. 

[[Nuclear deterrent]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear weapons

A nuclear deterrent is a phrase that means a country's nuclear weapons arsenal.  It means that other countries do not attack the country with the "deterrent" because they might be attacked back.

[[Avro Vulcan]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Air Force aircraft

The Avro Vulcan (also Avro 698 Vulcan) is a delta wing bomber aircraft.  It was part of the RAF V bombers which were used by the Royal Air Force as a nuclear deterrent during the Cold War.  The other aircraft in the V bombers were the Vickers and Valiant.  The Vulcan was also used for long-distance bombing runs during the Falklands War.

[[Tony Gwynn]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2014 deaths, African-American baseball players, African-American basketball players, Baseball players from California, Basketball players from California, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from salivary gland cancer, Major League Baseball broadcasters, National League All-Stars, National Baseball Hall of Fame members, San Diego Padres players, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, American basketball players

Tony Gwynn (May 9, 1960 - June 16, 2014) was an American baseball player. He was a Major League Baseball player for the San Diego Padres. He played from 1982 to 2001.

Gwynn was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2007. His son, Tony Gwynn Jr, currently plays for the Padres. He has a brother named Chris who played for the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Padres.

Gwynn died of salivary gland cancer in Poway, California.

[[Barthold Fles]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1989 deaths, Businesspeople from New York City, Jewish American writers, Translators, Writers from Amsterdam, Writers from Manhattan

Barthold Fles (February 7, 1902 - December 19, 1989) was a Dutch-American who worked as a literary agent, helping writers find publishers to print their books.  He also wrote books and articles, edited texts, translated books from German to English, and published poetry books.

[[Jon Lester]]

CATEGORIES: American baseball players, Sportspeople from Washington, Boston Red Sox players, Chicago Cubs players, Oakland Athletics players, Cancer survivors, Living people, 1984 births, People from Tacoma, Washington

Jonathan "Jon" Tyler Lester (born January 7, 1984) is a pitcher for the Chicago Cubs. He previously played for the Boston Red Sox and the Oakland Athletics.

He was diagnosed with Non-Hodgkin lymphoma in 2006. He came back and made his first 2007 start. He started and also won the clinching game of the 2007 World Series against the Colorado Rockies. He threw a no-hitter on May 19, 2008.

[[Purple Haze (marijuana)]]

CATEGORIES: Illegal drugs, Cannabis

Purple Haze is a type of marijuana that has buds that look like purple hairs all around it making it more potent, that is, it has more THC in it. It came into recognition when Jimi Hendrix wrote a song about it and its effects after he had it in the Himalayan region of Nepal. This herb is naturally found on the higher hilly region and himalayan region of Nepal.

[[Lon Chaney Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1973 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Oklahoma

Lon Chaney, Jr. (February 10, 1906 – July 12, 1973) was an American character actor. He was known mainly for his roles in horror movies and as the son of famous silent film actor Lon Chaney, Sr..

Chaney was born in Oklahoma.  His family originally came from England, France and Ireland.  When he began making movies in 1932, he was known by his original name Creighton Chaney, but starting in 1935 he used the name "Lon Chaney, Jr."

Chaney died in California of heart failure when he was 67 years old.

[[Raja Bell]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Basketball players, Charlotte Bobcats players, Dallas Mavericks players, Golden State Warriors players, Philadelphia 76ers players, Phoenix Suns players, Utah Jazz players

Raja Bell (born September 19, 1976 in Saint Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands) is a basketball player who currently plays for the Utah Jazz in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He has also played for the Philadelphia 76ers, Dallas Mavericks, Utah Jazz, Phoenix Suns, and the Charlotte Bobcats. He began his NBA career with the San Antonio Spurs on August 2, 2000 but did not play a game with them. He is married to his wife, Cindy Green and they have three sons.

[[Steve Nash]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Canadian basketball players, Dallas Mavericks players, Living people, Los Angeles Lakers players, Phoenix Suns players, South African sportspeople, Sportspeople from British Columbia, People from Johannesburg, People from Victoria, British Columbia, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers

Steve Nash, OC, OBC (born February 7, 1974) is a Canadian retired professional basketball player. He was an eight-time NBA All-Star and won the NBA Most Valuable Player Award twice. He played with the Dallas Mavericks alongside Dirk Nowitzki, the Phoenix Suns where he was a star player, and last played for the Los Angeles Lakers. Although he was born in South Africa, he considers himself Canadian; he moved to Canada with his family when he was 18 months old. His family first lived in Regina, Saskatchewan and then in Vancouver before settling in Victoria, British Columbia, where he grew up. His family left South Africa when he was young because of apartheid in South Africa. Nash has won two NBA MVP awards, in 2005 and 2006, but has never won an NBA title. He was one of the people who lit the Olympic Torch at the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver.  Nash is regarded as one of the best passers of all time, as well as one of the best pure shooters in basketball history, as highlighted by being a four-time member of the 50-40-90 club.

Relations & Ethnicity

He has a variety off different families stretching all around the world in locations such as, South Africa, Canada, Denmark and England

He often refers to his rough up bringing, while his mother was in rehab. Being passed from relative to relative, a couple off the people he credit to helping in his successful basketball career are John Nash (his father), Jean Nash (his mother), Jean Farrow (his mother’s cousin) and Lola nash (his aunty)

He is currently the 4th top assists leader in the history of the NBA, only behind John Stockton, Jason Kidd and Mark Jackson. Nash is a co-owner of the Vancouver Whitecaps FC professional soccer team and also owns Steve Nash Sports Club, a fitness club.

On March 21, 2015, Nash announced that he was retiring from professional basketball after a 19-year NBA career.

[[Folder (computing)]]

CATEGORIES: Software

When talking about file systems, a folder (also called directory, or catalog) is a way to organize computer files. A folder is a storage space, or container, where many files can be placed into groups and organize the computer. A folder can also contain other folders. For many computer software applications, there is a current working directory. This is the folder that the application runs in. In Unix and Linux, a directory is a special type of file.

Folders can be put together to make a filesystem and are laid out like a tree. The folders inside folders are like branches and sub-branches off the tree trunk. This idea is used by the software to allow the user to navigate the folders. A computer file, such as a spreadsheet or music file can only be in one folder directly. This folder, however, can be inside other folders. On some operating systems, shortcuts or links can be made from one folder to another to make it appear that one file or folder is contained in two different parent folders. On Unix systems, this is called a symbolic link, and is similar in function to a hyperlink.

Folders are inspired by a real-life item called a file folder.

[[Computer icon]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

An icon, when talked about in computing, is a picture which usually stands for a computer program, computer file,  folder, or an action for a program to do. Icons are usually small pictures, but not always. Sometimes the user can change what size an icon is.

[[Portulacaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Caryophyllales

Portulacaceae is a family of flowering plants, comprising about 20 genera with about 500 species, ranging from herbaceous plants to shrubs.

[[Peter Grimes]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Benjamin Britten, 20th century operas, 1945 works

Peter Grimes is an opera by Benjamin Britten.  It was first performed in 1945.  It is generally thought to be the most important British opera of the 20th century.  It is about a community in a small fishing village in the east of England in the 1820s.  Peter Grimes is a fisherman who feels that the people do not want to have anything to do with him.  He wants to make lots of money so that he can marry and get people’s respect.  In his obsession with catching as much fish as possible he is cruel to the boys who help him (his apprentices), and they die.  At the end of the opera Grimes drowns himself.

Britten wrote the main part (Peter Grimes) for his life partner Peter Pears to sing.

There are three acts, and the opera starts with a prologue and ends with an epilogue.  Some of the scenes are joined by continuous music, and some of this is often played separately in concerts.  This music is known as the Four Sea Interludes.

[[Tomonori Tateishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Tomonori Tateishi (born 22 April 1974) is a Japanese football player.

[[Ilian Stoyanov]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Bulgarian footballers

Ilian Stoyanov (born 20 January 1977) is a Bulgarian football player. He plays for Sanfrecce Hiroshima and Bulgaria national team.

[[Mario Haas]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team

Mario Haas (born 16 September 1974 in Graz, Austria) is an Austrian football player. He plays for Sturm Graz.

[[Yohei Kajiyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, FC Tokyo players, FC Tokyo U-23 players, Oita Trinita players, Albirex Niigata players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics

Yohei Kajiyama is a former Japanese football player.

[[Aron Winter]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, People from Paramaribo

Aron Winter (born 1 March 1967) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Ryo Kushino]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Ryo Kushino (born 3 March 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.

[[Gabriel Popescu]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Romanian footballers

Gabriel Popescu (born 25 December 1973) is a former Romanian football player. He has played for Romania national team.

[[Steve McManaman]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Liverpool, Premier League players

Steve McManaman (born 11 February 1972) is a former English football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Péricles Chamusca]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Brazilian football managers, People from Salvador, Bahia

Péricles Chamusca (born 29 September 1965) is a Brazilian football manager.

[[Atsuhiko Ejiri]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Atsuhiko Ejiri is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an football player.

[[Tanggula Railway Station]]

CATEGORIES: Tibet

Tanggula railway station is a railway station on the Qingzang railway in Tibet. It is in Amdo County. Tibet is currently an Autonomous Region inside China. At an altitude of 5,068 meters above sea level it is said to be the highest train station in the world.  The next higher station outside China was Ticlio station in (Peru), at 4,829 m.

In 2009, the station was closed, but there are plans to make special trains for tourists stop there.

[[Kazimierz Fajans]]

CATEGORIES: American chemists, 1887 births, 1975 deaths

[[Kitee Zoo]]

CATEGORIES: Zoos, Finland

Kitee Zoo is the 4th largest zoo in Finland. It is in Kitee, Finland. It has over 50 animal species. It also has over 200 individual animals.

[[Scots pine]]

CATEGORIES: Conifers

Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) is a species of pine native to Europe and Asia. It ranges from Scotland, Ireland and Portugal in the west, east to eastern Siberia, south to the Caucasus Mountains, and as far north as well inside the Arctic Circle in Scandinavia.

In the north of its range, it occurs from sea level to 1,000 m, while in the south of its range it is a high altitude mountain tree, growing at 1,200–2,600 m altitude.

It has fairly short, blue-green leaves and orange-red bark.

[[Mesenteric ischemia]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Mesenteric ischemia is a medical condition.  It happens when not enough blood gets to the small intestine.  This causes inflammation (swelling) and can harm the small intestine. 

Mesenteric ischemia happens mostly to the elderly (older people).  

Mesenteric ischemia can happen when:

[[Trix (cereal)]]

CATEGORIES: Breakfast cereals

Trix is a brand of breakfast cereal. It is made by General Mills for North America and Cereal Partners in other parts of the world. They are vanilla-flavored puffed cereal pieces. They were first round, brightly colored cereal pieces. In 1991, they were changed to puffed fruit-shaped pieces. In 2006, they were changed back to their round shape in the United States and some other places. In the present, the slogan says: "Trix is not for rabbits!".

[[Francisco Martínez de la Rosa]]

CATEGORIES: 1787 births, 1862 deaths, Spanish politicians, People from Granada

Francisco de Paula Martinez de la Rosa (March 10, 1787 – February 7, 1862), was  a Spanish statesman and dramatist, was born in Granada, and educated at the university there.

[[Marcelino Menéndez Pelayo]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish writers, 1856 births, 1912 deaths

Marcelino Menéndez y Pelayo (November 3, 1856 – May 19, 1912) was a Spanish scholar, historian and literary critic. Even though his main interest was the History of ideas, and Hispanic philology in general, he also cultivated poetry, translation and philosophy.

[[Harry Patch]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 2009 deaths, British military personnel of World War I, British supercentenarians, Firefighters, People from Somerset, Plumbers

Henry "Harry" Patch (born 17 June 1898 - 25 July 2009) was a World War I veteran and the last soldier of the war to die who fought in the trenches.

[[Tommy Atkins]]

CATEGORIES: British Army, Slang, 19th century in the United Kingdom

Tommy Atkins (often just Tommy) is a term for a common soldier in the British Army.  The term was used in the 19th century, but it is particularly associated with World War I.  It can be used when talking about the soldiers, or when speaking to them. German soldiers would call out to "Tommy" across no man's land if they wanted to speak to a British soldier. French and Commonwealth troops would also call British soldiers "Tommies".

Harry Patch, who died aged 111 on 25 July 2009 was known as the "Last Tommy" because he was the last surviving British soldier who fought in World War I.

[[Mo Vaughn]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, African-American baseball players, American League All-Stars, Boston Red Sox players, Living people, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim players, New York Mets players, Sportspeople from Connecticut, People from Norwalk, Connecticut

Maurice Samuel 'Mo' Vaughn (born December 15, 1967 in Norwalk, Connecticut) was a baseball player for the Boston Red Sox, Anaheim Angels, and New York Mets. Vaughn played first base.  Ironically, despite his nickname "Hit Dog", he is best known for hitting home runs.July 2010

[[Eiffel 65]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Italian musical groups, Musical groups established in 1998, Pop music groups, Turin, 1998 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Italy, Musical groups disestablished in 2005, 2005 disestablishments in Italy, 2010 establishments in Europe, Musical groups established in 2010, 2010s establishments in Italy

[[Henry Allingham]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 2009 deaths, British military personnel of World War I, British supercentenarians, Deaths from natural causes, People from London, World record holders

Henry Allingham (born London, 6 June 1896 - 18 July 2009) was a British supercentenarian and a First World War veteran.  He was an engineer for most of his life.  For the last month of his life he was the oldest living man in the world (according to official records).  He became the oldest man ever in Britain.

[[Milgram experiment]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Experiments

The Milgram experiment is the name for a number of controversial experiments in psychology. They were done by Stanley Milgram in the 1960s. Milgram wanted to find out how easy it was to get someone to follow orders, even if the orders went against their conscience. In his experiment, a test subject was ordered by a scientist to inflict electric shocks on another person, though the shocks were faked.

To his surprise, most subjects did as they were told until the very end of the experiment, though many found it difficult. There have been many repetitions and variations of the experiment, with similar results.

[[Page-boy]]

CATEGORIES: Feudalism

A page or page boy is a young male servant.  A different meaning of "page boy", but based on the same idea of one who serves, is for a young boy who helps the bride at a wedding.

[[Gambit]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

A gambit is a chess opening involving a sacrifice,usually a pawn. In these openings a player, usually White, sacrifices (gives away) a pawn or more. The usual reason is to develop faster, and get an attack against the black king. Gambits are also used to control the center of the chess board for better development of pieces. The player who plays the Gambit hopes for a development advantage against the opponent. There are a few gambits that require more valuable pieces for a better chance of winning. An example:

[[Carlos Clos Gómez]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish sportspeople, Association football, Referees, People from Zaragoza

Carlos Clos Gomez is a football referee from Zaragoza, Spain. He is a UEFA class 2 referee as of January 2009.

Clos Gomez refereed a Europa League match between Motherwell F.C. and Steaua Bucharest in which he was criticised by Motherwell manager Jim Gannon.

In 2008, Clos Gomez was forced to abandon a match between Real Betis and Atletico Bilbao after a player was struck by a bottle thrown from the crowd.

On 13th March 2010, FC Barcelona's coach Josep Guardiola accused Clos Gomez of lying on the final report.

[[Free fall]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

Free fall is what happens when an object is let to fall on its own without propulsion or resistance. Someone who is standing is not in free fall, but someone jumping from an airplane is, until air resistance builds up, ending in terminal velocity. An artillery shell is in free fall from the time it is fired until it hits something. Even the time when it is going up is free fall. Spacecraft are in free fall when their engine is not on and they are not sitting somewhere, which means most of the time. In most mathematical calculations the acceleration due to gravity (g) is 9.81 Newton (unit) per kilogram. 

[[Essjay controversy]]

CATEGORIES: Hoaxes, Controversies, Wikimedia

The Essjay controversy is about a well known Wikipedia administrator and salaried Wikia worker, Essjay, who later said he was Ryan Jordan.

In February 2007, Essjay was discovered to have made false claims about his school certificates and job experiences on his Wikipedia user page and to news reporter Stacy Schiff during a report for The New Yorker.

Many people reacted in many ways to the controversy. Many articles and comments were made in electronic, print, and broadcast media; the Wikipedia community checked Essjay's article changes to check for errors and debated proposals to improve the project's handling of personal identification. In his activities as an editor, Essjay had spent less time changing the content of articles and more time addressing vandalism and resolving editorial disputes.

Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales supported Essjay's use of an identity, saying, "I regard it as a pseudonym and I don’t really have a problem with it." Later Wales changed his opinion and asked for Essjay to quit his jobs with Wikipedia and Wikia. Wales stated that he withdrew his support when he learned "that EssJaysic used his false credentials in content disputes" on Wikipedia.

[[Cernunnos]]

CATEGORIES: Celtic peoples, Paganism, Gods and goddesses

Cernunnos (also spelt as Cernenus and Cern) is a Pagan Celtic God from the ancient Celtic lands of western Europe. 

Cernunnos is linked with male animals with horns, especially stags (a type of animal). Because of this, he is linked with fertility. Cernunnos is also seen as God of the Underworld.

Everything that we know about Cernunnos comes from two pictures; one from France, and one from Germany.

[[Gameplay of Pokémon]]

CATEGORIES: Pokémon

The gameplay of the Pokémon series of role-playing video games involves the capture and training of a variety of fictional creatures called "Pokémon" and using them to battle other trainers. Every generation of games follows this concept by introducing new Pokémon, items, and gameplay concepts. Some of the general concepts were featured elsewhere before being introduced in the games; double battles appeared in the anime long before appearing in the games, and Pokémon abilities are similar to the Pokémon Powers introduced in the Pokémon Trading Card Game.

[[Rodolfo Oroz]]

CATEGORIES: Chilean people, 1895 births, 1997 deaths, People from Santiago

Rodolfo Oroz (1895–1997) was a Chilean professor, and philologist. He won the Chilean National Prize for Literature in 1978.

Sixth President of the Academia Chilena de la Lengua (1959-1980).

[[Fernando de Herrera]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish writers, 1530s births, 1597 deaths

Fernando de Herrera (~1534–1597) called "El Divino" was a 16th-century Spanish poet and man of letters. He was born in Seville. Much of what is known about him comes from the book Libro de descripción de verdaderos retratos de illustres y memorables varones (Book of the Description of the True Portraits of Illustrious and Memorable Men), which was written in 1599 by Francisco Pacheco.

[[Juan Ruiz de Alarcón]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish writers, 1580s births, 1639 deaths, Guerrero (state)

Juan Ruiz de Alarcón y Mendoza (1581?, Real de Taxco, now in Guerrero - August 4, 1639), was one of the greatest Novohispanic dramatists of the Golden Age. He was born in New Spain (modern Mexico).

[[Candan Erçetin]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people

Candan Erçetin is a Turkish pop folk singer in Turkey. Candan Erçetin was born on 10 February 1963 in Kırklareli. She studied at Lycée de Galatasaray, and completed Istanbul University with a degree in Archaeology. In 1991, she graduated from Istanbul Municipal Music School where she studied classical opera. She represented Turkey in the Eurovision Song Contest 1986 which held in Bergen, Norway as a member of Klips ve Onlar with the song "Halley" instead of Seden Gürel, who was the member of the group and did not go to Norway with it due to her final exams of Architecture Department of İTÜ. She taught music in Lycée de Galatasaray for long years. Presently, as well as continuing her stage performance, she also works as a lecturer at Galatasaray University.

[[Shogo Nishikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Shogo Nishikawa (born 1 July 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Montedio Yamagata.

[[Tomoyuki Hirase]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Kashima Antlers players, Yokohama F. Marinos players, Vissel Kobe players, Vegalta Sendai players, Footballers at the 2000 Summer Olympics

Tomoyuki Hirase is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Liberian Premier League]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues

Liberian Premier League is a football league which is top division in Liberia.

[[Mark van Bommel]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Limburg (Netherlands)

Mark van Bommel (born 22 April 1977) is a Dutch football player. He plays for Bayern Munich and the Netherlands national team.

[[Kohei Kudo]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Kohei Kudo (born 28 August 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.

[[C.A. San Lorenzo de Almagro]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1908 establishments in South America, 1900s establishments in Argentina

Club Atlético San Lorenzo de Almagro is a football club that plays in Argentina. The team plays in the Primera División, the top division of the Argentine football league system. San Lorenzo is also considered one of the "big five" ("Los 5 Grandes") of Argentine football by Argentinian press, with Independiente, River Plate, Boca Juniors, and Racing Club. Its historical rival is Huracán.

[[Club Estudiantes de La Plata]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1905 establishments in Argentina

Club Estudiantes de La Plata is a football club that plays in Argentina.

[[Racing Club]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1903 establishments in South America, 1900s establishments in Argentina

Racing Club is a football club that plays in Argentina. This team is now playing in the Primera División, the top division of Argentine football league system. Racing Club is also known as one of "big five" ("Los 5 Grandes") of Argentine football, with Independiente, River Plate, Boca Juniors, and San Lorenzo.

[[Club Atlético Independiente]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1904 establishments in Argentina

Club Atlético Independiente is a professional football club from Buenos Aires Argentina. The club currently plays in Argentine Primera División. 

[[C.A. Chacarita Juniors]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1906 establishments, 1900s establishments in Argentina

C.A. Chacarita Juniors is a football club which plays in Argentina.

[[C.A. Huracán]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1908 establishments in South America, 1900s establishments in Argentina

Club Atlético Huracán  is a sports club from the Parque Patricios neighbourhood of Buenos Aires, Argentina. The football team currently plays in the Primera A, the first level of the Argentine football league system. Huracán home stadium is the Estadio Tomás Adolfo Ducó.

Huracán was founded on November 1, 1908, in the Nueva Pompeya neighbourhood of Buenos Aires. The club's name and nickname (Globo, literally "Balloon") come from the Huracán balloon flied by Jorge Newbery in 1909. Apart from that, club supporters are called los Quemeros ("the Burners") because the stadium is in a former garbage burning area.

During the professional era, Huracán won the Primera División title just once (the 1973 Metropolitano), and obtained 4 titles during the amateur era (in 1921, 1922, 1925 and 1928). Moreover, Huracán has finished as runner-up of the first division 5 times during professionalism (the last one in the 2009 Clausura).

Huracán's historical rival is San Lorenzo de Almagro.

[[C.A. Vélez Sársfield]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1910 establishments in South America, 1910s establishments in Argentina

C.A. Vélez Sársfield is a football club that plays in Argentina.

[[Club Ferro Carril Oeste]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1904 establishments in Argentina, Football clubs in Buenos Aires

UpdateNo sources

Club Ferro Carril Oeste is a football club from Buenos Aires, Argentina.

[[Argentinos Juniors]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1904 establishments in Argentina

A.A. Argentinos Juniors is a football club that plays in Argentina.

[[Quilmes A.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1887 establishments, 1880s establishments in Argentina

Quilmes A.C. is a football club that plays in Argentina.

[[C.A. Lanús]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1915 establishments, 1910s establishments in Argentina

C.A. Lanús is a football club that plays in Argentina.

[[MTN Elite One]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Sport in Cameroon

The Championnat du Cameroun de football is the top division football league in Cameroon. Since 2007 they are called the MTN Elite One for sponsorship reasons.

[[Daisuke Saito (born in 1974)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Daisuke Saito (born 19 November 1974) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryuji Fujiyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Ryuji Fujiyama is a Japanese football player.

[[Norio Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Norio Suzuki (born 14 February 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Angers.

[[Tarik Oulida]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Tarik Oulida (born 19 January 1974 ) is a former Dutch football player.

[[Hayuma Tanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagano Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Yokohama F. Marinos players, Tokyo Verdy players, Nagoya Grampus players, Matsumoto Yamaga FC players

Hayuma Tanaka is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His son Kaili Shimbo is also a footballer.

[[Manabu Wakabayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture

Manabu Wakabayashi (born 3 June 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tochigi Uva.

[[Tomi Shimomura]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Tomi Shimomura (born 18 December 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Montedio Yamagata.

[[Robin van Persie]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, 2006 FIFA World Cup players, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, Arsenal F.C. players, Dutch footballers, Manchester United F.C. players, Sportspeople from Rotterdam

Robin van Persie (born 6 August 1983) is a Dutch football/soccer player. He moved from Arsenal F.C. to Manchester United in the summer of 2012 and later, he moved to Turkish club Fenerbahce SK in the summer of 2015. He plays for the Netherlands national team.

[[Albert Jorquera]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Spanish association football goalkeepers

Albert Jorquera (born 3 March 1979) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Girona.

[[Korkeasaari]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Europe, Geography of Finland, Helsinki

Korkeasaari is an island in Helsinki, Finland. It has Finland's largest and oldest zoo. The tiger at the zoo is famous.

Two or three times a year they have a theme called cats walk. Visitors can see the big cats in the night.

[[Swadlincote]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Derbyshire

Swadlincote is a town in South Derbyshire, England. 

The town is 13 miles south of Derby. The local council meet in this town.

People from Swadlincote often shorten its name to simply 'Swad'.

The population of Swadlincote is 33,000.

It is made up of the settlements of Swadlincote, Church Gresley, Midway and Newhall.

[[Aqua (skyscraper)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Illinois, Skyscrapers in Chicago

Aqua is a skyscraper in Chicago, United States.  It is 250 meters (819 feet) tall and has 82 floors.  It was built in 2009 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world and the 13th tallest building in Chicago. It was designed by Jeanne Gang.

[[The Legacy at Millennium Park]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in Chicago, 2009 establishments in Illinois

The Legacy at Millennium Park is a skyscraper in Chicago, United States.  It is 250 meters (819 feet) tall and has 72 floors.  It was built in 2009 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world.

[[Gresham's law]]

CATEGORIES: Money

Gresham's law is commonly written: "Bad money drives out good."

If people want one thing ("good" money) more than the other ("bad" money), they will always offer the bad money in trade before the good money. Over time, the good money will be kept in pocket, and only the bad money will be found in the market. The law is named after Sir Thomas Gresham (1519-1579). Gresham founded the Royal Exchange in 1565. 

[[Benjamin Netanyahu]]

CATEGORIES: Benjamin Netanyahu, 1949 births, Living people, Ambassadors of Israel, Ambassadors to the United Nations, Deputy government ministers of Israel, Government ministers of Israel, Israeli military people, Israeli opposition leaders, Israeli political leaders, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish Israeli writers, Jewish military people, Likud politicians, Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni, Members of Knesset, People from Tel Aviv, Israeli political scientists, Prime Ministers of Israel

Binyamin "Bibi" Netanyahu (בִּנְיָמִין "בִּיבִּי" נְתַנְיָהוּ, born 21 October 1949) was the Prime Minister of Israel from 2009 to 2021 and before that from 1996 to 1999. Netanyahu is leader of the HaLikud party and the first Israeli prime minister born after the establishment of the state of Israel. He was also the country’s longest-serving prime minister. In 2021, he became Leader of the Opposition.

[[Nagqu Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Tibet

Nagqu Prefecture (also Naqu or Nagchu); Nàqū Dìqū) is the largest prefecture of the Tibet Autonomous Region. In 2001 Nagqu had a population of 363,000 and an area of 450,000 km². 

[[Bobby Bonilla]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Atlanta Braves players, Baltimore Orioles players, Chicago White Sox players, Florida Marlins players, Living people, Los Angeles Dodgers players, National League All-Stars, New York Mets players, Pittsburgh Pirates players, St. Louis Cardinals players

Bobby Bonilla is an all-star baseball player. He has played for the Pittsburgh Pirates, New York Mets, and the Florida Marlins.

In 2001, briefly, he played for the St. Louis Cardinals.February 2012

[[Charing Cross]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, Buildings and structures in London

Charing Cross is an area in London, United Kingdom. It marks the site of the Eleanor Cross, Edward I's memorial to his wife Eleanor of Castile. 

Today, it marks the central point for measuring distances from London. The replacement cross stands in the forecourt of Charing Cross station.

The cross also gave its name to Charing Cross Hospital, Charing Cross bridge and Charing Cross Road. This was at one time a main route for traffic, bypassing the actual cross.

Charing Cross is the notional "centre of London". It is the point from which distances from London are calculated. 

[[Kappa, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois

Kappa is a village of Woodford County in the state of Illinois, in the United States.  About 170 people were living in Kappa in the year 2000.

[[Colitis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Colitis is an ongoing digestive disease.  The main symptom of the disease is swelling of the colon.  Other symptoms include: high amounts of pain, tenderness in the abdomen, depression, large amount of weight loss, fatigue, and other, more severe symptoms.  Colitis is treated through the use of antibiotics if it is found early, or surgery if it is caught too late.

[[Dearborn, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan, 1886 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Michigan

Dearborn is a city of the Detroit metropolitan area and Wayne County in the state of Michigan in the United States.  Almost 98,000 people were living in Dearborn as of 2000.

[[Cameron, Wood County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin, Wood County, Wisconsin

Cameron is a town of Wood County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States.  510 people were living in Cameron as of 2000.  Cameron has an area of 7.9 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau. It is found at 44.

[[Iacobeni, Suceava]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Suceava County

Iacobeni is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

[[Marginea]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Suceava County

Marginea is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

[[Maglavit]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Dolj County

Maglavit is a commune found in Dolj County, Romania.

[[Malu Mare]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Dolj County

Malu Mare is a commune found in Dolj County, Romania.

[[Brașov County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania, Transylvania

Braşov ((bra.'ʃov); Hungarian: Brassó) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in Transylvania.  The capital of Braşov County is Braşov.

[[Berchişeşti]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Suceava County

Berchişeşti is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

[[Vâlcea County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Vâlcea (also spelt Vîlcea; 'vɨl.ʧea) is a county (judeţ) of Romania. It can be found in the historical regions of Oltenia and Muntenia (both regions are split apart by the Olt River). The capital of Vâlcea County is Râmnicu Vâlcea.

[[Olt County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Olt (olt) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in the historical regions of Oltenia and Muntenia.  The capital of Olt County is Slatina.

[[Maramureș County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Maramureş (ma.ra.'mu.reʃ) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in the Maramureş area. The county seat is Baia Mare.

[[Sibiu County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania, Transylvania

Sibiu (si.'bju; Hungarian: Szeben) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in the old area of Transylvania. The capital of Sibiu County is Sibiu.

[[Quickie (sex)]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual acts

A quickie is a brief act of sexual intercourse.

People will not usually have much foreplay with a quickie. The phrase is often used between regular partners to say that they wish to have sex, but don't have much time for it. 

A quickie may not always mean sexual intercourse. It may be oral sex or mutual masturbation. According to some, a quickie between a heterosexual couple generally satisfies only the man. Others claim that quickies (with intercourse or some other form of stimulation of the vulva) can be "a major turn-on" for a woman, too. Since it may not give a woman enough time to lubricate naturally, she might need a lubricant. Some consider quickies a solution to unequal sexual desire in a relationship. If they become the only form of sex, the relationship may suffer.

For gay men, a quickie sometimes means casual sex, like a hand job. It does not usually happen with lesbians, however.

[[Deep-throating]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual acts

Deep throating is a form of fellatio, when all of an erect penis is placed inside a partner's mouth.  The penis will enter the throat.  The person whose penis is inserted is normally referred as the receiving partner, and the person who performs deep-throating is referred to as the giving partner.

It is difficult for most people to perform deep-throating, because of the natural gag reflex that happens when the soft palate is touched. Different people have different sensitivities to the reflex, but some people learn to suppress the reflex.  

Usually, the giving partner's tongue is immobilized during deep-throating and they also are not able to suck.

[[Fisting]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual acts

Fisting is a sexual activity. The fister puts his or her hand into the vagina or rectum. The fingers are then clenched into a fist or kept straight. Fisting may be done with or without a partner.

Fistees is another form of fisting. It is for the more experienced. It may take two fists. This is called double fisting. Double fisting pleasure depends more on stretching of the anus or vagina rather than thrusting with an in-and-out movement of the hands.

Fisting can cause lacerations to the vagina, perineum, rectum, and/or colon. This may result in serious injury. These lacerations may even lead to  death. Sexual activities that cause air to enter the vagina can lead to a fatal air clot. The risk is probably even higher during pregnancy.

[[Andreas Isaksson]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Swedish footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Andreas Isaksson (born 3 October 1981) is a Swedish football player. He plays for PSV Eindhoven and Sweden national team.

[[Olof Mellberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Olof Mellberg (born 3 September 1977) is a Swedish football player. He plays for Olympiacos and Sweden national team.

[[Michael Essien]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Ghanaian footballers, People from Accra

Michael Essien (born 3 December 1982) is a Ghanaian football player. He plays for Panathaniakos and Ghana national team. He is currently injured until September 2016.

[[Invincible Eleven & Majestic S.A.]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Monrovia

Invincible Eleven & Majestic S.A. is a football club which plays in Liberia.

[[Mighty Barolle S.A.]]

CATEGORIES: Liberian football clubs

Mighty Barolle S.A. is a football club which plays in Liberia.

[[Oryx Douala]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Oryx Douala was a football club which played in Cameroon in 1960s.

[[Caïman de Douala]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Caïman de Douala is a football club which plays in Cameroon.

[[Samuel Kuffour]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Ghanaian footballers

Samuel Kuffour (born 3 September 1976) is a former Ghanaian football player. He has played for Ghana national team.

[[Thiago Motta]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Thiago Motta (born 28 August 1982) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Internazionale Milano.

[[Diamant Yaoundé]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Diamant Yaoundé is a football club which plays in Cameroon.

[[Rafael Márquez]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Mexican footballers

Rafael Márquez (born 13 February 1979) is a Mexican football player. He plays for the New York Red Bulls and Mexico national team. He used to play for Barcelona.

[[Sylvinho]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Sylvinho (born 12 April 1974) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Park Kang-Jo]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Park Kang-Jo (born 24 January 1980) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Dudu Cearense]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Fortaleza

Dudu Cearense (born 15 April 1983) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Olympiacos.

[[Yukio Tsuchiya]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yukio Tsuchiya (born 31 July 1974) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo Verdy.

[[Rosario Central]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1889 establishments, 1880s establishments in Argentina

Rosario Central Athletic Club (in Spanish Club Atlético Rosario Central) is a football club which plays in the first division of Argentina, Campeonato de Primera A.

The team has won 4 local titles (1971, 1973, 1980 and 1986/87) and an international title (CONMEBOL cup in 1995).

It's recognized as the club with more fans in the interior of Argentina.

[[Saint Joseph Warriors]]

CATEGORIES: Liberian football clubs

Saint Joseph Warriors is a football club which plays in Liberia.

[[Chalcedonian Creed]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Christianity, Christian creeds

The Chalcedonian Creed is a creed which was made during the Council of Chalcedon in the year 451. This council is one of the seven ecumenical councils. It is recognised by the Eastern Orthodox, the Catholics, and by many Protestant Churches. It is the first council the Oriental Orthodox Church does not recognize. 

The Chalcedonian creed was written during a controversy between the Western and Eastern Churches. They could not agree about the meaning of Incarnation, the influence of the emperor in the church, and the role of the Roman Pope. The Western Churches had no problems accepting the creed, but some Eastern Churches had.

The creed became doctrine in the Orthodox Church. The Coptic church of Alexandria disagreed. They used Cyril's formula instead. They said that the creed should say that Christ be acknowledged "from two natures" rather than "in two natures".

[[Kyneton, Victoria]]

Kyneton is a town in central Victoria, Australia. In 2006 there were 5,905 people living in Kyneton. It is on the Calder Highway, but the Calder Freeway now goes around the town to the north and east. Kyneton was named after the English village of Kineton, Warwickshire.  Piper Street is the oldest street and still has many of its old buildings.

The town is the centre for the local government area, the Shire of Macedon Ranges.

Kyneton is famous for its springs, the Campaspe River, public gardens and old houses, many built from stone.  Kyneton has several events during the year including the ANZAC Day parade, the Kyneton Jazz Festival, Kyneton Daffodil Festival, Kyneton Agricultural show and the Kyneton Cup (horse racing). The famous bushranger, Ned Kelly, was put on trial in the Kyneton Courthouse in 1870 for robbery. This courthouse is still in use.

[[Mount Fraser]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Australia, Volcanic craters, Mountains of Victoria (Australia)

Mount Fraser is an volcanic cone near Beveridge, Victoria, Australia. The extinct volcano last erupted about one million years ago. It is about 120 metres in height above the surrounding land. The distance around the base of the volcano is 1200 metres. There are two craters. One crater is wide and shallow, and the other is small and closed. It is been listed on the  Australian Heritage database.

The explorers, Hamilton Hume and William Hovell, first climbed Mount Fraser on 14 December 1824, and saw Port Phillip Bay. It was called Mount Bland and Big Hill in the past. The bushranger Ned Kelly was born near Mount Fraser. The volcano was also a site for flying gliders.

There is a quarry on the side of the hill which digs out scoria for building in Melbourne.

[[Lucario]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 2005, Pokémon monsters

Lucario is a character of the Pokémon anime and video game series. Known as the Aura Pokémon, it has the ability to feel the Auras of all things. It is a Fighting and Steel Pokémon. It is seen in the games Pokémon Diamond and Pearl, and in the movie Lucario and the Mystery of Mew. In an interview with Pokémon Diamond and Pearl director Junichi Masuda, he noted Lucario's name as one of the hardest to make, because they wanted to make it work for both the Japanese and Americans.

[[Cacabelos]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

Cacabelos, is a municipality in the province of León, Castilla y León, Spain. According to the 2008 census (INE), Cacabelos had 5,477 people.

Cacabelos is well known for its wines.

[[Cabrillanes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

Cabrillanes is a municipality in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. In 2010, (INE), 964 people lived there people.

[[Camponaraya]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

Camponaraya is a municipality in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), 3,411 people lived there.

[[Villamañán]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

Villamañán is a town in the southwest of the province of León, Spain. It is in the area known as Esla, in the autonomous community of Castile and León.

It was originally known as Villamagna, but the name evolved to its current version, Villamañán.

[[La Bañeza]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

La Bañeza is a municipality in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2005 census (INE), 10,123 people lived there.

[[Cármenes]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in León, Municipalities in Castile and León

Cármenes is a municipality in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), 425 people lived there.

[[Villablino]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

Villablino (Vitsablinu, in Leonese language) is a municipality in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has 12,212 people.

[[Castrotierra de Valmadrigal]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

Castrotierra de Valmadrigal is a municipality in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), it had 142 people.

[[El Burgo Ranero]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

El Burgo Ranero is a municipality in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 894 inhabitants.

[[Villamanín]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

Villamanín is a municipality in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has 1,161 people.

[[Carucedo]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

Carucedo is a municipality in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2010 census (INE), 642 people lived there.

[[Luyego]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

Luyego is a municipality in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has 887 people.

[[Destriana]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

Destriana is a municipality in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), 736 people lived there.

[[Igüeña]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile and León, Settlements in León

Igüeña is a municipality in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), 1,702 people lived there.

[[Hertzsprung–Russell diagram]]

CATEGORIES: Astrophysics, Diagrams

The Hertzsprung-Russell diagram is a graph of many stars. It shows the relation between stars' luminosity (that is, how bright they are) and their temperature (how hot they are). These diagrams are not pictures or maps of the locations of the stars. Rather, Hertzsprung-Russell diagrams plot each star on a graph measuring the star's brightness versus its temperature. Hertzsprung-Russell diagrams are also called H-R diagrams or HRDs.

You can see an example of a Hertzsprung-Russell diagram to the right. This diagram is based on measurements from 23,000 stars in our Milky Way galaxy. The Hertzsprung-Russell diagram is named after its creators, astronomers Ejnar Hertzsprung and Henry Norris Russell.

[[Seabird]]

CATEGORIES: Seabirds

Seabirds are birds that have adapted so they are better able to live at sea or near it. Many seabirds live at sea, that is, far away from land. They may only come on land to breed. Other seabirds live in colonies on islands. Very often, seabirds use the sea for food, most often fish or shellfish. The first seabirds evolved in the Cretaceous period, and modern seabird families first appeared in the Palaeogene. The similarities between them are examples of convergent evolution. The same environmental problems and feeding niches have resulted in similar adaptations. 

Seabirds share a number of adaptations to sea life. They live longer, breed later and have fewer young than other birds. They do spend a great deal of time with their young. Most species nest in colonies. These vary from a few dozen birds to millions. Many species take long annual migrations every year, crossing the equator or circumnavigating the Earth in some cases. They feed both at the ocean's surface and below it, and even feed on each other. Seabirds vary in how much of the year they spend at sea.

[[Tropical Depression One (2009)]]

CATEGORIES: Tropical depressions, Hurricanes in the United States, May events, 2009 Atlantic hurricane season, 2000s in North Carolina, 2009 in the United States

Tropical Depression One was the first tropical cyclone of the 2009 Atlantic hurricane season. It was also the third tropical cyclone since 2007 to form before June 1. The storm formed on May 28, and moved across the Atlantic Ocean. Later that day, the storm started to weaken and fall apart. On May 29, the storm died and became a remnant low.

Before the storm became a depression, some parts of the storm brought light rainfall to the eastern tip of North Carolina. However there were no damages or deaths reported. Also the National Hurricane Center (NHC) did not give out any tropical storm watches or warnings for the storm.

[[Orange, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Juneau County, Wisconsin, Towns in Wisconsin

Orange is a town of Juneau County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States.  549 people were living in Orange as of 2000.  Orange has an area of 35.1 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.

[[Hatteras, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in North Carolina

Hatteras is an unincorporated community in Dare County, North Carolina, United States.

[[Rolex]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Switzerland

Rolex is a Swiss company that makes watches and additional things for their watches.  Their watches are often used as a status symbol.  The watches are also often counterfeited, meaning people make fake watches that look like Rolexes, but are not.

[[Cecil Fielder]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, African-American baseball players, American League All-Stars, Baseball players from California, California Angels players, Cleveland Indians players, Detroit Tigers players, Living people, New York Yankees players, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, Toronto Blue Jays players

Cecil Grant Fielder (born September 21, 1963 in Los Angeles, California) was a Major League Baseball player for 14 years in the 1980s and 1990s.   He attended college at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV). 

He played with the Toronto Blue Jays (1985–88), Hanshin Tigers (1989), Detroit Tigers (1990–96), New York Yankees (1996–97), Anaheim Angels and Cleveland Indians (both in 1998).  He hit 319 home runs. While with the Yankees, he won the World Series in 1996. He retired after the 1998 season.

He is the father of Texas Rangers first baseman Prince Fielder, who was also known as a strong hitter during his career.

[[Makoto Tanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Júbilo Iwata players, Avispa Fukuoka players, 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 1996 Summer Olympics

Makoto Tanaka is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Oleguer Presas]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Oleguer Presas (born 2 February 1980) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Ajax.

[[Union Sportive Douala]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Union Sportive Douala is a football club which plays in Cameroon.

[[Ludovic Giuly]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, French footballers, Sportspeople from Lyon

Ludovic Giuly (born 10 July 1976) is a French football player. He plays for Paris Saint-Germain.

[[Maxi López]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

Maxi López (born 3 April 1984) is an Argentine football player. He plays for AC Milan on loan from Calcio Catania.

[[Gabri García]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Gabri García (born 10 February 1979) is a Spanish football player. He plays for the Qatari football club Umm-Salal. Before he played for Barcelona and Ajax

[[Canon Sportif de Yaoundé]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Canon Sportif de Yaoundé is a football club which plays in Cameroon.

[[Santiago Ezquerro]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Santiago Ezquerro (born 14 December 1976) is a Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Rubén Iván Martínez]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Spanish association football goalkeepers

Rubén Iván Martínez (born 22 June 1984) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Cartagena.

[[Damià Abella]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Damià Abella (born 15 April 1982) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Real Betis Balompié.

[[Aigle Nkongsamba]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Aigle Nkongsamba is a football club. They play in Nkongsamba,Cameroon.

[[Jo Kanazawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Jo Kanazawa (born 9 July 1976) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Júbilo Iwata.

[[Shigeri Sada]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Shigeri Sada (born 13 December 1954) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yasunobu Matsuoka]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Yasunobu Matsuoka is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a Association football or soccer player.

[[Léopards Douala]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Léopards Douala is a football club which plays in Cameroon.

[[Nikola Žigić]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Serbian footballers

Nikola Žigić (born 25 September 1980) is a Serbian football player. He plays for forward.

[[Santiago Salcedo]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Paraguayan footballers, People from Asunción

Santiago Salcedo (born 6 September 1981) is a Paraguayan football player. He plays for Lanús.

[[Jean Carlo Witte]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Jean Carlo Witte (born 24 September 1977) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Shonan Bellmare.

[[Yuzuru Nozu]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1983 deaths, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, People from Hiroshima

Yuzuru Nozu (12 March 1899 – 27 August 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yoshiro Abe]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture

Yoshiro Abe (born 5 July 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shonan Bellmare.

[[Lucas Severino]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Lucas Severino (born 3 January 1979) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Gamba Osaka.

[[Yuta Baba]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yuta Baba (born 22 January 1984) is a Japanese football player.

[[Kazuya Maeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Wakayama Prefecture

Kazuya Maeda (born 8 September 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Cerezo Osaka.

[[Takashi Kitano]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Takashi Kitano (born 4 October 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Omiya Ardija.

[[Yasuhiro Kamata]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Yasuhiro Kamata (born 11 June 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Koichi Kidera]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Koichi Kidera (born 4 April 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kenji Honnami]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Gamba Osaka players, Tokyo Verdy players

Kenji Honnami is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His wife is a former footballer Karina Maruyama. 

[[Hugo Maradona]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Argentine football managers

Hugo Maradona (born 9 May 1969) is a former Argentine football player.

[[Ryoichi Kurisawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Ryoichi Kurisawa (born 5 September 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashiwa Reysol.

[[Masashi Miyazawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Masashi Miyazawa (born 24 April 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Oita Trinita.

[[L.P.R.C. Oilers]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Monrovia

L.P.R.C. Oilers is a football club which plays in Liberia.

[[N.P.A. Anchors]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Monrovia

N.P.A. Anchors is a football club which plays in Liberia.

[[Monrovia Black Star F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Football clubs in Monrovia

Monrovia Black Star F.C. is a football club which plays in Liberia.

[[Hitoshi Shiota]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Hitoshi Shiota (born 28 May 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo.

[[Mitsuhiro Toda]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyazaki Prefecture

Mitsuhiro Toda (born 10 September 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Satoru Asari]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Satoru Asari (born 10 June 1974) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Tokyo.

[[Masamitsu Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture

Masamitsu Kobayashi (born 13 April 1978) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Taisei Fujita]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Kōchi Prefecture

Taisei Fujita (born 31 January 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Machida Zelvia.

[[Niko Kranjčar]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Croatian footballers, Sportspeople from Zagreb

Niko Kranjčar (born 13 August 1984) is a Croatian football player. He plays for Tottenham Hotspur and Croatia national team.

[[Hiroyuki Omata]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Hiroyuki Omata (born 1 September 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Cerezo Osaka.

[[Luís Fabiano]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Luís Fabiano (born 8 November 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for São Paulo and Brazil national team.

[[Jader Volnei Spindler]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Jader Volnei Spindler (born 18 January 1982) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Al-Ahli Dubai.

[[Takaji Mori]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2011 deaths, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Japan national football team managers, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Takaji Mori was a Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team. He also managed the Japan national team.

[[Naoki Soma]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Kashima Antlers players, Tokyo Verdy players, Kawasaki Frontale players, 1998 FIFA World Cup players, 1995 King Fahd Cup players, 1996 AFC Asian Cup players

Naoki Soma is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Tonnerre Kalara Club de Yaoundé]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Tonnerre Kalara Club de Yaoundé is a football club which plays in Cameroon.

[[Kenzo Yokoyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Japan national football team managers, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Kenzo Yokoyama is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team. He also managed Japan national team.

[[Tetsuya Totsuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Tokyo Verdy players, Kashiwa Reysol players

Tetsuya Totsuka is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Pavel Řehák]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Czech footballers, Czech football managers

Pavel Řehák (born October 7, 1963) is a former Czech football player.

Following his playing career, Řehák became a manager. He was assistant manager for Vissel Kobe before taking on the manager role in June 2005.

[[Holger Osieck]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, German football managers, German footballers, People from Duisburg, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Holger Osieck (born 31 August 1948) is a German football manager and former footballer.

[[Fabão]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fabão (born 15 June 1976) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Santos.

[[Unisport de Bafang]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Unisport de Bafang is a football club which plays in Cameroon.

[[Kazuo Saito]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players

Kazuo Saito is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Toshimi Kikuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture

Toshimi Kikuchi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Absolute temperature]]

CATEGORIES: Temperature

 Absolute temperature, also called thermodynamic temperature, is the temperature of an object on a scale where 0 is taken as absolute zero. Absolute temperature scales are Kelvin and Rankine.

Absolute zero is the temperature at which a system is in the state of lowest possible (minimum) energy. As molecules approach this temperature their movements drop towards zero. It is the lowest temperature a gas thermometer can measure. No electronic devices work at this temperature. No living thing can live in this temperature. The Kinetic energy of the molecules becomes negligible or zero.

[[King of Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: Kings of Saudi Arabia

The King of Saudi Arabia is the head of state and head of government of Saudi Arabia. He serves as the head of the Saudi monarchy — House of Saud. The King is called the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques (خادم الحرمين الشريفين). The title, means Saudi Arabia's jurisdiction over the mosques of Masjid al Haram in Mecca and Masjid al-Nabawi in Medina, replaced His Majesty (صاحب الجلالة) in 1986.

Their royal palace is the King’s Palace in Riyadh. Since 23 January 2015, the current king of Saudi Arabia is King Salman.

[[Monas]]

CATEGORIES: Jakarta, Monuments and memorials, 1975 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in Indonesia, Buildings and structures in Indonesia

Monas or National Monument (Monumen Nasional)  is a 450 ft tall monument in Jakarta, Indonesia. thumb|alt=National Monument at noon|The National Monument at daytime. It represents the spirit of the Indonesians to fight for their independence. The construction began at 1961 under Soekarno and was finished at 1975 under Soeharto's reign. It was made of marble with the top consisting of a 14.5 tons flame-shaped bronze coated with 35 kilograms of gold.

[[Rush hour]]

CATEGORIES: Traffic

A rush hour or peak hour is a part of the day during which traffic on roads and crowding on public transport is most. Normally, this happens twice a day—once in the morning and once in the evening. These are the times during when the most people commute.

[[Pita (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Footballers from Rio de Janeiro, Brazilian football managers

Pita (born August 4, 1958) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazilian national team.

[[Takashi Sekizuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Honda FC players

Takashi Sekizuka is a former Japanese football player and manager.

[[Yusuke Kondo]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yusuke Kondo (born 5 December 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Consadole Sapporo.

[[Shinji Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Shinji Kobayashi (born 24 August 1960) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hidemi Kotani]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Footballers from Okayama Prefecture, Japanese football managers

Hidemi Kotani (born 7 May 1963) is a Japanese football manager.

[[Racing F.C. Bafoussam]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Racing FC Bafoussam is a football club which plays in Cameroon.

[[Shigeo Yaegashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2011 deaths, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, JEF United Chiba players, Footballers at the 1956 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Shigeo Yaegashi was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Naoto Nakamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Naoto Nakamura (born 15 August 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yasushi Yoshida]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yasushi Yoshida (born 9 August 1960) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yoshiharu Horii]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japanese football managers

Yoshiharu Horii is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player and manager.

[[Hiroshi Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Hiroshi Kobayashi (born 17 March 1959) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Clesly Evandro Guimarães (born 28 April 1975) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Yoshika Matsubara]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japanese football managers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Júbilo Iwata players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, JEF United Chiba players, Shonan Bellmare players, Avispa Fukuoka players, Footballers at the 1996 Summer Olympics

Yoshika Matsubara is a former Japanese football player and manager.

[[Yuta Minami]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Yuta Minami is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a Association football or soccer player.

[[Shinji Otsuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Shinji Otsuka (born 29 December 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Daiki Takamatsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, Oita Trinita players, FC Tokyo players, Footballers at the 2004 Summer Olympics

Daiki Takamatsu is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Gert Engels]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, German football managers, German footballers, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Gert Engels (born 26 April 1957) is a German football manager and former footballer.

[[Wesley Sneijder]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Utrecht (city)

Wesley Sneijder (born 9 June 1984) is a Dutch retired football player. He played for clubs such as Real Madrid, Ajax, Inter Milan, and Galatasaray. He also played for the Netherlands national team, and he has been called one of the best midfielders of all time. He played in the 2010 FIFA World Cup Final, and was one of the top scorers of that tournament.

[[Kenichi Kondo]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Kenichi Kondo (born 2 April 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for V-Varen Nagasaki.

[[Kazuya Maeda (born in 1984)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture

Kazuya Maeda (born 8 January 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tochigi UVA.

[[Darlington]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in County Durham

Darlington is a town in County Durham, England.  Darlington had population of 97,838 in 1997.  The town is on the East Coast mainline and has from many intercity rail dervices, including routes to London, Newcastle upon Tyne, Edinburgh, Leeds and Manchester.  The towns is well known for its football team, Darlington F.C..

[[Kirby & the Amazing Mirror]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, Game Boy Advance games, Platform games, Kirby

Kirby & the Amazing Mirror is a Kirby video game released in 2004. It is for the Game Boy Advance. It is Kirby's last game for the system. It is the only Kirby title where Kirby's enemy King Dedede does not make an appearance. The game has been re-released in Europe for Club Nintendo members only.  

[[Juan Donoso Cortés]]

CATEGORIES: 1809 births, 1853 deaths, Philosophers, Spanish politicians, Spanish writers, People from Extremadura

Juan Donoso Cortés, marqués de Valdegamas (May 6 1809; Valle de la Serena (Extremadura) - May 3, 1853) was a Spanish author and diplomatist.

[[Trust (social science)]]

CATEGORIES: Virtues

Trust is a feeling that somebody or something can be relied upon, or will turn out to be good.  It is the feeling of being sure about something, even if it cannot be proved.  

The word "trust" can be a noun or a verb:

There is also an adjective: trusting.

One can also trust a thing:

To trust often means: to feel confident that something will or has happened:

In religion, trust can be similar to faith.  Someone who believes in God will put their trust in Him: the Book of Proverbs says: 'Trust in the LORD with all your heart' (3:5)

To trust (or entrust) can be used in other ways:

[[Agrippa I]]

CATEGORIES: 10 BC births, 44 deaths, New Testament people, Kings of ancient Judah

Agrippa I also called the Great (10 BC – 44 AD), King of the Jews, was the grandson of Herod the Great, and son of Aristobulus IV and Berenice. His original name was Marcus Julius Agrippa and he is the king named Herod in the Acts of the Apostles, in the Bible, "Herod (Agrippa)" (Ἡρώδης Ἀγρίππας). He was, according to Josephus, known in his time as "Agrippa the Great".

[[Hinche]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Haiti, 1700s establishments in North America, 18th-century establishments in the Spanish Empire, 1704 establishments

Hinche (Kréyòl: Ench) is a city in the centre of Haiti. It is the capital city of the Centre Département.

The city is in the region called Plateau Central about 100 northeast of Port-au-Prince. It is also the chief town of an arrondissement (a part of a department) with the same name. The arrondissement has four communes (a commune is like a municipality): Hinche, Cerca-Cavajal (Kreyòl: Sèka Kavajal), Maïssade (Kreyòl: Mayisad) and Thomonde (Kreyòl: Tomonn).

[[Cloverleaf quasar]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies

[[Juneau County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Juneau County, Wisconsin, 1858 establishments in Wisconsin

Juneau County is a county found in the state of Wisconsin in the United States.  24,316 people were living in Juneau County as of 2000.  The county seat of Juneau County is Mauston.  The city Juneau, Wisconsin should not be confused with this county, because they are not related.

[[Diponegoro]]

CATEGORIES: Indonesian people

Diponegoro was a Javanese prince who opposed the Dutch rule in Indonesia. He was the eldest son of Sultan 

Hamengkubowono III. Diponegoro was born at Yogyakarta in 1785 and died at Makassar in 1855.  During the Dutch rule, a ruler like his father had lost many rights such as the ability to lease land. Instead, he was paid by the Dutch to keep peace. This was an indignity to his father. This led to an open battle headed by Diponegoro himself using guerrilla tactics, which was called the Java War. It lasted for five years, from 1825 until 1830. During that period Diponegoro had successfully led battles, ambushing Dutch camps and raiding food supplies. Over the period of five years, more than 200,000 people were dead because of the war. In 1830, he was sent away by the Dutch  to Manado, then moved to Ujungpandang, and he spent the rest of his life there. After being held by the Dutch in Fort Rotterdam in Ujungpandang for 25 years, he died there in 1855.

[[Bam Margera]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American television personalities, Skateboarders, Actors from Pennsylvania, American comedians, American movie actors, American skateboarders, American television actors, American television presenters, Reality television participants, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Brandon Cole "Bam" Margera (born September 28, 1979 in West Chester, Pennsylvania) is famous as a skateboarder, daredevil and for being on television and radio. He made a number of videos for the CKY. He became famous when he joined MTV's Jackass crew. He has also been in MTV's Viva La Bam and Bam's Unholy Union, both Jackass movies, and Haggard, which he helped write and direct. In Viva La Bam, he starred with his family: Phil Margera (dad), April Margera (mom), and Vincent Margera (uncle).

[[Video game content rating system]]

CATEGORIES: Video game ratings

A video game content rating system is a way to judge and label the content in a video game and what ages it is okay for. It is similar to the movie rating system. 

For example, games with violence or drugs might be marked as teen/adult games that might not be okay for children to play. Games with nudity and adult content might be marked as Adult Only, which means that only adults can buy the game and play it.

There are many different game content rating systems all over the world. 

[[Union territory]]

CATEGORIES: Government of India, Territories of India

A Union Territory is an administrative division of India. Unlike the states of India, union territories are ruled directly by the federal government. The President of India appoints an Administrator or Lieutenant-Governor for each territory.

[[Nestor Omar Piccoli]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Argentine football managers, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

Nestor Omar Piccoli (born 20 January 1965) is a former Argentine football player.

[[Masaaki Kanno]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Masaaki Kanno is a former Japanese football player. 

[[Ľubomír Moravčík]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Slovak footballers

Ľubomír Moravčík (born 22 June 1965) is a former Slovak football player. He has played for Czechoslovakia national team and Slovakia national team.

[[Tiko United F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Tiko United F.C. is a football club which plays in Cameroon.

[[Masakazu Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Masakazu Suzuki (born 1 January 1955) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takashi Kuwahara]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Takashi Kuwahara is a Japanese professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player.

[[Yoshikazu Goto]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Yoshikazu Goto is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an football player.

[[Cotonsport F.C. Garoua]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Cotonsport F.C. Garoua is a football club which plays in Cameroon.

[[Fovu Baham]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Fovu Baham is a football club which plays in Cameroon.

[[Lancaster Barnstormers]]

CATEGORIES: Sports in Pennsylvania, Baseball teams

The Lancaster Barnstormers are an Atlantic League of Professional Baseball team from Lancaster, Pennsylvania. They have won 1 Atlantic League championship, and are the first team in the league to win by a four-game sweep.  Since 2005, the Barnstormers' home stadium is Clipper Magazine Stadium. 

The word "barnstormer" refers to Lancaster County, Pennsylvania's agricultural tradition and its own baseball heritage.  "Barnstorming" baseball players visited Lancaster in the early 1900s to play exhibition baseball games on the county's farmland.   

The Lancaster Barnstormers' rival is the York Revolution. 

[[Yasuhiro Higuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Yasuhiro Higuchi (born 5 May 1961) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Francisco Javier Peral]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Francisco Javier Peral (born 4 November 1983) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Aris Thessaloniki.

[[UAE Pro League]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues

UAE Football League is a football league which is top division in United Arab Emirates.

[[Stephen Tataw]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2020 deaths, Cameroonian footballers

Stephen Tataw (31 March 1963 – 31 July 2020) was a Cameroonian football player. He played for Cameroon national team.

Tataw died on 31 July 2020 in Yaoundé at the age of 57.

[[Carlos González Peña]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, People from Salamanca

Carlos González Peña (born 18 July 1983) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Recreativo Huelva.

[[Hideya Okamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka, Avispa Fukuoka players

Hideya Okamoto (born 18 May 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Avispa Fukuoka.

[[Philadelphia Union]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, Major League Soccer teams, 2008 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Pennsylvania

Philadelphia Union is a soccer team that plays in Major League Soccer in Chester, Pennsylvania.  It was founded in 2008. The team began play in 2010 as a member of the Eastern Conference. They play their home games at Subaru Park in Chester, Pennsylvania.

The club's colors are gold and black.

[[Sammy Adjei]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Ghanaian footballers, Association football goalkeepers, People from Accra

Sammy Adjei (born 1 September 1980) is a Ghanaian football player. He has played for Ghana national team.

[[Sulley Muntari]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Ghanaian footballers

Sulley Muntari (born 27 August 1984) is a Ghanaian football player. He plays for Internazionale Milano and the Ghanaian national team.

[[Emmanuel Pappoe]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Ghanaian footballers, People from Accra

Emmanuel Pappoe (born 3 March 1981) is a Ghanaian football player. He has played for Ghana national team.

[[Projectile]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics, Ballistics

A projectile is something that is sent flying through the air, usually as a weapon. Any solid object that is thrown or fired out of something is a projectile. For example, an arrow fired from a bow, a bullet, or even a rock from a slingshot are all projectiles.

Projectile weapons have been used for a long time. Bows and slingshots are very old weapons that were used hundreds of years ago. Now most countries use projectile weapons instead of melee weapons like swords. This is because modern projectile weapons such as guns, rocket launchers, and artillery cannons can shoot at long ranges and are usually more deadly than melee weapons.

[[Mathematical physics]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In applied mathematics, a branch of mathematics, mathematical physics refers to the knowledge made up of equations and ideas which scientists look to for assistance in modeling, describing, or solving problems in physics or related areas. These equations and ideas are derived from areas of pure mathematics. The equations form a consistent structure. An example of a so-called structure is a noncommutative space.

[[2003 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 Atlantic hurricane season

The 2003 Atlantic hurricane season began on June 1, 2003 and ended November 30, 2003. However, Tropical Storm Ana formed on April 20, long before the official start of the season. Also, Tropical Storm Odette formed on December 4 and Tropical Storm Peter formed on December 7, both formed after the season ended. Hurricane Isabel is the main storm to remember, it was a category 5 that caused $3.6 billion in damage and 51 deaths in the U.S.. Another storm to remember was Hurricane Fabian, which one of the worst hurricanes in Bermuda history. The final notable storm was Hurricane Juan, a rare hurricane that caused some destruction in Nova Scotia.

[[Hurricane Paloma]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 Atlantic hurricane season, Category 4 Atlantic hurricanes, November 2008 events, 2008 in the United States, 2000s in Florida, History of the Cayman Islands, 2000s in Jamaica, 2000s in Cuba, 2000s in Honduras, 2000s in Nicaragua, 2000s in the Bahamas

Hurricane Paloma was the seventeenth tropical cyclone, sixteenth tropical storm, eighth hurricane and fifth major hurricane of the 2008 Atlantic hurricane season. It was also the last storm of 2008. Hurricane Paloma was the second strongest hurricane in November, only behind Hurricane Lenny in 1999. In the Cayman Islands the damage totaled to $15 million. In Cuba the damage totaled to $300 million. Also in Jamaica the damage totaled to only $100,000. Luckily, the storm caused only 1 death. 

[[The Craig Machine]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums

The Craig Machine is a live album by comedian Stephen Lynch that was released on October 4, 2005 by What Are Records?. The CD was recorded live at Symphony Space in New York City on May 9 and 16, 2005. The Craig Machine debuted at #2 on Billboard Magazine's Comedy Charts.

The title is taken from a lyric from the fifth track on the album, which is from the point of view of Jesus Christ's pretend brother, Craig. The quoted lyric asks of the listener "not 'What Would Jesus Do?' but 'Where will you be when the Craig Machine comes partyin' through?'"

[[John Paintsil]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Ghanaian footballers

John Paintsil (born 15 June 1981) is a Ghanaian football player. He played for Fulham and Ghana national team.

[[Sable F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Cameroonian football clubs

Sable F.C. is a football club which plays in Cameroon.

[[Sharjah FC]]

CATEGORIES: United Arab Emirati football clubs

Sharjah C.S.C. is a football club which plays in United Arab Emirates.

[[Al-Ahli Dubai]]

CATEGORIES: United Arab Emirati football clubs, Sport in Dubai

Al-Ahli Dubai is a football club which plays in United Arab Emirates. The club last made it to 8th place in the UAE Football League.

[[Ryan Babel]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Ryan Babel (born 19 December 1986) is a Dutch football player. He plays for TSG 1899 Hoffenheim and Netherlands national team.

[[Al-Nasr SC (Dubai)]]

CATEGORIES: United Arab Emirati football clubs, Sport in Dubai

Al-Nasr Dubai is a football club which plays in the United Arab Emirates. Al-Nasr means "victory" in Arabic. It was founded in 1945, making it the oldest football club in the United Arab Emirates.

[[Al Wasl F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: United Arab Emirati football clubs, Sport in Dubai

Al-Wasl is a football club which plays in United Arab Emirates.

It is a part of the Al Wasl Sports Club.

[[Al-Wahda Abu Dhabi]]

CATEGORIES: United Arab Emirati football clubs

Al-Wahda Abu Dhabi is a football club which plays in United Arab Emirates.

[[Djimi Traoré]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Malian footballers

Djimi Traoré (born 1 March 1980) is a Malian football player. He plays for Monaco.

[[Josemi]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Josemi (born 15 November 1979) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Mallorca.

[[Robert Cullen]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Robert Cullen is a Japanese football player.

[[Superhero (Stephen Lynch album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, Comedy

Superhero is a live album by comedian Stephen Lynch that has many kinds of comedy songs on it. "Priest", "Mother's Day", and "Lullaby (The Divorce Song)" were originally recorded on his first CD A Little Bit Special. It was recorded live at four different comedy clubs in New York and New Jersey.  Along with A Little Bit Special and The Craig Machine, the albums have sold over 250,000 copies.

His second official album, Superhero, released in 2002, with What Are Records?, was also a live album, and was given better reviews than the first, partly because of strong audience response. The title track, "Superhero", was 8 minutes and 58 seconds long, and mainly consists of Lynch listening to the audience suggest names for superheroes.

[[A Little Bit Special]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 albums

A Little Bit Special is the first album by comedian Stephen Lynch. It was recorded at Park West Studios in Brooklyn, New York in 2000.  Along with Superhero and The Craig Machine, the albums have sold over 250,000 copies.

In the song "Jim Henson's Dead", Lynch pays tribute to many of the characters from The Muppet Show and Sesame Street, two of puppeteer Jim Henson's most famous creations.

[[Melbourne, Derbyshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Derbyshire, Market towns in England

Melbourne is a town in south Derbyshire, England. 6,500 people live in Melbourne. It is eight miles south of Derby and two miles from the River Trent.

Melbourne in Australia is named after the Prime Minister, Viscount Melbourne. His family home was in Melbourne.

[[Stephen Lynch]]

Stephen Lynch may be:

[[Pokémon Adventures]]

CATEGORIES: Pokémon

Pokémon Adventures, released in Japan as Pocket Monsters SPECIAL, is a Pokémon-related manga based on the video games. Satoshi Tajiri once said that this series is closest to what he imagined the Pokémon world to be: "This is the comic that most resembles the world I was trying to convey."

The series is written by Hidenori Kusaka and drawn by Mato for the first 9 volumes. Satoshi Yamamoto took over from Mato (who was ill at the time) and has not stopped since. The manga was translated into English in North America by VIZ Media, but publication stopped in 2001 at Volume 7. Recently, Viz has begun re-releasing the series in the form of "The Best of Pokémon Adventures: Red" and "The Best of Pokémon Adventures: Yellow", respectively, this time for $7.95 each, $6 less than nearly a decade ago when the publisher first began to publish the manga. VIZ Media has begun to release the series again with a 2nd edition. The first volume was released on June 2, 2009. and the second volume is to be released in August. In Southeast Asia, Singapore publisher Chuang Yi, currently translates Pokémon Adventures into English, and continues to translate new volumes to this day, so far up to volume 30. Jilin Fine Arts, along with the VIZ Media Shanghai Branch, has translated the manga into Chinese. In Taiwan, it is published by Ching Win, who translates it into Mandarin and releases it in their monthly CoroCoro Comic magazine.

[[Pragmatics]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics

Pragmatics is the study of meaning in language in a particular context. 

This includes the place where the thing is said, who says it, and the things that you have already said. Also, pragmatics studies how people speak when they both know something. 

Pragmatics studies how people speak not literally, but in an indirect way. It studies why, even though this is the case, people can still understand each other. It studies how people can understand each other even if the words are ambiguous.

The ability to understand what someone intends to tell you is called pragmatic competence. 

[[Inattentional blindness]]

CATEGORIES: Cognition, Perception

Inattentional blindness, or perceptual blindness, is 

when a person does not see something in plain sight. The term is only used for a lack of attention, not for any physical defect of vision. The term was used as a book title.

It is a basic fact of psychology that the "world provides an infinite array of things that might capture attention. Attention is, however, an inherently limited capacity". The mechanism as to what to notice is partly or largely inherited. The usefulness of a particular behaviour is in an “ecology of evolutionary adaptiveness” for ancestral hunter-gatherers. Old world monkeys, who show fear of snakes and have an advanced visual system, evolved in Africa under continual pressure from snakes. Some mammals evolved physiological resistance to snake venoms, but African apes improved their ability to see snakes visually before the snakes could strike.

[[Melky Cabrera]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Dominican Republic sportspeople, Atlanta Braves players, Chicago White Sox players, Kansas City Royals players, New York Yankees players, San Francisco Giants players, Toronto Blue Jays players

Melky Cabrera is a baseball player. He plays for the Chicago White Sox. He was born on August 8, 1984 in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. He has also played for the New York Yankees, Atlanta Braves, Kansas City Royals, San Francisco Giants, and  Toronto Blue Jays. Cabrera played his first Major League game when he was only 20 years of age. He is 5'11" and weighs 170 lbs. He bats both left and right handed. 

[[Ludacris]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, African American musicians, Singers from Illinois, American movie actors, American television actors, American rap musicians from Illinois, Actors from Illinois, Grammy Award winners, People from Champaign, Illinois

Christopher Brian Bridges (born September 11, 1977 in Champaign, Illinois), known by his stage name Ludacris is an American rapper and actor. From 1998 to 1999, he studied music management at Georgia State University. In 2004 he rapped on the Usher single "Yeah!" He has released seven albums. His next album is called Ludaversal.

[[Millionaires (group)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from Huntington Beach, California, 2007 establishments in California, Musical groups established in 2007

Millionaires is an American electronic trio from Los Angeles, California. It was started in 2007 by three girls, Melissa Marie Green, Allison Green, and Dani Artaud. They are very popular on MySpace.  The girls are notable for their mostly negative reaction from other people. They also performed one show for the TV show Double Shot at Love with the Ikki Twins.

[[Heckler & Koch MP series]]

CATEGORIES: Submachine guns

The MP series is a "personal defence weapon" (PDW)  made by Heckler & Koch in Germany. It is one of the most popular submachine guns in the world. It is used by many different militaries and counter-terrorism and police groups.

[[Meishi Street]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 movies, Documentary movies, Chinese movies

Meishi Street, directed by Ou Ning, is a 2006 independent Chinese documentary that shows ordinary citizens taking a stand against the planned destruction of their homes for the 2008 Beijing Olympics.  In order to widen traffic routes for the Olympic Games, the Beijing Municipal Government orders the demolition of entire neighborhoods. Several evictees of Meishi Street, located next to Tiananmen Square, fight through endless red tape and the indifference of fellow citizens for the right to keep their homes. Given video cameras by the filmmakers, they shoot exclusive footage of the eviction process, adding vivid intimacy to their story.

[[Brentwood College School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Canada, 1923 establishments in North America, 1920s establishments in Canada

Brentwood College School is a boarding school for boys and girls that helps students get ready for university. This school is in a small town called Mill Bay on Vancouver Island in British Columbia, Canada. The school has modern classrooms, a theatre, and science labs. The school is next to the ocean. Students study the ocean and can go sailing, rowing, canoeing, and kayaking.

[[Cutscene]]

CATEGORIES: Video game design

A cutscene is a time in a video game where the game stops and the player watches something happen. 

Usually cutscenes tell part of the story, such as showing characters talking or having a narrator say what is going on. Sometimes, however, a cutscene just shows something that is happening in the game, like a boss showing up, a ship taking off, or a building falling down.

There are many different types of cutscene. Some cutscenes are very simple and just show pictures with text like a slideshow. Others may be animated like a cartoon. Sometimes the cutscene appears directly in the game engine. 

Many new games use prerendered scenes, meaning that the scene was created when the game was made and saved as a video file. Prerendered videos are sometimes just saved movies of things recorded in the game engine, but some use Computer-generated imagery (CGI), which is separately made 3D graphics which are usually fancier than the game's normal graphics. Prerendered scenes with CGI are often used for a game's intro video.

A few games use live-action video footage, which is filmed like a movie or television show. Sometimes live-action footage will be used together with CGI.

[[Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution]]

CATEGORIES: Amendments to the United States Constitution, 1865 in the United States

The Thirteenth Amendment was an amendment to the United States Constitution, meaning that it was a change to the basic and most important laws that govern the United States.  It abolished slavery in the United States.  It was passed in December 6, 1865, at the end of the Civil War with only a handful of Democrats supporting the Amendment in both Chambers of Congress. It was one of the Reconstruction Amendments. It repealed Article Four, Section 2, of the Constitution; the Fugitive Slave Clause.July 2019

[[Hurricane Jeanne]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 Atlantic hurricane season, 2004 in Florida, Deadly storms, Disasters in the 2000s, Hurricanes in the United States, 2000s in Haiti, 2000s in Puerto Rico, 2000s in the Bahamas, September events

Hurricane Jeanne was the tenth named storm, the seventh hurricane, and the fifth major hurricane of the 2004 Atlantic hurricane season. Hurricane Jeanne was a deadly storm, especially to Haiti. The storm cause 3,035 deaths, about 3,006 were in Haiti alone. Hurricane Jeanne was also a costly hurricane. With $7 billion in damage caused, it is the 13th costliest hurricane in U.S. History. In Florida the hurricane made landfall in the same area as Hurricane Frances did only two weeks before.

[[Jun Muramatsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Jun Muramatsu is a Japanese football player.

[[Mohamed Sissoko]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Malian footballers

Mohamed Sissoko (born 22 January 1985) is a Malian football player. He plays for Juventus and Mali national team.

[[Al-Ain FC]]

CATEGORIES: United Arab Emirati football clubs

Al-Ain S.C.C. is a football club which plays in United Arab Emirates.

[[Stephen Warnock]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, English footballers, Liverpool F.C. players, People from Lancashire, Premier League players

Stephen Warnock (born 12 December 1981) is an English football player. He plays for Aston Villa.

[[Redevelopment]]

CATEGORIES: Urban planning

Redevelopment is any new construction on a place which is already in use. An example is the redevelopment of a block of small houses into a large apartment.

[[Articulated vehicle]]

CATEGORIES: Vehicles

An articulated vehicle is a vehicle which has a pivot joint. This allows the vehicle to turn more sharply. 

There are many kinds of articulated vehicles: buses, trams and trains may be articulated. Steam locomotives were sometimes articulated so the driving wheels could pivot around turns. In fact, the whole idea of a train is an articulated set of vehicles which run along a track.

Any vehicle towing a trailer could be described as articulated. The term (UK) of "articulated lorry" refers to the combination of a front part which pulls (the "tractor") and a rear part which follows (the "trailor"). In American English, these may be called semi-trailer trucks..

[[Balloon loop]]

CATEGORIES: Railway track layouts

A balloon loop allows a train to reverse direction without having to shunt or stop. Balloon loops can be useful for passenger trains, and unit freight trains, such as coal trains.

[[Lund University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Sweden, Lund, 17th century establishments in Europe

Lund University is a public university in Lund. It was founded in 1666 and is the second oldest university in Sweden.

[[Lope de Rueda]]

CATEGORIES: 1510s births, 1565 deaths, People from Seville, Spanish writers

Lope de Rueda (1510?, Seville - 1565, Córdoba) was a Spanish dramatist and author. He was regarded by some as the best of his era. A very versatile writer, he also wrote comedies, farces, and pasos. He was the precursor to what is considered the golden age of Spanish literature.

[[Guillén de Castro]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish writers

Guillén de Castro y Bellvis (1569 – July 28, 1631), was a Spanish dramatist of the Spanish Golden Age.

[[Sic]]

CATEGORIES: Latin phrases

Sic is a Latin word meaning "thus", "so", "as such", or "in such a manner". In writing, it is put in square brackets and italic type – sic – to show that any incorrect or unusual spelling, phrases, punctuation, or other quoted material have been copied verbatim (word for word) from its original source. 

At first, it was said like the English word "seek" (IPA /'sik/); however, it is normally said like the English word "sick" (/'sɪk/).

[[Warm front]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology

A warm front is a leading edge of a warmer air mass that is advancing into a cooler air mass.

Warm fronts usually have stratus and cirrus clouds, but sometimes they also have cumulus and cumulonimbus clouds. Before the warm front passes, there can be rain or snow. While it is passing, there is often light rain or drizzle.

Warm fronts move more slowly than cold fronts.

On a weather map warm fronts are shown as red lines with red semicircles pointing in the direction that the front is moving.

[[Groundwater]]

CATEGORIES: Water

Groundwater (or ground water) is water located below the ground surface. Groundwater starts as rain (or other precipitation), and flows under ground for long periods of time through aquifers. Groundwater flow returns to the surface again through springs and rivers. Groundwater is an important part of the water cycle.

People bring groundwater to the surface by digging or drilling wells below the surface. They bring up water from the aquifer and use it for irrigation and other purposes.

[[Palm Beach County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, Palm Beach County, Florida, 1900s establishments in Florida, 1909 establishments in the United States

Palm Beach County is the largest county in Florida. It is one of three counties that makes up the Miami metropolitan area. In 2007 the number of people in Palm Beach County was 1,351,236. The area of Palm Beach County is 2,386 square miles. Palm Beach County was made in 1909. The three largest cities in Palm Beach County are West Palm Beach (first, 150,000 people), the county seat, Boca Raton (second, almost 90,000 people), and Boynton Beach (third, almost 70,000 people). The county owns the southeastern area of Lake Okeechobee.

[[Lake Okeechobee]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Florida, Lakes of the United States, Palm Beach County, Florida

Lake Okeechobee is the largest lake in the U.S. state of Florida. Lake Okeechobee covers about 730 square miles (about half the size of Rhode Island). The lake is shared by Glades, Okeechobee, Martin, Palm Beach, and Hendry counties. Some cities on the shore of Lake Okeechobee include: Belle Glade, Clewiston, Okeechobee, and Pahokee. 

[[All I Ever Wanted (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Kelly Clarkson albums

All I Ever Wanted is the fourth studio album by American pop rock singer-songwriter Kelly Clarkson. It was released on March 6, 2009 in Australia and Germany. On March 9, 2009 in the United Kingdom and New Zealand. On March 10, 2009 in Canada, Mexico and the United States. And on March 13, 2009 in Italy. It was her second album to debut at #1 on the Billboard Hot 200. That made it Clarkson's second non-consecutive number-one album. All I Ever Wanted went Gold in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.

The album was originally going to be called Masquerade,  but the title was changed to All I Ever Wanted. That was because because Clarkson felt that there were already albums with similar themes then on the charts, such as P!nk's Funhouse and Britney Spears' Circus.  All I Ever Wanted sold 828,000 copies in the U.S. The album was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 52nd Grammy Awards.

[[Bernard Herrmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1975 deaths, Academy Award winning composers, American movie score composers, Deaths from heart failure, Entertainers from New York City

Bernard Herrmann (June 29, 1911 – December 24, 1975) was an American composer known for writing music for movies.

He won the Academy Award for the movie The Devil and Daniel Webster made in 1941.  Herrmann often worked with director Alfred Hitchcock, including Psycho, North by Northwest, The Man Who Knew Too Much, and Vertigo. He also wrote music for many other movies, including Citizen Kane, Cape Fear and Taxi Driver. He also wrote music for radio drama including works for Orson Welles. He wrote for several fantasy movies by Ray Harryhausen, and many television programs.

[[Félix María Samaniego]]

CATEGORIES: 1745 births, 1801 deaths, Spanish writers

Félix María de Samaniego (October 12, 1745— August 11, 1801; born and died in Laguardia, Álava) was a Spanish neoclassical fabulist, educated at Valladolid. A government appointment was secured for him by his uncle the Count de Peñaflorida. He was a Spanish neoclassical fabulist and was educated at Valladolid.

[[Vermilion (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Slipknot songs, 2004 songs

Vermilion is the second single from the album Vol. 3: (The Subliminal Verses) by metal band Slipknot. 

[[Before I Forget (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Slipknot songs, 2004 songs

Before I Forget is a Grammy Award-winning song and the third single from the album Vol. 3: (The Subliminal Verses) by metal band Slipknot. 

[[Mate. Feed. Kill. Repeat.]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums, Debut albums, Slipknot albums, Heavy metal albums

Mate. Feed. Kill. Repeat. is the first demo album by American heavy metal band, Slipknot. The demo was released on October 31, 1996. The album was limited to 1,000 copies.

[[Turntablism]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop

Turntablism is the art of changing sounds to create music using phonograph turntables and a DJ mixer.

[[Nadezhda von Meck]]

CATEGORIES: Russian people, 1831 births, 1894 deaths

Nadezhda Filaretovna von Meck (Надежда Филаретовна фон Мекк) (10 February - 13 January) was a rich Russian businesswoman.  She is remembered today for her strange relationship with the famous composer  Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky.  For many years she paid him a lot of money each month so that he could compose.  They wrote passionate love letters to one another, yet they never actually met one another.

She also gave financial support to other people in the arts and music, especially to the composers Nikolai Rubinstein and Claude Debussy.

[[Clapper (musical instrument)]]

CATEGORIES: Percussion instruments

A clapper is a basic form of percussion instrument. It is made of two long solid pieces that are clapped together to make sound.

Clappers exist in many forms in many different cultures around the world. They can be made of a wide variety of material. Wood is most common, but metal and ivory have also been used.

[[Sovereign state]]

A sovereign state is a state with borders where people live, and where a government makes laws and talks to other sovereign states. The people have to follow the laws that the government makes. Most sovereign states are recognized which means other sovereign states agree that it is really a sovereign state. Being recognized makes it easier for a sovereign state to talk to and make agreements (treaties) with other sovereign states. There are hundreds of recognized sovereign states today - see List of sovereign states.

[[Giza Necropolis]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Ancient Egypt, Seven Wonders of the World, Pyramids, Archaeological sites in Egypt, World Heritage Sites in Egypt

Giza Necropolis (also called the Giza pyramid complex) is on the Giza Plateau near the city of Cairo, Egypt. It is about 8 kilometres (5 mi) inland into the desert from the ancient town of Giza on the Nile, and about 25 kilometres (15 mi) southwest of Cairo city centre.  The Great Pyramid is the only remaining monument of the Seven Wonders of the World.  Construction is thought to have taken 20,000 workers and 20 years.

[[Yury Luzhkov]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Mayors of Moscow

Yury Mikhailovitsch Luzhkov (Ю́рий Миха́йлович Лужко́в) (September 21, 1936 – December 10, 2019) was a Russian politician. He was a member of the United Russia. He became the Mayor of Moscow in 1992, when Gavriil Kharitonovich Popov quit the job since he could not handle the problems that came with it. He resigned in 2010. Luzhkov was born in Moscow. 

Luzhkov died at a Munich hospital from heart surgery-related problems on December 10, 2019 at the age of 83.

[[Gary Twigg]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1984 births, Scottish footballers

Gary Twigg (born March 19, 1984 in Glasgow, Scotland) is a footballer.  He plays as a striker.  He currently plays for Shamrock Rovers in the League of Ireland. He was top scorer in the 2009 league season.

[[University of Delaware]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Delaware, Newark, Delaware, 1740s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies

The University of Delaware is a university in Newark, Delaware. It is partly a private university and partly a public university. It was founded in 1743, and three of its first students went on to sign the Declaration of Independence. Later famous graduates include Joe Biden, the former Vice President of the United States and now the President of the United States. The mascot is the Blue Hens, which are also the state bird of Delaware.

The school colors at the moment are blue and yellow.

[[Halifax, West Yorkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Yorkshire

Halifax is a large town in West Yorkshire in England.  The town has about 88,000 people living in it. 

Halifax is close to Huddersfield and Bradford.  It is near the "spine" of England, the Pennines. It is easy to get to Liverpool and Manchester on the west coast, and Leeds and Wakefield to the East. There is a motorway-standard road which goes over the Pennines. Halifax is on the M1 motorway and the M60 motorways.

The economic booms in Leeds and Manchester, particularly in the financial sector, have led to Halifax becoming a commuter town for these two cities.

Halifax has a historic town centre. There is a lot of Victorian architecture in the town centre. Landmarks include the Town Hall, Piece Hall, the Wainwright monument, the Square Chapel and Halifax Minister. Halifax Station is on the main-line to London, King's Cross Station.

What Halifax was known for is making cloth. Its  Dean Clough was one of the largest textile factories in the world. It was more than 1⁄2 mile (800 m) long. Today it is converted to hotel, office and retail use.

[[Power Rangers]]

CATEGORIES: American television series

Power Rangers is a media franchise created by Haim Saban, that is currently owned by Hasbro.

It was owned by Saban Entertainment from 1993 until The Walt Disney Company bought the franchise in September 2001. Disney sold the franchise back to Saban in May 2010. In May 2018, Saban sold the franchise to Hasbro.

[[Sophoreae]]

CATEGORIES: Faboideae

Sophoreae (from Sophora) is a tribe of Fabaceae. This tribe, that have relatively simple flowers and unspecialized pinnate leaves and quinolizilidine alkaloids, appears as polyphyletic 

[[Calzone]]

CATEGORIES: Italian food

A calzone (Italian "stocking" or "trouser" or "drooping sack" or "hanging fold") is a turnover from Italy. It is made with ingredients that are like a pizza, but they are not the same. It is folded into a crescent shape before it is cooked. Calzones are made from pizza dough and filled with mozzarella and ricotta cheese. Other things such as ham, salami, vegetables or an egg can used as fillings as well. The dough is folded over, sealed along the edge and then fried. It is usually served with a seafood sauce, or with garlic, parsley and olive oil.

The Pizza Hut restaurant sells large calzones known as the P'zone. In America, the Hot Pockets brand of microwaveable turnovers are called "Bread Stuffed Calzones".

In Chicago, the calzone is usually called a pizza puff, made by Italco Foods.

[[Bisexual pornography]]

CATEGORIES: Pornography, Human sexuality

Bisexual pornography is a genre of pornography which generally shows one woman and two men, all perform sex acts with each other. Bisexual pornography is separate from threesome pornography, which shows one man and two women.

As most pornography is marketed to men, most bisexual porn is advertised to straight or bisexual men. Very few customers of bi-porn say they are gay. Producers who use the term "bisexual porn" are usually showing  what a bisexual or bi-curious man might wish to see.  Sex acts between a man and a woman, as well as between two men. A common way that these are shown in a single scene is with one woman and two men performing together.

[[Soap made from human corpses]]

CATEGORIES: The Holocaust

During World War II, many people thought that the Nazis were making soap from the bodies of Jewish people who died in the concentration camps.

The Yad Vashem Memorial has said that the Nazis did not make a lot of soap from Jewish bodies.  Yad Vashem says that the Nazis used rumors about making soap from bodies to scare the camp inmates.  However, there is evidence that research facilities had come up with a way for large amounts of soap to be made from human bodies.

[[Adiel de Oliveira Amorim]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Adiel de Oliveira Amorim (born 13 August 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Shonan Bellmare.

[[Darren Potter]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Irish footballers, People from Liverpool

Darren Potter (born 21 December 1984) is a Irish football player. He plays for Sheffield Wednesday.

[[Johann Vogel]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Swiss footballers, People from Geneva

Johann Vogel (born 8 March 1977) is a former Swiss football player. He has played for Switzerland national team.

[[Željko Kalac]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Association football goalkeepers, Sportspeople from Sydney

Željko Kalac (born 16 December 1972) is an Australian football player. He has played for the Australian national team.

[[Quincy Owusu-Abeyie]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Ghanaian footballers

Quincy Owusu-Abeyie (born 15 April 1986) is a Ghanaian football player. He plays for Portsmouth.

[[Monroe Doctrine]]

CATEGORIES: 1823, 1820s in the United States, James Monroe

The Monroe Doctrine was a foreign policy of the United States, proclaimed in 1823 during the presidency of President James Monroe.  It said that European powers do not belong in The Americas, or in the western hemisphere in general.  In particular, most of the Spanish Empire in South America had recently become independent, due to the Napoleonic Wars against France.  Having won the Peninsular War, Spain wanted its empire back, and the Monroe Doctrine said the United States would resist that.  The United Kingdom agreed and helped enforce the Monroe Doctrine.

[[Cynthia Wade]]

CATEGORIES: American cinematographers, American movie directors, American movie producers, Entertainers from New York City, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Cynthia Wade is an American movie director. She makes documentary movies. She directed a short movie in 2007 called Freeheld which won an Academy Award (Oscar). She lives in New York City with her husband and children.

[[Ángel de Saavedra, Duke of Rivas]]

CATEGORIES: 1791 births, 1865 deaths, Dukes and duchesses, People from Córdoba, Andalusia, Playwrights, Spanish poets, Spanish politicians

Don Ángel de Saavedra y Ramírez de Baquedano, Duke of Rivas (Ángel de Saavedra y Ramírez de Baquedano, Duque de Rivas) (March 10, 1791 - June 22, 1865), was a Spanish poet, dramatist and politician born in Córdoba.  He is best known for his play Don Álvaro; o, La fuerza del sino (1835), the first Spanish Romance romantic success in the Spanish theater. 

[[Eastern religion]]

CATEGORIES: Religions, East Asian religions, Indian religions

Eastern religions is the name for a number of religions that had originated in South, East and Southeast Asia. They are grouped together because their ways of thinking, and worship are different from what are called the Western, African and Iranian religions, which originated elsewhere.

[[Les Paul]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2009 deaths, American guitarists, Deaths from pneumonia, Musicians from Wisconsin

Les Paul (born Lester William Polsfuss, June 9, 1915 – August 13, 2009) was an American musician and innovator. 

He is famous for his work in electric guitars and in overdubbing. 

He was born in Waukesha, Wisconsin.

The solidbody electric guitar Les Paul which is named after him is made by the American company Gibson. It is one of the most famous guitar models in rock music history.

Paul died of complications from pneumonia at White Plains Hospital in White Plains, New York at the age of 94.

[[WarGames]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 thriller movies, 1983 science fiction movies, 1980s teen movies, American science fiction movies, American teen movies, American thriller movies, Cult movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by John Badham

WarGames is a 1983 American science fiction thriller teen movie starring Matthew Broderick and Ally Sheedy and directed by John Badham. The movie follows a computer hacker named David Lightman (Broderick) who breaks into a NORAD war games simulation computer that he thinks is really the computer for a computer game company. Lightman begins a series of events that could start World War III. The movie was nominated for three Academy Awards and was a big hit. It continues to be popular.

[[Disquisitiones Arithmeticae]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics books

Disquisitiones Arithmeticae is a book about number theory written by the German mathematician and scientist Carl Friedrich Gauss.

[[IMSAI 8080]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

The IMSAI 8080 was an early microcomputer begun in late 1975, based on the Intel 8080 and later 8085 and the S-100 bus. It was compatible with its main competitor, the earlier MITS Altair 8800, by which it was inspired. The IMSAI is largely thought of as the first "clone" computer. The IMSAI machine used a highly modified version of the CP/M operating system called IMDOS. It was designed, made and sold by IMS Associates, Inc. (later renamed IMSAI Manufacturing Corp). In total, between 17,000 and 20,000 units were produced from 1975 until 1978.

[[2009 Romanian bus-train collision]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 in Europe, 21st century in Romania, Road transport, Transport disasters in Europe

The 2009 Romanian bus-train collision (Tragedia de la Scânteia), happened on 14 August 2009 at 14:10pm in Romania.  A bus and train hit each other.  Thirteen people died.  It happened in Scânteia of Iaşi County in Romania on County Road 248C  It was originally thought that only 10 people died in the accident. This was the worst accident in Romania in the past fifteen years.

[[Tropical Storm Claudette (2009)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 Atlantic hurricane season, Atlantic tropical storms, Hurricanes in the United States, August events, 2009 in Florida, 2000s in Georgia (U.S. state), 2000s in Alabama, 2000s in North Carolina

Tropical Storm Claudette was the third named storm of the 2009 Atlantic hurricane season. It was also the first tropical cyclone to affect the United States during 2009. The storm formed on August 16, and it quickly gained strength. The storm struck Santa Rosa Island, Florida, moved northwest, and dissipated over Alabama. 

On August 16, Claudette dropped rainfall in parts of the Florida Panhandle. The storm spawned a tornado near Cape Coral. The tornado slammed a car into the side of a home. One person drowned in high waves along the coast of Panama City.

[[Suwannee River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Florida

The Suwannee River is a major river in north Florida and south Georgia in the United States. It is 266 miles long.

[[Virtua Fighter (arcade game)]]

CATEGORIES: Fighting games, Sega arcade games, Sega Saturn games, Windows games, 1993 video games, Sega 32X games, Sega video games, 1994 video games, 1995 video games

Virtua Fighter was the first 3D fighting video game. The Virtua Fighter game system revolves around three buttons and a directional lever. The buttons are used for Punch, Kick and Guard. The Guard button is used to defend against attacks. Pressing the Guard and Punch buttons at the same time will result in a throw. Throws only work when the opponent is not attacking.

It's like Rock Paper Scissors between Attack, Throw and Guard.

[[Florida State Road A1A]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Florida

State Road A1A is a road in the U.S. State of Florida. The road starts in Key West and ends in Callahan. It is the main road through most towns in Florida along the Atlantic Ocean.

[[Emmett Till]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 1955 deaths, African-American people, American murder victims, Murders by firearm in the United States, People from Chicago, Murdered African-American people

Emmett Louis "Bobo" Till (July 25, 1941 – August 28, 1955) was an African-American boy who was murdered in Mississippi after it was said that he flirted with a white woman.

[[Enjoy the Silence]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 songs

"Enjoy the Silence" is a very popular song by the British band Depeche Mode.

The German DJ Timo Maas made a remix of this song.

Lacuna Coil covered this song on one of their albums.

[[Drew Bledsoe]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, American football quarterbacks, Buffalo Bills players, Dallas Cowboys players, New England Patriots players, Sportspeople from Washington

Drew Bledsoe (14 February 1972)  is a former American football player. He was a quarterback for the New England Patriots, the Buffalo Bills and the Dallas Cowboys.

[[Takeo Spikes]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, American football linebackers, Buffalo Bills players, Cincinnati Bengals players, Philadelphia Eagles players, San Diego Chargers players, San Francisco 49ers players, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state)

Takeo Gerard Spikes (t; born December 17, 1976) is an American football linebacker who played in the National Football League (NFL).

[[Silent Hill]]

CATEGORIES: Horror video games, Video game series

Silent Hill is a survival horror video game series and there is a movie based on the same title. The games are mostly about bad, evil or supernatural things that happen in the cursed town called Silent Hill and a specific person (i.e. the protagonist) whose gets trapped in it. The series is known for its grotesque monsters, especially Pyramid Head, and for its music.

[[Penrith]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cumbria

[[Vijay Singh]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Golfers

Vijay Singh (born February 22, 1963 in Lautoka, Fiji) is a PGA Tour golfer. He has won The Masters in 2000 and the PGA Championship in 1998 and 2004 and was the leading PGA Tour money winner in 2003, 2004 and 2008. He was added to the World Golf Hall of Fame in 2006. Vijay also won the FedEx Cup in 2008.

[[Little Miss Sunshine]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 comedy-drama movies, 2000s LGBT movies, 2000s road movies, Academy Award winning movies, American comedy-drama movies, American LGBT movies, American road movies, BAFTA Award winning movies, English-language movies, LGBT comedy-drama movies, Movies set in Arizona, Movies set in California, Movies set in New Mexico, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, American independent movies

Little Miss Sunshine is a 2006 American independent comedy-drama road movie that was shown at the Sundance Film Festival.  It is about a family who drives 800 miles from Albuquerque, New Mexico through Arizona to Redondo Beach, California in a Volkswagen Type 2 van so that the daughter to compete in a beauty contest for children.  On the way they have many problems, and learn to assist and help each other.

[[Chris Crocker]]

CATEGORIES: Gay men, Internet celebrities, LGBT people from Tennessee, LGBT singers, Singers from Tennessee, 1987 births, Living people, American bloggers

Cara Cunningham (born Christopher Darren Cunningham  December 7, 1987) is an American internet celebrity and singer. She is best known for her viral video on video sharing website YouTube. For her video entitled "Leave Britney Alone", she got over 30 million views. She has also appeared on the Maury Povich TV program. Prior to beginning her transition, Cunningham felt she could not be open or public about her gender identify and felt she had to present herself as gay, but she is heterosexual. She often spoken of how hard it was growing up gay or transgender in eastern Tennessee. In 2008 Crocker released her first single  "Mind in the Gutter". In 2012 a documentary about Crocker, Me at the Zoo was shown at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival.

[[Andrea Fortunato]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 1995 deaths, Italian footballers

Andrea Fortunato (26 July 1971 – 25 April 1995) is a former Italian football player. He has played for the Italian national team.

[[Neil Mellor]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, English footballers, People from South Yorkshire, Premier League players

Neil Mellor (born 4 November 1982) is an English football player. He plays for Preston North End.

[[Sebastian Deisler]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, German footballers, Living people, Sportspeople from Baden-Württemberg, UEFA Euro 2000 players

Sebastian Deisler (born 5 January 1980) is a former German football player. He has played for Germany national team.

[[Adriano Correia Claro]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Curitiba, Coritiba Foot Ball Club players

Adriano Correia Claro (born 26 October 1984) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Sevilla.

[[Yoshinori Sembiki]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Yoshinori Sembiki is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hiroshi Soejima]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Cerezo Osaka players, Kashima Antlers players

Hiroshi Soejima is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Lactic acid]]

CATEGORIES: Acids

Lactic acid is an acid that is very common in nature. Lactic Acid is a carboxylic acid with a chemical formula of C3H6O3. Carl Wilhelm Scheele discovered it in milk that had gone sour, in 1780. Today it is used as an additive to food, to produce a sour taste.  Contrary to popular belief, it is not produced in muscles when a person exercises. Lactate, on the other hand, is created within the muscles the more you exercise.

[[Asylum seeker]]

CATEGORIES: International relations

An asylum seeker is a person who was forced to flee from their country, due to democide genocide or mass murder. (endangered) and routed to nearby countries to seek refuge but, is not accepted yet as a refugee. Refugees and asylum seekers are different.

The decision whether a person is a refugee or not is most often left to certain government agencies with the host country. This can lead to a situation where the country will see an asylum seeker neither as refugee nor as legitimate migrant. Then they will be treated as an illegal immigrant (a person who is not a citizen of the country) even if their life was endangered in the country they fled from. 

If a person comes to a country to seek asylum, their refugee status will then be assessed. The government decides whether the person is in danger because of persecution, or if they are just trying to come to that country for free. If a person is not a refugee, they will not have the rights of a refugee. In that case, the government does not have to follow the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees.

== Other page == 

[[Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s treaties, Human rights, History of the United Nations, Migration laws, 20th century in Geneva, 1951, 1967, 1960s treaties

[[List of Mexican flags]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of flags, Mexico-related lists, Flags of North America

The following is a list of flags used in the United Mexican States.

[[Hurricane Iwa]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in the United States, Retired tropical cyclone names, East Pacific hurricanes, 20th century in Hawaii, 1982 in the United States

Hurricane Iwa was a hurricane that hit the U.S. state of Hawaii. Iwa was the 23rd tropical storm of the 1982 Pacific hurricane season. The hurricane formed on November 1982, and passed near Kauai on November 24. It died out the next day.

The storm caused very bad damage on the islands of Niihau, Kauai, and Oahu. Some wind gusts reached 100 mph (160 km/h), and waves were over 30 feet (9 m) high. Iwa damaged or destroyed 2,345 buildings and left 500 people without homes. The storm caused four deaths.

[[Colima (disambiguation)]]

There are:

[[Vinalhaven, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine

Vinalhaven is a town in Knox County, Maine. It was founded in 1789. 1,235 people live there.

[[Vassalboro, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine

Vassalboro is a town in Kennebec County, Maine. It was founded in 1771. 4,047 people live there. Several highways go through the city, U.S. Highway 201, U.S. Highway 202, Maine State Highway 3, Maine State Highway 9, Maine State Highway 32, and Maine State Highway 100. It is surrounded by several cities, China to the east, Augusta to the south, Winslow to the north, and Sidney to the west. It is home to the Grand View Topless Coffee Shop, which was featured heavily in the media.

[[Jay, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine, 1785 establishments in the United States, 18th-century establishments in Maine

Jay is a town in Franklin County, Maine. It was founded in 1785. 4,985 people live there.

[[Diablada]]

CATEGORIES: Ritual dances

Diablada is a typical ceremonial dance from Bolivia, Chile and Perú. It is a representation of good forces against evil (bad) forces. It is a mix of catholic and indigenous rites. It is usually danced on carnival.

[[Kazuhiro Koso]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture

Kazuhiro Koso (born 6 March 1959) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hideki Matsunaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Hideki Matsunaga (born 8 February 1963) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Al-Shabab Dubai]]

CATEGORIES: United Arab Emirati football clubs, Sport in Dubai

Al-Shabab Dubai is a football club which plays in United Arab Emirates. 

[[Qatar Stars League]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, Football in Qatar

Qatar Stars League is a football league which is top division in Qatar.

[[Shinichi Morishita]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Júbilo Iwata players, Kyoto Sanga FC players

Shinichi Morishita is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Yasuyuki Kishino]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Footballers from Wakayama Prefecture

Yasuyuki Kishino (born 13 June 1958) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hiroshi Matsuda]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Hiroshi Matsuda is a former Japanese football player.

[[Joaquín Costa]]

CATEGORIES: 1846 births, 1911 deaths, Spanish politicians

Joaquin Costa (14 September 1846 - 8 February 1911) was a Spanish politician, lawyer, economist and historian.

[[Mug shot]]

CATEGORIES: Photography, Law enforcement techniques

A mug shot, or booking photograph, is a photographic portrait taken after someone is arrested. The mug shot is taken to allow law enforcement to have a photographic record of the arrested person to allow for identification by victims and investigators. Most mug shots are two-part, with one side-view photo, and one front-view.

[[Antonio de Ulloa]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish writers, 1716 births, 1795 deaths

Antonio de Ulloa (12 January 1716 – 3 July 1795) was a Spanish general, explorer, author, astronomer, colonial administrator and the first Spanish governor of Louisiana. He was born in Seville, the son of an economist. 

[[Derwent Valley Mills]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in England, World Heritage Sites in the United Kingdom, Derbyshire, 1721 establishments, 1720s establishments in Europe, 18th century establishments in England

Derwent Valley Mills is the UNESCO World Heritage Site in Derbyshire, England.

The site covers several factory communities which were built in the 18th and 19th centuries in a valley of the River Derwent, upstream from Derby.

[[Très Riches Heures du duc de Berry]]

CATEGORIES: French culture, Illuminated manuscripts

The Très Riches Heures du Duc de Berry or simply the Très Riches Heures (The Very Rich Hours of the Duke of Berry) is a richly decorated Book of Hours. Such books contained prayers to be said by lay faithful at each of the canonical hours of the day. The book was commissioned by Jean, Duc de Berry around 1410. It is probably the most important illuminated manuscript of the 15th century, "le roi des manuscrits enluminés" ("the king of illuminated manuscripts"). The Très Riches Heures has 416 pages. 131 of them have large miniatures, many more have border decorations or historiated initials. These artworks are among the high points of International Gothic painting, even though they are very small. There are 300 decorated capital letters. The book was worked on, over a period of nearly a century, in three main campaigns, led by the Limbourg brothers, Barthélemy van Eyck, and Jean Colombe. The book is now Ms. 65 in the Musée Condé, Chantilly, France.

[[Human Development Index]]

CATEGORIES: Development

[[Shigekazu Nakamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Shigekazu Nakamura (born 30 July 1958) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Grégory Coupet]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, French footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Grégory Coupet (born 31 December 1972) is a French former football player.

[[Tatsuya Mochizuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Tatsuya Mochizuki (born 20 April 1963) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Caligula (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 drama movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, American epic movies, English-language movies, Historical movies, Italian movies, Movies set in Ancient Rome, American independent movies, Political movies

Caligula is a 1979 Italian-American historical movie. It was directed by Tinto Brass. It is about the life of Roman Emperor Caligula. It stars Malcolm McDowell as Caligula.

[[Anton Ferdinand]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Anton Ferdinand (born 18 February 1985) is an English football player. He plays for Sunderland.

[[Masataka Imai]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Masataka Imai is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player and coach.

[[Musashi Mizushima]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Musashi Mizushima (born 10 September 1964) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Raúl Bravo]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Raúl Bravo (born 14 April 1981) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Olympiacos.

[[Tomoo Kudaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 1999 deaths, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Tomoo Kudaka (14 March 1963 – 22 September 1999) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Al-Maref]]

CATEGORIES: Qatari football clubs

Al-Maref is a football club which plays in Qatar.

Al-Maref has won the championship three times in Qatar Stars League.

[[USL First Division]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues, 2005 establishments in North America, 2010 disestablishments in North America

USL First Division was a football league that was the second division in United States, Canada and Puerto Rico.

[[Jacques Santini]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, French footballers, French football managers

Jacques Santini (born 25 April 1952) is a former French football player.

[[Pablo Gabriel García]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Uruguayan footballers

Pablo Gabriel García (born 11 May 1977) is an Uruguayan football player. He plays for PAOK Thessaloniki.

[[Bradley Wright-Phillips]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Sportspeople from London, Black British sportspeople, English footballers, Premier League players

Bradley Wright-Phillips (born 12 March 1985) is an English footballer. He plays for Plymouth Argyle. He is a son of Ian Wright.

[[Iwao Yamane]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, People from Hiroshima, Zweigen Kanazawa players

Iwao Yamane (born 31 July 1976) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Zweigen Kanazawa.

[[Takumi Watanabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukushima Prefecture

Takumi Watanabe is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football or soccer player.

[[Makoto Kimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukui Prefecture

Makoto Kimura (born 10 June 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Zweigen Kanazawa.

[[Keisuke Hada]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture

Keisuke Hada (born 20 February 1982) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kiyotaka Ishimaru]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Kiyotaka Ishimaru (born 30 October 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Qatar S.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Qatari football clubs

Qatar S.C. is a football club which plays in Qatar.

[[California Jaguars]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, 1995 establishments in California, 1999 disestablishments, 1990s disestablishments in California

California Jaguars is a former soccer club which played in United States.

[[Masakazu Koda]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture

Masakazu Koda (born 12 September 1969) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryosuke Okuno]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Ryosuke Okuno (born 13 November 1968) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Milwaukee Rampage]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, Sports in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 1994 establishments in the United States, 2002 disestablishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Wisconsin

Milwaukee Rampage is a former soccer club which played in United States.

[[Shigeharu Ueki]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Shonan Bellmare players

Shigeharu Ueki is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Takamichi Seki]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Takamichi Seki (born 16 January 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ryukyu.

[[Rochester Rhinos]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, Rochester, New York, 1996 establishments in New York (state)

Rochester Rhinos is a soccer club based in Rochester, New York, United States.

[[Montreal Impact F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, Canadian soccer teams, 1992 establishments in Canada, 2011 disestablishments in Canada

Montreal Impact F.C. (Impact de Montréal) was a soccer club in Montreal, Canada. It played from 1992 through 2011. It stopped playing after the 2011 season and was replaced by a Major League Soccer team which is the Montreal Impact.

[[Charleston Battery]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, Charleston, South Carolina, 1993 establishments in the United States

Charleston Battery is a soccer club which plays in Charleston, South Carolina, United States.

[[Minnesota Thunder]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, 1990 establishments in the United States

Minnesota Thunder is a soccer club which plays in United States.

[[Seattle Sounders (1994)]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams, 1994 establishments in Washington (state), 2008 disestablishments in the United States

Seattle Sounders was an American professional soccer team founded in 1994 that played in the American Professional Soccer League and the USL First Division. They were from Seattle, Washington. 

The team, founded in 1994, was named after the original another Sounders team that played in the North American Soccer League from 1974-1983.

This version of the Sounders played in the USL First Division until after the 2008 season when the team's owner received a new franchise from Major League Soccer, the first division of soccer in the U.S. and Canada, called Seattle Sounders FC. 

The team played their last season at the Starfire Sports Complex in Tukwila, Washington. They used to play for many years at Qwest Field (now CenturyLink Field).  

The team's colors were blue and white. 

[[Vancouver Whitecaps FC]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s establishments in Canada, 2009 establishments, Canadian soccer teams, Major League Soccer teams, Sport in Vancouver

The Vancouver Whitecaps are a Canadian soccer team that plays in Major League Soccer in Vancouver, British Columbia.

The team plays their home games at BC Place in Vancouver, British Columbia. Other teams named "Whitecaps" have played Association footballin Vancouver since 1974 in the old North American Soccer League, the Canadian Soccer League, and the USL.

[[Koji Homma]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Koji Homma is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a Association football or soccer player.

[[Kosuke Suda]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Kosuke Suda (born 4 February 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yuji Tsukada]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Yuji Tsukada (born 28 December 1957) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Enzo Francescoli]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Uruguayan footballers, Sportspeople from Montevideo

Enzo Francescoli (born 12 November 1961) is a former Uruguayan football player. He has played for Uruguay national team.

[[Yohei Nishibe]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Yohei Nishibe (born 1 December 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shimizu S-Pulse.

[[Naoya Umeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, People from Hiroshima

Naoya Umeda (born 27 April 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gainare Tottori.

[[Women's voting rights in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United States, Women's suffrage

Women's suffrage (the right to vote) in the United States started slowly, at state and local levels, during the 19th Century and early 20th Century, ending in 1920 with the passing of the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which provided: "The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex."

[[Minot, North Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Dakota, County seats in North Dakota

thumb|220px|A B52 takes off from Minot Air BaseMinot is a town in North Dakota in the United States. It has 36,567 people living in it. It is home to the Minot State University which opened in 1913. It is the county seat of Ward County. The Minot Air Base is located 12 miles north of the city. It is home to the 5th Bomb Wing and the 91st Space Wing of the US Air Force.   

[[Ed Schafer]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Governors of North Dakota, United States Secretaries of Agriculture, US Republican Party politicians

Edward Thomas "Ed" Schafer (born August 8, 1946) is a former Governor of North Dakota. He was Secretary of Agriculture from January 28 2008 to January 20 2009. He was a member of the United States Republican Party.

Ed Schafer was sworn in as the 29th Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) on January 28, 2008.

Secretary Schafer brings a record as an innovative two-term governor of North Dakota to USDA along with extensive private sector experience as both an entrepreneur and a business executive.

Schafer served as North Dakota's governor from 1992 to 2000 and made diversifying and expanding North Dakota's economy, reducing the cost of government and advancing agriculture his top priorities in office.

He worked to normalize trading relations with China and develop that nation as an export market for North Dakota farm products. He also led efforts to upgrade North Dakota's communications infrastructure and make high-speed voice and data networks available to farmers, ranchers and rural businesses.

To expand the state's job base, he encouraged the growth of value-added agricultural industries such as pasta and corn sweetener manufacturing.

As governor, Schafer managed a state workforce of 12,000 people, oversaw a budget of $4.6 billion, and led the state's response to emergencies such as the severe floods that hit the Grand Forks area in 1997.

As chair of the Western Governors Association, Schafer led regional efforts to demonstrate how technology could improve the efficiency and lower the cost of delivering government services such as health benefits and food stamps. He also worked to make telemedicine more available and affordable in rural areas.

Schafer was elected chair of the Republican Governors Association in 2000 and that same year he co-founded and co-chaired the Governors Biotechnology Partnership to increase public understanding and support for the benefits of agricultural biotechnology.

He has had a lifelong interest in conservation and helped arrange the U.S. Forest Service's May 2007 purchase of the 5,200 acre Elkhorn ranch in North Dakota. The site was where Theodore Roosevelt had his home and operated a cattle ranch in the 1880s. It is near the preserved town of Medora-the state's leading tourist attraction.

Born and raised in Bismarck, North Dakota, Schafer graduated from the University of North Dakota in 1969 with a bachelor's degree in Business Administration and earned an MBA from the University of Denver in 1970.

Secretary Schafer's grandfather immigrated to North Dakota from Denmark and homesteaded land in Hettinger County that he turned into a wheat and livestock farm. Schafer spent summers there while growing up. He helped his uncles with chores, tinkered with engines and learned firsthand about agriculture.

Before entering public life, Schafer was an executive with the Gold Seal Company in Bismarck, a successful marketer of nationally-known consumer products such as "Mr. Bubble" bubble bath, "Glass Wax" glass cleaner and "Snowy Bleach." The company had been founded by his father, Harold Schafer.

Secretary Schafer joined Gold Seal after he earned his MBA and held a series of management positions with the company before becoming president in 1978. Under his leadership, Gold Seal's sales climbed to $50 million through acquisitions and new product introductions and its net worth tripled. It was sold in 1986. Schafer then went on to launch several new businesses, including a commercial real estate development company, a fish farm and a classic car dealership

After leaving office in 2000, he co-founded Extend America, a venture capital-backed company, to provide wireless voice and high-speed data services to commercial and residential customers in five rural Midwestern states.

He also served as a director of the Theodore Roosevelt Medora Foundation that oversees the historic town's operations and became active in leading several other nonprofit and citizens advocacy groups in North Dakota.

Secretary Schafer enjoys the outdoors and his hobbies include bicycling, hiking, scuba diving and restoring classic automobiles. He and his wife, Nancy, have four children; Tom Schafer, Ellie Schafer and Eric Jones and Kari Jones; and eight grandchildren.

Printer-Friendly VersionPrinter-Friendly Version   Email this pageEmail This Page

[[Azua, Dominican Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dominican Republic, 1504 establishments in the Spanish Empire

The Dominican city of Azua de Compostela, or simply Azua, is the head municipality of the Azua province, on the south of the country, about 5 5 km north of the Caribbean coast. It is also called sometimes Compostela de Azua.

Azua is the Taíno name of the region where the old city was founded. In this place, Pedro Gallego (or Pedro Mariscal), a Spanish colonist, developed a farm and he gave it the name of Compostela after Santiago de Compostela in Galicia, nortwestern Spain.

[[Imogen Heap]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, English singer-songwriters, Singers from London

Imogen Jennifer Jane Heap (born 9 December 1977 in the London Borough of Havering) is a Grammy Award-winning English singer, composer and songwriter. She is known for her work as part of the musical duo Frou Frou.

She has collaborated with many artist including Jeff Beck, Acacia, Frou Frou, Britney Spears and others.

Imogen produced "Ellipse" in her old family house. She recorded the production of it into a movie called "The story of Ellipse: Everything in between". In 2010 she, along with Thomas Ermacora, founded "Bubbletank". It has produced the "Live 4 X" charity events and the crowd-sourced orquestal film "Love The Earth".

She is producing her 4th solo album called "The Heapsongs". All of the tracks are being released when they are finished.

Imogen Heap and Frou Frou songs have been in various TV shows, movies, advertisements, and marching band productions, notably including CSI, The OC, SNL, Garden State, and So You Think You Can Dance.

[[John Stockton]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, American basketball players, Utah Jazz players, Sportspeople from Washington, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers

John Stockton was a point guard for the Utah Jazz of the National Basketball Association (NBA). No NBA player ever had more assists or steals during his career than Stockton.  

[[Tropical Storm Ana (2009)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 Atlantic hurricane season, Atlantic tropical storms, August events, 2000s in Puerto Rico, 2000s in the Dominican Republic, 2000s in Haiti, 2000s in Cuba, 2000s in the Bahamas

Tropical Storm Ana was the first tropical storm of the 2009 Atlantic hurricane season. It was also the first tropical cyclone to affect the Caribbean during 2009. The storm formed on August 11, but strong wind shear weakened it on August 13. Ana later reformed and became a tropical storm on August 15 before wind shear tore apart the storm again. The storm finally died on August 17.

Between August 15 and 17, the National Hurricane Center (NHC) gave out tropical storm watches to some Caribbean islands like the Lesser Antilles, Puerto Rico, and the Dominican Republic. Some people took a few precautions. Most of the damage from Ana was in the form of rain.

[[Whelk]]

CATEGORIES: Gastropods

Whelk is a word used for some marine gastropods. They are found in temperate and tropical waters, and are used by humans as food. The name is properly used for the family Buccinidae, sometimes called the "true whelks".

[[Luke Young]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Essex

Luke Young (born 19 July 1979) is an English footballer. He plays for Aston Villa.

[[Al-Sadd S.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Qatari football clubs

Al-Sadd S.C. is a football club which plays in Qatar.

[[Ueslei]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Salvador, Bahia

Ueslei Raimundo Pereira da Silva (born 19 April 1972) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Taku Harada]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Taku Harada is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a Association football or soccer player.

[[Yusuke Igawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Yusuke Igawa (born 30 October 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kawasaki Frontale.

[[Daisuke Tonoike]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Daisuke Tonoike (born 29 January 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kenji Hada]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, People from Hiroshima

Kenji Hada (born 27 June 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ryukyu.

[[Shōhei Ogura]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Shōhei Ogura (born 8 September 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama F. Marinos.

[[Consecration]]

CATEGORIES: Sacraments, Roman Catholicism

Consecration is a special ceremony, usually religious, in which a person, or an object or a building is dedicated to a special purpose.  When a new church is built there will be a special opening ceremony, called a "consecration". In many religions ordination is the process by which individuals are consecrated (ordained) as a minister.

The verb is to consecrate.  The adjective is consecrated.

The word "consecration" is used in the Catholic Church as the setting apart for the service of God of both persons and objects. The ordination of a new bishop is also called a consecration. The life of those who enter religious orders (for example: monks and nuns) is also described as "Consecrated Life". 

In Catholic and Orthodox churches, only men are chosen to be priests. But in many Protestant denominations, including the Church of England, women are allowed take leadership roles. (See Liberal Christianity) Some major Protestant denominations however, like the Southern Baptist Convention take a more conservative and traditional view of women. Various religious groups have different terminology for the recognition of persons who take special roles in the religion. The word "consecration" is sometimes used to recognize persons who would not be accepted for "ordination". 

[[Tropical Storm Ana]]

The name Ana was given to six tropical cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean. So far, no tropical cyclone named Ana reached hurricane strength.

[[Ginza Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Tokyo

Ginza Station (銀座駅、ぎんざえき) is a railway station of Tokyo Metro in Chūō, Tokyo, Japan.

[[Ōtemachi Station (Tokyo)]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Tokyo

Ōtemachi Station (大手町駅,おおてまちえき) is a railway station of Tokyo Metro and Toei Subway in Chiyoda, Tokyo, Japan.

[[Kokkai-gijidō-mae Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Tokyo

Kokkai-gijidōmae Station (国会議事堂前駅,こっかいぎじどうまええき) is a railway station of Tokyo Metro in Tokyo. This station is also connected by underground passageways to Tameike-Sanno Station. It is also the deepest station on the entire Tokyo Metro system.

"Kokkai-gijidōmae" means "In front of National Diet Building".

[[Roppongi Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Tokyo

Roppongi Station (六本木駅,ろっぽんぎえき) is a Railway station of Tokyo Metro and Toei Subway in Tokyo.  There is an exit from the station into Roppongi Hills. 

[[Hurricane Stan]]

CATEGORIES: Category 1 Atlantic hurricanes, 2005 Atlantic hurricane season

Hurricane Stan was a category 1 hurricane in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Hurricane Stan was the sixth of the seven storms in 2005 to make landfall in Mexico. The storm caused $1 Billion in Mexico and the Central American region. Hurricane Stan was either the deadliest or second deadliest of 2005 (or Hurricane Katrina). The exact number of deaths in unknown the number is at least 1,660 but could be up to 2,000. 

[[Rachel Bilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Rachel Sarah Bilson (born August 25, 1981) is an American actress, perhaps best known for her role as Summer Roberts in the American television series The O.C.

[[Johnny Chan]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1957 births, Poker players, Guangzhou

Johnny Chan (born in Guangzhou, China in 1957) is a poker player. He won the World Series of Poker Main Event in 1987 and 1988. He took second place at the 1989 World Series of Poker. He has won 10 World Series of Poker bracelets.

Chan moved with his family in 1962 from Guangzhou to Hong Kong, then in 1968 to Phoenix, Arizona and later in 1973 to Houston, Texas.   When he was 21, Chan dropped out of the University of Houston and moved to Las Vegas to become a professional gambler.

[[Naf River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Myanmar, Rivers of Bangladesh

Naf River is a river that starts in Myanmar and flows into the Bay of Bengal. The lower part of the river marks the border of Bangladesh and Myanmar. It starts in the Arakan hills. Its width varies from 1.61 km to 3.22 km.

The Naf River's average depth is 128 and maximum depth is 400.

[[Suppressor]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms, Sound

A suppressor, often called a "silencer" is a device used to make a gun less loud. Suppressors are most often added to the gun barrel, usually by screwing the silencer onto the end of the barrel. Some guns have a built-in suppressor.

Even though many people use the name "silencer" when talking about a suppressor, it does not really make the gun silent. How much quieter it makes the gun depends both on the cartridges and the suppressor. A suppressed gun usually is between 120 to 135 decibels (dB). This is much quieter than without the suppressor, but is still loud enough to cause hearing loss without protection such as earplugs. An unsuppressed firearm usually produces 140 to 165 dB. For comparison, a typical jackhammer produces about 130 dB.

In many places, suppressors are illegal to own except for the military and police. This is because suppressors make guns quieter and people worry this could help criminals commit crime.

In most states in the United States, suppressors are legal for civilians to own, but the National Firearms Act requires that buyers must go through a special background check and pay a $200 tax. Owning an untaxed suppressor is illegal, except for licensed class 3 firearms dealers, the military, and law enforcement.

[[Night vision]]

CATEGORIES: Vision

Night vision is being able to see in the dark. Some animals, like cats, have natural night vision - they can see in very low light without any help. Humans do not have good night vision. If there is not enough light to see well, a human may need a night vision device such as night vision goggles to help them see.

Night vision goggles come in two types:

[[Yoshio Kitajima]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Yoshio Kitajima (born 29 October 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

Kitajima previously played for Mito HollyHock and Shonan Bellmare.

[[Paul Konchesky]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Paul Konchesky (born 15 May 1981) is an English football player. He plays for Liverpool.

[[Al-Rayyan S.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Qatari football clubs

Al-Rayyan S.C. is a football club which plays in Qatar.

[[Shunta Nagai]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Shunta Nagai (born 12 July 1982) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tokyo Metro Ginza Line]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese railways, Tokyo, 20th century establishments in Japan

The Ginza Line (銀座線, ぎんざせん, Ginza-sen) is the oldest metro line of Tokyo Metro in Tokyo, Japan. It was built in the 1920s and 1930s.

[[Tokyo Teleport Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Tokyo

Tokyo Teleport Station (東京テレポート駅,とうきょうてれぽーとえき) is a Railway station of Tokyo Waterfront Area Rapid Transit in Kōtō, Tokyo, Japan. 

[[MissingNo.]]

CATEGORIES: Pokémon

MissingNo., also known as MissingNO, is the name of a glitch Pokémon that is short for "Missing Number". MissingNo. Pokémon are used as error handlers by game developer Game Freak; they appear when the game tries to access data for a Pokémon species that does not exist.

First documented by Nintendo in the May 1999 issue of Nintendo Power, encountering MissingNo. results in messed up graphics and item duplication of the player's sixth item in their inventory.

