[[William Dampier]]

CATEGORIES: 1651 births, 1715 deaths, English explorers, People from Somerset

William Dampier (baptised 5 September 1651; died March 1715) was the first Englishman to explore parts of Australia. He was the first person to circumnavigate the world three times. On one voyage he rescued Alexander Selkirk, a sailor who may have inspired Daniel Defoe's Robinson Crusoe.

[[Alto Paraná Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

The Alto Paraná department (Departamento de Alto Paraná) is a department of Paraguay. The capital is the city of Ciudad del Este.

Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-10.

[[Ghana Kanta Basumatary]]

CATEGORIES: Actors, 1952 births, 2013 deaths

Ghana Kanta Basumatary (18 December 1952- 11 December 2013) was a Bodo actor and dramatist.

[[Tropical Storm Gamma (2005)]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic tropical storms

Tropical Storm Gamma was the twenty-fourth named storm of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Gamma formed in the eastern Caribbean Sea but quickly died a few days later from wind shear. On November 18, it restrengthened and became a tropical storm for a few more days before dying off the coast of Honduras on November 20. Although Gamma never made any landfall, it caused minor damages in the Lesser Antilles and medium damages in Honduras.

[[Kherai Puja]]

CATEGORIES: Religious festivals, Indian culture

Kherai Puja is the most important religious festival of the Bodo people. They perform this puja on some specific occasions. 

[[Ausserferrera]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Graubünden, Former municipalities of Graubünden

Ausserferrera (Farera) is a village and former municipality in the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2008 the former municipalities of Ausserferrera and Innerferrera merged into the new municipality of Ferrera.

[[Partial fraction decomposition]]

CATEGORIES: Algebra

Partial fraction decomposition is taking a big algebra fraction and splitting it into a bunch of smaller fractions that are added together. Partial fractions are used to get the antiderivatives of algebra fractions.

In math writing, we're turning this:

Into this:

The denominators of all these fractions are factors of g(x).

[[Pygmy slow loris]]

CATEGORIES: Lorisoidea, Mammals of Asia

The pygmy slow loris  (Nycticebus pygmaeus) is one of a number of species of slow loris. It is a small nocturnal primate with large eyes. It lives in thick forest and bamboo groves. They are found in Vietnam, Laos, China, Thailand, and parts of Cambodia. Because their habitat is reduced, their status is "vulnerable".

[[Punta La Marmora]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Italy, Sardinia

Punta La Marmora (Perdas Carpìas) is a mountain in the Gennargentu range, Sardinia (Italy).

[[Joanne (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 albums, Pop albums, Dance albums, Rock albums, Lady Gaga albums

Joanne is the fifth studio album by American singer-songwriter Lady Gaga.  It was released on October 21, 2016.  It was named for Gaga's aunt, her father's sister, who died before Gaga was born.  Joanne is also Gaga's middle name.cn

The album was produced by Gaga, Mark Ronson, Kevin Parker, and BloodPop, among other producers.  Gaga collaborated with RedOne on the song "Angel Down", which was written about Trayvon Martin, who was killed in 2012.  RedOne also helped produce Gaga's previous blockbuster hits, such as "Just Dance", "Poker Face", and "Bad Romance".  Country songwriter Hillary Lindsey also worked with Gaga on Joanne on songs like "Million Reasons".cn Singer-songwriter Beck worked with Gaga on the dance song "Dancin' in Circles".

Two singles were released for the album:  "Perfect Illusion" and "Million Reasons".  The first single reached the top 20 in several countries, like the US, Canada, Australia, and the UK.cn "Million Reasons" first peaked at number 52 on the Billboard Hot 100.  However, after her Super Bowl halftime performance on February 5, 2017, the song entered the Billboard Hot 100 again at number four.  This is Gaga's 14th top-ten song and her 10th song to reach the top five on the chart.

Gaga went on a Dive Bar Tour at three different dive bars in the United States to promote Joanne.

Critics have said that Joanne is different from Gaga's previous releases, such as The Fame, The Fame Monster, Born This Way, and Artpop.  The album sold 201,000 copies in its first week in the United States. The album entered the Billboard 200 albums chart at number one. It became Gaga's fourth number-one album in the U.S. After the album was released, Gaga became the female artist with the most number-one albums of the 2010s decade.cn Joanne ranked at number 108 on the Billboard 200 year-end chart of 2016 in the US.

In August 2017, Gaga began the Joanne World Tour, which was set to run through December.  However, in September 2017, Gaga canceled her performance at the Rock in Rio festival in Brazil, with Maroon 5 taking her place. The European leg of her tour was postponed to early 2018 due to severe chronic pain.  She is set to continue the remainder of the North American dates.

On October 22, 2017, Gaga announced that the album had been certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America for over one million certified units in the United States.

[[Milky Way–Andromeda collision]]

CATEGORIES: Spiral galaxies, Local galaxies, Milky Way

The collision between the Milky Way and Andromeda will happen about four billion years in the future.

The Andromeda galaxy is approaching the Milky Way at about 110 as shown by its blueshift. Until 2012, it was not known whether the possible collision was definitely going to happen or not, because its proper motion was too small to measure.

In 2012, researchers concluded that the collision is sure to happen. They used the Hubble Space Telescope to track the motion of stars in Andromeda between 2002 and 2010 with great accuracy. Andromeda's tangential or sideways velocity with respect to the Milky Way was much smaller than the speed of approach. Therefore, it is expected that it will collide with the Milky Way in around 4 billion years.

Such collisions are relatively common. Andromeda, for example, has collided with at least one other galaxy in the past. Several dwarf galaxies such as SagDEG are already colliding with the Milky Way and being merged into it. The Antennae galaxies are an example of two roughly equal spiral galaxies colliding.

[[Slow loris]]

CATEGORIES: Lorisoidea

Slow lorises are the genus Nycticebus, nocturnal species of strepsirrhine primates. They live in southeast Asia and nearby areas.

There are about eight species: the Sunda slow loris (N. coucang), Bengal slow loris (N. bengalensis), pygmy slow loris (N. pygmaeus), Javan slow loris (N. javanicus), Philippine slow loris (N. menagensis), Bangka slow loris (N. bancanus), Bornean slow loris (N. borneanus), and Kayan River slow loris (N. kayan).

The group's closest relatives are the slender lorises of southern India and Sri Lanka. Their next closest relatives are the African lorisids, the pottos, false pottos, and angwantibos. They are less closely related to the remaining lorisoids (the various types of galago), and more distantly to the lemurs of Madagascar. Their evolutionary history is uncertain: their fossil record is patchy and molecular clock studies have given various results.

Slow lorises eat insects, small birds and reptiles, eggs, fruits, gums, nectar and some vegetation. A 1984 study of the Sunda slow loris found its diet was 71% fruit and gums, and 29% insects and other animal prey. A more detailed study of another Sunda slow loris population in 2002 and 2003 showed different dietary proportions: 43.3% gum, 31.7% nectar, 22.5% fruit, and just 2.5% arthropods and other animal prey.

[[Scrapie]]

CATEGORIES: Animal diseases

Scrapie is a  fatal disease that affects the nervous system of sheep and goats. It is similar to Mad cow disease which affects cattle. Scrapie was first described in 1732. Much like with mad cow disease, prions seem to be involved in transmitting it.

[[Stone slab]]

CATEGORIES: Architecture

A stone slab is a big stone, flat and of little thickness, that are generally used  for paving floors, for covering walls or as headstones.

Other definitions refine the meaning a bit more:

[[Marecchia]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Italy, Emilia-Romagna, Tuscany

The Marecchia (Ariminus) is a river of the Emilia-Romagna region. The city of Rimini gets its name from the Latin name of the river.

Its low course marks the end of the Padan Plain (Pianura Padana).

[[Shijiazhuang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Shijiazhuang (石家庄) is a city in China. It is the capital of Hebei province.

The city is at the edge of the North China Plain. It is about 263 southwest of Beijing.

[[Manchu queue]]

CATEGORIES: Hairstyles

The Manchu queue or the Manchu braid was a hairstyle that all men in China during the Qing Dynasty (1644-1912) had to wear. After the overthrow of the Qing dynasty, Chinese men no longer had to wear the Manchu queue.

[[War bride]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage

During war, or when a country is occupied, many people who serve in the military are present in that country. Some of these people are soldiers, other people are part of military personnel. Women who marry those people are known as war brides. The effect is well-documented for the period of the First and Second World War, but it also applies to other wars, such as the Philippine–American War, the Vietnam War, the Korean War or the Occupation of Japan. 

[[Neravy]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in India, Settlements in Puducherry, Karaikal District

Neravy is a town as well as in the Karaikal district of Puducherry Union territory, India. This town is located 145km away from Pondicherry, the capital of this union territory.

[[Catenary]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry

A catenary is a type of curve. An ideal chain hanging between two supports and acted on by a uniform gravitational force makes the shape of a catenary. (An ideal chain is one that can bend perfectly, cannot be stretched and has the same density throughout.) The supports can be at different heights and the shape will still be a catenary. A catenary looks a bit like a parabola, but they are different.

The equation for a catenary in Cartesian coordinates is

Hence, we can also write the catenary equation as

The word "catenary" comes from the Latin word catena, which means "chain". A catenary is also called called an alysoid and a chainette.

[[Perfect information]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

Perfect information has different definitions depending on the field.

In economics, the term perfect information refers to an element of competition in a market which is perfect and idealized. This is commonly known as perfect competition.

In the mathematical branch of game theory, a perfect information game uses perfect information if all the actions taken in the game are known, and the state of the game's materials is available to all players. Perfect information is a type of common knowledge. Perfect information relates to the materials of the game, and to the rules of the game.

It follows that imperfect information is when elements of the game (materials or rules) are not equally available to all participants. 

Perfect information games do not require that each player has a working memory of past positions but that merely they have had the opportunity to view such past actions.

[[Holon Children's Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in Israel, 2001 establishments, 2000s establishments in Israel

Holon Children's Museum (מוזיאון הילדים חולון) is the first museum dedicated for children in Israel.November 2016 It was opened in 2001. The museum is located in Shimon Peres Park in Holon.

[[Compromise of 1850]]

CATEGORIES: Origins of the American Civil War, 1850s in California

The Compromise of 1850 was a series of laws passed in 1850 that dealt with the controversial issue of slavery in the United States. As a result of the Mexican–American War, the United States acquired a great deal of new territory. The laws admitted California as a free state, and created the new territories of New Mexico and Utah. A dispute over the boundary between Texas and New Mexico was settled with Texas losing the New Mexico territory. It put an end to the slave trade in Washington, D.C. and made it easier for Southern slaveowners to recover runaway slaves. The compromise called for each new state to decide for itself whether it would be a slave or free states. The commerce and trade compromise ended the slave trade and eventually led to the Emancipation Proclamation.

[[Timeline of events leading to the American Civil War]]

CATEGORIES: Origins of the American Civil War

A timeline of events leading up to the American Civil War describes the events which historians recognize as contributing to the American Civil War. Many of these events lead back to the founding of the country. The United States Constitution makes only a few mentions of slavery leaving it largely up to the individual states to govern it. As the Northern and Southern United States developed along separate lines, slavery eventually disappeared from the North. It became an institution in the South. As new parts of the country opened up to settlement the issues over slavery started a long-standing controversy between North and South. It became a burning issue and led to secession of several Southern states. This in general led to the Civil War.

[[West London Synagogue]]

CATEGORIES: Synagogues, Buildings and structures in London

West London Synagogue is the oldest Reform synagogue located in London, England, United Kingdom. The synagogue was established on 15 April 1840.

[[Julio César Turbay Ayala]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2005 deaths, Presidents of Colombia

Julio César Turbay Ayala (18 June 1916 – 13 September 2005) was the 25th President of Colombia from 1978 to 1982.

[[Conan the Barbarian (1982 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 movies

Conan the Barbarian is a 1982 American fantasy-adventure film directed by John Milius. Based on the stories of Robert E. Howard, the film tells the story of a warrior prince (Arnold Schwarzenegger) who must battle and defeat Thulsa Doom (James Earl Jones), an evil sorcerer who murdered his parents. Although initial reception for the film was poor, it was a box-office hit and launched Schwarzenegger's career, and in the years since, it has garnered a cult following. A sequel, Conan the Destroyer, was released in 1984, and a remake was also released in 2011.

[[Aisne (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Grand Est, Hauts-de-France

The Aisne is a river in northeastern France. It is a left tributary of the Oise river. It gave its name to the French department of Aisne. It was known in Roman times with its Celtic name of Axona.

[[Damodar River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of West Bengal, Rivers of Jharkhand

The Damodar River is a river in India. It flows through the states of West Bengal and Jharkhand. The river is nicknamed "the Sorrow of Bengal" because of the floods in the plains of West Bengal.

[[History of the United States (1789–1849)]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United States, 18th century in the United States, 19th century in the United States, Origins of the American Civil War

The History of the United States (1789–1849), sometimes called the Antebellum period, is the history beginning with the Presidency of George Washington and ending just before the American Civil War. The first government, formed under the Articles of Confederation, had ended and a new government based on the United States Constitution began. In the early 19th century, the country went though a number of dramatic changes. The country expanded its borders, cities became industrial centers and the economy grew. Sections of the United States developed differently leading to conflicts and eventually up to a civil war.		  

[[Domain name registrar]]

CATEGORIES: Internet standards, Computing, Electronics

A company designed to provide domain registration service to other companies or individuals that would like to own a particular web address. The party seeking to register the site will usually pay the domain name registrar a flat or monthly fee to keep the name registered, so that no other person is able to acquire the web address. The systems setup by the domain name registrar translates IP addresses into easily identifiable domain names. this is called the domain name registrar.

[[Magnetic storage]]

CATEGORIES: Computers, Magnetism

Magnetic storage is a way of storing data that uses magnets to store binary data. It uses patterns of positive and negative magnetisation to store data using read/write heads, which can view and change the magnetisation. A few examples include hard disk drives, floppy disks, and magnetic stripes.

[[Arrondissements of the Aisne department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 5 arrondissements in the Aisne department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of the Aisne are:

[[Union Defence Force (UAE)]]

CATEGORIES: United Arab Emirates, Military

The Union Defence Force is the armed forces of the United Arab Emirates. It defends all seven emirates. It consists of 65,000 personnel, and its headquarters are in Abu Dhabi, UAE. It has been used twice in Sharjah. 

[[Tecumseh]]

CATEGORIES: 1768 births, 1813 deaths

Tecumseh (t ti; March 1768  – October 5, 1813) was a Native American leader of the Shawnee and a large tribal confederacy (known as  Tecumseh's Confederacy) which opposed the United States during Tecumseh's War and became an ally of Britain in the War of 1812. He is also the earliest known ruler of the Shawnee Tribe. 

[[Arrondissement of Château-Thierry]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Château-Thierry is an arrondissement of France, in the Aisne department, Hauts-de-France region. Its capital is the city of Château-Thierry.

[[Croquet]]

CATEGORIES: Sports

Croquet is a sport. It was officially registered by Isaac Spratt in November 1856. It involves hitting plastic or wooden balls with a mallet through hoops (often called "wickets" in the United States) embedded in a grass playing court.

[[Computational linguistics]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

Computational Linguistics is a field of linguistics that deals with making computers understand human language.  Some of the biggest sub-fields of computational linguistics are:

Speech Recognition, which is a computer program that listens to people talk and writes down what they said

Speech Synthesis, which is a computer program that takes writing and reads it out loud

Machine Translation, which is a computer program that turns one language into a different one

Dialog Systems, which is a computer program that talks back-and-forth with a human to help them do something

[[Arrondissement of Laon]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Laon is an arrondissement of France, in the Aisne department, Hauts-de-France region. Its capital, and the Prefecture of the department, is the city of Laon.

[[Arrondissement of Saint-Quentin]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Saint-Quentin is an arrondissement of France, in the Aisne department, Hauts-de-France region. Its capital is the city of Saint-Quentin.

[[Arrondissement of Soissons]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Soissons is an arrondissement of France, in the Aisne department, Hauts-de-France region. Its capital is the city of Soissons.

[[Arrondissement of Vervins]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Vervins is an arrondissement of France, in the Aisne department, Hauts-de-France region. Its capital is the city of Vervins.

[[Dhuys-et-Morin-en-Brie]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aisne

Dhuys-et-Morin-en-Brie is a commune in the Aisne department of northern France. The municipality was established on 1 January 2016 and consists of the former communes of Artonges, La Celle-sous-Montmirail, Fontenelle-en-Brie and Marchais-en-Brie.

The town hall is in Marchais-en-Brie.

[[Gennifer Flowers]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Models from Oklahoma, Actors from Oklahoma City, 1950 births, Living people

Gennifer Flowers (born January 24, 1950) is an American model and actress. She became known after she revealed a sexual affair with President Bill Clinton. Before Clinton's presidency, she posed nude in Penthouse magazine. She also acted in two movies and one television show.

Flowers was born in Oklahoma City.

[[IOS 10]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems, IOS

iOS 10 is a version of iOS released on September 13, 2016, preceded by iOS 9. iOS 10 includes new features such as 3D touch improvements, the lock screen, Emojis in Messages, Siri's compatibility to third-party apps, and many others. This is the first time Apple has dropped support for devices since iOS 8. Apple since then have a limited support for the iPhone 5, iPhone 5C, and the fourth-generation iPad.

[[Ivory-billed woodpecker]]

CATEGORIES: Piciformes

[[McCollough effect]]

CATEGORIES: Vision

The McCollough effect is a phenomenon of human vision:  Colorless gratings appear colored contingent on the orientation of the gratings. People need time to see the effect. For example, if someone looks at a red horizontal grating and then at a green vertical grating for a few minutes, a black-and-white horizontal grating will look greenish and a black-and-white vertical grating will then look pinkish. The effect is remarkable for often lasting up to three months or more.

The effect was discovered by American psychologist Celeste McCollough in 1965.

[[Vallées-en-Champagne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aisne

Vallées-en-Champagne is a commune in the Aisne department of northern France. The municipality was established on 1 January 2016 and consists of the former communes of Baulne-en-Brie, La Chapelle-Monthodon and Saint-Agnan.

The town hall is in Baulne-en-Brie.

[[Mitch Hedberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Actors from Minnesota, American comedians, American stand-up comedians, Living people

Mitchell Lee "Mitch" Hedberg (February 24, 1968 – March 30, 2005) was an American stand-up comedian, actor, and comedian. He was born and raised in St. Paul, Minnesota. Hedberg's trademark was his hippie look and his relaxed unconventional comedic delivery.

[[Les Septvallons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Aisne

[[Decongestant]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

A decongestant (or nasal decongestant) is a type of pharmaceutical drug that is used to help stop nasal congestion in the upper respiratory tract. The active ingredients that most decongestants have are pseudoephedrine or phenylephrine.

[[2016–17 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League seasons, 2016 in ice hockey, 2017 in ice hockey, 2016 in North America, 2017 in North America

The 2016–17 NHL season was the 100th season of operation (99th season of play) of the National Hockey League. 

There were 82 games for each team in the regular season from October 12, 2016 to April 9, 2017. The 2017 Stanley Cup playoffs began on April 12 and ended on June 11 when the Pittsburgh Penguins won game six of the 2017 Stanley Cup Final against the Nashville Predators. This was the penguins' fifth Stanley Cup in their history and their third in nine seasons. They also won the Stanley Cup in 2016 and that means they are the first team since the Detroit Red Wings in 1997 and 1998 to win two Stanley Cups in a row. 

The Washington Capitals were the Presidents' Trophy winners for being the best team of the regular season. Edmonton Oilers player, Connor McDavid, won both the Hart Memorial Trophy, for being the most valuable player to his team, and the Art Ross Trophy for scoring the most goals and assists. The Oilers also made the playoffs for the first time since the 2005-06 NHL season. This tied the record for longest time without making the playoffs at 10 seasons. The Detroit Red Wings missed the playoffs. The last time this happened was in the 1989-90 NHL season. This 25-season streak was the fourth longest in NHL history and the longest in the NHL, Major League Baseball, National Basketball Association and theNational Football League. The team with the longest streak in the NHL became the Penguins at 11 seasons. The first round of the playoffs broke the record for most overtime games with 18. The Eastern Conference runner-up was the Ottawa Senators for losing the Conference Final to the Pittsburgh Penguins. The Western Conference runner-up was the Anaheim Ducks for losing the Conference Final to the Nashville Predators. Pittsburgh Penguins' player Sidney Crosby was the Conn Smythe Trophy winner for being the most valuable player of the playoffs.

[[Metropolitan Division]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League divisions

The National Hockey League's Metropolitan Division was formed in 2013 as part of the Eastern Conference in a league realignment. It followed the Atlantic Division  which and some teams also joined from the Southeast Division. Six of its teams had been in the Patrick Division  from 1981–93 (one joined in 1982). As of the 2013–14 season, it is the only NHL division without a Canadian team. Five of the division's teams are located in either the New York City area or in Pennsylvania.

[[2015–16 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in ice hockey, 2016 in ice hockey, National Hockey League seasons, 2015 in North America, 2016 in North America

The 2015–16 NHL season was the 99th season of operation (98th season of play) of the National Hockey League (NHL). Thirty teams competed. There were 82 games in the regular season from October 7, 2015 to April 10, 2016.

The 2016 Stanley Cup playoffs began on April 13, 2016 and ended June 12. The Pittsburgh Penguins won their fourth Stanley Cup. None of the seven Canadian-based teams qualified for the playoffs. The only other time in league history with no Canadian teams in the playoffs was in 1970.

[[List of United States senators from Utah]]

CATEGORIES: United States senators from Utah, Lists of politicians

Utah was admitted to the Union on January 4, 1896. It elects senators to Class 1 and Class 3. In early January 2019, its senators were Republicans Mike Lee and Mitt Romney.

[[Bagnes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Bagnes is a municipality in the district of Entremont in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Verbier]]

CATEGORIES: Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland, Villages in Valais

Verbier is a village in southwestern Switzerland in the canton of Valais. It is a holiday resort and ski area of the Swiss Alps and is recognized as one of the premiere "off-piste" resorts in the world.

Verbier is in the municipality of Bagnes, in the Swiss canton of Valais. The village lies on a south oriented terrace at around 1,500 metres facing the Grand Combin massif. The terrace lies on the east side of the Val de Bagnes, a valley located south of Martigny.

[[Piezoelectricity]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Piezoelectric material generates a small electrical voltage, when its shape is deformed. This can be by as little as a 0.09% change, and can produce 12mAh worth of electricity at 230V (standard power output). It is important to note that the actual values of a piezoelectric material's volume or surface area do not change, as only the ratios of each axis (x, y and z) that are altered. E.g. a cuboid with 20 meters cubed volume can have the normal dimensions 1 meter by 2 meters by 10 meters, and the deformed dimensions 2 meters by 2.5 meters by 4 meters; the volume would remain the same, 20.

When processed, the piezoelectric crystal become sharper as they get refined through heating and cooling. This process makes the material much more sensitive to changes in pressure, as well as increases their resistance to compressive stress that would impede its ability to function.

[[Bourg-Saint-Pierre]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais, Cities in Switzerland

Bourg-Saint-Pierre (German name: St. Petersburg) is a municipality of the district of Entremont in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Liddes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Liddes is a municipality of the district Entremont in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Orsières]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Valais

Orsières is a municipality of the district of Entremont in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Yvan Cournoyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Montreal Canadiens players, Stanley Cup champions

Yvan Serge "The Roadrunner" Cournoyer (born November 22, 1943) is a retired Canadian hockey right winger who played in the National Hockey League for the Montreal Canadiens from 1963 to 1979.

[[2016 IIHF Challenge Cup of Asia]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in ice hockey, March 2016 events

The 2016 IIHF Challenge Cup of Asia became the 9th IIHF Challenge Cup of Asia, an annual international ice hockey tournament held by the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF). It took place between 12 and 18 March 2016 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.

[[2015–16 Euro Hockey Tour]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in ice hockey, 2016 in ice hockey

The 2015–16 Euro Hockey Tour is the 20th season of Euro Hockey Tour. It started on 5 November 2015 and lasted until 30 April 2016. It consisted of Karjala Cup, Channel One Cup and Euro Hockey Tour Games. Sweden won the tournament.

[[2015 IIHF Challenge Cup of Asia]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in ice hockey, 2015 in Asia, 2010s in Taiwan, March 2015 events

The 2015 IIHF Challenge Cup of Asia became the 8th IIHF Challenge Cup of Asia, an annual international ice hockey tournament held by the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF). It took place between 14 and 19 March 2015 in Taipei City, Chinese Taipei.

[[2016–17 NLA season]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in ice hockey, 2017 in ice hockey

The 2016–17 National League A season is the tenth ice hockey season of Switzerland's top hockey league, the National League A. Overall, it is the 79th season of Swiss professional hockey.

SC Bern is the defending champions.

[[John Gilliland]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 1998 deaths, American radio personalities, Entertainers from Texas

John Sanford Gilliland, Jr. (October 18, 1935 – July 27, 1998) spoke on the radio.  He made the Pop Chronicles music documentary, which told the story of popular music in America.  He was an original member of The Credibility Gap comedy group.  He was born and died in  Quanah, Texas.  He worked for radio stations in Texas and California including KOGO in San Diego (1961–1965), KRLA 1110 in Los Angeles (1965–1970), and KSFO (AM) in San Francisco (1971–1978).

Gilliland worked on his radio documentary, The Pop Chronicles, for over two years.  He interviewed many famous musicians.  Then it was first broadcast in 1969. It covered popular music of the 1950s and 1960s. In 1969, KRLA and many other radio stations broadcast this show.  This show can now be heard online.

At KSFO in San Francisco, he also produced and broadcast, beginning in 1972, The Pop Chronicles 40’s.  This show is about the popular music of the 1940s.

He edited and in 1994 published Pop Chronicles: the 40's as a four-cassette audiobook.  This book was also called The Big Band Chronicles.  When he was retired, he still worked for KREB in Houston and KXIC in Quanah.  He died in 1998.  In 2003, Gilliland's sister donated the Pop Chronicles tapes to the University of North Texas Music Library.  They form  The John Gilliland Collection.

[[Eva Doležalová]]

CATEGORIES: Czech movie actors, Czech stage actors, Living people, 1991 births

Eva Doležalová is a Czech director, scenarist, actress and movie producer.

She was born in Prague (Czech Republic) on May 5th, 1991.She can speak 6 languages: English, French, Czech, Italian, Polish and Spanish.

[[2017 IIHF World U18 Championships]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in ice hockey, April 2017 events, Poprad, Sport in Slovakia

The 2017 IIHF U18 World Championship will be the 19th IIHF World U18 Championship, and will be hosted by Poprad and Spišská Nová Ves, Slovakia. The tournament will played 13 to 23 April 2017. Finland will enter the tournament as the defending champions.

[[GNU Anubis]]

CATEGORIES: Free software

GNU Anubis is an outgoing mail processor. It goes between the Mail User Agent (MUA) and the Mail transport agent (MTA), and can perform various sorts of processing and conversion on the outgoing mail in accord with the sender's specified rules, based on a configurable regular expressions system. It operates as a proxy server, independently from mail user agents.

[[2014–15 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League seasons, 2014 in ice hockey, 2015 in ice hockey, 2014 in North America, 2015 in North America

The 2014–15 NHL season was the 98th season of operation (97th season of play) of the National Hockey League (NHL).

Thirty teams competed. There were 82 games in the regular season from October 8, 2014 to June 15, 2015. The 2015 Stanley Cup playoffs began on April 15, 2015, and ended on June 15, 2015. The Chicago Blackhawks won the Stanley Cup.

[[2013 World Junior A Challenge]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in ice hockey

The 2013 World Junior A Challenge was an international Junior "A" ice hockey tournament organized by Hockey Canada. It was hosted in Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, from November 4–10, 2013, at the Mariners Centre. The event included the 9th annual Canadian Junior Hockey League Prospects Game Challenge, marking the third time the two events have been paired together.

[[2013 IPC Ice Sledge Hockey World Championships]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in ice hockey, April 2013 events, 2013 in Asia, 2010s in South Korea

The 7th IPC Ice Sledge Hockey World Championships took place in the SPART Complex in Goyang, South Korea from April 12 - 20, 2013. It was the first time that South Korea hosted the IPC Ice Sledge Hockey World Championships. In the final, Canada defeated the United States 1-0, to win their third title. Russia defeated the Czech Republic 3-0 for the bronze medal.

[[2011–12 NLA season]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in ice hockey, 2012 in ice hockey

The 2011–12 National League A season was the fifth ice hockey season of the National League A since the reorganization of the Swiss league. 12 teams participated in the league, which was won by EV Zug.

[[2013–14 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in ice hockey, 2014 in ice hockey, National Hockey League seasons, 2014 in North America

The 2013–14 NHL season was the 97th season of operation (96th season of play) of the National Hockey League (NHL). 

This season had a realignment. The league's 30 teams changed from six divisions to four divisions. The regular season began October 1 and ended April 13. The 2014 Stanley Cup playoffs began April 16. For the first time since 1973, only one Canadian team made the playoffs: the Montreal Canadiens.

There was no all-star game this season, due to the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. Prior to the season, the NHL, International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) and Olympic officials reached an agreement to send NHL players to the Olympics game. The league took a break on February 9 and resumed play on February 25.

The new divisions are:

Western Conference

Eastern Conference

[[2013–14 NLA season]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in ice hockey, 2014 in ice hockey

The 2013–14 National League A season is the seventh ice hockey season of Switzerland's top hockey league, the National League A. Overall, it is the 76th season of Swiss professional hockey. It was won by ZSC Lions after beating Kloten Flyers 4-0 in the play offs.

[[2012–13 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in ice hockey, 2013 in ice hockey, National Hockey League seasons

The 2012–13 NHL season was the 96th season of operation (95th season of play) of the National Hockey League (NHL). 

30 teams competed. There were 48 games. The regular season began on January 19, 2013 and ended on April 28, 2013. The season start was to begin on October 11, 2012 but was delayed due to the 2012–13 NHL lockout

The playoffs began on April 30, 2013. The Chicago Blackhawks won the Stanley Cup on June 24, 2013 after defeating the Boston Bruins in six games.

[[2014 Pan American Ice Hockey Tournament]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in ice hockey

The 2014 Pan American Ice Hockey Tournament was the first Pan American Ice Hockey Tournament, an annual event run by the Federación Deportiva de México de Hockey sobre Hielo. It took place in Mexico City, Mexico between March 2 and March 9, 2014. Canada won the tournament, winning all five of its game and defeating Mexico in the gold medal game. Colombia finished third place after defeating Argentina in the bronze medal game.

[[2011–12 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in ice hockey, 2012 in ice hockey, National Hockey League seasons, 2011 in North America, 2012 in North America

The 2011–12 NHL season was the 95th season of operation (94th season of play) of the National Hockey League (NHL). Thirty teams competed. There were 82 games in the regular season from October 6, 2011 to April 7, 2012.

The 2012 Stanley Cup playoffs began on April 11, 2012. The Los Angeles Kings won the Stanley Cup.

During the off-season, the Atlanta Thrashers relocated to Winnipeg, Manitoba, to become the Winnipeg Jets.

[[2015 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: Stanley Cup Finals, 2015 in ice hockey, Ice hockey competitions, Chicago Blackhawks, Tampa Bay Lightning, 2015 in Illinois, 2010s in Chicago, 2010s in Tampa, Florida, June 2015 events

The 2015 Stanley Cup Finals was the championship series of the National Hockey League (NHL) 2014.

The Western Conference champion Chicago Blackhawks defeated the Eastern Conference champion Tampa Bay Lightning four games to two. This was the sixth championship for the Blackhawks.

[[2014 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey competitions, Stanley Cup Finals, 2014 in ice hockey, June 2014 events, New York Rangers, 2014 in the United States, 2010s in Los Angeles, California, 2010s in New York City

The 2014 Stanley Cup Finals was the championship series of the National Hockey League (NHL)'s 2013 season.

The Western Conference champion Los Angeles Kings defeated the Eastern Conference champion New York Rangers four games to one. This was the second championship for the Los Angeles Kings.

[[2013 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: Stanley Cup Finals, 2013 in ice hockey, Ice hockey competitions, June 2013 events, Boston Bruins, Chicago Blackhawks, 2013 in the United States, 2010s in Boston, Massachusetts, 2010s in Chicago

The 2013 Stanley Cup Final was the championship series of the National Hockey League (NHL) 2012 season. The Western Conference playoff champion Chicago Blackhawks defeated the Eastern Conference playoff champion Boston Bruins in six games. This was the fifth championship for the Blackhawks.

Due to the 2012–13 NHL lockout the 2013 Cup Finals began on June 12.  The last game was June 24. This tied the 1995, also impacted by a lockout, for the latest in June that the Stanley Cup was awarded.

[[Hoek van Holland Haven metro station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Europe, Transport in the Netherlands, Rotterdam, 1893 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in the Netherlands

Hoek van Holland Haven  (Hook of Holland Harbour) is a railway station in the Netherlands. Trains used to connect with the Stena Line Dutchflyer boat service  to Harwich International in England. This station is being converted into the Rotterdam Metro.  Buses replace trains.

[[Dark web]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

The '''

bum is the World Wide bum content that exists on bumness. These are overlay bumworks which use the public  internet but need specific bum software, configurations or authorization to access.  The dark web is a small part of the deep web. The deep web is the part of the web not accessed by search engines. Sometimes the term "deep web" is wrongly used to refer to the dark web only.

The dark web includes small, friend-to-friend peer-to-peer networks, as well as large networks like Freenet, I2P, and Tor. Users of the dark web refer to the regular web as the clearnet because it is not encrypted. The Tor dark web may be referred to as onionland,

[[Vollèges]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Vollèges is a municipality of the district of Entremont in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Bellwald]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Bellwald is a municipality in the district of Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Forever (Brooke Valentine song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 songs

"Forever" is a song by Brooke Valentine. It was released on February 2012. The song's video premiered on 106 & Park on February 22, 2012.

[[Virtual image]]

CATEGORIES: Light

In optics, a virtual image is an image formed when the outgoing rays from an object always diverge (move apart). A plane mirror forms a virtual image positioned behind the mirror. Light from the source only exists in front of the mirror. The image in a plane mirror appears to be as far behind the mirror as the object is in front of the mirror.

In contrast, a real image is one that is formed when the outgoing rays form a point converge at a real location. Real images can be projected onto a diffuse reflecting screen, but a screen is not necessary for the image to form.

[[Adult Use of Marijuana Act]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 California elections

The Adult Use of Marijuana Act (also known as AUMA or Proposition 64) was a 2016 voter initiative that legalized Cannabis in California. The full name of the measure was the "Control, Regulate and Tax Adult Use of Marijuana Act". A similar initiative was on the ballot in 2010, Proposition 19. It did not pass. The initiative passed with 56% voter approval and became law on November 9, 2016.

[[Novolac]]

CATEGORIES: Steroid hormones

Novolac is a high type cyclic steroid hormone found in plants. The discovery of this substance led to creation of velox photographic paper which is an indegenous substance for making of print paper.

[[Marxism–Leninism]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the Soviet Union, Communism

Marxism–Leninism was practiced by the Soviet Union (USSR) after the Bolshevik Revolution. It was also practiced by the Stalinists in the USSR. 

The purpose of Marxism–Leninism is to turn a capitalist state into a socialist state. This is done by a revolution by the proletariat to overthrow the old government. The new government then creates a "dictatorship of the proletariat". This new government leads the country based on democratic centralism.

The communist party is supposed to lead society from capitalism to socialism. According to ML, socialism was more "advanced" than capitalism, but communism was more "advanced" than socialism. Indeed, the ultimate goal is to achieve a communist society, one with no class or state. ML just provides a first step: from capitalism to socialism.

Today, the only remaining countries who are adherents of Marxism-Leninism are: China, Cuba, Vietnam, and Laos, with North Korea moving to its own political philosophy, Juche, though the ideology was also influenced by Marxism-Leninism.

[[Mahesh Chandra Mehta]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Indian lawyers

Mahesh Chandra Mehta, born on 12 October 1946, is a public interest attorney from India. He was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize in 1996 for his legal work against pollution-causing industries. He received the Ramon Magsaysay Award for Asia for Public Service in 1997. The Government of India awarded him the civilian honour of the Padma Shri in 2016.

[[Dairy farming]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Dairy farming is a type of agriculture that is focused on producing milk. This is different from raising animals to produce meat. Milk can be used to produce dairy products, including cheese. Species commonly used are cows (so-called dairy cows), but goats, sheep and camels are also used. Sometimes donkeys are used to produce an alternative to cows' milk for babies. Some babies can digest donkeys' milk better than cows' milk.

Producing milk has been part of farming since prehistoric times.  In the 20th century, farmers have become more specialized.  Some farmers started with farms that only produce milk.

[[Mambru Went to War]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 movies, Spanish movies, Black comedy movies, Drama movies

Mambru Went to War (Mambrú se fue a la guerra in Spanish) is a 1986 Spanish dramatic-black comedy movie.  Fernando Fernán Gómez both directed and starred in the movie.

[[Binn]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Binn (Walliser German: Bìi) is a municipality of the district of Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

The Binn valley is known for its rich mineral deposits, some types of which are unique to the area. The notable Lengenbach Quarry is in Binn.

[[Blitzingen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Blitzingen was a municipality, in the new municipality of Goms and the district of Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[The Many Adventures of Mr. Mailman]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 American television series debuts, 2010 American television series endings, 2010 television series endings, American animated television series, British television series, 2000s television series, 2000s British television series, 2010s television series, 2010s British television series

The Many Adventures of Mr. Mailman is an American-British television series is an Sprout from July 3, 2006 until December 20, 2010. which premiered on United States on Sprout on July 3, 2006. as postman vehicle most Sprout shows, as an Sprout-programming block. Similar to Roary the Racing Car, Mopatop's Shop, Fifi and the Flowertots and Driver Dan's Story Train on Sprout. The Many Adventures of Mr. Mailman is a vehicle postman car post for children in the 2006 year old age group. The series uses postman mail carrier vehicle and car to bus, car, postman car and police car.

This is stills channels on United States on Sprout on July 3, 2006.

[[Ukraine International Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Europe, Ukraine, 1992 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Ukraine

Ukraine International Airlines is the flag carrier of Ukraine. The airline began in 1992, after Ukraine became an independent country from the Soviet Union. It started flying cargo in 1994. It flies mostly Boeing 737 airplanes.  It goes from Ukraine to Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Commonwealth of Independent States. 74% of the airline owned by Ukraine and 26% is owned by Cyprus. 

[[MAX Linux]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems, Community of Madrid

MaX: Madrid_Linux is an operating system of the Ministry of Education and Employment of the Community of Madrid, specially adapted for using it in primary and secondary schools, due to its simplicity, robustness and included data collection software.

Even the second version was based on Knoppix, a distribution based on Debian GNU/Linux. The current version of MaX (MaX 9.5, is based on Ubuntu 16.04.4 LTS) is specially designed for using it in the educational environment as a system for teacher or student. However, it can also be used by the users of personal computers. In addition, it comes ready to be installed and used, and is equipped with multimedia and variety of programs on three desktops: GNOME, KDE and Xfce. In any case, it can be fully used in "live" mode, that is to say, directly from the DVD without having it installed on the hard disk.

Its explicit objectives are:

[[Nouvelle cuisine]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking, French culture

Nouvelle cuisine (French, "new cuisine") is an approach to cooking and food presentation in French cuisine. In contrast to the older haute cuisine, nouvelle cuisine has lighter, more delicate dishes, and pretty presentation. It started in Paris in the 1970s, and by the 1980s was seen in London and New York. The movement is now almost worldwide.

The reasons are connected with modern business life, where long two-hour lunches are a thing of the past. Also, customers began to look for lighter food menus. Food critics Henri Gault and his colleagues André Gayot and Christian Millau put out a new restaurant guide, the Gault-Millau, or Le Nouveau Guide.

Gault and Millau listed ten characteristics of this new style of cooking. They were:

[[Afonso Africano (epic poem)]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

Afonso Africano is an epic poem by Portuguese poet Vasco Mouzinho de Quevedo e Castelo Branco. It was first published in 1611. It is composed of twelve cantos. It is written in ottava rima which in Portugal is known as oitava rima. This stanza is made up of eight lines and rhymes abababcc. The same was earlier used by Luís de Camões in his Lusiads. Vasco Mouzinho de Quevedo's poem narrates about Portuguese king Afonso who was called The African. In the poem his expedition to Morocco, the war and the sieges of Arzilla and Tanger are described. The first stanza is typical for Renaissance epic poems.

[[Sumitra Mahajan]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Speakers of the Lok Sabha

Sumitra Mahajan (born 12 April 1943) is an Indian politician and 16th Speaker of the Lok Sabha from 5 June 2014 to 19 June 2019. She is a member of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.In 2014 she got elected 8 times and she is currently the longest serving women member. She also served as the Union Minister. Sumitra Mahajan is the second longest serving women speaker after Meira Kumar.

Sumitra Mahajan was born in Chitpavan Brahmin family in Chiplun, Maharashtra on 11 April 1943. She married Jayant Mahajan of Indore. She received MA and LLB after marriage from the Indore University.

Sumitra became the first Indian women to represent the same Lok sabha constituency on the same party eight times in a row.Her record was included in the LIMCA book.

[[Kingdom of Galicia]]

CATEGORIES: Former countries in Europe, 5th century establishments in Europe, 409 establishments, 1230 disestablishments, Disestablishments in Europe

The Kingdom of Galicia (Reino de Galicia, or Galiza; Reino de Galicia; Reino da Galiza; Galliciense Regnum) was a political entity (a state) in southwestern Europe.

At its largest it occupied the entire northwest of the Iberian Peninsula. It was founded in 409, and its capital was in Braga. 

Galicia was part of the Kingdom of the Spanish Visigoths from 585 to 711. In the 8th century Galicia became a part of the newly founded Christian kingdoms of the northwest of the peninsula, Asturias and León. Sometimes it got independence under its own kings. 

Compostela became capital of Galicia in the 11th century. The independence of Portugal (1128) made its southern boundary. The accession of the Castilian King Ferdinand III to the Leonese kingdom in 1230 brought Galicia under the control of the Crown of Castile. The kingdom of Galicia was now a political division in the larger realm.

[[Sikandar Lodi]]

CATEGORIES: Indian monarchs

Sikandar Lodi was the sultan of Delhi and second ruler of the Lodi dynasty after Bahlul Lodi. He was the most successful sultan of the Lodi dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate. Sikandar Lodi ruled the sultanate from 17 July 1489 to 21 November 1517.

Sikandar Lodi was born to the first sultan of the Lodi dynasty, Bahlul Lodi and Bibi Tiger, daughter of a Hindu goldsmith.After he became the ruler he proved that he is an ablest ruler. He encouraged trade across his territories but discriminated Hindus. He conquered Gwalior and Bihar regions.

Sikandar Lodi constructed the present day city of Agra.He wrote Persian poetry using the pen name Gulrukhi.Sikandar enlarged his territories that extended from the region of Punjab to Bengal and the territories between River Satluj and Bundelkhand region.

He died in 1517 November 21 and was buried in the Lodi Gardens.

[[Talca Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Talca Province (Provincia de Talca) is one of four provinces of the central Chilean region of Maule (VII).  Its capital and the largest city is Talca.

[[Gertrude Bell]]

CATEGORIES: English writers

Gertrude Margaret Lowthian Bell CBE (14 July 1868 – 12 July 1926) was a British archaeologist, traveller, and diplomat.

She explored and mapped countries in the Middle East. She influenced British imperial policy-making with her knowledge and contacts. Bell travelled mainly in Greater Syria, Mesopotamia, Asia Minor, and Arabia.

[[Orchard Island, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Ohio

Orchard Island is an unincorporated community and tourist area located in Washington and Stokes townships, Logan County, Ohio, United States. Orchard Island is part of an island chain which includes the southeastern shore of Indian Lake, north of Russells Point. Orchard Island is the largest of the nearby islands. These include Wolfe, Fox, Willow Bank, and Crystal Beach.

[[Ernen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Ernen (Walliser German: Ärne, Aragnon) is a municipality in the district of Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2005 the former municipalities of Ausserbinn, Ernen, Mühlebach and Steinhaus merged into the municipality of Ernen.

In 1997, Ernen was awarded the Wakker Prize for the preservation of its architectural heritage.

[[Theory of mind]]

CATEGORIES: Science

Theory of mind is the ability to understand that other people have their own minds with their personal state of knowledge, their personal beliefs, wishes and intentions, and that these may differ from one's own mind. Autistic people typically show an impaired ability to recognize other people's minds. Therefore they experience difficulties with explaining and predicting other people’s behaviour. This leads to problems in social communication and interaction. Children on the autistic spectrum usually develop the theory of mind more slowly than other children. They have difficulties with it throughout their lives. However, autistic people's performance on theory of mind tasks varies.

For testing whether someone lacks the theory of mind, the Sally-Anne test is performed. The child sees the following story: Sally and Anne are playing. Sally puts her ball into a basket and leaves the room. While Sally is gone, Anne moves the ball from the basket to the box. Now Sally returns. The question is: where will Sally look for her ball? The test is passed, if the child correctly assumes that Sally will look in the basket. The test is failed if the child thinks that Sally will look in the box. Children below the age of four as well as older autistic children typically fail this test.

[[Fiesch]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Fiesch is a municipality in the district Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

Nearby Fiescheralp is administered by Fiesch and is accessible by the Eggishorn lift.

It has been designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site for its view of the Jungfrau-Aletsch Protected Area.

[[Fieschertal]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Valais, Municipalities of Valais

Fieschertal is a village and municipality in the district of Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Grafschaft]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Grafschaft is a former municipality of the district Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2001 the former municipalities of Biel, Ritzingen and Selkingen merged into the municipality of Grafschaft and On 1 January 2017 the former municipalities of Grafschaft, Blitzingen, Münster-Geschinen, Niederwald and Reckingen-Gluringen merged into the new municipality of Goms.

[[Lax, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Lax is a municipality of the district of Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Niederwald, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Niederwald was a municipality, in the new municipality of Goms and the district of Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Secession in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Origins of the American Civil War

Secession in the United States refers mainly to state secession. It applies to the outbreak of the American Civil War when on December 20, 1860, South Carolina officially declared their secession from the United States. It was followed four months later by the states of Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Texas and Louisiana. These initial seven seceding states formed the Confederate States of America based in Montgomery, Alabama. Then, on April 12, 1861, hostilities began at Fort Sumter in Charleston, South Carolina. After this, the states of Virginia (except the northwestern counties), Arkansas, Tennessee, and North Carolina joined the Confederacy. The capital was then moved Richmond, Virginia. The Northern and Border states remained with the Union.

[[Curicó Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

Curicó Province (Provincia de Curicó) is one of four provinces of the central Chilean region of Maule (VII). Its capital and largest city is Curicó.

[[My Own Prison]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums

My Own Prison is the first studio album by Creed. The album was released on August 26, 1997 through Wind-up Records. It reached multiple platinum sales.

[[Magnús Scheving]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Icelandic writers, Male athletes, Television actors, Television producers

Magnús Örn Eyjólfsson Scheving (born 10 November 1964) is an Icelandic writer, actor, producer, entrepreneur, and athlete. He is the creator, CEO & Co-founder of Lazytown Entertainment, from which he is the creator and co-star of the children's television show LazyTown, in which he starred as Sportacus.

[[Institut supérieur international du parfum, de la cosmétique et de l'aromatique alimentaire]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in France, 1970 establishments in France, Versailles

Institut supérieur international du parfum, de la cosmétique et de l'aromatique alimentaire is a renowned graduate cosmetics school in France. It is in a campus of the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines (Northern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages.

[[South African Border War]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century conflicts, Wars involving Portugal, Wars involving South Africa, History of Namibia, 20th century in Angola, 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, 1990

The South African Border War refers to the conflict that took place from 1966 to 1990 primarily in South West Africa (now Namibia) between South Africa on one side and the South-West Africa People's Organisation (SWAPO) and its allies on the other.

The roots of the conflict can be traced back to World War I, when South Africa invaded and conquered the colony of German South West Africa on behalf of the British Empire and the other Allies of World War I. In the aftermath of the German defeat, the League of Nations awarded South Africa a mandate to administer the territory until its inhabitants were ready to govern themselves. 

Following World War II, South Africa refused to surrender South West Africa to a proposed United Nations Trusteeship agreement and instead requested the right to annex it as a fifth province. Steps were taken to integrate South-West Africa into South Africa, including giving the local white population the right to elect representatives to the Parliament of South Africa. 

In 1962, SWAPO was formed to resist South African rule and petition for South West African independence. With support from the Soviet Union, SWAPO began training guerrillas and from 1966 onwards frequently clashed with the South African police and army. The war entered a new phase in 1975, when Angola gained independence and its new communist government began providing support to the guerrillas. South African troops launched raids into Angola to destroy SWAPO bases, which led to battles with the Angolan army. Cuba, which had sent troops to bolster the Angolan government, was directly involved in some of these battles. 

In 1988, South Africa, Angola, and Cuba signed a Tripartite Accord committing them to peace. Cuba agreed to withdraw from Angola if South Africa withdrew from South West Africa and granted that territory independence. South-West Africa gained independence as Namibia in early 1990.

[[Lindisfarne Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in England

Lindisfarne Castle is a castle on Holy Island, near Berwick-upon-Tweed, Northumberland, England. The island is accessible from the mainland at low tide by means of a causeway. A fort was built here in 1550 during the time of Henry VIII. About 20 years later it was replaced by a stone fortress. It was abandoned in 1893 and afterwards used as a lookout by the Coastguard. In 1903, repair work started to change the fortress into a home by the new owner, Edward Hudson. In 1944, it was donated to the National Trust.

[[Curicó]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Curicó is a Chilean city and commune in the Maule Region, in the Chilean Central Valley. Curicó is the capital city of the province of Curicó.

Curicó means, in Mapudungun, "Land of Black Water".

[[Vasco Mouzinho de Quevedo]]

CATEGORIES: 16th century births, 17th century deaths, Portuguese writers

Vasco Mouzinho de Quevedo (or Quebedo, 16th/17th century) was a Portuguese poet. Little is known about his personal life. He studied law at the University of Coimbra. He wrote lyrical poems, for example sonnets, but is best known fo his epic works. One of them is Discurso sobre a Vida e Morte de Santa Isabel Rainha de Portugal that was published in Lisbon in 1596. The greatest work by the poet is Afonso Africano, an epic poem in ottava rima (1611).

[[Lyudmila Pavlichenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1974 deaths, Soviet military personnel of World War II, Ukrainian people

Lyudimila Mykhailivna Pavlichenko (12 July 1916  10 October 1974 was a  Ukrainian Soviet sniper. She shot German soldiers in World War 2. She was one of the top military snipers of all time, and is credited with 309 kills. She was the most successful female sniper in history.

[[Institut des sciences et techniques des Yvelines]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in France, 1992 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in France

Institut des sciences et techniques des Yvelines is a graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines (Northern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degree :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages.

[[2016 clown sightings]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in the United States, Clowns

The 2016 clown sightings are reports of people dressed up as evil clowns scaring and stalking passersby, such as near forests and schools. and other clown-related businesses have been affected.

[[Trident]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons, Greek mythology, Hindu mythology

A trident ˈ is a three-pronged spear. It is used for spearfishing. Historically it was used as a polearm. Gladiators used them in Ancient Rome after they cast a net to trap their opponent. The trident is the weapon of Poseidon, or Neptune, the god of the sea in classical mythology. In Hindu mythology it is the weapon of Shiva, known as trishula (Sanskrit for "triple-spear"). The word "trident" comes from the French word trident, which in turn comes from the Latin word tridens. 

[[Mary Anna Custis Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1808 births, 1873 deaths

Mary Anna Randolph Custis Lee (1 October 1808 – 5 November 1873) was the wife of Confederate Army military officer Robert E. Lee. She was also his third cousin. They married at her parents' home, and had seven children together.

[[Fred Hampton]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 1969 deaths, People from Chicago, American revolutionaries, Socialists, American civil rights activists, People shot dead by law enforcement officers in the United States

Fred Hampton was a member of the Black Panther Party (BPP) in Chicago, Illinois. He was the chairman of the Illinois chapter of the BBP and the deputy chairman of the national BPP. He is mainly known for the way he died in 1969, aged 21. His apartment was raided on December 4th. In a gun battle lasting 20 minutes, Hampton was shot. Mark Clark, was also killed and four other Panthers were wounded. In spite of a ballistics report that showed the 14 police officers fired almost all the bullets in the raid, a grand jury failed to indict anyone. Hampton’s family later filed a civil suit, eventually winning the case with a $1.8 million settlement. The background and events of Hampton's death have been made into several documentary movies.

[[Patrick De Lacey]]

CATEGORIES: 1835 births, 1915 deaths, United States Army Medal of Honor recipients, People from Pennsylvania

Captain Patrick DeLacy (November 25, 1835 – April 27, 1915) was an American soldier. He fought in the American Civil War. DeLacy received the Medal of Honor. It is the United States highest award for bravery in combat.  He got the medal for his action during the Battle of the Wilderness in Virginia on 6 May 1864. He was given the award on 24 April 1894.

[[Norman F. Bates]]

CATEGORIES: 1839 births, 1915 deaths, United States Army Medal of Honor recipients, People from Vermont

Norman Francis Bates (November 6, 1839 - October 16, 1915) was an American soldier. He got the Medal of Honor for valor during the American Civil War. The Medal of Honor is the highest military award of the United States.

[[Carbondale, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pennsylvania

Carbondale is a city in Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania. Carbondale is located in Northeastern Pennsylvania. It is about 15 miles northeast of Scranton. The population was 8,891 at the 2010 census.

The land area that became Carbondale was developed by William and Maurice Wurts. They were the founders of the Delaware and Hudson Canal Company. The company mined anthracite coal mining in the early 19th century. Carbondale was the site of the first deep vein anthracite coal mine in the United States. It was also a major terminal of the Delaware and Hudson Railroad.

[[States' rights]]

CATEGORIES: Origins of the American Civil War

States' rights is a doctrine found in the United States Constitution in which certain rights are reserved for state governments and may not be interfered with by the federal government. They are also protected by the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution as part of the Bill of Rights. The discussion over states' rights is the oldest constitutional debate in the United States. In one form or another it still goes on today.

[[Mk 19]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons

The Mk 19 (or Mark 19) is a grenade machine gun capable of firing one grenade every second at a maximum range of 1200. The Mk 19 fires 40mm grenades at a rate of 325-375 rounds per minute (rpm).  It has a maximum effective range of 2212.  It was originally used by the U.S. Navy in Vietnam for river patrol boats. Later it was adopted and improved upon by the U.S. Army.  It is a man portable crew-served weapon that can fire from a tripod mounted position. It also fires from a vehicle mounted position (this is the preferred method since the weapon alone weighs 75). The ammunition comes in 32 or 48 round ammunition boxes weighing 42 and 60.

[[Lampeter]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Ceredigion

Lampeter (Llanbedr Pont Steffan), also known locally as Llambed, is a town and community in Ceredigion, Wales. In 2011, it had a population of 2,970 people. It is the United Kingdom's smallest university town.

Its population makes it Ceredigion's third-largest settlement, after Aberystwyth and Cardigan.

The town's Welsh name "Pont Steffan" means Stephen's Bridge.

Lampeter is best known as being the founding place of the Free Wales Army, a paramilitary organisation that wanted independence for Wales.

[[Obergesteln]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Valais, Former municipalities of Valais

Obergesteln is a village and former municipality in the district of Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Obergesteln, Oberwald and Ulrichen merged into the new municipality of Obergoms.

[[Oberwald]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Valais, Former municipalities of Valais

Oberwald is a village and former municipality of the district of Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Oberwald, Obergesteln and Ulrichen merged into the new municipality of Obergoms.

[[Champex-Lac]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Valais

Champex-Lac or Champex is a village of the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

Champex-Lac is in the municipality of Orsières.

Champex is also a small ski-resort.

[[Scripting language]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

A scripting or script language is a programming language that supports scripts. Scripts are usually short computer programs that do steps that could be done one at a time by a person. This automates a job to make it easier and more reliable. A scripting language is often a simpler language, and easier to learn than other languages, but still can do many things.

Scripts may run inside of another program, like in a web browser or Microsoft Excel. They may also be a shell that runs from a command line interface and makes calls to the operating system (OS). The shell is considered interactive - the user can choose what to type, and the shell responds to the command. These can be used to control jobs on mainframes and servers.

Some people say a scripting language must be tied to a specific use. Others use a wider definition and include general-purpose programming languages that are interpreted, not compiled. General-purpose means it can be used in many ways for different things. Some general-purpose languages (such as Java) have variations that can be scripted (Javascript). There is no specific rule on what is, or is not, a scripting language.

[[Reckingen-Gluringen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Reckingen-Gluringen is a former municipality, in the new municipality of Goms and the district Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2004 the former municipalities of Reckingen and Gluringen merged into the new municipality of Reckingen-Gluringen.

[[Ulrichen]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Valais, Former municipalities of Valais

Ulrichen is a village and former municipality of the district Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Ulrichen, Obergesteln and Oberwald merged into the new municipality of Obergoms.

[[Emilia Lanier]]

CATEGORIES: 1569 births, 1645 deaths, English poets

Emilia Lanier (1569-1645) was an English poet, the author of only one book of poems named (in Latin) Salve Deus Rex Judaeorum.

[[Satyameva Jayate]]

CATEGORIES: National symbols of India

"Satyameva Jayate" (सत्यमेवजयते 

; lit. "Truth alone triumphs.") is a mantra from the ancient Indian scripture Mundaka Upanishad. Upon independence of India, it was adopted as the national motto of India.

It is inscribed in script at the base of the national emblem. The emblem and the words "Satyameva Jayate" are inscribed on one side of all Indian currency. The emblem is an adaptation of the Lion Capital of Ashoka which was erected around 250 BCE at Sarnath, near Varanasi in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It is inscribed on all currency notes and national documents.

[[Angioedema]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems

Angioedema is swelling that is similar to hives, but the swelling is under the skin instead of on the surface.

Hives are often called welts. They are a surface swelling. It is possible to have angioedema without hives.

[[Institut d'études politiques de Saint-Germain-en-Laye]]

CATEGORIES: Education in France

Institut d'études politiques de Saint-Germain-en-Laye is a special university in France. The school is in Saint-Germain-en-Laye. It was created in 2013.

It is a specialist in the fields of economics, administration, social sciences and politics.

[[Obergoms]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Valais

Obergoms is a municipality of the district of Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Obergesteln, Oberwald and Ulrichen merged into the new municipality of Obergoms.

[[Ain (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The Ain (in Franco-Provençal: En) is a river in eastern France. It is a right tributary of the Rhône river. It gave its name to the French department of Ain.

[[WSTRN]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s establishments in England, 2015 establishments in Europe, Hip hop bands, Musical groups from London, Musical groups established in 2015, Musical trios

WSTRN is an English West London singing group consisting of Akelle Charles, Louis Rei and Haile. 

They are known because of their debut song, "In2", which was released on 13 October 2015 and peaked at number 4 on the UK Singles Chart. Louis Rei was formerly known as LB, Akelle was formerly known as A-Star and is Haile's cousin.

[[Human skeleton]]

CATEGORIES: Bones, Human body features

The human skeleton is the internal framework of the body. It is made up of about 300 bones at birth. As some bones join together, there are 206 bones in adulthood. The bones are at their strongest around age 20. The human skeleton can be divided into the axial skeleton and the appendicular skeleton. The axial skeleton is formed by the vertebral column, the rib cage, the skull and other associated bones. The appendicular skeleton, which is attached to the axial skeleton, is formed by the shoulder girdle, the pelvic girdle and the bones of the upper and lower limbs.

The human skeleton performs six major functions. These are: support, movement, protection, production of blood cells, storage of minerals, and endocrine regulation.

The male and female skeletons are not so different as those of many other primates. There are subtle differences between sexes in the morphology of the skull, teeth, long bones, and pelvis. In general, female skeletal elements tend to be smaller and less robust than corresponding male elements.

The human female pelvis is different from that of males in order to facilitate child-birth. The hips on a female are proportionately wider than males, and so the ball joints at the top of the legs are set more apart than in males. This, and the pelvic shape, gives a birth channel which allows the newborn foetus to pass through. The critical factor is the baby's head, which is much larger than in other primates.

Unlike most primates, human males do not have penile bones. This is an adaptation to the human upright stance.

[[Brihadisvara Temple, Gangaikonda Cholapuram]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in India, Hindu temples, Temples in India, 11th century establishments in Asia, Establishments in India

Brihadeshwara Temple (also called Gangaikonda Cholapuram temple and Gangaikondacholeeswaram) is a Hindu temple dedicated to Shiva located in Gangaikonda Cholapuram, Ariyalur district, in the South Indian state of Tamil Nadu. 

[[Didier Guillemot]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1960 births, French educators, French biologists, Presidents of the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines University faculty

Didier Guillemot (born in 1960) is a French doctor, specialized in infection. He is President of the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines from May 2016 to Septembre 2017.

Graduate from the Paris Diderot University in innovation and public health, he starts his career at Inserm in 1994. He moved to Institut Pasteur in 2001.

He worked on the HIV.

On April 2016, he is elected President of the Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, succeeding Jean-Luc Vayssière. He left his in September 2017 due to health reason.

[[Joseph Gérard]]

CATEGORIES: 1831 births, 1914 deaths, Christian saints, French people, Missionaries

Blessed Joseph Gérard, OMI (March 12, 1831 – May 29, 1914) was a French Catholic missionary. 

Gérard mostly worked among the Basotho people of modern-day Lesotho and the Free State province of South Africa.

Gérard was beatified by Pope John Paul II on September 15, 1988. His feast day is on May 29.

[[Ambattur]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Tamil Nadu

Ambattur is a neighbourhood place of Northern Chennai. It is located in the Ambattur taluk of the Chennai Corporation, Tamil Nadu. It was added in the part of the Chennai Corporation in the year 2011.

It is one of the fast growing residential area in the Chennai Corporation. The area of the place is 45 km2.The neighbourhood is served by the Ambattur Railway Station.

In the time of 1960s Ambattur was a village with large extends of agricultural lands. The Ambattur Lake supported the irrigational purpose.The growth of the village heightened when the Ambattur industrial estate was established in the year 1964.

It was said that the place has got its name of Ambattur from the Tamil words (ஐம்பத்து ஊர்) becvause this place was the colloboration of 50 places.

The population of this area in 2011 is 466,205 with a sex ratio of 985 per 1000 males and literacy rate of 82%.

[[SJ T21]]

CATEGORIES: MaK locomotives

T21, originally T2 is a diesel-hydraulic locomotive operated by Swedish State Railways (Statens Järnvägar, SJ) and Nora Bergslags Järnväg (NBJ) of Sweden. 60 units were built during the 1950s by Maschinenbau Kiel and Svenska Järnvägsverkstäderna based on the German DB Class V65. The T21 was technically identical with the MaK 800D. The T21 was used to replace steam locomotives on branch lines. They were used until the 1990s.

The order consisted of 56 locomotives, of which ten were to be built in Sweden with a Swedish hydraulic shift, designated T3, later T22. The shift did not work particularly well, and only four were delivered, the rest with a German shift. Later two units were rebuilt to T21s. NBJ bought four T21 units in 1963.

[[Vossloh DE 18]]

CATEGORIES: Vossloh locomotives, Bo-Bo locomotives

The Vossloh DE 18 is a Bo-Bo diesel-electric locomotive. It is the first new diesel-electric locomotive to be built in Kiel since production of the DE 1002 ended in 1993. Up to 60% of the components are shared with the diesel-hydraulic G 18.

[[SNCF Class BB 61000]]

CATEGORIES: Vossloh locomotives, Bo-Bo locomotives

The SNCF Class BB 61000 diesel locomotives were built by Vossloh to their G1206 design between 2002-2005 for the French state railways. Twenty three locomotives were built, numbered 61001-61023. As they are operated by the freight sector, the locomotives carry a '4' prefix (i.e. they are numbered 461001-461023).

These are the second locomotives to be numbered in this range, the first being the Class C 61000 (+ TC 61100).

[[SNCF 040.DF]]

CATEGORIES: SNCF locomotives, Bo-Bo locomotives

SNCF 040.DF was a class of one prototype diesel-hydraulic locomotive built for the SNCF built in 1952 by Renault.

In 1962 it was renumbered from 040.DF.1 to BB 60041.

Like the 060.DA, it was delivered in a livery of dark green with a yellow stripe.

[[TCDD DH3600]]

CATEGORIES: MaK locomotives, C locomotives

TCDD DH3600 were diesel-hydraulic locomotive built for shunting operations on the Turkish State Railways. 38 units were built by Tüvasaş under licence from Maschinenbau Kiel (MaK). In 1980-81 the shunters were rebuilt with Cummins Diesel KT1150L engines.

[[SNCF Class BB 7200]]

CATEGORIES: SNCF locomotives, B-B locomotives

The SNCF Class BB 7200 is a 1.5 kV DC electric locomotive. It is operated by the SNCF in France. The BB 7200 are part of the "Nez Cassé" family of locomotives. SNCF Class BB 15000 is the alternating current (AC) version. The Class BB 22200 is a dual-voltage version. They are numbered to show that the DC and AC class make the dual-voltage locomotives (7200 + 15000 = 22200). Another similar model is the NS Class 1600. It is operated in the Netherlands. It is a DC locomotive based on the BB 7200.

Locomotive numbers 7209, 7210, 7308 and 7348 have all been destroyed in accidents.

The class are numbered 7201 - 7440. Some have cast plates.

In 2012 and 2013, the locomotives numbered 7311, 7312, 7314, 7325, 7327, 7330m 7332, 7335, 7337, 7339, 7341 and 7342 were modified. They became BB 7600 locomotives. They were operated on the Transilien Paris – Montparnasse line.

[[Composition of the Russian Regional Parliaments]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Russia

Regional parliaments of Russia are the legislative/parliamentary bodies of power in the regions of Russia (Republics, Krais, Oblasts, Autonomous okrugs and Federal Cities of Moscow and St. Petersburg), which have different names, often collectively referred to in the media as regional parliaments.  

The federal structure of Russia includes 83 regional parliaments.  The biggest regional parliament is the State Assembly of Bashkortostan which consists of 120 deputies. The smallest one is the Assembly of Deputies of the Nenets Autonomous Okrug which consists of 11 deputies.

[[Crêt de la Neige]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Crêt de la Neige is a 1720 high mountain in the commune of Thoiry. It is the highest peak in the Jura Mountains and the department of Ain in France.

It is in the Jura Mountains Regional Natural Park (Parc naturel régional du Haut-Jura).

[[2016 United States presidential election in California]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 California elections, 2016 United States presidential election by state

During the 2016 United States presidential election on November 8, in the state of California, all 55 electoral votes were for Democrat, Hillary Clinton because 61.7% of people in the state voted for her.

[[Udara]]

CATEGORIES: Lycaenidae

Udara is a genus of butterflies in the family Lycaenidae. The species are found in the Indomalayan and the Australasian realms.

[[President-elect of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: United States presidential elections

President-elect of the United States is the title used for an incoming president of the United States between the general election on Election Day in November and noon Eastern Standard Time on Inauguration Day, January 20. During this time, the elected nominee is not in office yet.

Since the election for U.S. president is not by popular vote, the title is used for the apparent winner. The decision is finalized when votes of the Electoral College, cast in December, are counted by a joint session of Congress in early January. 

If the current president has won re-election, they are not given the title of president-elect because he or she is already in office and not waiting to become president. If a new president is scheduled to enter, then the current-standing one is said to hold the office on a lame duck basis.

[[O.T. Genasis]]

CATEGORIES: American hip hop musicians, 1987 births, Singers from Atlanta, Georgia, Living people, Musicians from Atlanta, Georgia, Stage names

Odis Oliver Flores (born June 19, 1987) is an American hip hop recording artist. His stage name is O.T Genasis. He is well known for his songs "CoCo", "Do It" and "Cut It".

[[Laura Ashley]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1985 deaths, Welsh people, Fashion designers

Laura Ashley (7 September 1925 - 17 September 1985) was a fashion designer and business woman from Wales. She began by making simple items out of her own printed cloth, but when her work became more popular she opened factories making clothes and furniture too. Ashley, along with her husband Bernard, set up a large business to sell her designs, with 219 across the world. The business faced difficult times in the 1990s, after Ashley's death, but there are still many Laura Ashley shops today, in Europe, Asia and Australia.

[[Javanese gamelan]]

CATEGORIES: Orchestras

Originally owned by the sultans of Java, the Javanese gamelan orchestra has spread worldwide, with dozens of them found from the United States to Japan, and from Australia to Ireland. The typical orchestra has mainly percussion instruments, plus a spike fiddle, a female vocalist, and a male chorus. This orchestra accompanies dramas such as the Javanese wayang kulit (shadow-puppet) drama and wayang wong, as well as performing concerts alone.

[[Itapúa]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

The Itapúa department (Departamento de Itapúa) is a department of Paraguay. The capital is the city of Encarnación.

Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-7.

[[2016 United States presidential election in Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: History of Alaska, 2016 United States presidential election by state

The 2016 United States presidential election in Alaska was held on 8 November 2016. It was part of the 2016 United States presidential election, in which all other states plus the District of Columbia voted.

On 1 March and 26 March 2016, the state also voted for who they wanted to be the nominee of their respective parties.

[[Dakota people]]

CATEGORIES: Native American

The Dakota people are a Native American tribe. They are also a part of the First Nations. They make up two of the three main subcultures of the Sioux people. They are usually divided into the Eastern Dakota and the Western Dakota.

The Eastern Dakota are also called the Santee, and are located in the eastern Dakotas, central Minnesota and northern Iowa. They have many federally recognized tribes.

The Western Dakota are also called the Yankton or Yanktonai, and are located in the Missouri River area. They also have many notable federally recognized tribes. They were often mistaken to be the Nakota (who are actually a group of tribes that broke away from the main branches of the Sioux nation in earlier times).

[[Mie Jans]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, Danish footballers

Mie Leth Jans (born 6 February 1994) is a Danish football defender. She plays for Brøndby IF of Denmark's Elitedivisionen. Since 2013, she has been a member of the senior Danish national team.

[[President Lincoln's 75,000 volunteers]]

CATEGORIES: Origins of the American Civil War

President Lincoln's 75,000 volunteers were the militia of the loyal U.S. states called up on April 15, 1861 following the attack on Fort Sumter by the forces of the Confederate States of America. This was the beginning the American Civil War. President Lincoln called for 75,000 volunteers for a period of 90 days. These limits were established by laws that had been passed in the late eighteenth century and were not necessarily a reflection of the number of troops or the amount of time Lincoln actually thought it would take to put down the rebellion. 

[[Survivor Series (2016)]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, November 2016 events, Sport in Toronto, Survivor Series, 2010s in Toronto

Survivor Series (2016) was a wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) made by WWE for the Raw and SmackDown Live brands. It happened on November 20, 2016. It happened at the Air Canada Centre in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It was the thirtieth time a Survivor Series PPV was held and the first to be held in Canada after the Montreal Screwjob in 1997.

Eight wrestling matches were performed at the event. In the most important match, Goldberg beat Brock Lesnar in one minute and 26 seconds in his first match in 12 years. In addition, there were three Survivor Series matches between the wrestlers of Raw and SmackDown.

[[Hérémence]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Hérémence is a municipality of the district of Hérens in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Corporate tax]]

CATEGORIES: Taxation

Corporate tax is tax paid by a corporation. Usually, the taxes are paid on the revenue. In the case of cooperatives, or associations the taxes may be very low.

[[Cooperative]]

CATEGORIES: Business

A cooperative (also spelled co-operative, or co-op) is when several people come together in cooperation to reach a common goal. It is a type of organization used to make the lives of its members easier; it is usually not focused on making profit, instead focusing on serving member needs.

[[WWE Raw Tag Team Championship]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment championships, 2002 establishments

For the original WWE Tag Team Championship that was active from 1971 through 2010, see World Tag Team Championship (WWE).

The WWE Raw Tag Team Championship is a professional wrestling world tag team championship of WWE, and it's wrestled for on the Raw brand. From April 5, 2009 to August 16, 2010 it was made into one with the World Tag Team Championship until the other title was retired.

[[Perfect Illusion]]

CATEGORIES: Lady Gaga songs, 2016 songs, Pop songs, Lady Gaga

music-stub"Perfect Illusion" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Lady Gaga.  It is the lead single from her fifth studio album, Joanne.  The song was released on September 9, 2016.  It reached the top twenty in the US, UK, Australia, and Canada.  It reached number one in France and Spain.

[[Georgian Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias

The Georgian Wikipedia is a Georgian language edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Georgian Wikipedia started November 2003.The Georgian Wikipedia has more than 130,000 articles.

[[Malagasy Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias

Malagasy Wikipedia is the Malagasy language edition of Wikipedia. Malagasy is an austronesian language mostly spoken in Madagascar as the first language. It is also the national language of Madagascar.

[[Breton Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias, Websites established in 2004

Breton Wikipedia is the Breton language version of Wikipedia. It was established in June 2004.

Breton Wikipedia reached 20,000 articles in August 2008. It reached 30,000 articles in October 2009. On 2014 July it reached 50,000 articles. It has 69,790 articles as of August 2021. It also became the 71st largest Wikipedia by the article count.

Breton Wikipedia is the second largest Wikipedia of a Celtic language after the Welsh Wikipedia. The total number of registered users in Breton Wikipedia is 34,786.when

[[Tessellation]]

Tessellation of a flat surface refers to the repeated placement of shapes with no overlaps and no gaps. These shapes are also called tiles. In mathematics, tessellations can be generalized to higher dimensions and a variety of geometries.

[[Vítězslav Nezval]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1958 deaths, Czech poets

Vítězslav Nezval (1900-1958) was a Czech poet.

[[Bamboo floor]]

CATEGORIES: Building materials, Bamboo

A bamboo floor is a kind of flooring which is made using bamboo plants. Today, most of the bamboo flooring products come from China and other parts of Asia. Moso bamboo is a type of bamboo most commonly used for this type of flooring.

[[Vinča culture]]

CATEGORIES: Stone Age

The Vinča culture was a culture during the stone age, roughly from 5400 BC to 4600 BC. It is named for a large site found close to modern-day Belgrade, Serbia. In addition to the territory of modern-day Serbia, sites have also been discovered in Romania, Hungary and Bosnia. Today, it is known for many ceramic figurines. Some of these figurines also have symbols on them, which have been interpreted as an early form of writing. These symbols are called Vinča symbols.

The Vinča culture was the first to develop the knowledge and skills to process copper, in the late 6th millennium BC.2 

[[Vinča script]]

CATEGORIES: Stone Age

The Vinča script is a cache of symbols found belonging to the Vinča culture of the central Balkans over 7000 years ago. The symbols have been a topic of debate amongst historians.

The Tărtăria tablets are three tablets discovered in 1961 in the village of Tărtăria(Hungarian: Alsótatárlaka). This is about 30 km (19 mi) from Alba Iulia in Romania.10The tablets, dated to around 5300 BC,11 have symbols inclay: the Vinča symbols. Some claim they are a yet undeciphered language. If this is so, they would be the earliest known form of writing. In 1908 similar symbols were found during excavations, by Miloje Vasić (1869–1956) in Vinča. This is a suburb of Belgrade (Serbia), some 300 km from Turdaș. Later, more were found in another part of Belgrade. Since 1875 over one hundred and fifty Vinča sites have been found in Serbia alone. Many, including Vinča itself, have not been fully excavated. The culture of the whole area is called the Vinča culture. Although some of these symbols look exactly the same as some letters in Etruscan, Greek, and Aramaic,12 they are generally regarded as a an original, independent development.13

[[American Expeditionary Force]]

CATEGORIES: World War I, American military personnel of World War I

The American Expeditionary Forces (AEF) were the United States Armed Forces sent to Europe under the command of General John J. Pershing in 1917 to help fight World War I. At first, the AEF fought in France alongside French and British allied forces. The war started in August 1914 and the AEF arrived in April 1917, the last year of the war. They were fighting against the German Empire.  In September 1918 the AEF launched its first major offensive as an independent army.

[[Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of politicians, Government of Azerbaijan, Azerbaijani politicians, Azerbaijan-related lists

This is a list of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan, from the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan to the Republic of Azerbaijan.

[[Hair clipper]]

CATEGORIES: Tools, Hair

Hair clippers are tools used to cut hair close to the head. Similar tools are used to cut wool from sheep. 

Hair clippers have a pair of sharpened comb-like blades in close contact one above the other and the side which slide sideways relative to each other. The clipper is moved so that hair is positioned between the teeth of the comb, and cut with a scissor action when one blade slides sideways relative to the other.

[[Merry Christmas with Love]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums

Merry Christmas with Love is Clay Aiken's first Christmas album. It was released by RCA Records on November 16, 2004. It was certified platinum and was recognized by Billboard as the Best-selling Christmas/holiday album of 2004 and the Best-selling Christian album of 2005. The album was re-released on August 18, 2009 on the Sony label.

Merry Christmas with Love debuted at number four on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart with about 270,000 copies sold. This was its highest position on the chart. By the end of 2004, around 1,004,000 copies of the album had been sold.

The album set a new record for fastest-selling holiday album, since SoundScan began in March 1991. It tied Céline Dion's record for the highest debut by a holiday album in the history of Billboard magazine.

On January 6, 2005, Merry Christmas with Love was certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America for shipments of one million copies in the U.S.  Going into the 2010 Christmas season, 1,416,000 copies had been sold in the U.S. and 2 million worldwide.

[[Arauco Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Arauco Province (Provincia de Arauco) is one of three provinces of the Chilean region of Bío Bío (VIII). The provincial capital Is the city of Lebu.

[[Rocky De La Fuente]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, 2020 United States presidential candidates, 2016 United States presidential candidates, Businesspeople from California, Politicians from Florida, Politicians from San Diego, California, US Democratic Party politicians

Roque "Rocky" De La Fuente (born October 10, 1954) is an American businessman, political activist, and politician.

He was the unsuccessful nominee of the Reform Party and that of his self-created American Delta Party for President of the United States in the 2016 election. De La Fuente was an unsuccessful candidate for the Democratic nomination in Florida's 2016 election for United States Senator and  for the Democratic presidential nomination in the 2016 primaries.

In May 2019, De La Fuente announced his plans to run for the presidency again, seeking the Republican nomination challenging incumbent President Donald Trump.

[[Rocky De La Fuente 2016 presidential campaign]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 United States presidential campaigns

Rocky De La Fuente ran a third-party campaign for the presidency of the United States in the 2016 election. De La Fuente had sought the Democratic Party's nomination during their presidential primaries. De La Fuente's campaign did not win a single delegate to the 2016 Democratic National Convention, but he came in fourth by total votes received.

De La Fuente founded the American Delta Party, and ran as its presidential nominee with running mate Michael Steinberg. He was also nominated as the presidential nominee of the Reform Party which has ballot access in Florida, Louisiana, and Mississippi.

[[Catherine Cortez Masto]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, United States senators from Nevada, American lawyers, Politicians from Las Vegas, Nevada, US Democratic Party politicians

Catherine Marie Cortez Masto (born March 29, 1964) is an American attorney and politician. She is the senior United States Senator from Nevada. She was the Attorney General of Nevada from 2007 to 2015, elected to replace George Chanos. She is a member of the Democratic Party.

When her term began in 2017, Masto became the first Latina United States senator in American history.

[[Todd Young]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, American military people, United States representatives from Indiana, United States senators from Indiana, US Republican Party politicians, University of Chicago alumni

Todd Christopher Young (born August 24, 1972) is an American politician. He is the senior U.S. Senator from Indiana. He previously served as a U.S. Representative for IN from 2011 to 2017. He is a member of the Republican Party. On November 8, 2016, Young was elected to the United States Senate in the general election. Young defeated Evan Bayh.

[[Evan Bayh]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, United States senators from Indiana, Governors of Indiana, US Democratic Party politicians

Birch Evans "Evan" Bayh III (ˈ BY; born December 26, 1955) is an American lawyer and Democratic politician. He served as the junior U.S. Senator from Indiana from 1999 to 2011. He earlier served as the 46th Governor of Indiana from 1989 to 1997. His father was former Senator Birch Bayh.

On February 15, 2010, Bayh unexpectedly announced he would not seek reelection to the Senate in 2010. After leaving the Senate, he was replaced by his predecessor, Dan Coats.

Following the withdrawal of 2016 Democratic primary winner Baron Hill, Bayh announced that he would be running to take back his old Senate seat from retiring Republican incumbent Dan Coats. He was defeated in the general election.

[[John C. Carney Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American Roman Catholics, Governors of Delaware, Politicians from Wilmington, Delaware, United States representatives from Delaware, US Democratic Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Delaware

John Charles Carney Jr. (born May 20, 1956) is the Governor of Delaware. He was the U.S. Representative for DE from 2011 to 2017. He is a member of the Democratic Party. He was the 24th Lieutenant Governor of Delaware from 2001 to 2009.

[[Eric Holcomb]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Governors of Indiana, Lieutenant Governors of Indiana, Politicians from Indianapolis, Indiana, US Republican Party politicians

Eric Holcomb (born May 2, 1968) is an American politician. He currently serves as the 51st Governor of Indiana. He previously served as the 51st Lieutenant Governor of Indiana. He was nominated to fill the remainder of Sue Ellspermann's term. Ellspermann resigned on March 2, 2016 to become president of Ivy Tech Community College. He is a member of the Republican Party, and successfully ran for Governor of Indiana in the 2016 election.

[[Eric Greitens]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Governors of Missouri, Writers from St. Louis, Missouri, American military people, American activists, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from St. Louis, Missouri

Eric Robert Greitens (born April 10, 1974) is an American politician, author, humanitarian, and former Navy SEAL. He is the 56th Governor of the state of Missouri from January 9, 2017 until his resignation in June 1, 2018. Greitens is the Former President and founder of The Mission Continues, a nonprofit organization for veterans.

On March 22, 2021, Greitens announced that he would be running for the United States Senate in the 2022 U.S. Senate elections.

[[Chris Sununu]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Governors of New Hampshire, US Republican Party politicians

Christopher T. "Chris" Sununu (born November 5, 1974) is the 82nd Governor of New Hampshire.  Sununu was a Republican member of the New Hampshire Executive Council from 2011 to 2017.

Sununu was born in Salem, New Hampshire. 

He also serves as chief executive officer of the Waterville Valley Ski Resort in Waterville Valley, New Hampshire. He earned a bachelor's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Sununu is a son of former New Hampshire Governor John H. Sununu and brother of former U.S. Senator John E. Sununu.

[[Doug Burgum]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Governors of North Dakota, Businesspeople from North Dakota, American philanthropists, US Republican Party politicians

Doug Burgum (born August 1, 1956) is an American entrepreneur, philanthropist and politician. He is the 33rd Governor of North Dakota as a member of the Republican Party. He joined Great Plains Software in 1983 and became the company’s President in 1984 until resigning in 2016 for his gubernatorial run. 

[[Phil Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Governors of Vermont, Businesspeople from Vermont, US Republican Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Vermont

Philip Brian Scott (born August 4, 1958) is an American politician. He is the 82nd and current Governor of Vermont since January 5, 2017. Before being Governor, he was the Lieutenant Governor of Vermont from 2011 to 2017. A Republican, he won the 2016 general election with over 52% of the vote.

[[Jim Justice]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Governors of West Virginia, Businesspeople from West Virginia, US Republican Party politicians

James Conley Justice II (born April 27, 1951) is an American coal and agriculture businessman and politician from West Virginia. He is the Governor of West Virginia. He is the owner of over 50 companies, including The Greenbrier, a luxury resort. Justice is the only billionaire from the state of West Virginia. 

[[Jodo]]

CATEGORIES: Martial arts

Jōdō (杖道:じょうどう?) or jōjutsu is a Japanese martial art.  

Jōdō uses a short staff called a jō. The jō is a short staff, usually about 3 to 5 feet (0.9 to 1.5 m) long. Jōdō is strongly focused upon defense against the Japanese sword. 

The art is similar to bōjutsu. 

[[Conor McGregor]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Boxers, Mixed martial artists, Sportspeople from Dublin

Conor Anthony McGregor (born 14 July 1988) is an retired Irish professional mixed martial artist and boxer. He started his career in 2008. He is signed to the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC). He is the former UFC Featherweight Champion and UFC Lightweight Champion. He has fought as a featherweight, lightweight and welterweight. He began his boxing career in 2017. He lost to Floyd Mayweather Jr. in his first match. McGregor returned to MMA on 6 October 2018 to regain the Lightweight Championship from Khabib Nurmagomedov but lost via submission.

McGregor was born in Dublin. His parents are Tony and Margaret McGregor. He started kickboxing at the age of 12. His girlfriend since 2008 is Dee Devlin. Their son, Conor Jack McGregor, was born in May 2017.

[[The Nutshack]]

CATEGORIES: Sitcoms, English-language television programs

The Nutshack is a Filipino-American animated sitcom created By Jesse Hernandez and Ramon Lopez. The show received critical acclaim from critics for its excellent jokes and comedic timing, outstanding social commentary and high quality animation.

[[Aquarius (astrology)]]

CATEGORIES: Astrological signs

Aquarius is the eleventh astrological sign of the Zodiac. The name is from the constellation Aquarius. It is an air sign. It is ruled by Uranus (Modern) and Saturn (Ancient.)

[[Roger Joseph Boscovich]]

CATEGORIES: Croatian scientists, Mathematicians

Roger Joseph Boscovich (18 May 1711 - 13 February 1787) was a Croatian polymath and Jesuit from the city of Dubrovnik in the Republic of Ragusa (modern-day Croatia). He studied and lived in Italy and France, where he published many of his works.

He produced a precursor of atomic theory and made many contributions to astronomy. In 1753 he discovered the absence of atmosphere on the Moon. 

In Vienna in 1758, he published the first edition of his famous work, Philosophiæ naturalis theoria redacta ad unicam legem virium in natura existentium (Theory of natural philosophy derived to the single law of forces which exist in nature). It included his atomic theory and his theory of forces. A second edition was published in 1763 in Venice and a third again in Vienna in 1764. In 1922 it was published in London, and in 1966 in the United States. Another edition was published in Zagreb in 1974.

[[Les Agettes]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais, Sion, Switzerland

Les Agettes was a municipality in the district of Hérens in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

Since 2017, it is part of the municipality of Sion.

[[Mase, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Mase was a municipality of the district of Hérens in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2011 the former municipalities of Mase, Nax and Vernamiège were combined to make the new municipality of Mont-Noble.

[[Nax]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Nax is a former municipality of the district of Hérens in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2011 the former municipalities of Nax, Mase and Vernamiège merged into the new municipality of Mont-Noble.

[[Saint-Martin, Valais]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Saint-Martin is a municipality of the district Hérens in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Ventilation]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures

A ventilation system is a structure that controls airflow inside buildings. Its main function is to constantly supply fresh air, usually from the outside, while sending stale air back out. Fans and pumps, vent grates and air flow tunnels are common in these structures.

The simplest systems are called “natural ventilation,” which usually means that they get their airflow through vents opening to the outside. Mechanical systems are more popular for industry. Mechanical systems are able to regulate other things, including temperature, relative humidity, and oxygen levels.

[[African Americans in the American Civil War]]

CATEGORIES: African-American history, American Civil War

The history of African Americans in The American Civil War includes the over four million slaves and approximately 500,000 free African Americans who were living in the United States at the beginning of the war. Altogether they made up 14% of the population of the country. Many served as soldiers in the Union Army.

[[Arrondissements of the Ardennes department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 4 arrondissements in the Ardennes department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The 4 arrondissements of the Ardennes department are:

[[Gwen Ifill]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in Washington, D.C., Deaths from endometrial cancer, American television news anchors, American journalists, Writers from New York City

Gwendolyn L. "Gwen" Ifill (ˈ; September 29, 1955 – November 14, 2016) was an American journalist, television newscaster, and author. She was the moderator and managing editor of Washington Week and co-anchor and co-managing editor, with Judy Woodruff, of PBS NewsHour, both of which air on PBS. 

Ifill was a political analyst and moderated the 2004 and 2008 American vice-presidential debates. In 2016, she moderate the New Hampshire Democratic Primary debate between Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton.

She was the author of the best-selling book The Breakthrough: Politics and Race in the Age of Obama.

Ifill died of endometrial cancer while under hospice care in Washington, D.C. on November 14, 2016, at age 61. 

[[Leon Russell]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Deaths from heart failure, American singer-songwriters, American country singers, American country guitarists, American rock guitarists, American rock singers, American folk singers, American blues musicians, American pianists, People from Lawton, Oklahoma, Musicians from Oklahoma, Singers from Oklahoma, Singers from Nashville, Tennessee, Musicians from Tennessee

Leon Russell (born Claude Russell Bridges; April 2, 1942 – November 13, 2016) was an American musician and songwriter. He recorded as a session musician and sideman. He had a solo career. He had 31 albums to his credit and recorded about 430 songs.

He wrote the song "Delta Lady", recorded by Joe Cocker. He also organized Cocker's "Mad Dogs and Englishmen" tour in 1970. More than 100 artists have recorded his "A Song for You" (1970).

Russell produced and played in recording sessions for Bob Dylan, Frank Sinatra, Ike & Tina Turner, the Rolling Stones, and others. He wrote and recorded the hits "Tight Rope" and "Lady Blue". In 2011 he was added into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and introduced by longtime friend Elton John.

Russell died in his sleep at his home in Nashville, Tennessee, on November 13, 2016 from heart failure while recovering from heart surgery, at the age of 74.

[[Lincolnshire, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois

Lincolnshire is a village in southern Lake County, Illinois.

[[Arrondissement of Charleville-Mézières]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Charleville-Mézières is an arrondissement of France in the Ardennes department in the Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Charleville-Mézières.

It is the most northern of the arrondissements of the department. It has an area of 1825.3, the largest arrondissement of the department. It is the arrondissement with more people living in it, with 160,939 inhabitants and a density of 160939 inhabitants/km².

[[Ricardo Rosselló]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Governors of Puerto Rico, US Democratic Party politicians, People from San Juan, Puerto Rico

Ricardo Antonio "Ricky" Rosselló Nevares (born March 7, 1979) is a Puerto Rican college professor, scientist, and politician. He was the Governor of Puerto Rico and President of the New Progressive Party.

In mid-July 2019, Rosselló faced controversy after his phone messages were leaked which revealed homophobic messages, plans to create troll accounts for Facebook, evidence of corruption and death threats towards Mayor of San Juan Carmen Yulín Cruz. In July 21, he announced that he would not seek re-election in 2022. On July 24, Rosselló announced his resignation on August 2.

[[Charles Wesley Turnbull]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Governors of the United States Virgin Islands, US Democratic Party politicians

Charles Wesley Turnbull (born February 5, 1935), was the 27th Governor of the U.S. Virgin Islands serving from 1999 through 2007. During his tenure as governor, Turnbull served as a member of the National Governors Association, the Southern Governors' Association, and the Democratic Governors Association.

[[Pedro Tenorio]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Governors of the Northern Mariana Islands, US Republican Party politicians

Pedro "Teno" Pangelinan Tenorio (April 18, 1934 – May 21, 2018) was a Northern Mariana Islander politician. He was the second and fifth elected Governor of the United States Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. With 12 years in office, Tenorio is the longest-serving Governor in CNMI history.

Tenorio died on May 21, 2018 at the Commonwealth Health Center in Saipan of complications from a stroke at the age of 84. 

[[Paul McDonald Calvo]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Governors of Guam, US Republican Party politicians

Paul McDonald Calvo (born July 25, 1934) is an Guamanian politician. He was the third elected Governor of Guam from January 1, 1979 to January 3, 1983. He is a member of the Republican Party. 

Calvo was born in Agana, Guam. He studied at Santa Clara University. His son, Eddie Calvo, was elected governor of Guam in 2011.

[[Carlos G. Camacho]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1979 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Governors of Guam, US Republican Party politicians

Carlos Garcia Camacho (November 16, 1924 – December 6, 1979) was a Guamanian politician and member of the Republican Party. He served as the last appointed Governor of Guam from 1969 to 1971 and the first elected Governor of Guam from 1971 to 1975.

Camacho died on December 6, 1979 in Tamunimg, Guam from a heart attack, aged 55.

[[Carlos Camacho]]

Carlos G. Camacho is the former Governor of Guam. 

Carlos Camacho may also refer to:

[[Carlos S. Camacho]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Governors of the Northern Mariana Islands, US Democratic Party politicians

Carlos Sablan Camacho (born February 27, 1937) was the first elected Governor of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, a commonwealth of the United States. He served as governor from January 9, 1978 through January 11, 1982. He was a member of the  Democratic.

Camacho was born in Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands. He studied at the University of Hawaii and at the Fiji School of Medicine.

[[Peter Tali Coleman]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1997 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Governors of American Samoa, US Republican Party politicians

Peter Tali Coleman (December 8, 1919 – April 28, 1997) was an American politician. He was the first person of Samoan descent to be appointed Governor of American Samoa and later became the territory's first popularly elected governor. 

He was a member of the Republican Party, he is the only U.S. governor whose service spanned five decades (1956–1961, 1978–1985 and 1989–1993) and one of the longest-serving governors of any jurisdiction in American history.

Coleman died in Honolulu, Hawaii on April 28, 1997 from complications of liver cancer, aged 77.

[[A. P. Lutali]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2002 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Governors of American Samoa, US Democratic Party politicians

Aifili Paulo Lauvao (December 24, 1919 – August 1, 2002) was an American politician. He served twice as governor of American Samoa from 1985 through 89 and again from 1993 through 1997. He was the founder of the U.S territory's Democratic Party. He had a long career in the legislature and the judiciary in American Samoa.

Lutali was born in Aunu'u Island, American Samoa. He was elected to the American Samoa House of Representatives in 1955 and served as its speaker from 1955 through 1958. Lutali died on August 1, 2002 from complications of a stroke at a hospital in Pago Pago, American Samoa, aged 82.

[[Kay Starr]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in California, American pop singers, Singers from Oklahoma

Katherine Laverne Starks (July 21, 1922 – November 3, 2016), known as Kay Starr, was an American pop and jazz singer. She was popular in the 1940s and 1950s. She is best remembered for introducing two songs that became #1 hits in the 1950s, "Wheel of Fortune" and "The Rock And Roll Waltz".

Starr died on November 3, 2016 at her home in Beverly Hills, California from complications of Alzheimer's disease at the age of 94.

[[Blinky Bill (2015 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Animated movies, Australian comedy movies, Movies about animals, Movies set in Australia

Blinky Bill the Movie is a 2015 Australian computer-animated adventure movie based on the Blinky Bill character, an anthropomorphic koala created by Dorothy Wall for a children's book series in 1933. The film was produced by Flying Bark Productions (formerly known as Yoram Gross Films Studio, which also produced Blinky Bill: The Mischievous Koala, a 1992 traditional-animated film featuring the character), and co-produced by Assemblage Entertainment (India) and Telegael (Ireland).

[[Ryan Kwanten]]

CATEGORIES: Australian movie actors, Australian voice actors

Ryan Kwanten (born 28 November 1976) is an Australian actor. He played Vinnie Patterson from 1997 to 2002 in the Australian soap opera Home and Away. After his stint ended he joined the American teen drama series Summerland, portraying Jay Robertson. In 2008, he was cast as Jason Stackhouse in True Blood, he roles the animated voice talents in Legend of the Guardians: The Owls of Ga'Hoole and Blinky Bill the Movie.

[[David Wenham]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Actors from Sydney, Australian movie actors, Australian stage actors, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

David Wenham (born 21 September 1965) is an Australian actor who has appeared in movies, television series and theatre productions. He is known in Hollywood for his roles as Faramir in The Lord of the Rings movie trilogy, Carl in Van Helsing, Dilios in 300 and its sequel 300: Rise of an Empire,  Al Parker in Top of the Lake, and Lieutenant John Scarfield in Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales. He is known in his native Australia for his role as Diver Dan in SeaChange. Wenham was born in Marrickville, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

[[Robin McLeavy]]

CATEGORIES: Australian movie actors, Australian voice actors

Robin McLeavy (born 19 June 1981) is an actress from Sydney, Australia. 

[[Deborah Mailman]]

CATEGORIES: Australian movie actors, Australian voice actors

Deborah Mailman (born 14 July 1972) is an Australian television film actress, and singer. She was the first Aboriginal actress to win the Australian Film Institute Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role and had gone on to win four more both in television and film. The awards are now known as the AACTA Awards.

She is well known for having played the character Kelly Lewis on successful Australian television series, The Secret Life of Us. She is also well known for her current role as Cherie Butterfield in the successful Australian drama series Offspring. She also portrayed the role of Lorraine in the rotating cast of the acclaimed Australian TV series about Aboriginal life Redfern Now.  

She starred in lead roles in the acclaimed films Rabbit-Proof Fence, Oddball, The Sapphires, Blinky Bill, and Paper Planes.

[[Enantiornithes]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous birds

Enantiornithes is a group of extinct avialans ("birds" in the broad sense). They are the most abundant and diverse group known from the Mesozoic era. 

Most had teeth and clawed fingers on each wing, but otherwise looked much like modern birds. Over 80 species of enantiornitheans have been named, but some names represent only single bones, so probably not all are valid species. 

Enantiornitheans became extinct at the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary, as did the hesperornithids and all other non-avian dinosaurs. The Enantiornithes are thought to have left no living descendants.

The name "Enantiornithes" means "opposite birds", from Ancient Greek enantios (ἐνάντιος) "opposite" + ornithes (όρνιθες) "birds" . The name was coined by Cyril Alexander Walker in a landmark paper which established the group. In his paper, Walker explained what he meant by "opposite":

This refers to an anatomical feature. The articulation of the shoulder bones has a concave-convex socket joint which is the reverse of the joint in modern birds.

[[Barry Otto]]

CATEGORIES: Australian movie actors, Australian voice actors

Barry Otto (born 1941) is an Australian actor and voice artist, primarily of cinema. He is also an amateur artist.

[[History of the automobile]]

CATEGORIES: Automobiles, History of transport

The early history of the automobile can be divided into a number of eras, based on the method of propulsion. Later periods were defined by trends in exterior styling, size, and utility preferences. The question of who invented the first automobile depends on how automobiles are defined.

[[Arrondissement of Rethel]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Rethel is an arrondissement of France in the Ardennes department in the Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Rethel.

It is found in the southwest of the department with an area of 1199.7, the second smallest arrondissement of the department. It has 37,142 inhabitants and a density of 37142 inhabitants/km².

[[Arrondissement of Sedan]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Sedan is an arrondissement of France in the Ardennes department in the Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Sedan.

It is the most eastern of the arrondissements of the department and has an area of 792.2, the smallest arrondissement of the department. It has 59,584 inhabitants and a density of 59584 inhabitants/km².

[[Antero de Quental]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1891 deaths, Poets

Antero de Quental (1842-1891) - Portuguese thinker and poet, leader of generation of seventies.

[[Arrondissement of Vouziers]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Vouziers is an arrondissement of France in the Ardennes department in the Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Vouziers.

It is found in the southeast of the department with an area of 1412.2, the second largest arrondissement of the department, but the one with fewest people living in it with 22,050 inhabitants and a density of 22050 inhabitants/km².

[[Mose Allison]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American jazz musicians, American blues musicians, American pianists, American songwriters, Trumpeters, Singers from Mississippi, Musicians from Mississippi, Writers from Mississippi

Mose John Allison, Jr. (November 11, 1927 – November 15, 2016) was an American jazz blues pianist, singer and songwriter. It was not until 1963 that his record label allowed him to release an album entirely of vocals. He was known for his songs "Parchman Songs" and "Young Man Blues". 

Allison died on November 15, 2016 at his home in Hilton Head, South Carolina from natural causes, ages 89.

[[Robert A. McDonald]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Veterans Affairs, Politicians from Indiana, People from Gary, Indiana, American chief executives, Businesspeople from Indiana, US Republican Party politicians

Robert Alan McDonald (born June 20, 1953) was the eighth United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs. He is the retired chairman, president, and CEO of Procter & Gamble. On July 29, 2014, the U.S. Senate voted 97-0 to confirm McDonald as President Barack Obama's choice to succeed General Eric Shinseki as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. On July 30, 2014 he was sworn into office.

[[Steven Mnuchin]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Bankers, Businesspeople from California, Businesspeople from New York City, Movie producers from California, Movie producers from New York City, Jewish American politicians, Jewish businesspeople, Politicians from California, Politicians from New York City, United States Secretaries of the Treasury, US Republican Party politicians, Yale University alumni

Steven Terner Mnuchin (born December 21, 1962) is an American banker, movie producer and political fundraiser. He was the 77th United States Secretary of the Treasury, under the Trump Administration from February 13, 2017 to January 20, 2021.

[[Fugitive slave laws]]

CATEGORIES: Origins of the American Civil War, Slavery, African-American history

The Fugitive Slave Acts were two federal laws that concerned runaway slaves in the United States. The two acts were passed in 1793 and in 1850. They required federal involvement in catching runaway slaves in Northern States. The laws were designed to protect Southern slave owners. They required those states and jurisdictions to help in the capture and delivery of fugitive slaves. The laws were very unpopular in the North. They caused a great deal of resentment in the years leading up to the American Civil War.

[[Jack Vettriano]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Scottish painters, Officers of the Order of the British Empire

Jack Vettriano, OBE (né Jack Hoggan, born 17 November 1951), is a Scottish painter. His 1992 painting, The Singing Butler, became a best-selling image in Britain.

Jack Vettriano grew up in the industrial seaside town of Methil, Fife. He was raised in poverty, and lived with his mother, father and older brother in a spartan miner’s cottage, sharing a bed with his brother and wearing hand-me-down clothes. From the age of 10, his father sent him out to earn money. His father took half his earnings. Vettriano left school at 16.

Much of his art education came from studying paintings at the Kirkcaldy Museum and Art Gallery.

[[Devendra Jhajharia]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people

Devendra Jhajharia (born 10 June 1981) is an Indian Paralympic javelin thrower competing in F46 events. The first Indian Paralympian to win two gold medals at the Paralympics, he won his first gold in the javelin throw at the 2004 Summer Paralympics in Athens, becoming only the second gold medalist at the Paralympics for his country.1 At the 2016 Summer Paralympics in Rio de Janeiro, he won a second gold medal in the same event, bettering his previous record.2 Devendra is currently being supported by the GoSports Foundation3 through the Para Champions Programme.

[[Umayyad conquest of Hispania]]

CATEGORIES: History of Portugal, History of Spain, Caliphates, 8th century

The Umayyad conquest of Hispania was the expansion of the Umayyad Caliphate over Hispania, from 711 to 788.

The conquest destroyed the Visigothic Kingdom and set up the Emirate of Cordova under Abd ar-Rahman I. This completed al-Andalus, the unification of Muslim-ruled Iberia (756–788). The conquest was the westernmost expansion of the Umayyad Caliphate and Muslim rule into Europe. Charles Martel defeated them in the Battle of Tours, so they did not conquer France.

The conquering army was made up mainly of Berbers (north-western Africa). They had only recently come under Muslim influence. They arrived in early 711 at Gibraltar.

The Umayyad Caliphate in Damascus was overthrown around 750 AD, but continued in al-Andalus until 1031.

The period from 710 to the fall of the last Islamic state in the Battle of Granada in 1492 is called the Reconquista.

[[John Brown's Body (epic poem)]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

John Brown's Body is an epic poem by American poet Stephen Vincent Benét.

[[Slave Power]]

CATEGORIES: Origins of the American Civil War, Slavery

Slave Power, also called the Slave Power conspiracy and Slaveocracy, was a term first coined by abolitionists in 1839 and was in common use by the 1850s. It referred to the economic, social and political influence held by slaveholders in the South. Southern slaveholders had a great deal power in Congress and many other federal offices up to and including the presidency. This is in spite of the fact they made up only a small minority of the population of the nation. These few very powerful men used their influence to maintain the institution of slavery. The fear in the North was that the slave power conspiracy intended to not only to spread slavery to the Western territories but to all the states in the North.

[[Neotribalism]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology

Neotribalism (neo-tribalism; modern tribalism) is a sociological concept. The idea is that human beings have evolved to live in tribal society, as opposed to mass society. So they will naturally form social networks of new "tribes".

[[Rory's Place]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 American television series debuts, 1999 American television series endings, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, American animated television series, American children's television series

Rory's Place is an American children's television series produced by Johnny Devon. The series premiered on Ready Set Learn as part of the TLC programming block on September 27, 1997 and ended on January 23, 1999.

The series premiered on Ready Set Learn as part of the TLC programming block on September 27, 1997 and ended on January 23, 1999.

[[Protests against Donald Trump]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, 2010s, Donald Trump

Protests against Donald Trump occurred in the United States in 2016. They occurred because of Trump's presidential campaign, and because of the results of the 2016 presidential election.

During Trump's presidential campaign, activists organized demonstrations inside Trump rallies who sometimes called for the rallies to be shut down.

After Trump won the presidential election, students and activists made larger protests in several major cities across the United States. The protesters chanted that Trump is "Not my President!" and other slogans.

[[Tory Lanez]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Hip hop musicians, Singers

Daystar Peterson (born; July 27, 1992, Brampton, Ontario, Canada), better known by his stage name Tory Lanez, is a Canadian rapper, singer, songwriter, and record producer. Lanez was perhaps first recognized for his 2014 mixtape Lost Cause and his single "Say It" (2015). Lanez is signed to Mad Love Records and Interscope Records. His single charted "Say It" peaked at 23 on the Billboard Hot 100. 

[[Turkification]]

CATEGORIES: Turkey, Nationalism

Turkification was the process of turning a culturally, linguistically, or ethnically non-Turkish area into a cultural, linguistic, or Turkish area. Turkification was sometimes voluntary and sometimes forced. Turkey was once the home to many different ethnic groups before the arrival of the Turks. Among these groups were Greeks, Kurds, Armenians, and many more. These groups had been subjected to centuries of cultural assimilation. However, under Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, these groups were subjected to a second wave of forced Turkification, this time targeting their languages.

Turkification partially explains why Turkish culture is a mixture of Western, Islamic, and Shamanistic cultures.

[[Zugangserschwerungsgesetz]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Germany

The Zugangserschwerungsgesetz was a German law which aimed to make the access to child pornography over the internet more difficult. It was in use in 2010 and 2011.

[[Newton Aycliffe]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in County Durham

Newton Aycliffe is a town in County Durham, England. It is about 5 miles north of Darlington. It  makes up a part of the civil parish of Great Aycliffe. It has a town centre, Beveridge Way, and has a few superstores and supermarkets including Aldi and Tesco. 

[[NP-hardness]]

CATEGORIES: Theoretical computer science

An NP-hard problem is a type of mathematical problem used in computer science. It is a yes/no problem where finding a solution for it is at least as hard as finding a solution for the hardest problem whose solution can quickly be checked as being true. Some NP-hard problems are ones where a working solution can be checked quickly (NP problems) and some are not. NP-hard problems that are also NP problems fit into a category called NP-complete. 

[[Vernamiège]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Vernamiège is a former municipality in the district Hérens in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2011 the former municipalities of Vernamiège, Mase and Nax merged into the new municipality of Mont-Noble.

[[Lake Louise (Alberta)]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Canada, Alberta

Lake Louise, also called Lake of the Little Fishes by the Stoney Nakota First Nations people, is a glacial lake within Banff National Park in Alberta, Canada. The village of Lake Louise is on the Trans-Canada Highway (Highway 1), which is  57 west of Banff, Alberta. The emerald color of the water comes from rock flour carried into the lake by melt-water from the glaciers that overlook the lake.  The lake has a surface of 0.8 and is drained through the 3 km long Louise Creek into the Bow River. Moraine Lake and Lake Agnes are also accessible from Lake Louise.

Lake Louise was originally named "Emerald Lake". In 1884 the name was changed, naming it after the daughter of Queen Victoria, Princess Louise Caroline Alberta.

[[Anastasio Somoza García]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1956 births, Presidents of Nicaragua

Anastasio Somoza García (1896-1956) was the President and dictator of Nicaragua from 1936 until his death in 1956. He ran one of the most corrupt governments in history. But because his administration was anti-communist he was supported by the United States. García was the son of a wealthy coffee planter. He was educated in Philadelphia where he met and married Salvadora Debayle Sacasa. She was also from a wealthy Nicaraguan family. He became very wealthy through investments in land, transport, real estate and manufacturing. After winning the 1936 Presidential Election, he took control of the National Guard. He placed family members in key positions of the government. He and his family controlled the Nationalist Liberal Party which controlled the legislature and Judiciary. This gave him absolute control of the country. On September 21, 1956 he was shot in León, Nicaragua by a poet. He died eight days later. His family continued to rule in Nicaragua for two more decades.

[[Stevo Todorčević]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1955 births

Stevo Todorčević (born February 9, 1955) is a Canadian-French-Serbian mathematician specializing in mathematical logic and set theory. He holds a Canada Research Chair in mathematics at the  University of Toronto, and a director of research position at the Centre national de la recherche scientifique (CNRS) in Paris.

[[Mont-Noble]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Valais

Mont-Noble is a municipality of the district of Hérens in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2011 the former municipalities of Mase, Nax and Vernamiège merged into the new municipality of Mont-Noble.

[[Bratsch]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Valais, Former municipalities of Valais

Bratsch is a village and former municipality of the district of Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Bratsch and Gampel merged into the new municipality of Gampel-Bratsch.

[[Ergisch]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Ergisch (Walliser German: Ärgisch) is a municipality of the district Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Erschmatt]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Erschmatt was a municipality of the district of Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipality of Erschmatt merged into the municipality of Leuk.

[[Ritzingen]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Valais, Former municipalities of Valais

[[Selkingen]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Valais, Former municipalities of Valais

Selkingen is a village and former municipality in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2001 the former municipalities of Selkingen, Biel and Ritzingen merged into the new municipality of Grafschaft.

[[Burlington County, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: 17th-century establishments in New Jersey, 1690s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 1694, New Jersey counties

Burlington County is a county in the U.S. state of New Jersey. Its county seat is Mount Holly. As of the 2018 Census Bureau estimate, the county's population was 445,384, making it the 11th-largest of the state's 21 counties.

[[Judea (Roman province)]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces

Judea was a small third-class province in the Roman Empire. It occupied the same area as modern Israel and Palestine. For centuries Judea had been under the rule of the Seleucid Empire. As that empire broke down, Rome gradually took control of the eastern parts of the Mediterranean. By 64 BC, after nearly two centuries of independent rule, those struggling for the Judean crown asked Emperor Pompey the Great to decide. Pompey stepped in and made Judea a client state. It briefly became a procuratorship between 41 and 44 AD under King Herod Agrippa. After his death it was returned to a province again. It was the scene of several wars called the Jewish–Roman wars. In 70 AD it was the scene of the Great Jewish Revolt resulting in the institution of the Fiscus Judaicus. After Bar Kokhba's revolt (132–135), the Roman Emperor Hadrian changed the name of the province to Syria Palaestina. The name Jerusalem was changed to Aelia Capitolina. 

[[Mut]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Mut was an ancient Egyptian goddess.  Mut meant mother in the ancient Egyptian language. Her name can also be spelled Maut or Mout. She is associated with the waters from which everything was born.

Some of Mut's many titles included World-Mother, Eye of Ra, Queen of the Goddesses, Lady of Heaven, Mother of the Gods, and She Who Gives Birth, But Was Herself Not Born of Any.

In art, Mut was pictured as a woman with the wings of a vulture. She holds an ankh and wears the united crown of Upper and Lower Egypt. Her dress is bright red or blue. There is a feather of the goddess Ma'at at her feet.

Mut is sometimes shown as a cobra, a cat, a cow, or as a lioness as well as the vulture.

[[Sopdet]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

In Egyptain mythology Sopdet was the goddess of the star Sothis. Sothis is thought to be the star Sirius. 

The name Sopdet means sharp in Egyptain. This is a reference to the brightest star in the night sky. In art she is shown as a woman with a five-pointed star upon her head.

[[Monthu]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Monthu is a god of war in Egyptian mythology. He is usually shown as a falcon-headed man with two long feathers and a sun disk.

Monthu's name can be written in English as Mont, Montu, Montju, or Menthu.

Montu had several partners, including the goddess Tenenet, the goddess Iunit, and a female form of Ra.

[[Qetesh]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian mythology

Qetesh was a goddess in the ancient Egyptian religion, popular during the New Kingdom.

Qetesh was a fertility goddess of sacred ecstasy and sexual pleasure.  She was adopted from Canaan in what is now Syria. 

[[Arrondissements of the Var department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Var department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Var are:

[[Wosret]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian mythology

Wosret is an Egyptian goddess with a cult centre at Thebes in Upper Egypt. She is initially a localised guardian diety whose cult rose widely to prominence during the stable 12th dynasty when three pharaohs were named as her son; for example, Senwosret the man of Wosret.

[[Wepwawet]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian mythology

In late Egyptian Mythology Wepwawet (also rendered Upuaut) was originally a war deity whose cult centre was Asyut in Upper Egypt. His name means opener of the ways and he is often depicted as a wolf standing at the prow of a solar boat. Some interpret that Wepwawet is seen as a scout going out to clear routes for the army to proceed forward. One inscription from the Sinai states that Wepwawet "opens the way" to king Sekhemkhet's victory.

Over time, the connection to war, and thus to death, led to Wepwawet also being seen as one who opened the ways to, and through, Duat, for the spirits of the dead. 

[[East Africa Time]]

CATEGORIES: Time zones

East Africa Time or EAT is a time zone used in Eastern Africa. It is often named as UTC+3. There is no daylight saving time since it is so near the equator.

[[Arrondissement of Draguignan]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Draguignan is an arrondissement of France, in the Var department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Draguignan.

[[Tatenen]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian mythology

Tatenen is the god of primordial mound in the ancient Egyptian religion. His name mean risen land or exalted earth, as well as referring to the silt of the Nile. As a primeval chthonic deity, Tatenen is identified with creation. He is an androgynous protector of nature from the Memphis area the ancient capital of the Aneb-Hetch nome in Lower Egypt.

[[Heka (god)]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Heka was the deification of magic in ancient Egypt. The name is the Egyptian word for "magic" . According to Egyptain writing Heka existed "before duaity had yet come into being". The term "Heka" was also used to refer to the practice of magical rituals.

[[Arrondissement of Brignoles]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Brignoles is an arrondissement of France, in the Var department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Brignoles.

[[Cree language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages

Cree ˈ (also known as Cree–Montagnais–Naskapi) is an Algonquian language spoken by about 117,000 people across Canada from the Northwest Territories and Alberta to Labrador. This makes it the aboriginal language with the highest number of speakers in Canada. Despite having a large number of speakers within this wide-ranging area, the only region where Cree has any official status is in the Northwest Territories. This is along with eight other official aboriginal languages.

[[Arrondissement of Toulon]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Toulon is an arrondissement of France, in the Var department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Toulon.

[[The Humane Society of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Animal rights, Non-profit organizations of Washington, D.C., Ethics, 1954 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Washington, D.C.

The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS), based in Washington, D.C., is an American nonprofit organization that does activism against animal cruelty. It was founded in 1954. They do this by organizing campaigns to get laws passed and by investigating companies.

HSUS opposes cruelty against animals used for food.

The organization works on a full range of animals, including pets, wildlife, farm animals, horses, and animals used in research, testing and education.

HSUS works with another organization, the Fund for Animals, to operate animal sanctuaries in five states. However, it does not operate animal shelters itself. HSUS also trains rescue groups and shelters.

HSUS has been criticized for the way it spends its money.

[[Blockade runners of the American Civil War]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War

The blockade runners of the American Civil War were specially outfitted Confederate ships designed to slip through the blockade of Southern by the Union Navy during the American Civil War. On April 19, 1861, one week after Confederate forces attacked Fort Sumter, President Abraham Lincoln ordered the blockade. In response, the Confederacy used small fast ships known as blockade runners. During the first two years of the Civil War, the blockade had very limited success. As many as two out of every three ships entering or leaving Southern ports were successful. The Union Navy had to patrol nearly 3,500 miles of seashore along the Atlantic and Gulf coastlines. But as the Union built more ships, the blockade became more effective. As few as 25% of blockade runners were successful later in the war. 

[[Franklin Township, Somerset County, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey

Franklin Township is a township in New Jersey. In 2010, about 62,300 people lived in Franklin.

[[Valles Marineris]]

CATEGORIES: Mars, Canyons

Valles Marineris is a canyon system on Mars. It is 4000 long.

[[Beatboxing]]

CATEGORIES: Percussion instruments

Beatboxing is making percussive noises with the mouth, lips, tongue and voice. Performers try an imitate the sounds of a drum machine. It is used a lot in hip-hop music.

it also includes the use of humming, singing and tapping.

a famous beatboxer is codfish, his famous "no diggity" song is widely heard throughout the beatboxing community.

[[Golaghmuli Valley]]

CATEGORIES: Gilgit-Baltistan

Golaghmuli Valley is a high mountainous valley in Upper Ghizer of Gilgit-Baltistan Pakistan. This valley is  east of Chitral and north of Swat. Golaghmuli Valley is separated from the Chitral and Swat by high mountain passes. To reach Golaghmuli Valley, a person must take the Gilgit-Chitral road west from Gilgit, and then continue straight by Gupis. After Gupis, one continues northwest to reach the Yasin Valley and the straight road goes to Golaghmuli Valley. Golaghmuli Valley has a spectacular natural beauty.

[[Battle of Stamford Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Battles involving England, Battles of the Middle Ages, 1066 in England

The Battle of Stamford Bridge took place near the village of Stamford Bridge, East Riding of Yorkshire, in England. On the 25th of September 1066, an English army under King Harold Godwinson fought an invading Norwegian army led by King Harald Hardrada. The English king's brother Tostig Godwinson, joined Hardrada's forces. After a bloody and brutal battle, both Hardrada and Tostig along with a large number of the Norwegians were killed. Godwinson's achieved a complete victory. This battle marks the end of the Viking Age in England. Less than three weeks later, Godwinson's English army was defeated by William the Conqueror at the Battle of Hastings.

[[François Villon]]

CATEGORIES: 1431 births, 1460s deaths, French poets

François Villon was a French poet. Villon was born in Paris in 1431, he died after 1463. His real name was likely François de Montcorbier or François des Loges. Today, he is considered the most important poet of the late  Middle Ages in France. His parents were poor and died when he was still young; Guillaume de Villon was responsible for his upbringing. In 1455, he changed his name to Villon.

[[David Gentleman]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, British artists

David Gentleman (born 11 March 1930) is an English artist. He studied at the Royal College of Art and was taught by Edward Bawden and John Nash. He works in watercolour, lithography and wood engraving. Some of his work is very large, such as the platform-length murals for Charing Cross underground station in London. Some of his work is very small, including postage stamps and logos.

His themes include landscape and environmental posters, drawings of street life, and protest placards. He has written and illustrated many books, mostly about countries and cities.

[[Gampel]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais, Villages in Valais

Gampel is a village and former municipality in the district of Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Gampel and Bratsch merged into the new municipality of Gampel-Bratsch.

[[Gampel-Bratsch]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais, 2009 establishments in Switzerland

Gampel-Bratsch is a municipality of the district of Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Bratsch and Gampel merged into the new municipality of Gampel-Bratsch.

[[Weather vane]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Weather instruments

A weather vane is a device with a freely rotating pointer used to indicate the direction of the wind. Weather vanes served as simple devices for showing the direction of the wind and its speed for centuries. They were a critical tool for agriculture, travel and shipping. They serve a largely decorative function today. They have been replaced by specialized weather instruments. 

To work correctly a weather vane should be at the highest point of a building. It needs to be as far away as possible from other things that might interrupt the wind. The simplest form is a horizontal arrow or other form freely rotating on a vertical rod. When the wind blows, the arrow shows the direction and speed. The earliest known weather was made by the astronomer Andronicus in 48 BC. It sat on top of the Tower of the Winds in Athens. It was between 4 and 8 long and was the shape of a head and torso of a man with the tail of a fish.

The word 'vane' comes from the Old English fana banner. This is related to the Old High German fano (cloth); from the Latin pannus (cloth or rag).

[[Tatar Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias

Tatar Wikipedia is the Tatar language edition of Wikipedia. There are an estimated 5.2 million speakers of Kazan Tatar. Many live in Russia and the countries of the former Soviet republics. Most are concentrated in Tatarstan and in Bashkortostan. There are also Tatar speakers in the cities of Moscow, St.Petersburg and elsewhere in Russia. Tatar is the largest of the minority languages spoken in Russia. 

The total number of articles written in this wikipedia edition is 69,865. The number of administrators in this wikipedia is 3. There are about 54 active users of this wikipedia out of a total number of 21,495 users.

[[Arrector pili]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy

Musculus arrrector pili are muscles found at the end of hair in mammals.

[[Guttet-Feschel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Guttet-Feschel is a municipality of the district of Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 October 2000 the former municipalities of Feschel and Guttet merged into the new municipality of Guttet-Feschel.

[[Inden, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Inden is a municipality of the district of Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

It is on a high plateau and along the road that runs from Leukerbad to the Gemmi Pass.

[[Leukerbad]]

CATEGORIES: Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland, Municipalities of Valais

Leukerbad (Loèche-les-Bains, Walliser German: Leiggerbad) is a municipality of the district Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Oberems, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Oberems is a municipality of the district  Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Var (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The Var (Varus) is a river in southeastern France. It is a right tributary of the Rhône river.It gave its name to the French department of Var. It is a unique case in France of a river not flowing in the department named after it (see Var)

[[Friesian horse]]

CATEGORIES: Horse breeds, Frisian culture

The Friesian horse is a horse breed that originated from the Friesland province of the netherlands.

[[Beverly Tyler]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2005 deaths, Actors from Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Singers from Pennsylvania

Beverly Tyler (July 5, 1927 – November 23, 2005) was a US-American singer and actress in American film and television from the 1940s into the 1960s.''

[[Adinath Temple]]

Adinath temple may refer to:

[[Irving A. Fradkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2016 deaths, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from Massachusetts

Irving A. Fradkin (March 28, 1921 – November 19, 2016) was an optometrist and founder and president emeritus of Scholarship America.

[[Sharon Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2016 deaths, American funk singers, American R&B singers, American soul singers, Cancer deaths in New York, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, People from Augusta, Georgia, Singers from Georgia (U.S. state), Singers from New York City

Sharon Lafaye Jones (May 4, 1956 – November 18, 2016) was an American soul and funk singer. She was the lead singer of Sharon Jones & The Dap-Kings, a soul and funk band based in Brooklyn, New York. 

Jones died on November 18, 2016 in Cooperstown, New York of complications from pancreatic cancer, aged 60.

[[António Guterres]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, People from Lisbon, Prime Ministers of Portugal, Socialists, United Nations High Commissioners for Refugees

António Manuel de Oliveira Guterres, GCL GCC (ɐ̃ˈtɔnju ɡuˈtɛʁɨʃ; born 30 April 1949) is a Portuguese politician and diplomat. He became the Secretary-General of the United Nations in 2017. Guterres was Prime Minister of Portugal from 1995 to 2002, as leader of the Socialist Party. He also served as President of the Socialist International from 1999 to 2005.

He was the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees from June 2005 to December 2015, and in October 2016 the United Nations General Assembly elected him by acclamation to become the next United Nations secretary-general. He replaced Ban Ki-moon.

[[Christos Sartzetakis]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Chief justices, Presidents of Greece

Christos Sartzetakis (Χρήστος Σαρτζετάκης; born 6 April 1929) is a Greek jurist and former supreme justice of the Court of Cassation. He was the President of the Third Hellenic Republic from 1985 to 1990. 

He was born in Neapoli, Thessaloniki in 1929.

[[Michael Flynn]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American generals, Politicians from Rhode Island, United States National Security Advisors, US Democratic Party politicians

Michael Thomas "Mike" Flynn (born December 1958) is a retired United States Army lieutenant general. On January 20, 2017, Flynn became the 25th United States National Security Advisor. He resigned on February 13, 2017. He last served as the 18th Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, from July 22, 2012 to August 7, 2014.

On November 18, 2016, Flynn accepted president-elect Donald Trump's offer of the position of National Security Advisor.

The Wall Street Journal reported on January 22, 2017, that Flynn was under investigation by U.S. counterintelligence agents for his communications with Russian officials. On February 13, 2017, Flynn resigned the position of National Security Advisor.

On December 1, 2017, it was reported that Flynn had accepted a deal with Special Counsel Robert Mueller to plead guilty to a single count, that of "willfully and knowingly" making "false, fictitious and fraudulent statements" to the FBI, a felony.

On November 25, 2020, Flynn was issued a presidential pardon by President Trump.  Since being pardoned, Flynn has expressed his support for suspending the United States constitution and the imposition of martial law under President Donald Trump.

[[Steve Bannon]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Politicians from Virginia, Businesspeople from Virginia, US Republican Party politicians

Stephen Kevin Steve Bannon (born November 27, 1953) is an American campaign manager, businessman and media executive and former Counselor and Senior Adviser to Donald Trump.

He became chief executive officer of the 2016 presidential campaign of Donald Trump in August 2016. Bannon will be be chief strategist and Senior Counselor for the Presidency of Donald Trump.  President Trump signed an executive order giving Bannon a seat on the United States National Security Council. He was removed from the National Security Council on April 5, 2017.

Bannon resigned on August 4, 2017, but his resignation became in effect on August 18, 2017.

In August 2020, Bannon was arrested in New York and indicted for fraud in connection with an online fundraising scheme.

[[Joe Kennedy III]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, American lawyers, American Roman Catholics, Harvard University alumni, Kennedy family, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, Stanford University alumni, United States representatives from Massachusetts, US Democratic Party politicians

Joseph Patrick "Joe" Kennedy III (born October 4, 1980) is an American lawyer, politician, and a member of the Kennedy family. He was the U.S. Representative for MA from 2013 to 2021. He is a Democrat whose district stretches from the western suburbs of Boston to the state's South Coast.

He is the son of former U.S. Representative Joseph P. Kennedy II and grandson of Robert F. Kennedy and Ethel Skakel Kennedy. He worked as a Peace Corps volunteer and as an assistant district attorney in the Cape and Islands and Middlesex offices before his election to Congress.

On January 30, 2018, Kennedy delivered the Democratic response to President Trump's State of the Union address.

On September 21, 2019, Kennedy announced his plans to run against Ed Markey in the 2020 Massachusetts  United States Senate race. He lost the primary to Markey on September 1, 2020, making him the first Kennedy family member to lose an election in Massachusetts.

[[Adam Kokesh]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American political activists, American military people, American political writers, Politicians from New Mexico, Politicians from Arizona, Politicians from San Francisco, People from Santa Fe, New Mexico, Writers from San Francisco, Writers from New Mexico, Writers from Arizona, US Libertarian Party politicians, 2020 United States vice-presidential candidates, 2020 United States presidential candidates

Adam Charles Kokesh (born February 1, 1982 in San Francisco, California) is an American political activist. He is a decorated veteran of the War in Iraq, Kokesh came to disparage war and advocate nonviolent resistance to power. He is a member of the Libertarian Party. He has called for a "new American revolution" for the "orderly dissolution of the federal government." He was raised in Santa Fe, New Mexico. He now lives in Arizona.

Kokesh announced that he would run for President of the United States under the Libertarian Party ticket in the 2020 United States presidential election.

[[Black Awareness Day]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, Brazil

In Brazil, Black Awareness Day or Black Consciousness Day (Dia da Consciência Negra) is held every year on November 20. It is a day "to celebrate a regained awareness by the black community about their great worth and things they have done for the country". The date is an official public holiday in five Brazilian states.

Black Awareness Day has been celebrated since the 1960s. It has become bigger in the last few years. First, it was celebrated on May 13 (the date of abolition of slavery in Brazil). It was later moved to November 20 to honour Zumbi's death, and is sometimes called Zumbi Day.

[[Pukhrayan train derailment]]

CATEGORIES: Railway accidents in India, 2016 in India

The Pukhrayan train derailment was an accident that happened on 20 November 2016 in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. The Indore-Rajendra Nagar express derailed in the place of Pukhrayan, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh.It has resulted in 140 deaths and 200+ injuries.

[[Mount Selinda]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Zimbabwe

Mount Selinda is a village and mission station in the province of Manicaland in the eastern mountains of Zimbabwe. Its altitude is 1,100 meters.

Mount Selinda is on the very edge of the Chirinda Forest Botanical Reserve – the southernmost tropical rainforest in Africa. It is at the southern end of the Eastern Highlands mountain range which separates Zimbabwe from neighboring Mozambique. The Indian Ocean is about 400 kilometers away.

[[Afrocarpus falcatus]]

CATEGORIES: Conifers

Afrocarpus falcatus is a tree in the family Podocarpaceae. Common terms include common yellowwood, bastard yellowwood, outeniqua yellowwood, African fern pine, and weeping yew.

The tree is native to the montane forests of southern Africa. It can be found in Malawi, Mozambique, South Africa, and Swaziland.  The tree is widespread in some areas and not considered threatened. In South Africa it is a protected tree in South Africa.

[[Latin rock]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music, Latin music, Music genres

Latin rock is a term to describe a music subgenre. It has traditional sounds and elements of Latin American and Caribbean folk music merged with with rock music. However, it is widely used in the English-language media to refer any kind of rock music featuring Spanish or Portuguese vocals.

The archaetypal latin rock band was led by Carlos Santana. His band Santana was far and away the most popular latin rock fusion  of the late 1960s to the early 2000s. Santana has sold more than 90 million records worldwide, making them one of the world's best-selling groups of all time.

In 1969, after the release of the debut album by Santana, Latin rock appeared in the US and other parts of the world. The band's musical style is a fusion of Latin American and Caribbean rhythms, soul, jazz, funk, blues, psychedelia and rhythm and blues based on rock music.

Equally important to their success was the use of English lyrics. In the United States of fifty years ago, to sing in Spanish was to limit the audience to Puerto Rican, Mexican and Cuban immigrants. To sing in English was to open up the chance of really wide popularity.

[[New York City Hall]]

CATEGORIES: Government buildings, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, New York City Designated Landmarks, 1812 establishments in the United States, 1810s establishments in New York (state)

New York City Hall is located at the center of City Hall Park in the Civic Center area of Lower Manhattan.  The building is the oldest city hall in the United States that still houses its original governmental functions. It has the office of the Mayor of New York City and the chambers of the New York City Council.  While the Mayor's Office is in the building, the staff of thirteen municipal agencies under mayoral control are located in the nearby Manhattan Municipal Building.

It was built from 1810 to 1812. The New York City Hall is a National Historic Landmark. It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Both the outside (1966) and the inside of the building (1976) are designated New York City landmarks.

[[Gateway drug theory]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Health

Gateway drug theory is the idea that once a person uses one illegal drug, they are more likely to use other drugs.  It is also called stepping-stone theory, escalation hypothesis, or progression hypothesis.

If the gateway theory is true, people who use one drug may be more likely to use other drugs because:

The gateway theory helps shape education and lawmaking about drugs. Scientific study of the possible causes of the gateway theory is important for health policy.

[[Kavaratti]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Atolls

Kavaratti is a town and is the capital of Lakshadweep in India. It is also the name for the atoll on which the town stands. It is well known for its sandy beaches and calm lagoons. This makes it a popular tourist destination.

[[Jnaneswari Express train derailment]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 crimes, 2010 disasters, 2010 in India, Mass murder in Asia, Mass murder in the 2010s, May events, Murder in India, Railway accidents in India, Terrorist incidents in Asia in the 2010s, West Bengal

The Jnaneshwari Express derailed on 28 May 2010 in West Midnapore district, West Bengal. It is believed that the track was bombed or sabotaged, damaging it.

[[2004 Sri Lanka tsunami train wreck]]

CATEGORIES: 2004, 2000s in Asia, 21st century in Sri Lanka, December events, Disasters in the 2000s, Railway accidents in Asia

The 2004 Sri Lanka tsunami train wreck was the largest single rail disaster in history (by death toll). It was caused by the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami.

[[Charlottetown Conference]]

CATEGORIES: History of Canada

The Charlottetown Conference was a conference about the Canadian Confederation. The representatives of the unions in British North America were present at the conference. The meeting took place in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island from September 1st to September 9th 1864.

The purpose of the conference was to discuss the future of the maritime provinces in what later became Canada. The maritime provinces were Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland.

[[National Anthem of Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: Saudi Arabia, National anthems

The national anthem of Saudi Arabia, which can be known by its incipit "Hasten!" (سارعي Sâregħi), was first adopted in 1950. A few years before, this song was a present given by the Fâruq of Egypt to King Abdulaziz when he visited Egypt. It was composed by Abdol-Raħman al-Xaṭib, which was then rearranged by Serâġ Omar. Later in 1984, ‘Ebrâhim Xafâġi wrote the lyrics to the song; in the same year, the anthem was officially readopted with the lyrics.

[[Agave nectar]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican food, Sweeteners, Syrup

Agave nectar (also called agave syrup) is a sweetener produced from several species of agave, including blue agave (Agave tequilana). Agave syrup is sweeter than honey and tends to be less viscous. Most agave syrup comes from Mexico and South Africa.

[[Chuvash language]]

CATEGORIES: Chuvash Republic, Languages of Russia, Turkic languages

Chuvash (Чӑвашла, Čăvašla; tɕəʋaʂˈla) is a Turkic language. It is spoken in Chuvashia, a part of central Russia. It is the only language from the Oghur branch of the Turkic languages that is still spoken today. Though many Turkic languages can be understood by different speakers, Chuvash is quite different.

Chuvash is written using the Cyrillic script. Its alphabet has all of the letters of the Russian alphabet and adds four letters of its own: Ӑ, Ӗ, Ҫ and Ӳ.

[[Playback singer]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry, Singers

A playback singer is a singer whose singing is pre-recorded for use in movies. Playback singers record songs for soundtracks. The actors or actresses lip-sync the songs for cameras. The actual singer does not appear on screen.

South Asian movies produced in the Indian subcontinent are particularly known for using this technique. A majority of Indian movies as well as Pakistani movies typically include six or seven songs. Popular playback singers in India enjoy the same status as popular actors. Most of the playback singers are initially trained in classical music. Mohammed Rafi and Ahmed Rushdi are regarded as two of the most influential playback singers in South Asia.

[[AQ]]

AQ, Aq, aQ, or aq may refer to:

[[Bihar train derailment]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 in Asia, 1980s in India, Bihar, Disasters in the 1980s, June events, Railway accidents in India

On June 6, 1981, a train crashed in Bihar, India. It was carrying more than 800 passengers, traveling between Mansi railway station and Saharsa railway station. It derailed and fell into the River Bagmati while it was crossing the bridge over the river. 

[[Firozabad rail disaster]]

CATEGORIES: 1995, 1990s in India, August events, Disasters in the 1990s, Railway accidents in India, Uttar Pradesh

Firozabad rail disaster is the second most worst rail accident in India after the Bihar train derailment. It occurred on 20 August 1995 near Firozabad, Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Gordon Welchman]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1985 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British academics, English mathematicians, English writers, Massachusetts Institute of Technology faculty, People from Bristol

William Gordon Welchman (15 June 1906, Bristol – 8 October 1985, Newburyport, Massachusetts) was a  Second World War codebreaker at Bletchley Park. He was a British mathematician, university professor, and author.

After the war he moved to the US, and later took American citizenship.

[[Accession]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Accession is the attainment or acquisition of a position of rank or power, typically that of monarch or president. Eg."the queen's accession to the throne". 

Accession day is a celebration. It is usually the anniversary of when a monarch takes office. The earliest record of accession celebrations are from the reign of Queen Elizabeth I of England.

Accession is not the same as coronation or inauguration. Coronation and inauguration are both ceremonies which take place after the accession.

[[Charkhi Dadri mid-air collision]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters in Asia, Haryana, Disasters in India, Aviation disasters in the 1990s, 1996, 1990s in India

Charkhi Dadri mid-air collision occurred on 12 November 1996 over the village of Charkhi Dadri in Haryana, India. The collision happened between Saudi Arabian Airlines Boeing 747-100B from Delhi to Dhahran(Saudi Arabia) and Kazakhstan Airlines Illyushin II-76 from Chimkent, Kazakhstan to Delhi.

[[Church of the Company Fire]]

CATEGORIES: 1863, Fires, History of Chile, December events

Church of the Company Fire is the largest fire accident ever by death toll in the world. It occurred on 1863 December 8 in Santiago, Chile. About 2000 to 3000 people are said to have been killed in the fire accident.

Church of the Company of Jesus was a Jesuit church located in Santiago, Chile.The day of the fire was the celebration of the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. The fire started at 7 P.M. when an oil lamp had ignited the place and it got fire. About 2000-3000 people inside the church got roasted in the massive fire accident.

The cleanup of the bodies took about ten days, and since most of the bodies were burned beyond recognition, they were placed in a mass grave at the Cementerio General de Santiago. A Santiago newspaper printed the names of over 2,000 known victims, and the same paper also printed a list of the objects saved by the priests and their value, which led to public outcry against the priests who had saved valuable objects but not people.

The tragedy, and the fact that one of the contributing factors was the lack of an organized fire-brigade, motivated José Luis Claro y Cruz to organize the first Volunteer Firemen's Corps in Santiago, on December 20 of the same year. Fire brigades in Chile, even today, are still made up only of unpaid volunteers.  New fire regulations also resulted, and the tragedy contributed to the partial secularization of Chilean government over the next two decades.

[[1931 China floods]]

CATEGORIES: Floods in Asia, Natural disasters in China, 1931, 1930s in China

The 1931 China floods or the 1931 Yellow River Floods were a series of floods that occurred in China in the year 1931. It is the most deadly natural disaster by death toll. About 1,000,000-3.7 million people were said to be dead in this series of floods.

[[Trans-Siberian Orchestra]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, 1996 establishments in the United States

The Trans-Siberian Orchestra is an American progressive rock group. They were founded around 1996. They became popular around 1999. This was when they began touring with their second studio album, The Christmas Attic.

Both Billboard Magazine and Pollstar ranked them as one of the top ticket-selling groups in the first decade of the new millennium.

[[Great Chinese Famine]]

CATEGORIES: Disasters in the 20th century, Natural disasters in China, 1950s in China, 1960s in China

Great Chinese Famine was a great famine in China from 1958-1961. Drought, poor weather and some of the policies of the Communist Party of China were  among the reasons of the Great three years of Famine. This also further resulted in the Great Leap Forward movement.

[[Confederate States Navy]]

CATEGORIES: Confederate States of America

The Navy of the Confederate States (CSN) was the Navy of the Confederate States of America. After the Confederacy established itself in 1861, the elected president, Jefferson Davis appointed Stephen Mallory as his Secretary of the Confederate Navy. At the time the South had no ships capable of challenging the United States Navy's frigates. It did not have the shipbuilding capability or the raw materials necessary to build a navy. While they had limited resources, and did not have the firepower of the Union Navy, they developed a number of technologies. The Confederates developed naval mines, ironclad techniques and managed to sink a Union warship with a working submarine.  

[[Joan Chen]]

CATEGORIES: American movie producers, American movie directors, American movie actors, Chinese movie directors, Chinese movie actors, Chinese movie producers, 1961 births, Living people

Joan Chen (born April 26, 1961) is a Chinese-American actress, movie director and movie producer. She became famous for her performance in the Academy Award-winning 1987 movie The Last Emperor. She also had a role in the 1990-1991 television series Twin Peaks. Chen played Mrs. Yee in the 2007 award-winning erotic thriller Lust, Caution.

Chen was born in Shanghai, China.

[[Sylvia Chang]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese movie actors, Chinese movie directors, Chinese movie producers, 1953 births, Living people

Sylvia Chang (born 21 July 1953) is a Taiwanese movie director, actress, singer and producer. She began her career in the 1970s. She acted in, directed and produced many movies.

Chang won the Hong Kong Film Award for Best Actress. Her movies have been accepted into movie festivals.

She was born in Chiayi City, Taiwan.

[[Azerbaijanfilm]]

CATEGORIES: Movie studios, 1920 establishments in Azerbaijan, Azerbaijani culture, Buildings and structures in Baku

Azerbaijanfilm (Azərbaycanfilm) is an Azerbaijani state movie studio. They mainly make movies and sometimes documentaries.

[[Cognitive impairment]]

CATEGORIES: Disability

Cognitive impairment (also called cognitive deficit) is a condition in which mental functioning is not good. The term "cognitive impairment" may mean problems with intelligence, like intellectual disability (also called "mental deficiency"). It may also mean specific problems, such as learning disability, slow learning or dyslexia.

Cognitive impairment may be congenital or caused by environmental problems, such as brain injuries, neurological disorders or mental illness.

[[Borderline intelligence]]

CATEGORIES: Disability

Borderline intelligence (also called borderline intellectual functioning or borderline mental disability) is a category of intelligence in which a person has lower than normal mental ability. IQ levels in this case are between 70 and 85. It is not as bad as intellectual disability (IQ 69 and under).

In school years, people with borderline intelligence are known as "slow learners".

[[X.509]]

In cryptography, X.509 is a common "PKI" (public key infrastructure) used to manage digital certificates and public-key encryption and a key part of the Transport Layer Security protocol used to secure web and email communication. X.509 specifies ways in which public key certificates, certificate revocation lists, attribute certificates, and a certification path validation algorithms are formatted.

[[2016 United States presidential election in Texas]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in Texas, 2016 United States presidential election by state

The 2016 United States presidential election in Texas was held on 8 November 2016. It was part of the 2016 United States presidential election, in which all other states plus the District of Columbia voted.

On 1 March 2016, the state also voted for who they wanted to be the nominee of their respective parties.

[[Profilage]]

CATEGORIES: French television series, Police television series, 2009 establishments in France

Profilage is a French crime drama TV series. It was developed in 2009 by Fanny Robert and Sophie Lebarbier along with TF1.

[[Vegas Golden Knights]]

CATEGORIES: Vegas Golden Knights

The Vegas Golden Knights are a professional ice hockey team based in the Las Vegas metropolitan area. The team started play in the 2017–18 NHL season as a member of the Pacific Division of the Western Conference of the National Hockey League (NHL). In their very first season, they reached the Stanley Cup Finals where they lost to the Washington Capitals in five games. During the 2019 Stanley Cup Playoffs, the Vegas Knights were leading the series in the first round three to one against San Jose Sharks, but failed to advance. They also became just the second NHL team to lose in game 7 after having a three goal third period lead.

[[Salgesch]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Salgesch (Salquenen) is a municipality in the district of Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Turtmann]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Turtmann is a former municipality of the district Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Turtmann and Unterems merged into the new municipality of Turtmann-Unterems.

[[Janjaweed]]

CATEGORIES: Sudan, Rebel militia groups in Africa

The Janjaweed are a militia that operate in Western Sudan and Eastern Chad.  They are one of the main players in the Darfur conflict.

[[Unterems]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Unterems (Walliser German: Unneräms) is a former municipality of the district Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Unterems and Turtmann merged into the new municipality of Turtmann-Unterems.

[[Turtmann-Unterems]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais, 2013 establishments in Switzerland

Turtmann-Unterems is a municipality of the district Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Turtmann and Unterems merged into the new municipality of Turtmann-Unterems.

[[Varen, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Varen (Walliser German: Faru, Varonne) is a municipality in the district of Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

It is famous as the birthplace of skier Brigitte Albrecht-Loretan.

[[Bovernier]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Bovernier is a municipality of the district Martigny in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Septic shock]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

Septic shock is a medical condition which can result from sepsis. Sepsis is a special form of infection. With septic shock, the circulation of blood changes or stops. This makes septic shock a medical emergency,which is usually treated in intensive care. Between a quarter and half the people with the condition die.

Treatment is usually done in the following steps:

[[Caucasian]]

Caucasian might refer to:

[[Evan McMullin]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, American Latter Day Saints, Civil servants, Politicians from Utah, 2016 United States presidential candidates

David Evan McMullin (born on April 2, 1976) is a former CIA operations officer and independent presidential candidate. He ran for office as an independent in the 2016 United States presidential election. He calls himself a conservative alternative to the main presidential candidates. McMullin did not win any states in the election, but he performed well in Utah, where he got 20% of the popular vote.

[[Bulgogi]]

CATEGORIES: Korean food, Meat dishes

Bulgogi is a Korean dish. It is usually made of grilled beef which has been soaked in sauce for a long time.

[[They]]

CATEGORIES: Pronouns

They is the third person plural pronoun in English, used to describe a subject. The object form is "them". "They" can be used for both people or objects. 

'They' can also be used for the singular third person if the gender of the person is unknown, or to purposely be ambiguous. Singular 'they' is conjugated the same way as the plural form, similar to the matching conjugations of the plural and singular 'you' in English. Singular 'they' is never used for objects, only people.

'They' can also be used to refer to a generic group of people, such as "In Britain, they celebrate Christmas in December".

[[Lençóis Maranhenses National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in South America, Habitats

The Lençóis Maranhenses National Park (Parque Nacional dos Lençóis Maranhenses) is a national park in Maranhão, northeastern Brazil. 

It is an area with low, flat, occasionally flooded land, between large sand dunes. It is about 1500. Despite abundant rain, it has almost no vegetation. 

With large, white, sweeping dunes, Lençóis Maranhenses looks like a typical desert, but in fact it is not one. Being just outside the Amazon Basin, the region gets a regular rainy season in first half of the year. When it rains, fresh water collects in the valleys between sand dunes. The water is prevented from sinking down by a layer of rock underneath the sand. This results in blue, green and black lagoons surrounded by the desert-like sand. The lagoons are at their fullest their fullest between July and September.

When the lagoons are full, they are interconnected to rivers such as the Rio Negro. From the river, large numbers of fish arrive. One species of fish, however, is resident. The wolf fish or tiger fish (Hoplias malabaricus) stays dormant in the mud and moist areas after most of the water has evaporated, re-emerging during the next rainy season.

[[Military glider]]

CATEGORIES: World War II aircraft

Military gliders (a variation of the common glider) have been used by the military of various countries for carrying troops and heavy equipment into a war zone. They were used mainly during the Second World War. These aircraft with no engines were towed into the air and most of the way to their target by military transport planes. One of the most popular tow aircraft was the C-47 Skytrain or Dakota. They could also be towed by bombers. Military gliders do not soar. Once released from the tow craft near the front lines, they were to land on any convenient open terrain close to their target. 

They tried to landed with as little damage as possible to the cargo and crew as possible. But most landing zones (LZ) were far from ideal. The one-way nature of the missions meant that military gliders were treated as being disposable. This is why they were made from common and inexpensive materials such as wood. They were unarmored, fragile, aircraft with crude steering and no brakes. This is why a large number of them crashed on landing. Troops landing by glider were referred to as airborne infantry. Pilots called themselves "tow targets" while the soldiers referred to the gliders as "flying coffins." Casualties for some missions ran as high as 40%. 

Gilders had certain advantages, however. Paratroopers, soldiers landing by parachute, were usually spread over a large area. They could easily be separated from other paratroopers and from air-dropped equipment, such as vehicles and anti-tank guns. Gliders, on the other hand, could land troops and equipment precisely at the target landing area. Once released from the tow aircraft, military gliders were silent and difficult for the enemy to identify. Larger gliders were developed to land heavy equipment like anti-tank guns, anti-aircraft guns, small vehicles, such as jeeps, and also light tanks (e.g., the Tetrarch tank). This heavier equipment made glider forces much more capable. During World War II, the United States had about 6,000 trained glider pilots. Some were given a second chance to fly as glider pilots after failing to complete conventional aircraft training. The  Soviets also experimented with ways to deliver light tanks by air, including the Antonov A-40, a gliding tank with detachable wings.

By the time of the Korean War, helicopters had largely replaced gliders. Helicopters have the advantage of being able to deliver and extract soldiers to and from the battlefield with more precision. Also, modern advances allow even light tanks to be dropped by parachute. Only special forces use gliders for silent, small-scale insertion today.

[[Freedom of Information Act 2000]]

CATEGORIES: Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, 2000s in the United Kingdom

The Freedom of Information Act 2000 was introduced by the British Government in the year 2000.

The Act creates a general right of access, on request, to information held by public authorities. That means any member of the public may demand that withheld information about them is released to them. 

About 120,000 requests are made each year. Private citizens made 60% of them, with businesses and journalists accounting for 20% and 10% respectively.  The Act cost £35.5 million in 2005.

Although there are some groups which are exceptions to the Act, it covers over 19,000 authorities. 

[[Cannabis (drug)]]

CATEGORIES: Cannabis

Cannabis, also known as marijuana or Cannabis sativa and among other names, is a psychoactive drug from the Cannabis plant used for medical or recreational purposes. The main psychoactive part of cannabis is tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), one of the 483 known compounds in the plant, including at least 65 other cannabinoids, which are chemicals only found in Cannabis. Cannabis can be used by smoking, vaporizing, within food, or as an extract.

Marijuana plants are grouped into 3 categories: Sativa, Indica, and Hybrid. A hybrid is a combination of Sativa and Indica.  These 3 categories are then divided and categorized more into different strains.  Strains are minor differences in how you feel when you use Cannabis.  Some of the most famous and well-known strains of marijuana are: Acapulco Gold, Gelato, Grape Ape, White Widow, Purple Haze, Skunk and G13.

[[Draguignan]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Var

Draguignan (Draguinhan) is a commune in the Var department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, in southeastern France.

It is a subprefecture of the department.

[[The Conquest of Malacca (epic poem)]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems, Portuguese culture, 17th century works

The Conquest of Malacca (Malaca conquistada) is an epic poem by Portuguese poet Francisco de Sá de Meneses.

[[Bielski partisans]]

CATEGORIES: World War II, Nazi Germany, Holocaust survivors

The Bielski partisans were a group of Jewish partisans (an irregular military group) who fought against the Nazis during World War II. They rescued Jews from extermination. They fought against the Nazis, who had taken over Poland. They also fought against people who cooperated with the Nazis. They lived and fought around Nowogródek (Navahrudak) and Lida in Poland (now western Belarus). They were named after the Bielskis, a family of Polish Jews who led the group.

Under the Bielski partisans' protection, 1,236 Jews survived the war. This was one of many remarkable rescue missions in the Holocaust. The group spent more than two years living in the forests and was initially organised by members of the Bielski family.

[[Roman dictator]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Republic

A dictator was the senior magistrate of the Roman Republic. They were regularly appointed from the earliest period of the Republic down to the Second Punic War.

Dictators had the full authority of the state to deal with a military emergency or to undertake a specific duty. The right of the Tribune of the plebs to veto his actions was extremely limited.  However, to prevent the dictatorship from threatening the state itself, limitations were placed on his powers. A dictator had a clear sphere of authority. He had to resign once his task was done, or after six months. 

After the Second Punic War, no dictators were appointed for over a century. Then the idea was revived by Sulla, and later by Caesar. Sulla was a tyrant, and Caesar was murdered soon after becoming dictator.

The office was formally abolished after the death of Caesar, and not revived under the Empire.

[[Vargas tragedy]]

CATEGORIES: Floods, 20th century in Venezuela, 1999, December events, 1990s in South America

Vargas tragedy is one of the worst disaster that struck the Venezuelan country's Vargas state on 15 December 1999. It was a result of heavy downpour of rain, flash floods and mudslides that followed on 14-16 December 1999 which killed 10,000*30,000 peoples.This disaster led to an complete collapse of the infrastructure of the state of Vargas.

Many towns were swept away to the ocean due to the floods.Whole towns like Cerro Grande and Carmen de Uria completely disappeared. As much as 10% of the population of Vargas perished during this event.The coastal area of Vargas has long been subject to mudslides and flooding: geologically similar catastrophes occurred with regularity. The most recent major flood was in 1951, however that event did not cause as much damage.

In a 52-hour span during 14, 15 and 16 December 1999, 91.1 of rain (approximately one year's total rainfall for the region) was measured on the north-central coast of Venezuela at Simón Bolívar International Airport in Maiquetia, Venezuela. These heavy rains included 7.2 of accumulation in just one hour, between 6 and 7 AM on the 16th; precipitation on both the 15th and 16th exceeded the 1,000-year probability rainfall event. Even so, the coast received much less rain than some regions upstream.

The disaster caused estimated damages of USD $1.79 to $3.5 billion. The death toll was considered to be between 10,000 and 30,000—the exact number of casualties is difficult to determine as there was no reliable census data, especially about shanty towns and small communities that were completely wiped out; moreover, only some 1,000 bodies were recovered, with the rest swept to sea by the mud or buried in the landslides. More than 8,000 homes and 700 apartment buildings were destroyed in Vargas displacing up to 75,000 people.

[[Charrat]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Charrat is a municipality in the district Martigny in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Fully]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Fully is a municipality in the district of Martigny in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Isérables]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Isérables is a municipality of the district of Martigny in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Leytron]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Leytron is a municipality of the district of Martigny in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Martigny-Combe]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Martigny-Combe is a municipality of the district of Martigny in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Riddes]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Riddes is a municipality of the district of Martigny in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Viriato Trágico]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

Viriato Trágico is a long poem by Portuguese poet Brás Garcia de Mascarenhas (1596-1656).

[[Saillon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais, Cities in Switzerland

Saillon is a town and municipality in the district of Martigny in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[SPQR]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Republic

SPQR are the initials of a Latin phrase ''Senātus Populusque Rōmānus''. It means "The Roman Senate and People" or "The Senate and People of Rome". 

It refers to the government of the ancient Roman Republic. It is still used as an official emblem of the modern-day municipality of Rome. 

SPQR appears on Roman coins, at the end of documents made public by inscription in stone or metal, in dedications of monuments and public works, and on the flag (vexilloid) of the Roman legions.

The phrase appears in Roman political, legal and historical literature, such as the speeches of Cicero and Ab Urbe Condita Libri ("Books from the Founding of the City") of Livy.

The date of first use of SPQR is not known. It first appears in inscriptions of the later Republic, from about 80 BC onwards. It last appears on coins of Constantine the Great (ruled AD 312-337), the first Christian Roman emperor.

The signature continued in use under the Roman Empire. The emperors were considered the representatives of the people, although the decrees of the Senate were dictated by the wishes of the emperor.

Similar language in more modern political and social revolutions no doubt comes from this usage. During the Fascist regime of Benito Mussolini, SPQR was emblazoned on many public buildings in an attempt to promote his dictatorship as a "New Roman Empire"

[[The National Museum of Computing]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in England, National museums, Computing, Scientific organizations

The National Museum of Computing is a museum in the United Kingdom dedicated to collecting and restoring old computer systems. The museum is based at Bletchley Park in Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire. It opened in 2007. The building — Block H — was built in 1944. At the end of World War II it housed six Colossus computers. It is the first computer centre in the world.

The museum has a rebuilt Colossus computer. It also has an exhibition of the most complex code cracking activities that were performed at Bletchley Park during World War II. More modern computers can be seen. They show the history of the development of computing from the 1940s to the present day. The museum tries to have these machines in working order.

Although located on the Bletchley Park "campus", The National Museum of Computing is an entirely separate charity. It receives no public funding. It relies on the generosity of donors and supporters. Tickets for admission to the museum are separate from those for the other museum on the site.

[[Day of the Dead]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican culture, Festivals in North America, November events

Day of the Dead (Día de Muertos) is a Mexican holiday celebrated in Mexico known around the world by the skull painting face. It is celebrated by people of Mexico living in other places, especially the United States. Family and friends gather for this multi-day holiday to pray for and remember friends and family members who have died while creating an ofrenda. They do ofrenda on a altar at home and also on the grave. It is also to help support their spiritual journey. In 2008, the tradition was inscribed in the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO.

The origin of the day of the dead comes from a mix of culture. Aztect and christian are the main influence of it. In some country people use sugar skull painting for Halloween but it is not the same celebration. Everyone is welcomed to join in on the celebration, but nearly everyone in Mexico celebrates it. The Day of the Dead is a holiday celebrated all throughout Mexico. It is a day to celebrate, remember and prepare special foods in honor of those who have died. The traditional food is the bread of the dead( pan de muertos). They use to paint their face into skull (calavera). The famous decoration is the sugar skulls the orange flowers and candle. People believe the spirit of the dead goes and visits their families from October 31 (aka Halloween) then leaves on November 2. The Day of the Dead is held every year on the 2nd of November in Mexico. It is celebrated because it is a Mexican holiday and families do it to honor their loved ones who have passed. 

That is a happy fest.

[[Betsy DeVos]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American activists, American billionaires, American educators, American Evangelicals, American philanthropists, People from Holland, Michigan, Businesspeople from Grand Rapids, Michigan, Politicians from Grand Rapids, Michigan, Richard DeVos, United States Secretaries of Education, US Republican Party politicians

Elisabeth "Betsy" DeVos (née Prince; born January 8, 1958) is an American billionaire businesswoman, philanthropist, and education activist from Michigan. She was the 11th United States Secretary of Education from February 7, 2017 to January 8, 2021. DeVos is known for her advocacy of school choice and voucher programs.

On November 23, 2016, it was announced that DeVos would be nominated to serve as Secretary of Education in the coming administration of President-elect Donald Trump. On February 7, 2017, she was confirmed by the United States Senate by a 50-50 vote with Vice President Mike Pence breaking the tie in her favor.

In January 2021, DeVos resigned from the Trump cabinet over the events of the storming of the United States Capitol.

[[Orville Turnquest]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Governors-General of the Bahamas

Sir Orville Alton Turnquest (born 19 July 1929) is a retired Bahamian politician. He was the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of the Bahamas from 1992 to 1994, and the fifth Governor-General of the Bahamas from 3 January 1994 until his retirement on 13 November 2001.

Turnquest was born in Grants Town, New Providence. He was educated at the University of London. 

[[Ivy Dumont]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Governors-General of the Bahamas

Dame Ivy Leona Dumont, DCMG (born 2 October 1930) is a retired Bahamian politician. She was the sixth Governor-General of the Bahamas.

She was the first woman in the Bahamas to hold this office, from 1 January 2002 (on an acting basis since 13 November 2001) until 30 November 2004. She previously served as Education Minister from 1995 to 2001.

[[Luis García Meza Tejada]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Anti-Communists, Former dictators, Generals, Presidents of Bolivia, South American military people

Luis García Meza Tejada (August 8, 1929 – April 29, 2018) was a former Bolivian dictator. In 1980, he led a military coup d'état on President Lidia Gueiler Tejada. He later made himself president on 17 July 1980. He left office on 4 August 1981 after being exiled for human rights violations. Before becoming president, he worked closely with Bolivian president Hugo Banzer. 

García Meza died in La Paz on April 29, 2018, of a heart attack at the age of 88.

[[Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Presidents of Bolivia

Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada Sánchez de Bustamante (born 1 July 1930), familiarly known as "Goni", is a Bolivian politician and businessman. He served as President of Bolivia for two non-consecutive terms from 6 August 1993 through 6 August 1997 and again from 6 August 2002 through his resignation on 17 October 2003. He is a lifelong member of the Movimiento Nacionalista Revolucionario (MNR).

[[I'll Be Missing You]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 songs

I'll Be Missing You was a song performed by P.Diddy, Faith Evans and the 112. It was in memory of Christopher The Notorious B.I.G. Wallace. He was killed on March 9, 1997. It sampled the melody of The Police's Every Breath You Take song from the 80s. As well as these artists, Sting (vocalist from The Police) joined in at the MTV Video Music Awards in 1997 along with The Family.

[[Hate groups in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Hatred, United States

A hate group is a group that hates a specific group of people.  For example, a hate group might hate everyone who belongs to a different ethnic group, religion, sex, and/or sexual orientation.

[[SMS Posen]]

CATEGORIES: German Empire, Warships, World War I

SMS Posen was a German battleship built in 1907 and launched in 1910. She had twelve 11 inch guns in six turrets.

The ship sailed during most of the First World War, in the North Sea. The main battle she was in was the Battle of Jutland where she hit another German ship which then sank. 

The ship served with her three sister ships for the majority of World War I. She saw extensive service in the North Sea, where she took part in several fleet sorties. These culminated in the Battle of Jutland on 31 May – 1 June 1916, where Posen was heavily engaged in night-fighting against British light forces. In the confusion, the ship accidentally rammed the light cruiser SMS Elbing, which suffered serious damage and was scuttled later in the night.

The ship also conducted several deployments to the Baltic Sea against the Russian Navy. In the first of these, Posen supported a German naval assault in the Battle of the Gulf of Riga. The ship was sent back to the Baltic in 1918 to support the White Finns in the Finnish Civil War. At the end of the war, Posen remained in Germany while the majority of the fleet was interned in Scapa Flow. In 1919, following the scuttling of the German fleet in Scapa Flow, she was ceded to the British as a replacement for the ships that had been sunk. She was then sent to ship-breakers in the Netherlands and scrapped in 1922.

[[No. 77 Squadron RAAF]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Australia

No. 77 Squadron is a squadron in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). It flies out of RAAF Williamtown in New South Wales, Australia. It is part of No. 81 Wing and has F18 Hornet fighters. 

The squadron started at RAAF Pearce in Western Australia in 1942 during the Second World War, and fought in the Pacific Theatre with P40 Kittyhawks. After the war it got new P51 Mustangs and went to Japan. 

In 1950 it went to Korea to support the United Nations against North Korea. It got Meteor jets there and shot down five MiG 15s and 5,000 buildings and vehicles. 

When they went back to Australia in 1956 they got new Sabre jets. In 1958 they went to Malaya to help the Commonwealth there. They stayed there, looking after the country until 1969. Then they went back to Williamtown and got new Mirage jets, then F18 Hornets in 1987. It went to Afghanistan in 2001 and again in 2015. In 2021 it will get F35 Lightning fighters.

[[Gautam]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu mythology

Gautam is a mythological Hindu sage (Rishi) and one of the seven Rishis. Hindu scriptures have named them as saptarishis, that is, the seven sages. The seven sages were Kashyapa, Atri, Vashitha, Vishvamitra, Gautam, Jamdagni, and Bharadvaja. According to Hindu mythology, these seven sages had become like divine beings. Ancient astrology of Hindus identified these seven sages with the stars of the sky, the Great Bear. Their wives formed the Pleiades.

[[Atri]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu mythology

Atri is a mythological Hindu sage. He is one of the seven Rishis. Hindu scriptures have named them as saptarishis, that is, the seven sages. The seven sages were Kashyapa, Atri, Vashitha, Vishvamitra, Gautam, Jamdagni, and Bharadvaja. According to Hindu mythology, these seven sages had become like divine beings. Ancient astrology of Hindus identified these seven sages with the stars of the sky, the Great Bear. Their wives formed the Pleiades.

[[Bodo language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of India, Sino-Tibetan languages

Bodo (बर') is a Sino-Tibetan language spoken primarily by the Bodo people of Northeast India. It is official language of the Bodoland autonomous region and co-official language of the state of Assam in India. It is also one of twenty two languages listed in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution of India. The Bodo language has been written using Devanagari script since 1963. Some scholar believe that at ancient time boro language were written in Deodhai script which is now lost.

[[Piotta]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino

Piotta is a village in the municipality of Quinto in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

Piotta has an ice hockey Club, called the HC Ambrì-Piotta, that plays in indoor sporting arena of "Valascia".

[[Ambrì]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino

Ambrì is a village in the municipality of Quinto in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

Ambrì has an ice hockey club, called the HC Ambrì-Piotta, that plays in indoor sporting arena of "Valascia".

[[Saxon, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Saxon is a municipality of the district of Martigny in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

It is famous as the birthplace of figure skater and choreographer of Stéphane Lambiel.

[[Trient, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Trient is a municipality of the district of Martigny in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Champéry]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Champéry is a municipality of the district of Monthey in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[The Fall of Nineveh (poem)]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

"The Fall of Nineveh" is a poem by English poet Edwin Atherstone (1788-1892).

[[Sir Breunor]]

CATEGORIES: Arthurian legend, Fictional knights

Bruenor the Black, also called the Knight of the Ill-fitting Coat, was one of the Knights of the Round Table in Arthurian legend. He was the son of Sir Brunor, the "Good Knight without Fear". His brothers were Sir Dinadan and Sir Daniel. Both were killed by Sir Lancelot. Their father had been murdered and Brunor swore to wear his father's ill-fitting coat until the murder was avenged. Sir Breunor was the lord of Pendragon Castle. He was married to Maladisant.

[[1936 North American heat wave]]

CATEGORIES: Droughts, 1936 in North America, 1930s in the United States

The 1936 North American heat wave was the most severe heat wave in United States history. It happened in the middle of the Great Depression and the Dust Bowl of the 1930s.

The heat wave began in late June. It created great human suffering. It also caused drought in the Midwest and Great Plains. The lack of moisture, along with heat, destroyed huge numbers of crops.

This heat wave set records in many states, including Iowa, Minnesota and Illinois. In some states, the 1936 records were not broken until 2012. In Ohio, the temperature reached 110, almost tying the 1934 temperature record there.

More than 5,000 people in the United States died from this heat wave.

The heat also affected Canada.

[[Collombey-Muraz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Collombey-Muraz is a municipality of the district of Monthey in the canton of Valais in Switzerland. There is an oil refinery in the municipality.

[[Port-Valais]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Port-Valais is a municipality of the district of Monthey in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Saint-Gingolph, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Saint-Gingolph is a municipality in the district of Monthey in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Troistorrents]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Troistorrents is a municipality of the district of Monthey in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Val-d'Illiez]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Val-d'Illiez is a municipality of the district Monthey in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[La Fouly]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Valais

La Fouly is a village of the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

La Fouly is in the municipality of Orsières.

It sits at the foot of Mont Dolent (3,823 m) and the Tour Noir (3,836m) in the Mont Blanc massif.

[[Everton Kempes dos Santos Gonçalves]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2016 deaths, Brazilian footballers

Everton Kempes dos Santos Gonçalves (b. 3rd September, 1982 in Carpina, Pernambuco - f. 28th November, 2016 in La Unión, Antioquia) was a Brazilian footballer who played as forward.

He made his debut in 2004 as Paraná's player and spent most of his career in Brazil.

He was named by the former Argentinian footballer: Mario Kempes.

[[Nugget]]

Nugget may refer to:

Things

[[Alappuzha]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kerala

Alappuzha is a city in Kerala, India. It is the administrative headquarters of the Alappuzha district. Alappuzha is considered as the oldest planned city in the region. It is one of the most popular tourist attractions in Kerala. The city is located in the coastal region of Laccadive Sea. In 2016, the Centre for Science and Environment rated Alappuzha as the top cleanest town in India.

[[Zakir Husain (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: Vice Presidents of India, 1897 births, 1969 deaths

Zakir Husain (8 February 1897 – 3 May 1969) was the 3rd President of India. He was the first Muslim president of Indian nation and also the first to die in office. Zahir Husain was the shortest serving president of India. He previously served as the second Vice-President of India and Governor of Bihar. Zakir Husain was also the co-founder of Jamia Milia Islamia. He served as its Vice-Chancellor. Under Husain, Jamia became closely to the Indian freedom movement.

[[Puducherry district]]

CATEGORIES: Puducherry

Puducherry district is one of the four districts of the union territory of Puducherry in southern India. The district occupies an area of 290, spread over 11 non-contiguous enclaves lying on or near the Bay of Bengal within a compact area in the state of Tamil Nadu. 

[[Yellowstone fires of 1988]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s fires, 1988 establishments in the United States, Natural disasters in the United States

The Yellowstone fires of 1988 were the largest wildfires in the history of the Yellowstone National Park. They began as smaller individual fires. They spread quickly out of control. The fires were made worse by increasing wind and severe drought in the Western United States.

The fires burned for several months. On September 8, 1988, the entire park was closed to all non-emergency people for the first time in its history. The arrival of cool and moist weather in the late autumn brought the fires to an end. 

[[Confederate States Marine Corps]]

CATEGORIES: Confederate States of America

The Confederate States Marine Corps (CSMC) was a branch of the Confederate States armed forces during the American Civil War. It was established on March 16, 1861. The CSMC's manpower was initially authorized to include one major, one quartermaster sergeant, and 600 men divided into six companies of 100 marines each. This was increased on May 20, 1861 raising the rank of officers and adding more men. The organization of the corps began at Montgomery, Alabama. It was completed at Richmond, Virginia, when the capital of the Confederate States of America was moved there. The CSMC headquarters and main training facilities remained in Richmond, Virginia throughout the war. It was located at Camp Beall on Drewry's Bluff and at the Gosport Shipyard in Portsmouth, Virginia. The last CSMC unit surrendered on April 9, 1865, with the Confederacy itself surrendering a month later.

[[Chennai district]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District

Chennai district, formerly known as Madras district, was one of the 32 districts in the Tamil Nadu state of India. It is the smallest district of Tamil Nadu but has the highest population density. Most of the Chennai Metro region comes under this district.

[[Thanjavur district]]

CATEGORIES: Thanjavur District

Thanjavur district is one of the district is known as the "Granary of South India" and "Rice bowl of Tamil Nadu". This is one of the important district for the Tamil Nadu agriculture and economy.

[[Cuddalore district]]

CATEGORIES: Cuddalore district

Cuddalore district is one of the 32 districts in Tamil Nadu, South India. Cuddalore city is the headquarters of the Cuddalore district. It was the mostly affected district in the 2015 South Indian floods along with Chennai district. Cuddalore is on the sea shore, so most of the cyclones affecting Tamil Nadu hit this district.

[[Manchester Metropolitan University]]

CATEGORIES: Universities in England

The Manchester Metrropolitain University is the fourth largest university in the United Kingdom (UK).

[[Vionnaz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Vionnaz is a municipality in the district of Monthey in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Vouvry]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Vouvry is a municipality in the district of Monthey in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Ausserberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Ausserberg is a municipality of the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Norwich (disambiguation)]]

Norwich could mean:

[[Norfolk (disambiguation)]]

Norfolk could mean:

[[Arrondissements of the Indre-et-Loire department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Indre-et-Loire department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Indre-et-Loire are:

[[Paget's disease]]

Paget's disease is the name for different diseases, which where first described by Sir James Paget. 

[[Arrondissement of Chinon]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Chinon is an arrondissement of France, in the Indre-et-Loire department, Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Chinon.

[[Azerbaijani independence referendum, 1991]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet Union, 1991 in Europe, 1990s in Azerbaijan, Politics of Azerbaijan, 1991 in Asia

An independence referendum was held in Azerbaijan on 29 December 1991, three days after the collapse of the Soviet Union. The result was 99.8% in favor, with turnout reported to be 95.3%.

[[Arrondissement of Tours]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Tours is an arrondissement of France, in the Indre-et-Loire department, Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Tours.

[[West Indian manatee]]

CATEGORIES: Sirenia

The West Indian manatee (Trichechus manatus) or "sea cow"  is a manatee. It is the largest living member of the order Sirenia (which also includes dugongs and the extinct Steller's sea cow).

The West Indian manatee is a different species from the Amazonian manatee (T. inunguis) and the African manatee (T. senegalensis). The West Indian manatee is in two subspecies, the Florida manatee (T. m. latirostris) and the Antillean or Caribbean manatee (T. m. manatus). New research shows that there may be three groups:

The Florida manatee and the Antillean manatee are endangered. Federal, state, private, and nonprofit organizations are working to protect these species from natural and human threats, such as collisions with boat propeller blades.

[[Arrondissement of Loches]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Loches is an arrondissement of France, in the Indre-et-Loire department, Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Loches.

[[Xeroderma pigmentosum]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic disorders

Xeroderma pigmentosum is a rare genetic disorder.

Ultraviolet (UV) light damages the DNA in skin cells. Normally the DNA damage is repaired. But if a person has a defective repair gene,  the DNA is not repaired.

[[James Bradley]]

CATEGORIES: 1693 births, 1762 deaths, English astronomers

James Bradley FRS (1693 – 13 July 1762) was an English astronomer. He was born in Sherborne, Gloucestershire, England. Bradley was educated at Northleach Grammar School and at Balliol College, Oxford. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1714 and a Master of Arts in 1717. 

He became a member of the clergy and received an income at Bridstow in Herefordshire. Because of his friendship with Edmond Halley, in 1718 he was elected as a fellow of the Royal Society. He gave up his living at Bridstow to become a professor at Oxford in 1721. Bradley succeeded Edmond Halley as Astronomer Royal at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich in 1742. He held this post until his death in 1762.

In 1729 he published his discovery of the aberration of light (also called astronomical aberration). This was he first observational proof of the Copernican Hypothesis that the Sun is at the centre of the Solar System and not the Earth. He noticed a motion in the stars that did not fit the accepted pattern of the time. What he discovered was stellar aberration. In 1748 he published his discovery. That same year he was awarded the Copley Medal from the Royal Society for his discovery.

[[1962 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: Stanley Cup Finals, Toronto Maple Leafs, Chicago Blackhawks, 1962 in ice hockey, 1962 in the United States, 1960s in Chicago, 1960s in Canada

The 1962 Stanley Cup Finals was played between the defending champion Chicago Black Hawks and the Toronto Maple Leafs. The Maple Leafs were also in the Final in 1960. The Maple Leafs would win the best-of-seven series four games to two to win the Stanley Cup. This was their first win since 1951.

[[Betten]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Betten is a former municipality in the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.  On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Betten and Martisberg merged into the new municipality of Bettmeralp.

[[Silesian Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 establishments, Wikipedias

Silesian Wikipedia is the Silesian language edition of Wikipedia. It was started on 26 May 2008.

In October 2010 the Silesian Wikipedia was mentioned as one of the arguments for Silesian to become one of the regional languages in Poland.

[[Eshtaol Forest]]

CATEGORIES: Forests, Geography of Israel

The Eshtaol Forest is a forest in Israel, located north of Beit Shemesh and near Ta'oz and Neve Shalom. The Forest of the Martyrs lies to the east. The forest is a popular recreation area and is one of the largest forests in Israel. The forest (like most other forests in Israel) was planted in by the Jewish National Fund, which continues to expand it. The forest covers an area of 12.

[[Ganges Delta]]

CATEGORIES: River deltas

The Ganges-Brahmaputra Delta is a  river delta in the South Asia region of Bangladesh and in West Bengal, India. It is the world's largest delta.

The delta is also known as the Brahmaputra Delta, the Sunderbans Delta, or the Bengal Delta. Because it is also one of the most fertile regions in the world, it is called The Green Delta.

The Ganges Delta empties into the Bay of Bengal. It is approximately 354 across at the Bay of Bengal.. The floodplain is from three rivers: Ganges, the Brahmaputra River and the Meghna River.

The delta stretches from the Hooghly River on the west to the Meghna River on the east.  In India Kolkata and Haldia are the main seaports. In Bangladesh the main seaports are the Port of Mongla and Chittagong.

[[Piedmontese Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias

Piedmontese Wikipedia is the Piedmontese language edition of Wikipedia. Piedmontese is a Romance language spoken by over 1 million people in Piedmont, northwest Italy.

[[Latvian Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Websites established in 2003, Wikipedias

Latvian Wikipedia is the Latvian edition of Wikipedia. It was started on 6 June 2003.

[[Bosnian Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Websites established in 2002, Wikipedias

Bosnian Wikipedia is the Bosnian language edition of Wikipedia. It was started on 12 December 2002.

[[Luxembourgish Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias

Luxembourgish Wikipedia is the Luxembourgish language edition of Wikipedia.

[[Neapolitan Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias

Neapolitan Wikipedia is the Neapolitan language edition of Wikipedia.  Neapolitan is the language of much of southern continental Italy.

[[Salem district]]

CATEGORIES: Salem District

Salem district is a district in Tamil Nadu, South India.  Salem is the district headquarters and other major towns in the district include Mettur, Omalur and Attur. Salem is surrounded by hills and the landscape dotted with hillocks. Ancient Salem Nadu ruled by Mazhavar kings.

[[École nationale supérieure d'électrotechnique, d'électronique, d'informatique, d'hydraulique et des télécommunications]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in Toulouse, 1907 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in France

École nationale supérieure d'électrotechnique, d'électronique, d'informatique, d'hydraulique et des télécommunications is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the University of Toulouse (Southern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at ENSEEIHT.

Most of the 1500 graduate engineer students at ENSEEIHT live in dedicated residential buildings nearby research labs and metro public transports.

[[Thiruvarur district]]

CATEGORIES: Thiruvarur district

Thiruvarur district is one of the districts in Tamil Nadu, South India. Thiruvarur town is the district headquarters of Tamil Nadu. 

Before 1991 Thiruvarur district and Nagapattinam district were part of the Thanjavur district. After that, the present Taluks of Thiruvarur district and Nagapattinam district were separated from the Thanjavur District, and formed the Nagapattinam district. 

The total area of Thiruvarur district is 2161 km². Major towns of the district are Thiruvarur, Thiruthuraipoondi, Nachikulam, Muthupettai and Mannargudi.

[[Madurai district]]

CATEGORIES: Madurai district

MADURAI district is one of the 32 districts in Tamil Nadu, South India. Madurai district is the second largest district by population. Madurai is the headquarters of this district. It is an important place for making movies.

[[2016 Kaikoura earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 earthquakes, Earthquakes in New Zealand, November 2016 events, 2010s in New Zealand

The 2016 Kaikoura earthquake was a magnitude 7.8 (Mw) earthquake in the South Island of New Zealand. It happened two minutes after midnight on 14 November 2016 NZDT (11:02 on 13 November UTC). The epicentre where shaking started was about 15 north-east of Culverden and 60 south-west of the tourist town of Kaikoura. The epicentre was about 15 kilometres deep (9 mi).

The earthquake lasted for more than a minute, and was one of the three largest earthquakes in 2016.

[[Infobot]]

CATEGORIES: Internet Relay Chat, Software

Infobot is a Perl IRC bot, first written in 1995 by Kevin Lenzo. The bot's main goal was to remember URLs and associate them with a name, so if someone needed a specific web address they could ask the bot. For this reason, the first Infobot, in the #macintosh channel in the EFnet IRC network, had the nickname 'url'.

The main project is now inactive, many forks from the original program were made, some of which are still active. Many of these forks carry extra features.

[[Parole]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms

Parole is the release of a prisoner before the end of his or her original sentence. This is based on the prisoner accepting certain conditions. Usually these include remaining on good behavior. They also agree to be monitored for a period of time by a public official called a parole officer. 

[[Coverture]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms

Coverture is a long-standing legal practice in the United States that comes from the English common law. Coverture holds that a man and a woman are a single legal entity—that of the husband. A married woman loses her own legal obligations and rights, and becomes "covered" by her husband. Traditionally a woman took her husband's last name as a symbol of this identity. A female child was covered by her father's identity. When she married that coverage transferred to her husband. Under this system a woman did not legally exist and did not own anything.  

In the mid-19th century, with the rise of feminism, coverture began to be criticized as being unfair to women. Various laws began to be weakened and eventually done away with. But parts of coverture laws, mainly having to do with the husband being responsible for his wife's debts, lasted into the 1960s in some parts of the U.S.

[[Form-based interface]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

A form-based interface is a kind of user interface. In it, the user interacts with the application by selecting one of a number of possible values, and by entering text into the fields that accept it. A word processor which is used to write documents, might offer settings for the font size, the font to use, and the alignment of the paragraph on the page. Many databases support a technology called query by example: Users who do not know SQL can easily select database records which are similar to the information entered.

Other places where form based interface can be use is 

Online application for job, school, college

Bank to fill cash details a

Hospital for filling patients details

[[Metric space]]

CATEGORIES: Functions and mappings, Set theory

Metric space is a concept from Mathematics: Given a set of elments, there is a function which takes two arguments, which are elements of the set and returns a real number, which is usually called distance d between those elements. The function needs to be symmetric: d(x,y) = d (y,x).

[[Brahmanas]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism

The Brahmanas are a collection of Indian books. The books give more information on the Vedas, the four holiest books of the Hindu religion.

The Brahmanas give instructions on the proper performance of rituals. They also explain the original symbolic meanings.

Each Vedic shakha (school) has its own Brahmana. Many Brahmana texts existed in ancient India. Most of these have been lost.

[[Bister, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Bister is a municipality of the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Bitsch, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Bitsch is a municipality in the district of Raron in the Swiss canton of Valais.

[[Blatten (Lötschen)]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais, Villages in Valais

Blatten (Lötschen) is a village and municipality of the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Bürchen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Bürchen (Walliser German: Birchu) is a municipality of the district Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Land of Punt]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Egypt

Land of Punt is a name for a geographic place, mentioned in Ancient Egyptian texts. At times it is also called Pwenet or Pwene. Ancient Egypt traded with this place since at least 6.000 BC. It was known for producing and exporting gold, aromatic resins, blackwood, ebony, ivory, and wild animals. The region is known from ancient Egyptian records of trade expeditions to it. Some biblical scholars have identified it with the biblical land of Put.

At times Punt is referred to as Ta netjer, the "Land of the God".

It is not known where exactly this place was. Most scholars today believe Punt was to the southeast of Egypt, most likely in the coastal region of what is today Somalia, Djibouti, Eritrea, northeast Ethiopia and the Red Sea coast of Sudan. However, some scholars point instead to other ancient writings which say Punt was in the Arabian Peninsula. It is also possible that the territory covered both the Horn of Africa and Southern Arabia. Puntland, the Somali administrative region at the edge of the Horn of Africa, may be named in reference to the Land of Punt.

Inhabitants formed three groups which wore different clothing, and hairstyles. They held cattle and lived in stil houses.  Starting from the Nile a caravan could reach Punt in five days. 

[[Eischoll]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Eischoll (Walliser German: Eyschol) is a municipality of the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Ferden]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Ferden is a municipality of the district Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Filet, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Filet was a municipality, in the new municipality of Mörel-Filet and the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Grengiols]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Grengiols is a municipality of the district of Raron of the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Sihlbrugg]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Zürich

Sihlbrugg is a village in the municipality of Baar (ZG), Hausen am Albis (ZH), Hirzel (ZH) and Neuheim (ZG) in the canton of Zug and Zurich in Switzerland.

[[Mülenen]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bern

Mülenen is a village in the municipality of Reichenbach im Kandertal in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

[[Auressio]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ticino, Former municipalities of Ticino

Auressio is a village and former municipality of the district of Locarno in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

In 2001 the municipality was merged with the other, neighboring municipalities Berzona and Loco to form a new and larger municipality Isorno.

[[Dumbarton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Scotland

Dumbarton (Dùn Breatainn or 'fort of the Britons'} is a town in West Dunbartonshire, Scotland. It is on the north bank of the River Clyde where the River Leven flows into the Clyde estuary. In 2006, it had an estimated population of 19,990.

Dumbarton was the capital of the ancient Kingdom of Alclud, and later the county town of Dunbartonshire.

Dumbarton Castle, on top of Dumbarton Rock, dominates the area. Dumbarton was a Royal burgh between 1222 and 1975.

Dumbarton became a centre for shipbuilding, glassmaking, and whisky production. However, these industries have declined. Dumbarton today is more a commuter town for Glasgow 13 east-southeast of it. Dumbarton F.C. is the local football club.

[[Roy Cooper]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Governors of North Carolina, American lawyers, US Democratic Party politicians

Roy Asberry Cooper III (born June 13, 1957)October 2020 is an American politician. He is currently the 75th Governor of North Carolina. He served as the Attorney General of North Carolina from 2001 to 2017. He was a member of the North Carolina State Senate. Cooper is a member of the North Carolina Democratic Party. 

He ran for Governor of North Carolina in the 2016 election against incumbent Pat McCrory. On December 5, McCrory conceded the election, making Cooper the first challenger to defeat a sitting governor in North Carolina since 1850. Cooper took office as the 75th governor of North Carolina on January 1, 2017. The Republican-dominated legislature passed bills in a special session before he took office to reduce his power. The legislature has overridden several of his vetoes of legislation.

[[Marne (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Grand Est, Hauts-de-France, Île-de-France

The Marne is a river in France. It is a right tributary of the Seine in the area east and southeast of Paris. Four departments are named after it: Haute-Marne, Marne, Seine-et-Marne and Val-de-Marne.

The Marne is famous as the place of two battles during the First World War, the first in 1914 and the second in 1918.

[[Wilbur Ross]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Businesspeople from New Jersey, Politicians from New Jersey, American billionaires, United States Secretaries of Commerce, US Republican Party politicians

Wilbur Louis Ross, Jr. (born November 28, 1937) is an American politician, investor, businessman and former banker. Ross was the 39th United States Secretary of Commerce from February 28, 2017 to January 20, 2021

Ross is known as the "King of Bankruptcy” for his experience in buying bankrupt companies, primarily in the manufacturing and steel industries, and later selling them for a large profit after operations improve. He was known for restructuring failed companies in industries such as steel, coal, telecommunications, foreign investment and textiles.

[[Elaine Chao]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Harvard University alumni, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Politicians from Kentucky, Businesspeople from Kentucky, Taiwanese businesspeople, United States Secretaries of Labor, United States Secretaries of Transportation, US Republican Party politicians

Elaine Lan Chao-McConnell (趙小蘭; born March 26, 1953) is an American politician. She was the 18th United States Secretary of Transportation from January 31, 2017 to January 11, 2021 during the Donald Trump administration.

She served as the 24th United States Secretary of Labor under President George W. Bush from 2001 to 2009, and Deputy Secretary of Transportation under President George H. W. Bush. She was the first Asian-American woman and the first Taiwanese American in U.S. history to be appointed to a U.S. president's cabinet.

[[Tom Price]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, American physicians, People from Dearborn, Michigan, People from Lansing, Michigan, Politicians from Michigan, United States representatives from Georgia, United States Secretaries of Health and Human Services, US Republican Party politicians

Thomas Edmunds "Tom" Price (born October 8, 1954) is an American physician and politician. He is the 23rd United States Secretary of Health and Human Services serving from February 10, 2017 to September 29, 2017. 

Price was U.S. Representative for GA, serving from  2005 through 2017. He is a member of the Republican Party. He formerly served as chairman of the Republican Study Committee and the Republican Policy Committee.

[[James Mattis]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American generals, Independent politicians in the United States, Politicians from Washington, United States Secretaries of Defense

James Norman "Mad Dog" Mattis (born September 8, 1950) is a retired United States Marine Corps general and was the 26th United States Secretary of Defense. On January 20, 2017, the United States Senate confirmed Mattis' nomination as Defense secretary with a 98-1 vote. He last served as the 11th Commander of United States Central Command from August 11, 2010 to March 22, 2013.

On December 20, 2018, Mattis announced his plans to retire on February 28, 2019. However after reading his resignation letter criticizing Trump's treatment of American allies, Trump ordered Mattis fired on December 31, 2018.

[[Bernardo Bertolucci]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Italian movie directors, Italian screenwriters, People from Emilia-Romagna

Bernardo Bertolucci (berˈnardo bertoˈluttʃi; 16 March 1940 – 26 November 2018) was an Italian director and screenwriter. His most well known works were  The Conformist, Last Tango in Paris, 1900, The Last Emperor, The Sheltering Sky, Stealing Beauty and The Dreamers. 

In 1979, he was married to screenwriter Clare Peploe. until 2018.

Bertolucci died in Rome on 26 November 2018, at the age of 77 of lung cancer.

[[Giuseppe Caselli]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1976 deaths, Italian painters

Giuseppe Guglielmo Umberto Caselli (July 5, 1893 – December 19, 1976) was an Italian painter. He studied under Felice Del Santo and Antonio Discovolo. In 1913, Caselli was imprisoned in a concentration camp in Austria. After that, he studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in Florence. In 1938 he participated in the Premio del Golfo (Gulf Award), organized by Filippo Tommaso Marinetti.

Caselli was one of the best known painters from La Spezia. He painted thousands of works during his long career. In his paintings, Caselli showed the life of La Spezia. He painted the life in the Cinque Terre (Five Lands), a portion of coast on the Italian Riviera.

[[Sultan Rahi]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 1996 deaths, Cinema of Pakistan, Pakistani movie actors, Movie producers, Pakistani people, Punjabi people, People from Uttar Pradesh

Sultan Muhammad (generally recognized as Sultan Rahi) was born in a Muslim arain family of Saharanpur in 1938 Uttar Pradesh, British India. He was a famous Pakistani film actor who was well-known in Pakistan in Punjabi & Urdu films during the 1970s and 1980s till 1996. He was mostly admired among people in Punjab, Pakistan and among Sikh and Punjabi community of India. He acted in over 700 Punjabi and Urdu films, and is named in the Guinness Book of Records as the most creative actor. His popular films include: Maula Jatt, Sher Khan, Chan Veryam, Dada, Qanoon, Kaley Chore, and The Godfather. He started his film career as an extra but quickly became a leading actor and in 1972. He was murdered on 9 January 1996 in Gujranwala, Pakistan.

Burly Pakistani actor Sultan Rahi specialized in playing superheroes and muscle men. Over his career, which began with his playing bit parts in the late '50s, Sultan appeared in more than 700 Punjabi films. He became a leading man in 1971 in Babul and a star the following year in Bashira. Born, Muhammad Sultan in India, Rahi moved to Pakistan at age nine.

[[Madurai Meenakshi Amman temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism, Madurai district

Madurai Meenakshi Amman temple is a ancient historic Hindu temple on the southern bank of the Vaigai River in the temple city of Madurai, Tamil Nadu, India. It is dedicated to Goddess Meenakshi, and  Sundareswarar (Shiva).

[[2015 South Indian floods]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 disasters in Asia, 2015 in India, 2010s floods, Andhra Pradesh, December events, Floods in India, November 2015 events, Tamil Nadu

2015 South Indian floods is a disaster happened in South India.The heavy floods were resulted due to heavy rainfall by the annual northeast monsoon in November–December 2015.The mainly affected regions are Coromandel Coast region of the South Indian states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and the union territory of Puducherry and especially the most devastated area, the city of Chennai. More than 500 people were killed and over 18 lakh (1.8 million) people were displaced.

From October to December each year, a very large area of south India, including Tamil Nadu, the coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh and the union territory of Puducherry, receives up to 30 percent of its annual rainfall from the northeast monsoon (or winter monsoon). The northeast monsoon is the result of the annual gradual retreat of monsoonal rains from northeastern India.

On 8 November 2015, during the 2015 North Indian Ocean cyclone season, a low pressure area consolidated into a depression and slowly intensified into a deep depression before crossing the coast of Tamil Nadu near Puducherry the following day.On 15 November, well-marked low pressure area moved northwards along the Tamil Nadu coast, dropping huge amounts of rainfall over coastal Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh with 24‑hour totals peaking at 370 mm in Ponneri. Chennai International Airport recorded 266 mm of rainfall in 24 hours. On 28–29 November, another system developed and arrived over Tamil Nadu on 30 November, bringing additional rain and flooding. The system dropped 490 mm of rainfall at Tambaram in 24 hours starting 8:30 am on 1 December. Very heavy rains led to flooding across the entire stretch of coast from Chennai to Cuddalore.

[[Cuddalore]]

CATEGORIES: Cuddalore district

Cuddaloreis a city which is the headquarters of the Cuddalore district in the south Indian state of Tamil Nadu.After the fall of Cholas, the town was ruled by various dynasties like Pandyas, Vijayanagar Empire, Madurai Nayaks, Thanjavur Nayaks, Thajavur Marathas, Tipu Sultan, French and the British Empire. Cuddalore was the scene of Seven Years' War and the Battle of Cuddalore in 1758 between the French and British. It has been a part of independent India since 1947. During the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, Cuddalore was one of the affected towns, with 572 casualties.

Apart from fishing and port related industries, Cuddalore houses chemical, pharmacological and energy industries in SIPCOT, an industrial estate set up by the state government. The town is administered by a special-grade municipality covering an area of 27.69 and had a population of 173,676 in 2011. Cuddalore is a part of the Cuddalore legislative assembly constituency which is a part of the Cuddalore Lok Sabha constituency. There are a total of nine schools, two arts and science colleges and two engineering colleges in the town. There is one government hospital, six municipal maternity homes and 37 other private hospitals that take care of the healthcare needs of the citizens. Roadways are the major means of transportation, while the town also has rail connectivity. The nearest airport is Chennai International Airport, located 200 away from the town. The nearest major seaport is Karaikal port, located 100 away from the town.

Cuddalore is located at 11.75. It has an average elevation of 6. The land is completely flat with large deposits of black and alluvial soil inland and coarse sand near the seashore. The sandstone deposits in the town are popular. The Pennayar river runs north of the town, while Gadilam river runs across it. Cuddalore is situated at a distance of 200 from the state capital Chennai and 18 from Puducherry, the neighbouring union territory. The nearest airport is at Chennai, 200 kilometres from Cuddalore. According to 2011 census, Cuddalore had a population of 173,636 with a sex-ratio of 1,026 females for every 1,000 males, much above the national average of 929. A total of 17,403 were under the age of six, constituting 8,869 males and 8,534 females. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes accounted for 13.22% and .3% of the population respectively. The average literacy of the city was 78.92%, compared to the national average of 72.99%.

[[Adyar River]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District, Rivers of Tamil Nadu

Adyar River is one of the two rivers that flows in Chennai. It originates near the Chembarambakkam Lake, Kanchipuram district.The 42.5 long river contributes to the estuarine ecosystem of Chennai. Despite the high pollution levels, boating and fishing take place in this river. The river collects surplus water from about 200 tanks and lakes, small streams and the rainwater drains in the city, with a combined catchment area of 331. Most of the waste from the city is drained into this river and the Cooum River.

Adyar river starts from Malaipattu tank near Manimangalam village in Sriperumbudur Taluk at about 15 west of Tambaram near Chennai. It starts to appear as a stream only from the point where water from Chembarambakkam lake joins the river. It flows through Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chennai district for about 42.5 before joining the Bay of Bengal in Adyar, Chennai. Here it forms an estuary, which extends from the Adyar Bridge to the sandbar at the edge of the sea, with some small islets in-between. The estuary attracts a wide variety of birds. The estuary covering an area of about 300 was made a protected wildlife reserve in 1987. The river forms a backwater near the mouth, known as the Adyar creek, due to the formation of sand bar at the mouth. This creek is a natural channel which carries tidal water back into the sea.

The river is almost stagnant except during the rain season. Rapid industrialisation and urbanisation has led to severe contamination of this river. However, the river gets just 10 per cent of the untreated sewage being let into the three principle waterways of Chennai daily, with the other two, namely, the Buckingham Canal and the Cooum River, taking the major share (60 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively).

The problem of sedimentation was not severe as the Adyar's width near Thiru.Vi.Ka. Bridge is nearly 480 that enabled tidal effect into the waterway for about 4. However, it was essential to provide groynes to keep the river mouth open for adequate width and prevent inundation during monsoon. In 2011, the Water Resources Department (WRD) proposed to construct groynes to reduce formation of sand bars near the mouth the river.In 2012, the state government allotted INR 3,000 million towards construction of 337 sewage cleaning systems in the waterways in the city, including 49 locations in the Adyar river. Others include 105 points in Cooum river and 183 locations in the Buckingham Canal.

[[Cooum River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Tamil Nadu, Chennai District

Cooum River is the shortest river draining into the Bay of Bengal. This river is about 72 km in length, flowing 32 km in the Urban part and the rest in rural part. The river is highly polluted in the urban area (Chennai). Along with the Adyar River running parallel to the south, the river trifurcates the city and separates Northern Chennai from Central Chennai.

Its source is in a place by the same name 'Cooum' or 'Koovam' in Tiruvallur district adjoining Chennai district. Owing to intensive use of surface water upstream for agriculture, indiscriminate pumping of groundwater leading to reduced base flow in the river, formation of sand bar at the mouth of the river, discharge of untreated sewage and industrial effluents and encroachment along the banks, the river, especially the downstream, has been highly polluted.

[[Hugues Quiéret]]

CATEGORIES: 1290 births, 1340 deaths, French military people, Hundred Years' War

Hugues Quiéret was a French naval commander who played a major role at the Battle of Sluys.

[[Hamamatsu festival]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture, Festivals in Asia, 1558 establishments, 16th century establishments in Japan, May events

Hamamatsu Festival (浜松まつり) is a festival held in Hamamatsu, Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan, on May 3 to 5 every year. The Hamamatsu festival is not a religious festival but a city festival. In Japan, May 3 to 5 is a holiday called Golden week. Golden week is the longest national holiday in Japan. May 3 is Constitution Memorial Day, May 4 is Greenery Day, and May 5 is Children's Day. During the festival, people who live in each ward celebrate children, especially baby boys, and local restaurants pray for success and prosperity.

[[Wat Yai Chai Mongkhon]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhist temples in Thailand

Wat yai chai mongkhon is a Buddhist temple in Ayutthaya, Thailand. It is the most important temple in Ayutthaya. It is a historical landmark and a popular tourist attraction.

[[Hyeokgeose]]

CATEGORIES: Korea, History of Korea, 69 BC births

Hyeokgeose (혁거세) was the first king of Silla (신라), a the kingdom of ancient south-west Korea, from B.C. 57 to B.C. 935.

[[Selenocysteine]]

CATEGORIES: Amino acids

Selenocysteine  is the 21st protein-building amino acid. It is almost the same as cysteine, but a selenium atom replaces the sulfur atom.

[[Hohtenn]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais, Villages in Valais

Hohtenn is a village and former municipality of the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Hohtenn and Steg merged into the new municipality of Steg-Hohtenn.

[[Kippel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Kippel is a municipality of the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Animal track]]

CATEGORIES: Zoology

An animal track is the imprint left behind in soil, snow, mud, or other ground surfaces that an animal walks across. 

Animal tracks are used by hunters to track their prey, and by naturalists to identify animals living in an area.

Tracks can be fossilized over millions of years.  It is for this reason we are able to see fossilized dinosaur tracks in some types of rock formations.  These types of fossils are called trace fossils since they are a trace of an animal left behind rather than the animal itself. In paleontology, tracks often preserve as sandstone infill, forming a natural mold of the track.

[[Congress of the Confederate States]]

CATEGORIES: Confederate States of America

The Congress of the Confederate States was the legislative body of the Confederate States of America. It existed during the American Civil War from 1861 to 1865. Like the United States Congress, the Confederate Congress consisted of two parts. The upper house was the Senate. It was made up of two senators from each state who were chosen by their state legislatures. The lower house was called the House of Representatives. Its members were elected by the citizens of the individual states. 

[[The Bridge (poem)]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

The Bridge is a long poem by American author Hart Crane. The work was published for the first time in 1930. It was intended by the poet to be a modern epic poem. The poem has fifteen parts. Many of them are about New York City. The best-known part of the poem is its introductory part named To Brooklyn Bridge. The Bridge is considered to be Hart Crane's most ambitious undertaking. It is sometimes, however, called a failure, too.

Hart Crane is a modern poet. But in this poem he used mostly iambic pentameter. This iambic pentameter is usually unrhymed (blank verse), but sometimes rhymed.

And Thee, across the harbor, silver paced

As though the sun took step of thee yet left

Some motion ever unspent in thy stride,—

Implicitly thy freedom staying thee!

Hart Crane is known for his attention to the sounds of language. He used alliteration, rhymes and internal assonance. The assonance, that is repeating of the same vowel, can be found in this strophe. The sound i occurs in many accented syllables in it.

How many dawns, ch'ill from his ri'ppling rest

The seagull’s wings shall d'ip and pivot hi'm,

Shedding white r'i'ngs of tumult, building high

Over the chained bay waters L'i'berty —

Alliteration, that is repeating of the same consonant, should be noticed in the next strophe.

O harp and altar, of the 'fury f'used,

(How could mere toil align thy choiring strings!)

Terrific threshold of the 'prophet’s p'ledge,

''Prayer of pariah, and the lover’s cry,''

[[Postal codes in Switzerland and Liechtenstein]]

CATEGORIES: Switzerland-related lists, Liechtenstein, Postal codes

This page is a summary of the postal codes of Switzerland and Liechtenstein.

The countries use 4 numbers in their postal code. The numbers are sorted by location. 

[[Nendeln]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Liechtenstein

Nendeln is a village in Liechtenstein. It is in the municipality of Eschen.

[[Schaanwald]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Liechtenstein

Schaanwald is a village of Liechtenstein. It is in the municipality of Mauren.

[[Connor McDavid]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Art Ross Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey centres, Edmonton Oilers players, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Ontario Hockey League players

Connor McDavid (born January 13, 1997) is a Canadian ice hockey centre and captain for the Edmonton Oilers of the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[American Eskimo Dog]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

The American Eskimo dog is a small breed of companion dog originating in Germany. The hair of American Eskimo dog is snowy white. Their hair also is long and thick, pure and luster, agile and flexible. American Eskimo belongs to the Spitz family. And all these breeds are from German Spitz. During the First World War, this breed was renamed “American Eskimo Dog.” There are three sizes of American Eskimo breed: toy, miniature and standard. The average lifespan of American Eskimo Dog is 12–15 years.

The best living places that are suit for American Eskimo Dog is active singles and seniors, apartments, family with children, houses with yards. This breed loves playing with human and it is very friendly with the children and stranger. Also, the nickname of American Eskimo Dog is “Eskie”.

[[Machalilla National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in South America, Geography of Ecuador

Machalilla National Park is an Ecuadorian  park. It is located in  the Pacific West coast of Ecuador in South America. It is in the province of Manabí. Machalilla National Park was declared by Minister of Environment  of Ecuador  as a  park  and natural preserve area on July 26, 1979. It was officially registered on November 20 of the same year. In 1990 the Ramsar Convention on Westlands named as a Ramsar site, which is a place where animals come to breed. The land part  is 56.184 hectares and the water part is 14.430 nautical miles.

[[Street cricket]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket

Street cricket or backyard cricket is an informal version of the game of cricket. 

It is played in many countries by people of all types and ages. It is played  in gardens, back yards, on the street, in parks, car parks, beaches and other places. The rules get adapted to local conditions. They play with bat or bat like wood  and use any kind of ball like plastic, sponge, paper and others. 

[[Synchronized diving]]

CATEGORIES: Diving, Summer Olympic sports

Synchronized diving (synchro diving) is a sport in which two divers dive at the same time as a team from a three-meter springboard or a ten-meter platform. It is one type of diving which has belonged to the Olympic games since 2000 Sydney Olympics. The competition consists of five or six rounds depending on the events. Divers dive two basic dives during the first two rounds. Then they dive more complex freestyle dives from the third to the fifth round. The winners are determined according to total scores from judges. There are two types of judges. One is a technical judge who evaluates degree of completion of their dives.  Another is a synchro judge who evaluates the synchronization of two divers. (synchro)

[[TWA Flight 800]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters in the United States, 1996 in the United States, Accidental deaths, Aviation disasters in the 1990s, 1990s in New York (state), Conspiracy theories

Trans World Airlines Flight 800 (TWA 800) was a scheduled flight from John F. Kennedy Int'l Airport to Paris-Charles de Gaulle Airport on July 17, 1996. The aircraft was a Boeing 747-100. The plane exploded just 12 minutes after takeoff. It crashed into the Atlantic Ocean near East Moriches, New York. The cause was determined to be a spark that ignited the center wing fuel tank. None of the 230 people onboard survived. It remains the third-deadliest aviation accident in U.S. history.

[[Arrondissements of the Haute-Marne department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Haute-Marne department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Haute-Marne are:

[[Arrondissements of the Marne department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 5 arrondissements in the Marne department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Marne are:

[[2016 Oakland warehouse fire]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 disasters, 2016 in California, 2010s fires, December 2016 events, Fires in the United States, Oakland, California

The 2016 Oakland warehouse fire was a fire in Oakland, California on December 2, 2016. At around 11:30 PM Pacific Standard Time, a fire started in a warehouse. The warehouse, known as Ghost Ship, had been changed into places for people to live and into an artist collective. Those changes were done without permits.

At least 36 people died because of the fire. It was the deadliest building fire in Oakland history.

[[Arrondissement of Châlons-en-Champagne]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Châlons-en-Champagne is an arrondissement of France, in the Marne department, Grand Est region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Châlons-en-Champagne.

[[Arrondissement of Épernay]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Épernay is an arrondissement of France, in the Marne department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Épernay.

[[Arrondissement of Reims]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Reims is an arrondissement of France, in the Marne department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Reims.

[[Vaganova Ballet Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet companies

The Vaganova Ballet Academy is a ballet school which was founded in 1738 by Empress Anna Ioannovna (1693-1740) in Saint Petersburg, Russia. 

The original name of the academy was the Imperial Ballet School. In the Soviet regime, the school was rebuilt as the Leningrad State Choreographic Institute. After that, in 1957, the name of the school became the Vaganova Ballet Academy by Agrippina Vaganova. Every year, over 3,000 children audition and only approximately 70 children are accepted. It has eight year curriculum, and 30 dancers complete the whole of the curriculum. Dancers who take the eight year course may join ballet companies all over the world.

[[Kishiwada Danjiri Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals in Asia

Kishiwada Danjiri festival( 岸和田だんじり祭り） is a festival which is held in Kishiwada, located in southern Osaka,  in Japan for abundant crops. There are some differnet Danjiri matsuri festivals in western Japan region, but Kishiwada one is the biggest. People pull Danjiri float , run, walk and play some traditional instrument.   The date which it is held is on saturday and Sunday just before the Respect-for-the Aged Day Holiday of September.failed verification 

[[Alissa White-Gluz]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Canadian singers

Alissa White-Gluz (born July 31, 1985) is a Canadian singer. She is best known for being the lead singer of Swedish death metal band Arch Enemy and the former singer of Canadian metal band The Agonist.

[[UEFA Euro 2016 squads]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA Euro 2016 players

These are the twenty-four national teams who played at Euro 2016 in France. Every national association must present before the UEFA a list of 23 footballers (which three of them must be goalkeepers) in ten days before the first match, that means: 31th May, 2016.

A footballer can be replaced by another one if he is injured or sick, although must be certified by the UEFA's Medical Committee and by the medical staff of his football club. 

These dispositions are applied according art. 44 of Euro 2016's regulations.

[[Arrondissement of Vitry-le-François]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Vitry-le-François is an arrondissement of France, in the Marne department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Vitry-le-François.

[[Arrondissement of Sainte-Menehould]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Sainte-Menehould is an arrondissement of France, in the Marne department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Sainte-Menehould.

[[Multiplication table]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

A multiplication table is a tool used to learn how to multiply two numbers. The oldest known multiplication tables were written by the Babylonians about 4000 years ago. Many people think it is important to know how to multiply two numbers by heart, usually up to 12 × 12, 30 × 30, 50 × 50, or 99 × 99.

Most children are introduced to the two, five and 10 times tables by year two - at the age of six and seven. Between the age of seven and eight, children start to learn the three, four and eight times tables. The hardest multiplication is 6×8, which students got wrong 63% of the time. This was closely followed by 8×6, then 11×12, 12×8 and 8×12. The easiest multiplication, on the other hand, was 1×12, which students got wrong less than 5% of the time, followed by 1×6 and 9×1.

In a multiplication table, a number on the first column is multiplied by a number on the first row. The number they corner up to is the answer. In the table below, 21 and 18 are multiplied to get 378, using the table. The numbers in bold are squares (numbers multiplied by themselves).

[[Magistrate]]

CATEGORIES: Law occupations, Judges

A magistrate is a law officer who administers the law in a court. The term varies in its use in different countries.

[[Arrondissement of Chaumont]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Chaumont is an arrondissement of France, in the Haute-Marne department, Grand Est region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Chaumont.

[[Arrondissement of Langres]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Langres is an arrondissement of France, in the Haute-Marne department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Langres.

[[Arrondissement of Saint-Dizier]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Saint-Dizier is an arrondissement of France, in the Haute-Marne department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Saint-Dizier.

[[Herod the Great]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and queens, Jerusalem, 4 BC

Herod I (circa 74/73 BCE – 4 BCE/1 CE), also known as Herod the Great, was the King of Judea from 37 to 4 BC. At the time Judea was a client state of Rome. During his 33 year reign, Herod was an excellent administrator. But he is most famous for the Bible account of his killing the boys of Bethlehem. While this massacre of innocents is not confirmed by other historical records, Herod did murder countless rivals, a mother-in-law, a wife and three of his sons. 

[[Maxwell (unit)]]

Maxwell is a Gauss unit of cgs(centimetre-gram-second), introduced by Carl Friedrich Gauss.

[[Linus Sebastian]]

CATEGORIES: YouTube

Linus Gabriel Sebastian is a host of the YouTube channels LinusTechTips, TechQuickie, TechLinked, and ChannelSuperFun. He is the founder of LinusMediaGroup, a company dedicated to creating videos for these channels. In 2015, Inc. magazine ranked Sebastian 4th in a list of the "Top 30 Power Players in Tech".

[[1824 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 1824 in the United States, United States presidential elections

In the United States presidential election of 1824, John Quincy Adams was elected the sixth President of the United States. There were five candidates for president: John Quincy Adams, John C. Calhoun, William H. Crawford , Henry Clay and Andrew Jackson. Jackson was by far the most popular candidate. The winner of the Electoral College was Jackson who had 99 votes. Adams was second with 84 votes. Crawford won 41 votes while Clay won only 37. For the first time since 1801 the United States House of Representatives would decide the election. Under the Twelfth Amendment to the United States, with no Electoral College winner, the President would be voted on from among the top three candidates. Meeting in February 1825, Adams won by a single vote. Adams was the son of the second President of the United States, John Adams.

[[Wigan Warriors]]

CATEGORIES: Rugby

Wigan Warriors are a rugby league club from Wigan, United Kingdom. Wigan play in Super League and have won 21 league championships, 19 Challenge Cups and 4 World Club titles. Wigan play at the DW Stadium.

[[Super League]]

CATEGORIES: Rugby

The Super League is a rugby league competition for clubs from the United Kingdom and France. The league started in 1996 and Wigan Warriors are the current champions, having won the 2016 title.

[[Nissan Navara]]

CATEGORIES: Nissan automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

Nissan Navara (also called Nissan Frontier) is a pickup truck from Nissan. The line began around 1997. It replaced the Datsun Hardbody trucks.

The Navara is named for the Navarre region in northern Spain.

The truck is available in two and four doors.

[[Andrew Puzder]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Cleveland, Ohio, Businesspeople from Tennessee, Politicians from Cleveland, Ohio, Politicians from Tennessee, US Republican Party politicians

Andrew Franklin "Andy" Puzder (born July 11, 1950) is the chief executive of CKE Restaurants. He received his Juris doctorate in 1978 from Washington University School of Law in St. Louis where he served as senior editor on the Law Review. Puzder has served as president and CEO of CKE since September 2000.

On December 8, 2016, Puzder was named as President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for United States Secretary of Labor. He withdrew as the nominee on February 15, 2017.

[[Joseph Mascolo]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, American movie actors, American television actors, Musicians from Connecticut, Actors from Connecticut, People from West Hartford, Connecticut

Joseph Mascolo (March 13, 1929 – December 8, 2016) was an American musician and former dramatic actor. 

Mascolo was born in West Hartford, Connecticut. He studied at the University of Miami and at the United States Military Academy. He began acting in 1957. 

During his long career, he has acted in many movies such as Jaws 2, Heat and The Trail of the Incredible Hulk. He was best known for playing super villian Stefano DiMera, a role he originated in 1982 on NBC's Days of Our Lives until his retirement in January 2016.

Mascolo was married to Rose Maimone in 1953. She died in 1986. They had one son. Mascolo then married Patricia Schultz in 2005. He lived in Los Angeles. California. Mascolo was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in 2015 and suffered a crippling stroke the same year.

Mascolo died on December 8, 2016 at his home in Los Angeles from complication of the disease, aged 87. He was survived by his wife Patricia, his sister Marie, his son Peter and a step-daughter Laura.

[[Associação Chapecoense de Futebol]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, 1976 establishments in Brazil

Associação Chapecoense de Futebol is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[Virtual reality]]

CATEGORIES: Computer graphics, Electronics

Virtual reality (often just called VR) is the name for computer technology that makes a person feel like they are somewhere else.  It uses software to produce images, sounds, and other sensations to create a different place so that a user feels like he or she is really part of this other place.  That other place can be a real place (to take a tour in another country, for instance) or imaginary (playing a game). 

A user uses a headset which consists of a screen to project the content, and speakers to produce sounds.

The technology to do this needs special display screens or projectors and other devices.  Often the picture will change when the user moves their head, they may be able to "walk" through this virtual space and to see things in that space from different directions, and maybe move things in that space.  Haptic feedback might also be used to help make it seem more real - haptic feedback uses special gloves that make it feel like you touched something in real life.

Virtual reality is different than augmented reality, which shows the real place that a person is in, but changes or adds to it.  Pokémon Go is an example of augmented reality. Augmented reality headsets are also commercially available such as the Microsoft HoloLens.

[[Martisberg]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Martisberg is a former municipality in the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Martisberg and Betten merged into the new municipality of Bettmeralp.

[[Mörel, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Mörel is a former municipality in the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Mörel and Filet merged into the new municipality of Mörel-Filet.

[[Bettmeralp]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 establishments in Switzerland, Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland, Municipalities of Valais, Villages in Valais

Bettmeralp is a municipality of the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

Before the merger, Bettmeralp was the name of a village and ski resort in Betten.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Betten and Martisberg merged into the new municipality of Bettmeralp.

[[Vincent Laforet]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American movie directors, American photographers, 1975 births

Vincent Laforet (born 1975, Switzerland) is a French American director and photographer.

Laforet shared the 2002 Pulitzer Prize for Feature Photography. The other photographers who won were: Stephen Crowley, Chang Lee, James Hill, and Ruth Fremson. The group worked for The New York Times. They covered events outside of the United States after the September 11 attacks.

[[Associação Atlética Ponte Preta]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs

Ponte Preta is a Brazilian soccer club.

[[Clube Náutico Capibaribe]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, Recife, 1931 establishments in Brazil

Clube Náutico Capibaribe is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[Raising Hope]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, 2010s American television series, 2010 American television series debuts, English-language television programs

Raising Hope is an American sitcom. It aired from September 21, 2010, to April 4, 2014, on Fox.

The show aired during prime time, a block of television viewing time in the peak evening hours. The show averaged over 6 million viewers per episode in the first season. The show was also broadcast internationally. It aired in Australia, Canada, Czech Republic, Finland, Germany, Italy, Portugal, and the United Kingdom. It was broadcast by I.Sat in Latin America.

[[Citropsis articulata]]

CATEGORIES: Citrus

Citropsis articulata is a type of flowering plant in the citrus family. It is native to tropical West Africa.

The plant and fruit are known by many names. Some of the names are: African cherry orange, West African cherry orange, Uganda cherry orange, Agbalumo, Udara, Otien, and Omuboro. 

[[Mannheim Steamroller]]

CATEGORIES: Rock bands, 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups

The Mannheim Steamroller is a neoclassical new-age music group. It was founded by Chip Davis. The group is well-known for mixing classical music with new aged and rock music. They also do Christmas music.

Their music is done using the Fresh Aire series of studio albums. They have sold over 28 million albums worldwide.

The Mannheim Steamroller was founded in 1974.

[[Christmas music]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas music

Christmas music is songs that relate to Christmas and New Year's. The music is normally heard during the holiday season.

Music was an early part of Christmas and its celebrations.

During the Middle Ages, the English people combined circle dances with singing and called them carols. Christmas carols in English first appeared in a 1426 work from John Audelay. 

Traditional Christmas songs are "Silent Night", "Deck the Halls" and "God Rest You Merry Gentlemen".

Modern Christmas songs include "Jingle Bell Rock", "The Christmas Song", "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas", "Sleigh Ride", "Rockin' Around the Christmas Tree" and "I'll Be Home for Christmas".

[[Ta Moko]]

CATEGORIES: Maori, Body art

“Ta Moko” means tattoo art in Maori.

Often these tattoos covered the whole face and were a symbol of rank, social status, power and prestige for the Maori people.

Ta Moko is a visual language which connects the person who has it to his “whakapapa”. Whakapapa is the family, it’s the genealogical tree, so there is nothing which links religion to Ta Moko. 

Ta Moko symbolises identification with their origins. It is considered to be beautiful but ferocious because they have to frighten their enemies. The Maori facial tattoo was used as a kind of “identification card”.

These tattoos look like animals or geometric shapes. The most popular tattoo is “the tortoise”. 

The technique of making tattooes leaves scars. Traditional tools to make Ta Moko are albatross bone chisels and black ink. A Maori tattoo takes a lot of time to do; generally the Maori people start tattooing themselves in adolescence and they finish in adulthood. They take years to be finished. But a real Ta Moko is very painful. The tattoo artist removes your skin by making wide cuts with a mallet and either a Turtle scale or an Albatross bone. So it takes a long time and you suffer a lot.

Boys start to be tattooed around adolescence but  we don’t know when women can start to be tattooed.

Men’s tattooes can be found everywhere on their bodies; whereas women can only have tattooes on their foreheads, necks, lips, chins and backs. 

The number of tattooes they have depends on their age, what the people have done in their lives and the place of the person in the tribe. For Maoris these tattooes are like a diary because they are a written record of all the important events and places a man has experienced in his life.

[[Sekkizhar]]

CATEGORIES: Indian poets

Sekkizhar is a Tamil poet and scholar. He lived during the period of Kulothunga  Chola II. He was considered an excellent poet. Sekkizhar wrote Periya Puranam. It was originally 4253 poems describing the lives of 63 Shaiva Nayanars.

[[Turkish Airlines Flight 981]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 in Europe, 20th century in France, Aviation disasters in Europe, Aviation disasters in the 1970s, Hauts-de-France, March events

Turkish Airlines Flight 981 was a regular flight operated by Turkish Airlines, from Istanbul to London Heathrow, with an extra stop in Paris. The aircraft was a McDonnell Douglas DC-10. On March 3, 1974, the airplane crashed into the Ermenonville Forest, shortly after it had left Paris. All 346 people on board were killed in the accident. An investigation after the crash found out that one of the cargo doors at the rear of the aircraft was not properly closed and secured. After takeoff, part of the door broke off and caused an explosion in the rear of the aircraft. The explosion also damaged cables needed to fly the aircraft. This meant that after the explosion, the aircraft could not be completely controlled. 

[[Cuttack]]

CATEGORIES: India, Cities in India

Cuttack is the former capital of the state of Odisha in East India. It is the headquarters of the Cuttack district. Cuttack is nicknamed the "Millennium City" and the "Silver City". Cuttack has over 1000 years of history, and has a famous silver jewelry works. The High Court of Odisha is located in Cuttack. Cuttack is also called as the commercial capital of Odisha. This is due to the large number of trading and business houses in the city.

Cuttack and Bhubaneswar are often called the Twin-Cities of Odisha. The metropolitan area formed by the two cities has a population of 1.68 million in 2014. Cuttack is a Tier-II city as per the ranking system used by Government of India.

[[Deomali (mountain)]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of India

Deomali is a mountain peak in the Chandragiri-Pottangi subrange of the Eastern Ghats. It is located near Koraput town in the Koraput district of southern Odisha, India.At 1672 m Deomali is the highest mountain peak in the state of Odisha. It is also one of the tallest peaks of the Eastern Ghats. The peak has a good surrounding scenery.

[[Danish Football Association]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 establishments in Europe

The Danish Football Association (Dansk Boldspil-Union; DBU) is the body that controls Danish football. The DBU has also been the governing body of futsal in Denmark since 2008.

Formed on May 18, 1889, it is the oldest football association outside Great Britain and Ireland.

[[Mörel-Filet]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Valais

Mörel-Filet is a municipality of the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Filet and Mörel merged into the new municipality of Mörel-Filet.

[[Niedergesteln]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Niedergesteln is a municipality in the district Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Tryptophan]]

CATEGORIES: Amino acids

Tryptophan (Trp or W) is encoded by the codon UGG. It is an α-amino acid used in the biosynthesis of proteins. 

Tryptophan has an α-amino group (which is in the –NH3+ form under biological conditions), and an α-carboxylic acid group (which is in the deprotonated –COO− form under biological conditions). It also has a side chain indole, which makes it a non-polar aromatic amino acid. Tryptophan is essential to humans: the body cannot synthesize it, so it must be got from the diet.

Tryptophan is also a precursor to the neurotransmitters serotonin and melatonin.

[[Saint-Dizier]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haute-Marne, Subprefectures in France

Saint-Dizier is a commune of France, and a subprefecture of the Haute-Marne department in the Grand Est region.

[[Adam Ries]]

CATEGORIES: German mathematicians

Adam Ries was a mathematician from Bad Staffelstein in Bavaria. Ries lived in the 16th century. He was born in 1492 or 1493, and died in 1559.

Ries became known for a work on how to calculate. His first work was about a "calculating board", which was widely used at the time. It worked rather like an abacus. Ries showed that Roman numerals were impractical for calculation.

Ries wrote in German, and not in Latin, as orher mathematicians of his time. 

[[Robot lawyer]]

CATEGORIES: Artificial intelligence, Law

A robot lawyer is an artificial intelligence (AI) computer program. It is designed to ask the same questions as a real lawyer about certain legal issues.

Robot lawyers are being used in many countries around the world including the United States, the United Kingdom, and Holland.

[[Cheryl]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Cheryl is a female given name. It is very common in English-speaking countries. It is an English version of the French name Cherie.

The name appeared in the early 20th century. It was most popular during the Cold War period. In North America, it was popular between the 1940s and 1980s. In the United Kingdom, it was popular from the 1950s to 1990s.

Famous people with the name Cheryl include Cheryl Ladd and Cheryl Hines.

[[Al-Masih ad-Dajjal]]

CATEGORIES: Islam, Mythology

Al-Masih ad-Dajjal (المسيح الدجّال ar, "the false messiah", or "the deceiver") is an evil figure in Islamic eschatology. He is to appear, pretending to be al-Masih (i.e. the Messiah), before Yawm al-Qiyamah (the Day of Resurrection). According to Islamic belief, at the end of days he will gather together everyone he has deceived into a great army. His army will then confront the Messiah and his army. The Dajjal is not mentioned directly in the Qur'an. This may be because he is only human and is mentioned in the future.

[[Australian impact structure]]

CATEGORIES: Impact craters, Geography of Australia

The Australian impact structure is also called the "massive Australian Precambrian/Cambrian impact structure" or MAPCIS.

It is thought to be the remains of a huge meteorite strike. Its centre is in the Northern Territory, about halfway between Uluru (Ayers Rock) and Mount Conner. The crater is about 600 km (370 mi) in diameter. There is a wider ring 2,000 kilometres (1,200 mi) in diameter which may be related to the impact. If it is confirmed, MAPCIS would be the largest impact structure on Earth. It is not confirmed at present.

The age of this hypothetical impact is about 545 mya. This puts it just before the Cambrian period.

[[Azerbaijan Red Crescent Society]]

CATEGORIES: Red Cross, Baku, Charities, 1920 establishments in Azerbaijan

Azerbaijan Red Crescent Society is a charitable organization in Azerbaijan. It is a member of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement. It was established on March 10, 1920. Its headquarters are in Baku. Their mission is "to serve vulnerable people by mobilizing the capacity of Azerbaijan Red Crescent and the power of humanity."

[[Shoemaker crater]]

CATEGORIES: Impact craters, Geography of Western Australia

The Shoemaker crater in Western Australia (formerly known as Teague Ring) is an obvious impact crater, the remains of an ancient meteorite strike.

It is in dry central Western Australia, about 100 north-northeast of Wiluna. It is named after planetary geologist Eugene Shoemaker.

It was dated to 1630 million years ago. More recent dating by K–Ar methods give ages as young as 568 ± 20 mya. This age could also date the impact event or represent tectonic activity.

[[Immortals (2011 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 movies, Movies based on Greek and Roman mythology

Immortals is a 2011 American adventure-fantasy movie directed by Tarsem Singh. It is loosely based on the myths of Theseus, the Minotaur and the Titanomachy. The movie it stars Henry Cavill, Freida Pinto and Mickey Rourke. It was released on November 11, 2011. The reviews were mixed to negative. But it was a commercial success.

[[Capital asset pricing model]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

The capital asset pricing model (CAPM) is a model of stock returns. 

It makes a key assumption, which is that investors care only about two things: the mean returns of stocks over, for example, ten years, and the volatility of annual returns around that mean during the same period. 

The main result of the model is that the return of a stock can be broken down in the sum of two things: a risk-free rate and a risk premium. This risk premium can be seen as the product of two things: a measure of the risk of the stock (called the "beta") and the average reward for risk in the market (the "equity risk premium", which is the return of the market over and above the risk-free rate).

[[Wisconsin in the American Civil War]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War, 19th century in Wisconsin

Wisconsin in the American Civil War, being a northern state, fought for the Union. When the Civil War started, Wisconsin raised 91,379 soldiers for the Union Army. They were organized into 53 infantry regiments, 4 cavalry regiments, a company of Berdan's sharpshooters, 13 light artillery batteries and 1 unit of heavy artillery. Most of the Wisconsin troops served in the Western Theater. However, several regiments served in Eastern armies, including three regiments within the famed Iron Brigade. A total of 3,794 were killed in action or mortally wounded. Another 8,022 died of disease. About 400 were killed in accidents. The total casualties were 12,216 men. This was about 13.4 percent of total Wisconsin enlistments.

[[John Howard Northrop]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1987 deaths, American biochemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Nobel Prize in Chemistry winners

John Howard Northrop (July 5, 1891 – May 27, 1987) was an American biochemist. He shared the 1946 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with James Batcheller Sumner and Wendell Meredith Stanley.

Northrop was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1949. He was employed by the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research in New York City from 1916 until his retirement in 1961.  In 1949 he was appointed Professor of Bacteriology and later, Professor of Biophysics at the University of California, Berkeley.

[[California in the American Civil War]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War, 19th century in California

California in the American Civil War was involved in sending gold east, recruiting volunteer soldiers to replace regular army forces in the Western United States and in maintaining and building numerous camps and fortifications. The State of California did not send its units east, but many citizens traveled east and joined the Union Army. California's Volunteers also conducted many operations against the Native American peoples within the state and in the other Western territories of the Departments of the Pacific and New Mexico.

Following the Gold Rush, California was settled primarily by Midwestern and Southern farmers, miners and businessmen. Democrats dominated the state from its foundation. Southern Democrats were sympathetic to the Confederate States of America who seceded, but they were a minority group in the state. California businessmen played a significant role in Californian politics through their control of mines, shipping, finance, and the Republican Party. But they were a minority party until the secession crisis.

[[Quassel]]

CATEGORIES: IRC clients

Quassel IRC, or Quassel, is an IRC client, introduced in 2008. It is released under the GNU General Public License for GNU and Unix-like operating systems, OS X, and Microsoft Windows. Since the release of Kubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope) Quassel is Kubuntu's default IRC client. Quassel uses the Qt application framework.

[[Palisade cell]]

CATEGORIES: Plant anatomy, Plant physiology

Palisade cells are special cells in the leaves of plants. They are the main place where photosynthesis takes place. Their function is to absorb light so photosynthesis can take place. 

They have the largest number of chloroplasts per cell of any plant tissue, which makes them the main site of photosynthesis. In the leaves of plants, they convert the light to chemical energy in the form of carbohydrates. The cells are just below the epidermis and cuticle.

[[Extermination through labor]]

CATEGORIES: The Holocaust

Extermination through labour is a way of torturing and killing prisoners.  In a system of extermination by labour, prisoners are forced to do very heavy work without enough food or medical care.  Eventually, prisoners die from malnutrition, illness, or injury.

Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union both had systems of extermination through labor.  Some people describe North Korea's prison system as a system of extermination through labor.

[[GN-z11]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies

GN-z11 is a galaxy. It is the oldest known galaxy and farthest-known galaxy from Earth.

[[Konversation]]

CATEGORIES: IRC clients

Konversation is an Internet Relay Chat (IRC) client. It is built on the KDE Platform. It is free software released under the terms of the GNU General Public License. It is the default IRC client in many Linux distributions, such as openSUSE, the KDE spin of Fedora, and Kubuntu.

[[Lagerordnung]]

CATEGORIES: The Holocaust

The Lagerordnung (the "Disciplinary and Penal Code") was a set of rules for punishing prisoners at Dachau concentration camp in Nazi Germany.  On January 1, 1934, the Lagerordnung became the official rules of every concentration camp in Nazi Germany.

Also known as the Strafkatalog (Punishment Catalogue), it set out the rules the prisoners had to follow.  SS guards were told to report to the camp commandant when a prisoner broke a rule.

The Concentration Camps Inspectorate was in charge of carrying out punishment.  They did this without making sure the prisoner had actually broken the rule.  Once they were accused, prisoners had no way of proving themselves innocent.

[[Guanacaste]]

CATEGORIES: Fabaceae, Trees

Guanacaste (Enterolobium cyclocarpum) also known as elephant-ear tree or devil's ear is a species of flowering tree in the pea family, Fabaceae. It is native to tropical regions of the Americas. It is the national tree of Costa Rica.

Common names in some other languages are:

Enterolobium cyclocarpum, the scientific name of the guanacaste tree was given by August Grisebach to this plant in 1864.

[[Rex Tillerson]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Texas, Politicians from Texas, United States Secretaries of State, US Republican Party politicians, 21st-century American politicians, People from Irving, Texas

Rex Wayne Tillerson (born March 23, 1952) is an American businessman and the 69th United States Secretary of State. He served from February 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018. He was the chairman and CEO of Exxon Mobil Corporation, the fifth largest company by market capitalization until his resignation in 2017.

In December 2016, President-elect of the United States Donald Trump announced his intention to nominate Tillerson to be the Secretary of State. The United States Senate approved of his nomination on February 1, 2017 and shortly assumed the office. On March 13, 2018, Trump fired Tillerson and said he would nominate Mike Pompeo to succeed him as Secretary of State. Tillerson's term officially ended on March 31, 2018.

[[John F. Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American military people, White House Chiefs of Staff, United States Secretaries of Homeland Security, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, Independent politicians in the United States

John Francis Kelly (born May 11, 1950) is a retired United States Marine Corps General. He was the 28th White House Chief of Staff from July 31, 2017 to January 2, 2019. Kelly was the 5th United States Secretary of Homeland Security, serving from January through July 2017.

He is the former Commander of United States Southern Command (USSOUTHCOM). Kelly last served as the commanding general of the Multi-National Force—West in Iraq from February 2008 to February 2009, and as the commander of Marine Forces Reserve and Marine Forces North in October 2009.

[[Scott Pruitt]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Administrators of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, American lawyers, Politicians from Kentucky, Politicians from Oklahoma, US Republican Party politicians, State legislators of the United States

Edward Scott Pruitt (born May 9, 1968) is an American lawyer and Republican politician from the state of Oklahoma.  Scott was the 14th Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency from February 17, 2017 until his resignation on July 6, 2018.

He was the Oklahoma Attorney General serving from 2011 through 2017. Pruitt was a State Senator, representing Tulsa and Wagoner counties from 1998 until 2006.  

On December 7, 2016, President-elect Donald Trump selected Pruitt to be his nominee as the next Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. On February 17, 2017, the Senate confirmed Pruitt's nomination, by a vote of 52-46. 

While critics, such as Senator Bernie Sanders, described him as a climate change denier, he believes that the climate is changing and human activity is responsible to climate change.

[[Linda McMahon]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Businesspeople from North Carolina, Businesspeople from Connecticut, Administrators of the Small Business Administration, Politicians from North Carolina, Politicians from Connecticut, US Republican Party politicians

Linda Marie McMahon (née Edwards; born October 4, 1948) is an American professional wrestling magnate and politician. She is the 25th Administrator of the Small Business Administration serving from February 14, 2017 to April 12, 2019. McMahon was active with the WWE (WWF until 2002) from 1980 to 2009. She has been married to Vince McMahon since 1966.

[[Azerbaijan State Symphony Orchestra]]

CATEGORIES: Orchestras, 1920 establishments in Azerbaijan, Azerbaijani culture

The Hajibeyov Azerbaijan State Symphony Orchestra (Azeri: Hacıbəyov adına Azərbaycan Dövlət Simfonik Orkestri) was formed in 1920, at the request of composer Uzeyir Hajibeyov after whom it was later named. It was one of the first orchestras in the Soviet Union. It is part of the Azerbaijan State Philharmonic Society.

Composers such as Rhené-Baton and Otto Klemperer were invited from abroad to help in establishing and training the orchestra. From 1938 to 1984, Hajibeyov's nephew Niyazi was conducting the orchestra. After his death, the conducting has been performed by "People's Artist" of Azerbaijan, Professor Rauf Abdullayev. The orchestra has toured a number of countries including the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Turkey, and Egypt.

[[Diana Lynn]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Deaths from stroke, 1926 births, 1971 deaths

Diana Lynn  (July 5, 1926 – December 18, 1971) was an American actress of the stage, cinema and television. 

[[Jason Kander]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Politicians from Kansas, Politicians from Missouri, US Democratic Party politicians, State legislators of the United States

Jason Kander (born May 4, 1981) is an American lawyer and Democratic Party politician. He was elected Secretary of State of Missouri in 2012, serving from January 2013 through January 9, 2017. He served as a state representative before becoming secretary of state. He was an intelligence officer in the Army National Guard, achieving the rank of Captain. 

[[John Neely Kennedy]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, United States senators from Louisiana, Politicians from Mississippi, US Republican Party politicians

John Neely Kennedy (born November 21, 1951) is an American politician. He is the United States Senator from Louisiana. Before becoming a senator, he was the State Treasurer of Louisiana. He is a member of the Republican Party. 

He served five terms as Treasurer of Louisiana. He took office in the United States Senate on January 3, 2017, after defeating Democratic candidate Foster Campbell in the Senate election runoff by over 21 percentage points.

[[Sun of May]]

CATEGORIES: National symbols

The Sun of May (el sol de mayo) is a national emblem of Argentina and Uruguay. It is a reference to the May revolution in Argentina, which led to that country's later independence from Spanish. In Uruguay it also refers to the May revolution. On 25 May 1810, the sun came out in Buenos Aires during a public gathering. This was seen as a good omen for the future success of the independence struggle.

[[Peter van Straaten]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, Cartoonists, Comics artists, Dutch artists, People from Amsterdam, People from Arnhem, Writers from Gelderland

Peter van Straaten (25 March 1935 – 8 December 2016) was a Dutch cartoonist and comics artist. He was best known for his political cartoons as well as his satirical observations of everyday people. He also had a newspaper comic strip Vader & Zoon, which ran in Het Parool for almost two decades.

Van Straaten announced his retirement on 2 August 2016. He died four months later on 8 December in Amsterdam, at the age of 81.

[[Alan Thicke]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Ontario, Canadian movie actors, Canadian songwriters, Canadian television actors, Canadian television presenters, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles County, California, Deaths from aortic dissection, Writers from Ontario

Alan Willis Thicke (born Alan Willis Jeffery; March 1, 1947 – December 13, 2016) was a Canadian actor, songwriter, and game and talk show host. He was known for his role as Jason Seaver, the father on the ABC television series Growing Pains. 

He was the father of singer Robin Thicke.

Thicke died at his home in Burbank, California on December 13, 2016 from a sudden Aortic dissection, aged 69.

[[Jewish diaspora]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish history

The Jewish Diaspora was a time formally described as" the scattering of the Jews." A time after the Babylonian captivity when Jews settled in different places, eventually settling together.

[[Shirley Hazzard]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from dementia, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Writers from Sydney

Shirley Hazzard (30 January 1931 – 12 December 2016) was an Australian-born American author of fiction and non-fiction. She was born in Australia, but held citizenship of the United States. Her 1970 novel, The Bay of Noon, was shortlisted for the Lost Man Booker Prize in 2010

and her 2003 novel The Great Fire won the U.S. National Book Award for Fiction.

Hazzard died in New York City on 12 December 2016 from complications of dementia, aged 85.

[[Frederick Wiseman]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, American movie directors, American historians, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts

Frederick Wiseman (born January 1, 1930) is an American filmmaker, documentarian, and theatrical director.

In 2016, he was a recipient of an Academy Honorary Award from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.

[[Anne V. Coates]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winners, BAFTA Award winners, 1925 births, 2018 deaths, British movie editors, People from Surrey

Anne Voase Coates (12 December 1925 – 8 May 2018) was a British movie editor with a more than 60-year-long career. She was best known as the editor of David Lean's epic movie Lawrence of Arabia in 1962. 

[[David Somerset, 11th Duke of Beaufort]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, People from Gloucestershire, British billionaires

David Robert Somerset, 11th Duke of Beaufort (23 February 1928 – 16 August 2017), known as Mr David Somerset until 1984, was a British peer. He served as a member of the House of Lords from 5 February 1984 to 11 November 1999. He was President of the British Horse Society between 1988 and 1990, and was chairman of Marlborough Fine Art.

Somerset died on 16 August 2017 at his home in Badminton, Gloucestershire, South West England at the age of 89.

[[Lester L. Wolff]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2021 deaths, American centenarians, Jewish American politicians, Politicians from New York City, United States representatives from New York, US Democratic Party politicians

Lester Lionel Wolff (January 4, 1919 – May 11, 2021) was an American politician. He was a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives from New York. He served as a representative from 1973 through 1981.

He was president of the International Trade and Development Agency. In 2014, Wolff received the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian award in the United States.

Wolff was also the chair of the Touro College Pacific Community Institute, the author of numerous books on foreign policy, and the host of weekly PBS show Ask Congress.

Wolff died on May 11, 2021 at a hospital in Syosset, New York at the age of 102.

[[Field hockey at the 2012 Summer Olympics – Men's tournament]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 Summer Olympics, Field hockey

The men's field hockey tournament at the 2012 Summer Olympics was the 22nd edition of the field hockey event for men at the Summer Olympic Games. It was held over a thirteen-day period beginning on 30 July. The medal finals were on 11 August. All games were played at the Riverbank Arena within the Olympic Park in London, United Kingdom.

Defending champions Germany won the gold medal for the fourth time. They defeated the Netherlands 2–1 in the final. Australia won the bronze medal by defeating Great Britain 3–1.

[[Fisher-Price]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States, 1920 establishments in the United States

Fisher-Price is an American company. It produces toys for children. Since 1992, the company has been owned by Mattel.

The company was founded in 1920.

The company has produced toys including Barney & Friends related products, Dora the Explorer products and some Disney, Muppets and Sesame Street products.

[[Matchbox (brand)]]

CATEGORIES: Toys, 1930 establishments in the United States

Matchbox is a toy brand which got started in 1953. It is now owned by Mattel. The toys were sold in boxes similar to those in which matches were sold.

The brand made various toys, like action figures and toy vehicles such as model cars.

In May 1992, the company was sold to Tyco Toys. Five years later, Tyco was sold to Mattel. Matchbox was originally a competitor to Hot Wheels.

[[Die-cast toy]]

CATEGORIES: Toys

A die-cast toy is any toy produced by the process of die casting. The toys are made of metal with plastic, glass and rubber details. The most common die-cast toys are scale models of vehicles, aircraft and trains. Hot Wheels toys are an example of die-cast cars. Early die-cast toys were made of lead. Modern toys are made of Zamak which is an alloy of zinc, aluminium, magnesium, and copper.

[[West African Vodun]]

CATEGORIES: African traditional religions, Voodoo

Vodun (meaning spirit in the Fon and Ewe languages, vodṹ with a nasal high-tone u; also spelled Vodon, Vodoun, Vodou, Voudou, Voodoo, etc.) is practiced by the Ewe people of eastern and southern Ghana, and southern and central Togo; and the Kabye people, Mina people, and Fon people of southern and central Togo, southern and central Benin. It is also practiced by some Gun people of Lagos and Ogun in southwest Nigeria. All the which belong to Gbe speaking ethnic groups of West Africa, except the Kabye. 

It is different from the African traditional religions in the middle of these countries and is the main source of religions with similar names found among the African Diaspora in the New World such as Haitian Vodou; Puerto Rican Vodú; Cuban Vodú; Dominican Vudú; Brazilian Vodum; and Louisiana Voodoo. All of these closely related faiths are syncretized with Christianity to various degrees and with the traditional beliefs of the Kongo people and Indigenous American traditions.

[[Caaguazú Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

Caaguazú (Departamento de Caaguazú) is a department in Paraguay. The capital is the city of Coronel Oviedo. Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-05.

[[Ulisseia (epic poem)]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

Ulisseia ou Lisboa Edificada is an epic poem by Portuguese poet Gabriel Pereira de Castro. It was published by author's brother Luís Pereira de Castro in 1636. The poem is written in ottava rima (oitava rima in Portuguese). The stanza is rhymed abababcc. The poem is about discovery of Portugal by Ulysses.

As Armas e o varão que os mal seguros

Campos cortou do Egeu e do Oceano,

Que por perigos e trabalhos duros

Eternizou seu nome soberano:

A grã Lisboa e seus primeiros muros

(De Europa e largo Império Lusitano

Alta cabeça), se eu pudesse tanto,

À Pátria, ao mundo, à Eternidade canto.

[[Combined gas law]]

The combined gas law is a formula about ideal gases. It comes from putting together three different laws about the pressure, volume, and temperature of the gas. They explain what happens to two of the values of that gas while the third stays the same. The three laws are:

The combined gas law shows how the three variables are related to each other. It says that:

The formula of the combined gas law is:

where:

To compare the same gas with two of these cases, the law can be written as:

By adding Avogadro's law to the combined gas law, we get what is called the ideal gas law.

[[Kevin Shinick]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York, American voice actors, American television producers, American television writers, 1969 births, Living people

Kevin Shinick (19 March, 1969, Merrick, New York) is a voice actor, screenwriter and producer. He won an Emmy Award in 2010 for Outstanding Short-Format Animated Program for Robot Chicken. Shenick is the creator, voice actor and producer of the comedy series Mad (TV series). He was also a writer for Robot Chicken.

[[Bill English]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of New Zealand, Deputy Prime Ministers of New Zealand, Leaders of the Opposition (New Zealand)

Simon William "Bill" English (born 30 December 1961) is a New Zealand politician. He was the 39th Prime Minister of New Zealand  from 2016 to 2017 and the leader of the National Party. He was previously Deputy Prime Minister from 2008 to 2016.

At the 2017 general election, National won the largest share of the party vote (44.4%) and the largest number of seats (56) in the House Representatives.

However, National lacked enough seats to govern alone due to two of the party's support partners, the Māori Party and United Future, losing their parliamentary seats. In response, English announced that the party would be entering into talks to form a coalition with New Zealand First. However, on 19 October 2017, Jacinda Ardern became the next Prime Minister after Winston Peters announced he would enter a coalition government with Labour.

[[Big data]]

CATEGORIES: Computing, Information, Statistics, Privacy

Big data is a term used for certain database systems. It is used for a number of technologies which help to organize, gather and analyse data. 

At least some of the following characteristics apply:

[[European Women's Handball Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Handball, Sport in Europe, 1994 establishments in Europe

The European Women's Handball Championship is the official competition for the women's national handball teams of Europe. It takes place every two years. In addition to crowning the European champions, the tournament is also a qualifying tournament for the Olympic Games and World Championship.

As of December 2014, the only teams that have ever won the championship are Norway (six times), Denmark (three times), Hungary and Montenegro (once). Denmark has hosted the most European Championships for three times, in 2010 Denmark was co-host with Norway.

[[Thirunallar Saniswaran temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples, Temples in India

Thirunallar Saniswaran Temple is a famous Hindu temple that is dedicated to Lord Shani or Lord Saturn. It is located in Thirunallar of Karaikal district in Puducherry Union territory, India. The another name of this temple is Dharbaranyeshwarar Temple.The main deity of the temple is Lord Shiva (Lord Dharbaranyeshwarar).

[[Nagore]]

CATEGORIES: Nagapattinam district

Nagore is a town in the Nagapattinam district in Tamil Nadu, India. It is one of the important Islamic shrine in Tamil Nadu. Five centuries old Nagore Dargah is famous throughout the state.It attracts thousands of people daily. The total population of Nagore is 97,525. It is 12km away from Karaikal and 5 km away from district headquarters Nagapattinam.

The Nagore Kandhuri Festival is very famous throughout the region. The festival season in Nagore falls in the month of May.Nagore Dargah is famous because any religious people can gather in the religious site. It is the Common Religious Gathering Point of thousands of people visiting the place each day.

Nagore is also famous for sweets and fishes that are obtained from the coastal region of Nagore. The Nagore Railway station is one of the crowded railway station in that region, since thousands of devotees come through railway to the holy Dargah.

[[Nellore]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Andhra Pradesh, Cities in India

Nellore is a city in Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh, India. It is located in the banks of Penna River. It is the fourth most populous city in Andhra Pradesh. The city is well known for agriculture and aquaculture.It is the headquarters of the Nellore district. The total population of the city is 600,869.Density is 4000/km2.

The name is said to be taken from Purana that depicts, a linga under the Nelli tree(Amla or Indian gooseberry). From then the place is called as Nelli-ooru then the name emerged as Nellore. It is said that the city existed since the Mauryan dynasty.

The main economy of the city is based on agriculture and aquaculture. The main productive is Shrimp culturing.The Nellore city is located near the coastal region of Bay of Bengal.

[[Protologism]]

CATEGORIES: Language

A protologism is a brand new word. Most people don't know about the word after its creation. Only a tiny group of people have ever used the word. Sometimes the coiner is the only person who has ever used the word. Sometimes people create protologisms because of a gap in the language.

[[Riederalp]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Riederalp is a municipality of the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 November 2003 the former municipalities of Goppisberg, Greich and Ried-Mörel merged into the new municipality of Riederalp.

[[Steg, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Steg is a former municipality of the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland. On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Steg and Hohtenn merged into the new municipality of Steg-Hohtenn.

[[Tirupati]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Andhra Pradesh, Cities in India

Tirupati is a city in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh state in India. It is a municipal corporation and headquarters of Tirupati revenue division and Tirupati mandal (taluk). As of the census of 2011, Tirupati is the 9th most populous city in Andhra Pradesh with the total population of 287,482. Population of the urban agglomeration of Tirupati is 459,985.

Tirupati has one of the most visited tourist attraction as well as religious shrine and the second richest temple in the world, the Tirumala Venkateswara Temple. This temple is one of the holiest Hindu pilgrimage sites. Because of this temple, Tirupati is considered as "the Spiritual  capital of Andhra Pradesh".

Tirupati is mainly world renowned for the holy temple as well as its prasadham, the Tirupati Laddu. The Tirupati Laddu is a famous naivedhyam or prasadham offered to devotees in the Tirumala Venkateshwara Temple.The other attractions here are the Padmavathi Temple, Govindaraja Temple, Kapileshwara Temple, Kapila Theertham, and Sri Kodhandaramaswami Temple.The second largest zoo park in Asia is the Venkateshwara Zoological Park, which is located in Tirupati.

[[Chittoor]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Andhra Pradesh, Cities in India

Chittoor is a city and district headquarters of the Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh, India. It is the headquarters of the Chittoor mandal and Chittoor revenue division. Telugu is the widely spoken language in this region. The total population of Chittoor city was 353,766 as of the 2011 Census of India.

The total area of the city is 95.97.

The main attraction in this city is the Chandragiri Fort.

Nara Chandrababu Naidu was born in Chittoor. He is the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh and the leader of the Telugu Desam Party.

[[Ajmer]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Rajasthan, Cities in India

Ajmer is a city in Rajasthan, India. Ajmer is the headquarters of the Ajmer district. The city was established by a Chauhan ruler Shakambhari Chahamana and also served as the capital in 12th century. Ajmer is surrounded by Aravalli Mountains. The population of Ajmer according to 2011 census is 542,580 and in the urban agglomeration 551,360.

The main tourist places here are the Ajmer Sharif Dhargah (Shrine of Khwaja Mouinudeen Chishti), Happy Valley, Miran Syed Husain Dargah, Taragarh Fort, Adhai Din Ka Jhondpa Mosque, Nareli Jain Temple and many attracts tourists.The Pushkar Lake is located 11km away from Ajmer.

[[Arrondissements of the Aube department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Aube department.

The arrondissements of Aube are:

[[Arrondissement of Bar-sur-Aube]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Bar-sur-Aube is an arrondissement of France, in the Aube department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Bar-sur-Aube.

[[Arrondissement of Nogent-sur-Seine]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Nogent-sur-Seine is an arrondissement of France. It is in the Aube department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Nogent-sur-Seine.

[[Arrondissement of Troyes]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Troyes is an arrondissement of France, in the Aube department, Grand Est region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Troyes.

[[A14 road (Great Britain)]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in England

The A14 is a major road in England. It is a trunk road which runs roughly east to west,  127 from the Port of Felixstowe, Suffolk to the  junction of the M1 and M6 motorways near Rugby, Warwickshire. Along the way, it crosses the ancient main north-south route of Watling Street, now the A1.

The road forms part of the  Trans European Road Network, and runs mostly through Suffolk, Cambridgeshire and Northamptonshire.

It is part of unsigned Euroroutes E24 and E30.

[[Karaikal Ammaiyar Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples, Temples in India, Karaikal District, 1929 establishments, 1920s establishments in India

The Karaikal Ammaiyar Temple is the Hindu temple in Karaikal of Pondicherry Union territory, India. It is dedicated to goddess Karaikal Ammaiyar, one of the 63 nayanmars of Shaiva. She is one of the renowned goddess in Karaikal.The earliest findings of Carnatic Music poetry were told to be sung by Karaikal Ammaiyar in praise of Lord Shiva in Thiruvalangadu, a village.

[[Kadapa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Settlements in Andhra Pradesh

Kadapa is a city in Rayalseema region of Kadapa district of Andhra Pradesh, India. It is the headquarters of the Kadapa district.The city is said to be nicknamed "Gadapa" (threshold), as it is the gateway to the sacred Tirumala hills from the west. The city is surrounded by Nallamala and Palakonda hills.The city is known for its spicy and culinary food.

Kadapa is one of the fastest growing cities in Andhra Pradesh. As of the 2011 Census of India, the city had a population of 344,078. The literacy rate of the city is 79.34%. Telugu is the widely spoken language in Kadapa. English, Hindi and Urdu are the other languages that are spoken in Kadapa.

For transportation, Kadapa has its own airport and railway stations. Kadapa Airport is a domestic airport. The Mumbai-Chennai line, one of the busiest railway line passes through Kadapa Railway station .

[[Vadodara]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gujarat, Cities in India

Vadodara is the third largest city in Gujarat, India. It used to be called Baroda. It is the administrative capital or headquarters of Vadodara district in Gujarat. The city is on the banks of Vishwamitri River. The city is famous for Lakshmi Vilas Palace, an excellent architectural palace. It is also the place for the Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda (Vadodara), the largest university in the state.

The city is an important place of industrial, educational and cultural centre in India. Vadodara has its own airport. The Vadodara Airport has good connectivity with Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi, Kolkata and other main airports. An international terminal was built and was inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi in 2016. Vadodara Railway Station is one of the busiest railway station in Gujarat. It deals with about 150 trains daily.

As of the 2011 census, Vadodara had a population of 1,670,806 and the metropolitan area had a population of 2,065,771. Gujarati, Urdu, Marathi and Hindi are the widely spoken languages in Vadodara. Vadodara has the oldest cricket ground in Asia, the Moti Baug Stadium. Vadodara is the birthplace of cricketers like Yusuf Pathan, Irfan Pathan, Nayan Mongia, Deepak Hooda, Hardik Pandya, Krunal Pandya, Ambati Rayudu and Kiran More.

[[Vijayawada]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India

Vijayawada is the second largest city in Andhra Pradesh, India. It is on the banks of Krishna River. Vijayawada is a municipal corporation and headquarters of the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority and Vijayawada mandal. It is also known as the business capital of Andhra Pradesh. This is because it is one of the major trading and business center of the state.

Vijayawada is the second largest city after the Visakhapatnam port city, in Andhra Pradesh. The city is recognised as the Global City of the Future by McKinsey Quarterly. According to the 2011 census the total population of the city is 1,034,358. The urban area population is 1,476,931. The literacy rate of the city is 82.59%.

Vijayawada Railway station is an important junction in the south central railway zone. Vijayawada Airport is well connected with nearby cities such as Hyderabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Visakhapatnam, Tirupati and Kadapa.

[[Vellore]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tamil Nadu, Vellore District

Vellore is an important city in Tamil Nadu, India. It is the headquarters of Vellore district.It is located on the banks of Palar River.The area of Vellore covers about 87km2.The total population of Vellore city is 423,425 as per 2001 census.Vellore is the base place where two of India's top 10 educational institutions located.They are:Christian Medical College Hospital and VIT University.

Vellore region is the top exporter of finished leather goods in the country. Vellore leather accounts for more than 37% of the country's export of leather and leather-related products. 

Vellore Fort, Science Park, Vainu Bappu Observatory, Amirthi Zoological Park, Religious places such as Jalakandeswarar Temple, Srilakshmi Golden Temple, Big Mosque and St. John's Church and Yelagiri Hill station are the  top tourist attractions in and around Vellore.

[[Warangal]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India

Warangal is a city in Telangana, India. It is the headquarters of Warangal district in Telengana. Warangal is the second largest city after Hyderabad by both area as well as population. 811,844 people live in Warangal.

Warangal is one of 12 heritage cities in the country chosen for Scheme HRIDAY – Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana by Government of India. It is also selected as a smart city in the "fast-track competition", so it may get additional investment to improve the urban infrastructure and industrial opportunities under Smart Cities Mission.

Warangal was the capital of the Kakatiya dynasty from 1195 CE until that ruling family was defeated by the Delhi Sultanate in 1323. The city was then renamed as Sultanpur. After the Telangana movement, Telangana state was formed on 2 June 2014, Warangal became part of Telangana State. Bhadrakali Lake and Waddepally Lake are the two famous lakes are the major sources of drinking water.

[[James Gillray]]

CATEGORIES: Cartoonists

James Gillray (13 August 1756 or 1757 – 1 June 1815) was a British caricaturist and printmaker. He was famous for his cartoons. They were etched political and social satires, mainly published between 1792 and 1810.

Gillray has been called "the father of the political cartoon". He satirized George III, prime ministers and generals. He was one of the two most influential cartoonists of that time: the other was William Hogarth. Gillray's wit and humour, knowledge of life, and fine drawing, gave him the first place among caricaturists.

The name of Gillray's publisher and print seller was Miss Hannah Humphrey. Her shop is always associated with the caricaturist. Gillray lived with Miss (often called Mrs) Humphrey for the entire period of his fame.

Although he satirized George III as "Farmer George", his main target was the 

gluttonous Prince of Wales (later George IV). Napoleon was another favourite target. Gillray was especially hard on the rich, the famous and the most powerful people.

[[The Elf on the Shelf]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 books, Christmas

The Elf on the Shelf: A Christmas Tradition  is a 2004 children's picture book. It was written by Carol Aebersold and her daughter Chanda Bell. The book was illustrated by Coë Steinwart. It tells a Christmas-themed story, written in rhyme. The story explains how Santa Claus knows who is naughty and who is nice. It describes elves visiting children between Thanksgiving and Christmas Eve, after which they return to the North Pole until the next holiday season.

[[Debutante]]

CATEGORIES: Social groups

A debutante is a young woman who is first introduced into society. In former times, these young ladies would be part of nobility, or the upper class. Originally, the term meant the young person was now old enough to be married. The purpose of the coming out was to display her to eligible bachelors and their families. The term comes from French, and can be translated as "beginner". 

In those days, a young lady of quality could not meet anyone unless they were introduced to her. This introduction could happen at an event (such as a ball) which was part of the 'season'. In the United Kingdom there was a formal presentation of the debutants to the monarch at the Royal Court (abolished by the present Queen Elizabeth II in 1957). According to the peerage guide Debrett's, the traditional social season runs from April to August.

[[Fentanyl]]

CATEGORIES: Analgesics

Fentanyl (sometimes spelled fentanil) is a synthetic opioid that is used as a painkiller. It also acts as a sedative. It has a short duration of action and a rapid onset. The two most common forms are patches that are put on the skin, and an intravenous solution. Paul Janssen developed Fentanyl in 1960. Fentanyl is about 120 times as potent as morphine; this means, much less Fentanyl is needed to get the same effect. 

The effects of the intravenous solution can be seen after three to five minutes. In about twelve hours, the concentration in the bloodstream will have halved. 

Fentanyl is also used as a recreational drug. This has led to thousands of overdose deaths each year from 2000 to 2015. Deaths have also resulted from improper medical use. Fentanyl has a relatively wide therapeutic index (270) which makes it a very safe surgical anesthetic when monitored carefully. Because it is so potent, finding the right dose to use requires great care: Fentanyl comes as a highly diluted solution. There is also a powder, but its use is impractical without advanced scientific equipment: The effective dose needed and a lethal dose of fentanyl powder placed next to each other would be difficult or impossible to differentiate with the naked eye.

[[Aube (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Grand Est, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

The Aube is a river in France. It is a right tributary of the Seine. The Aube department is named after the river.

[[Terza rima]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry forms

Terza rima is a three-line rhyme scheme of Italian origin. The first line rhymes with the third one. The second line is free and can rhyme with a line in the next strophe. 

Terza rima occurs in sonnets. Sonnets are often composed of two quatrains and two terza rimas, for example abba abba cdc dcd. This scheme can be found in many Italian, Spanish and Portuguese sonnets. This sonnet by the 16th century Portuguese poet Francisco de Sá de Miranda is a good example.

O sol é grande, caem co’a calma as aves,

do tempo em tal sazão, que sói ser fria;

esta água que d’alto cai acordar-m’-ia

do sono não, mas de cuidados graves.

Ó cousas, todas vãs, todas mudaves,

qual é tal coração qu’em vós confia?

Passam os tempos vai dia trás dia,

incertos muito mais que ao vento as naves.

Eu vira já aqui sombras, vira flores,

vi tantas águas, vi tanta verdura,

as aves todas cantavam d’amores.

Tudo é seco e mudo; e, de mestura,

também mudando-m’eu fiz doutras cores:

e tudo o mais renova, isto é sem cura! 

Usually terza rimas are linked to each other making long chain-like sequences. There is an extra line at the end of the sequence. The scheme of rhymes is: aba bcb cdc ded... xyx yzy z. Terza rimas are suitable for long poems. The best known example is The Divine Comedy by Dante Alighieri. Perhaps every child in Italy knows these lines by heart.

Nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita

mi ritrovai per una selva oscura,

ché la diritta via era smarrita. 

Ahi quanto a dir qual era è cosa dura

esta selva selvaggia e aspra e forte

che nel pensier rinova la paura! 

Tant’è amara che poco è più morte;

ma per trattar del ben ch’i’ vi trovai,

dirò de l’altre cose ch’i’ v’ ho scorte. 

Spanish poet Bernardo de Balbuena, who lived in Mexico, wrote a long poem in terza rima named Grandeza mexicana

Oh tú, heroica beldad, saber profundo,

que por milagro puesta a los mortales

en todo fuiste la última del mundo;

criada en los desiertos arenales,

sobre que el mar del sur resaca y quiebra

nácar lustroso y perlas orientales;

do haciendo a tu valor notoria quiebra,

el tiempo fue tragando con su llama

tu rico estambre y su preciosa hebra;

In Britain Robert Browning used terza rima in The Statue and the Bust:

There ’s a palace in Florence, the world knows well,	

And a statue watches it from the square,	

And this story of both do the townsmen tell.	

Ages ago, a lady there,	

At the furthest window facing the east,	       

''Asked, “Who rides by with the royal air?”'	

The bridesmaids’ prattle around her ceased:

She leaned forth, one on either hand;	

They saw how the blush of the bride increased.

Percy Bysshe Shelley invented a sonnet built of fout terza rimas and a couplet. It rhymes aba bcb cdc ded ee. Shelley used it in Ode to the Western Wind. It consists of five sonnets. Let us look at the first one.

O wild West Wind, thou breath of Autumn's being,

Thou, from whose unseen presence the leaves dead

Are driven, like ghosts from an enchanter fleeing,

Yellow, and black, and pale, and hectic red,

Pestilence-stricken multitudes: O thou,

Who chariotest to their dark wintry bed

The winged seeds, where they lie cold and low,

Each like a corpse within its grave, until

Thine azure sister of the Spring shall blow

Her clarion o'er the dreaming earth, and fill

(Driving sweet buds like flocks to feed in air)

With living hues and odours plain and hill:

Wild Spirit, which art moving everywhere;

Destroyer and preserver; hear, oh hear!

 American poet Robert Frost in his poem Acquainted with the Night used aba bcb cdc dad aa scheme.

Jan Kasprowicz, who translated Shelley's poem into Polish, used this scheme in a work by his own. It is called Cisza wieczorna. (Evening Silence).

Another form composed of terza rimas is a villanelle. It is made up of nineteen lines. It rhmymes  acording to the scheme aba aba aba aba aba abaa. An example is Do not go gentle into that good night by Welsh poet Dylan Thomas.

[[Therapeutic index]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

The therapeutic index is a number that tells how safe it is to use a drug. It is obtained by dividing two numbers: the dose needed so that half of all individuals show the desired effect, and the dose which will kill half of all the individuals.

[[Geodetic datum]]

CATEGORIES: Coordinate systems, Cartography, Navigation, Geodesy

A geodetic datum is used to locate a given position when using a set of reference, such as a map. That way a set of coordinates might reference an exact location on the map. 

[[Sic semper tyrannis]]

CATEGORIES: Virginia, Latin state mottos of the United States

Sic semper tyrannis is a Latin phrase attributed to Marcus Junius Brutus, one of the people who assassinated Julius Caesar. It can be translated as "Thus always to tyrants". John Wilkes Booth is believed to have said the phrase after assassinating Abraham Lincoln.

It is also the motto of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

[[Karl Ernst von Baer]]

CATEGORIES: 1792 births, 1876 deaths

Karl Ernst Ritter von Baer, Edler von Huthorn (Карл Эрнст фон Бэр; 28 February – 28 November) was an Estonian scientist and explorer. Baer is also known in Russia as Karl Maksimovich Baer (Карл Макси́мович Бэр).

Baer was a naturalist, biologist, geologist, meteorologist, geographer, and a founding father of embryology. He was an explorer of European Russia and Scandinavia. He was a member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, a co-founder of the Russian Geographical Society, and the first president of the Russian Entomological Society, making him a distinguished Baltic German scientist.

[[European Russia]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Russia

Russia is a country that is both in Europe and in Asia. The border is the Ural Mountains and Ural River. By geography, about twenty-five percent of the surface is in Europe, and seventy-five percent is in Asia. By population, about 110 million of the 144 million people, or 77%, live in the European part. The European part makes up 38 % of the surface of Europe. In the European part of Russia, there are 27.5 people per square kilometer. The Asian part has 22 % of the population, which means there are 2.5 people per square kilometer. 

The two biggest cities, Moscow and Saint Petersburg are in the European part.

[[Foreign and Commonwealth Office]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of the United Kingdom Government

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (or Foreign Office) is a ministry of the Government of the United Kingdom. Its job it is to protect British interests around the world.

The head of the department is known as the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, which is usually shortened to "Foreign Secretary". This position is one of the four most important in the government's Cabinet. Dominic Raab is the current Foreign Secretary of the UK.

[[École nationale supérieure de mécanique et d'aérotechnique]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in France, 1948 establishments in Europe, Poitiers, 1940s establishments in France

École nationale supérieure de mécanique et d'aérotechnique is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the Futuroscope.

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at ENSMA.

[[Steg-Hohtenn]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Valais

Steg-Hohtenn is a municipality in the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Fuller House (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in the United States, 2016 television series debuts, 2010s American sitcoms, Television series about families, Television series about siblings, Television series set in San Francisco, Works about widowhood, Netflix original shows, English-language television programs

Fuller House is an American television sitcom. This is the sequel to Full House, which aired on ABC from 1987 to 1995. The show looks at Donna Jo "D.J." Tanner, now a widowed mother of three sons living in San Francisco.

Most of the original Full House series cast members returned to play the same characters in Fuller House. They have made guest appearances or have returned to their original acting roles. Candace Cameron Bure plays D.J. Tanner. Jodie Sweetin plays Stephanie. The sister of widowed mom of three and the cool aunt of Tommy jr, Max and Jackson. Andrea Barber plays Kimmy. The best friend of D.J who later moves in with her daughter Ramona Gibbler. Her husband Fernando moves in in a later episode.

The series began on February 26, 2016 on Netflix. On March 2, 2016, a second season was ordered.

[[Italian Renaissance]]

CATEGORIES: Renaissance, 14th century in Europe, 15th century in Europe, 16th century in Italy, 17th century in Europe

The Italian Renaissance (Rinascimento rinaʃʃiˈmento) was the earliest beginning of the general European Renaissance. It was a period of great cultural change and achievement that began in Italy during the 14th century. It lasted into the 17th century, marking the gradual change between Medieval and Early Modern Europe. The term "renaissance" is a modern one that was first used in 1858 by French historian Jules Michelet. The Italian renaissance was a period of gradual change. Some parts can be traced back to the earlier part of the 14th century. Other parts did not happen until the end of the century. The French word renaissance (Rinascimento in Italian) means "Rebirth". The era is best known for the renewed interest in the culture of classical antiquity. While it started as a humanist movement it spread to other areas including science, religion, art and exploration. During this period William Shakespeare wrote his plays, Leonardo da Vinci painted the Mona Lisa, and Martin Luther had started a new religious movement. It saw Christopher Columbus discover the Americas and Johannes Gutenberg introduced printing to Europe. The Italian "rebirth" gradually spread into Northern Europe. As it moved northward, it changed into less a classical movement and more into a religious movement. 

[[Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite]]

CATEGORIES: NASA spacecraft, Satellites

The Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS) is a planned NASA space telescope designed to search for planets outside of the Solar System (such planets are called exoplanets). 

TESS was launched on April 18, 2018 on a SpaceX Falcon 9 Full Thrust rocket from the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station.  The total value of the launch services contract is US$87 million.  SpaceX was awarded the launch in December 2014.

[[Barron Hilton]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from natural causes in the United States, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, American philanthropists, American billionaires, Humanitarians, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California, Businesspeople from Dallas, Texas

William Barron Hilton (October 23, 1927 – September 19, 2019) was an American business magnate, socialite, and hotel heir.

He was the son and successor of hotel pioneer Conrad Hilton. He created a record in business and philanthropy that mirrored the success of his famous father.

He was the retired chairman, president and chief executive officer of Hilton Hotels Corporation, and chairman emeritus of the Conrad N. Hilton Foundation. Hilton was also a founding partner of the American Football League and the original owner of the San Diego Chargers.

Hilton died at his Bel-Air, Los Angeles home on September 19, 2019 of natural causes at the age of 91.

[[Machine learning]]

CATEGORIES: Artificial intelligence, Learning

Machine learning gives computers the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed (Arthur Samuel, 1959). It is a subfield of computer science.

The idea came from work in artificial intelligence. Machine learning explores the study and construction of algorithms which can learn and make predictions on data. Such algorithms follow programmed instructions, but can also make predictions or decisions based on data.2 They build a model from sample inputs.

Machine learning is done where designing and programming explicit algorithms cannot be done. Examples include spam filtering, detection of network intruders or malicious insiders working towards a data breach, optical character recognition (OCR), search engines and computer vision.

[[Arrondissements of the Meurthe-et-Moselle department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 4 arrondissements in the Meurthe-et-Moselle department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Meurthe-et-Moselle are:

[[Indian Act]]

CATEGORIES: Law, 1876, 19th century in Canada

The Indian  Act ("An Act respecting Indians"), is a Canadian statute that concerns registered Indians, their bands, and the system of Indian reserves. It was first passed in 1876 and is still in force with amendments. It is the primary document which governs how the Canadian state interacts with the 614 First Nation bands in Canada and their members.  Throughout its long history, the Act has been an ongoing source of controversy. It has been interpreted in many ways by both aboriginal and non-aboriginal Canadians.  The legislation has been amended many times, including "over twenty major changes" made by 2002.

[[Mark-Paul Gosselaar]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, 1974 births, Living people

Mark-Paul Gosselaar (born March 1, 1974) is an American actor. He is well-known for his roles on television. He played Zack Morris on Saved by the Bell. He also played the detective John Clark on ABC's NYPD Blue.

Gosselaar was born in the Los Angeles area of California.

[[Arrondissement of Briey]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Briey is an arrondissement of France, in the Meurthe-et-Moselle department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Briey.

[[École nationale supérieure des mines d'Albi-Carmaux]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in France, 1993 establishments in France

École nationale supérieure des mines d'Albi-Carmaux is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the Toulouse Tech (Southern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at Mines Albi.

[[Arrondissement of Lunéville]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Lunéville is an arrondissement of France, in the Meurthe-et-Moselle department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Lunéville.

[[Arrondissement of Nancy]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Nancy is an arrondissement of France, in the Meurthe-et-Moselle department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Nancy.

[[Lady Jane Grey (poem)]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

"Lady Jane Grey" is an English epic poem by Francis Hodgson. It was published in 1809. It tells about the life and death of Lady Jane Grey.

[[Chigger]]

CATEGORIES: Arachnids, Parasites

A chigger is a small, parasitic mite which lives in tall grass. It is a member of a larger family known as the Trombiculidae. 

The species of Trombiculidae which bite in their larval stage cause "intense irritation", or "a wheal, usually with severe itching and dermatitis". 

Their color can range from bright red to brown. Chiggers are almost too small to see with the naked eye, so checking grass for them is near impossible. Chigger bites appear 2-3 hours after a host is bitten, and can last for a few weeks. They bite in hot, moist places, such as the armpits, under the knees, and the genitals.

Trombiculidae live in forests and grasslands and in low, damp areas such as woodlands, berry bushes, orchards, along lakes and streams. It does live in drier places, such as lawns, golf courses, and parks. They are most numerous in early summer when grass, weeds, and other vegetation are heaviest. 

In their larval stage they attach to various animals and feed on skin, often causing itching. 

The best known species of chigger in North America is the hard-biting Trombicula alfreddugesi of the southeastern United States, humid midwest and Mexico. In the UK, the most common chigger, the "harvest mite", is Trombicula autumnalis. It lives through Western Europe to Eastern Asia.

[[Arrondissement of Toul]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Toul is an arrondissement of France, in the Meurthe-et-Moselle department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Toul.

[[Mick Mulvaney]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, People from Alexandria, Virginia, United States Special Envoy for Northern Ireland, American Roman Catholics, Directors of the Office of Management and Budget, Directors of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Politicians from Virginia, United States representatives from South Carolina, US Republican Party politicians, South Carolina Republicans

John Michael "Mick" Mulvaney (born July 21, 1967) is an American politician. Mulvaney was the United States Special Envoy for Northern Ireland from 2020 to 2021. He was the 44th Director of the Office of Management and Budget from February 16, 2017 to March 2020. He was the U.S. Representative for SC from 2011 through 2017. He is a member of the Republican Party. Mulvaney served as a member of the South Carolina Senate, representing the 16th district (Lancaster and York Counties), from 2009 to 2011. 

He is the first Republican to represent South Carolina's 5th district since 1883. On December 16, 2016, it was reported that Presidential-Elect Donald Trump has selected Mulvaney as Director of the Office of Management and Budget. On February 16, 2017, the Senate confirmed him, 51-49.

In November 2017, Trump controversially appointed Mulvaney as Acting Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

On December 14, 2018, Trump hired Mulvaney as White House Chief of Staff-designate in an acting capacity.

In March 2020, President Trump nominated Mulvaney to be United States Special Envoy for Northern Ireland. In January 2021, Mulvaney resigned as Special Envoy for Northern Ireland following the storming of the U.S. Capitol.

[[Charles Zwick]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2018 deaths, Cancer deaths in Florida, American economists, Directors of the Office of Management and Budget, People from Connecticut, US Democratic Party politicians

Charles John Zwick (July 17, 1926 – April 20, 2018) was an American civil servant. He served as director of the United States' Office of Management and Budget from January 29, 1968 until January 21, 1969 under the administration of Lyndon B. Johnson.

Zwick died of cancer on April 20, 2018 in Coral Gables, Florida at the age of 91.

[[Series and parallel circuits]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Two types of electrical circuits are the series circuit, and the parallel circuit.

[[Assassination of Andrei Karlov]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in Asia, Ankara, Crime in Turkey, December 2016 events, Murder in 2016, Murder in Asia, Murders by firearm, Terrorist incidents in 2016, Terrorist incidents in Asia in the 2010s

On 19 December 2016, Russian diplomat Andrei Karlov was shot dead during an exhibition. He was shot dead by an assailant who was angry about the Russian involvement in Syria and the deaths of civilians in Aleppo.

[[Chromebook]]

CATEGORIES: Laptops, Google

A Chromebook is a laptop that uses the Linux-based Chrome OS as its operating system. 

It uses the internet. Most applications and data are in the "cloud". A Chromebook is an example of a thin client. It is a lightweight computer which uses remote access to a server. It depends heavily on another computer (its server) to do its computation.

In March 2018, Acer and Google announced the creation of the first Chromebook tablet: the Chromebook Tab 10. This device was to compete with the market for discount Apple iPad tablets in the education market. The Tab 10 screen (9.7 inches, 2048 x 1536 resolution) was identical to that of the iPad. The device includes a stylus. Neither device included a keyboard.

In March 2020, following the COVID-19 pandemic, many schools used Chromebooks to do school online, and put apps onto it like Google Meet and Zoom. 30 million Chromebooks were bought by schools in 2020 alone because of it. Some schools used iPads, but they cost too much money for some schools.March 2021

[[Gavialis]]

CATEGORIES: Gharials

Gavialis is a genus of crocodylians that includes the living gharial Gavialis gangeticus and several extinct species.

[[Andrei Karlov]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2016 deaths, Ambassadors of Russia, Assassinated people, Murders by firearm, Russian murder victims, Russian politicians

Andrei Gennadyevich Karlov (Андре́й Генна́дьевич Ка́рлов; 4 February 1954 – 19 December 2016) was a Russian diplomat. He served as the Russian Ambassador to Turkey from 12 July 2013 until his death. He also served as Russia's ambassador to North Korea from 9 July 2001 to 20 December 2006. He was born in Moscow.

Karlov, 62, was shot and killed on 19 December 2016 in Ankara, Turkey. His killer, 22-year-old Mevlüt Mert Altıntaş, was killed by security forces.

[[Jackson's Valley Campaign]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1862 in Virginia

Jackson's Valley Campaign, also known as the 1862 Shenandoah Valley Campaign, was a campaign conducted in Virginia's Shenandoah Valley in the spring of 1862 during the American Civil War. It was led by a relatively unknown Confederate General, Thomas J. "Stonewall" Jackson. His success in this campaign made him one of the most famous Southern generals. Jackson marched his army up and down the Shenandoah Valley for ten weeks. During that time, his army fought in five battles, winning four of them. He defeated three different Union armies. His movements tied down 70,000 Union soldiers, a force four times larger than his own. These soldiers were needed by Union general George B. McClellan for his Peninsula Campaign. Jackson's brilliant Valley Campaign is ranked among the great masterpieces of military strategy. Jackson's campaign is still studied at the United States Military Academy at West Point.

[[Mattel]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States, 1945 establishments in the United States

Mattel is an American multinational toy company. It was founded in 1945.

The company makes products and brands, like American Girl dolls, Barbie dolls, Fisher-Price toys, Thomas & Friends trains and Hot Wheels toys. 

In 2014, it ranked #403 on the Fortune 500 list. It is the largest toy maker in terms of revenue.

[[2016 United States presidential election in Florida]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 United States presidential election by state, 2010s in Florida

The 2016 United States presidential election in Florida was held on 8 November 2016. It was part of the 2016 United States presidential election, in which all other states plus the District of Columbia voted.

On 15 March 2016, the state also voted for who they wanted to be the nominee of their respective parties.

[[2016 United States presidential election in New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 United States presidential election by state

The 2016 United States presidential election in New Jersey was held on 8 November 2016. It was part of the 2016 United States presidential election, in which all other states plus the District of Columbia voted.

On 7 June 2016, the state also voted for who they wanted to be the nominee of their respective parties.

[[2016 Berlin truck attack]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in Germany, 2010s crimes in Germany, 2010s murders in Europe, Attacks on buildings and structures in 2016, Attacks on buildings and structures in Germany, December 2016 events, History of Berlin, Islamic State, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2016, Islamic terrorist incidents in Europe, Mass murder in 2016, Mass murder in Germany, Religion in Germany, Terrorist incidents in Europe in 2016, Terrorist incidents in Germany, Terrorist incidents involving vehicular attacks

On 19 December 2016 at 20:02 Central European Time, a truck rammed into a crowd of people at a Christmas market in Charlottenburg, Berlin, Germany. This killed 12 people and injured 49 others. The original driver of the truck was found shot dead in the passenger seat. 

The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant claimed responsibility for the terrorist attack. The perpatrator was Anis Amri, a Tunisian asylum seeker. On 23 December 2016, Amri was shot dead by an Italian police officer in Sesto San Giovanni, Lombardy. German police later confirmed that Amri's fingerprints were the same as those in the truck.

[[2016 Irkutsk mass methanol poisoning]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 disasters, 2010s in Russia, December 2016 events, 2010s disasters in Asia

In late-December 2016, 58 people died from mass methanol poisoning in Irkutsk, Russia. It was caused by people drinking cheap counterfeit alcohol that was actually supposed to be used as a bath lotion. The counterfeit was called Boyaryshnik (Боярышник; Russian for "Hawthorn").

[[2015 Kyrgyz parliamentary election]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 elections, Kyrgyzstan

The 2015 Kyrgyzstani parliamentary election was held on 4 October 2015.

[[Kyrgyzstan Party]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 establishments in Asia, Political parties, Kyrgyzstan

The Kyrgyzstan Party is a political party in Kyrgyzstan. It was created in May 2015 by businessman Sharshenbek Abdakerimov. The party is now led by Kanatbek Isaev (a former member of the Respublika Party.)

The party has a lot of support in the south of the country. In the 2015 Parliamentary elections, the Kyrgyzstan Party won 18 seats after getting 12.67% of the votes.

[[Branchiobdellida]]

CATEGORIES: Annelids

Branchiobdellida are an order of leech-like worms that are mostly ectoparasites of crayfish.

[[Patrick H. Grace]]

CATEGORIES: 1832 births, 1896 deaths, United States Navy Medal of Honor recipients, Year of birth unknown

Patrick Henry Grace (1832 – February 24, 1896) was a United States Navy sailor. He received the Medal of Honor for actions during the Korean Expedition of 1871. He was a native of Ireland but moved to the United States. His original name was Henry Patrick Grace but he changed it. Grace was cited for "gallant and meritorious service".

[[Kelly (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames, Given names

Kelly is a given name and family name. As a given name, Kelly is used mostly for females. However, there are some males with the name.

As a family name, Kelly has many origins. The family name started in the 19th century. It was used for a masculine name in the late 19th century. Feminine use began around 1940. By 1957, it surpassed male usage thanks to American actress Grace Kelly.

Kelly, as a girl's name, was at #900 in 1950. It peaked at #10 around 1977. Kelly is still popular as a girl's name, although it has declined.

Famous people named Kelly include Kelly Ayotte, Kelly Carlson and Kelly Clarkson.

[[Joanne Dru]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, 1922 births, 1996 deaths

Joan Letitia LaCock (later Joanne Dru; January 31, 1922 – September 10, 1996) was an American television, stage and movie actress. She played Anne Stanton in All the King's Men in 1949. She also played Patricia Nash Dean in The Pride of St. Louis in 1952. 

Dru was born in Logan, West Virginia. She died in Los Angeles, California resulting from respiratory failure and lymphedema. She was 74.

[[All the King's Men (1949 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Robert Rossen

All the King's Men is a 1949 political drama movie. 

[[The Waste Land]]

CATEGORIES: Poems

"The Waste Land" is a poem by T.S. Eliot. It was first published in 1922. After it had been printed in London in The Criterion, it was reprinted in New York in The Dial. Then it was published in the form of a book. The poem is dedicated to Ezra Pound, whom T.S. Eliot regarded as his friend and teacher of poetry. Ezra Pound was the first reader of the poem. He helped Eliot to make it shorter and better.

The poem is divided into five parts. They are: The Burial of the Dead, A Game of Chess, The Fire Sermon, Death by Water and What the Thunder Said. It is composed of 433 lines. The work is written in free verse and blank verse.

The poem is full of quotations from classic works of world literature. Eliot makes allusions to Geoffrey Chaucer, William Shakespeare, Oliver Goldsmith, Ovid, Charles Baudelaire, Gerard de Nerval and Thomas Kyd. He uses different sources of inspiration, including both Christianity and Buddhism. The story is based on the Christian legend of the search for the Holy Grail. The poem ends with the Sanskrit words Datta. Dayadhvam. Damyata. / Shantih shantih shantih.

"The Waste Land" is commonly considered to be one of the most important literary works of the 20th century. It has been translated into many languages. Czesław Miłosz, a Nobel Prize winner, translated it into Polish.

[[Monster High]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments in the United States, Dolls

Monster High  is an American fashion doll franchise. It was created by Mattel. They launched the brand in July 2010.

The dolls are based on horror movie characters. The initial characters were created by Garrett Sander and his twin brother Darren. Besides the dolls, Monster High includes books, video games, and television specials. Ever After High is a spin-off of Monster High. The Ever After dolls are based on fairy tale characters.

[[Azərpoçt]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in Asia, Postal service, Companies of Asia, Companies of Europe, Economy of Azerbaijan, 20th century establishments in Azerbaijan

Azərpoçt is the official national postal operator of Azerbaijan. It provides postal, payment and retail services. Azərpoçt currently operates through 1,500 post offices across Azerbaijan, from urban to the most remote rural regions.

[[2012 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: Stanley Cup Finals, 2012 in ice hockey, Ice hockey competitions, May 2012 events, June events, New Jersey Devils, 2012 in the United States, 2010s in Los Angeles, California, 2010s in New Jersey

The 2012 Stanley Cup Finals was the championship series of the National Hockey League (NHL) 2011.

The Western Conference champion Los Angeles Kings defeated the Eastern Conference champion  New Jersey Devils four games to two.

[[Mevlut Mert Altintas]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, 2016 deaths, Assassins, Police officers, Turkish people

Mevlut Mert Altintas (June 24, 1994 - December 19, 2016) was a Turkish police officer and terrorist, he worked in the Turkish Security Agency, Ministry of riot police for two and a half years. He shot and killed Russian Ambassador Andrei Karlov in Turkey December 19, 2016 in the Turkish city of Ankara.

[[Arrondissements of the Moselle department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 5 arrondissements in the Moselle department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Moselle are:

[[Chad Robinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, 2016 deaths, Australian rugby league players, Sportspeople from Sydney

Chad Robinson (20 October 1980 – Circa 26 November 2016) was an Australian professional rugby league footballer. He played from 2000 until 2009 as a lock and second-row forward. He played for the Parramatta Eels, the Sydney Roosters and the Harlequins RL. He was born in Sydney, New South Wales.

Robin was reported missing on 26 November 2016. He was found dead on 22 December 2016 in Kenthurst, New South Wales. He was 36.

[[Significant figures]]

CATEGORIES: Numbers, Measurement

The term "significant figures refers to the digits, in a number or measurement, which show the precision(Surety) of the number. For example, in the number 2300, the count of significant digits is 2. In the number 2040, the significant digits are "204" as a total of 3.

[[Institut national polytechnique de Toulouse]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in Toulouse, 1969 establishments in Europe, 1960s establishments in France

Institut national polytechnique de Toulouse is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the Université Fédérale Toulouse Midi-Pyrénées (Southern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

[[Arrondissement of Forbach-Boulay-Moselle]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Forbach-Boulay-Moselle is an arrondissement of France, in the Moselle department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Forbach.

[[Bamburgh Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Listed buildings, Northumberland, Castles in England

Bamburgh Castle is a castle on the coast at Bamburgh, Northumberland. It is a Grade I listed building. During WW2 the Royal Navy ship HMS Bamborough Castle was named after it.

[[Arrondissement of Sarrebourg-Château-Salins]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Sarrebourg-Château-Salins is an arrondissement of France, in the Moselle department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Sarrebourg.

[[Arrondissement of Sarreguemines]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Sarreguemines is an arrondissement of France, in the Moselle department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Sarreguemines.

[[Arrondissement of Thionville]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Thionville is an arrondissement of France, in the Moselle department, Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Thionville.

[[Christmas truce]]

CATEGORIES: World War I, Christmas

The Christmas truce was the widespread unofficial ceasefires along the Western Front of World War I around Christmas 1914. 

[[Kellyanne Conway]]

CATEGORIES: US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from New Jersey, 1967 births, Living people

Kellyanne Conway (born January 20, 1967) is an American Republican campaign manager and politician. She has appeared on CNN and Fox News. She has been a guest on shows like Good Morning America and Meet the Press.

On August 1, 2016, Conway became the campaign manager for Donald Trump.

Since Trump became president, Conway has had many problems. She said that there were "alternative facts" when talking about a "Bowling Green massacre" that never happened. She said that Michael Flynn had the full confidence of the president hours before he was fired. Members of Congress from both parties asked for an investigation of ethics violations after she publicly endorsed the president's daughter, Ivanka Trump's commercial products. In June 2019, the US Office of Special Counsel said that Conway should be fired for breaking the Hatch Act of 1939.

Conway was born in Atco, New Jersey.

In October 2020, Conway tested positive for COVID-19.

[[Arrondissement of Metz]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Metz is an arrondissement of France, in the Moselle department, Grand Est region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Metz.

[[Ashwaq Moharram]]

CATEGORIES: Yemeni people, Living people, Physicians, BBC 100 Women

Ashwaq Moharram (Arabic: أشواق محرّم ) is a doctor from Yemen. BBC named her on their list of 100 most inspirational and influential Women for 2016.

[[Mobile operating system]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

A mobile operating system (or mobile OS) is an operating system for smartphones, tablets, personal digital assistants (PDAs), or other mobile devices. While computers such as typical laptops are mobile, the operating systems usually used on them are not considered mobile ones, as they were originally designed for desktop computers that historically did not have or need specific mobile features.

[[Dunstanburgh Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in England, Northumberland, 14th century establishments in England, 1313 establishments, 1310s establishments in Europe

Dunstanburgh Castle is a castle built in the 14th century. It is on the coast of Northumberland between the villages of Craster and Embleton. It is on a huge rock next to the North Sea. The castle is owned by English Heritage. The name Dunstanburgh means 'the fort' (burgh) 'of the town' (dun) 'by the rock' (stan).

[[Oberstdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Oberstdorf is a municipality in southwest Germany. It is in the Allgäu Alps. Many people visit to go walking or skiing. It is one of the highest towns in Germany and is the town furthest south in Germany. It is next to Austria.

There are several mountains with good views, like the Nebelhorn and Fellhorn. There are many cable-cars to reach the top of mountains around Oberstdorf. In the centre of Oberstdorf there is a large church, with a tall spire.

It is also home to several ski jumps, which are used for many competitions. They were also used in the 2016 movie Eddie the Eagle.

[[Saksri Sriaksorn]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2005 deaths

Saksri Sriaksorn (June 12 1937-2005) was Thai famous singer. She was famous song Name "Phu Yi Li"failed verification

[[The Grand Tour (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: British television series, English-language television programs

The Grand Tour is a British motor television series for Amazon Video. It is presented by Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May. It is produced by Andy Wilman. They agreed to make it after leaving the BBC. They also agreed to make 36 episodes over three years. One episode is released every week. The program can be watched in 200 countries. The first episode was the most popular first episode on Amazon ever.

Each episode has several parts made in a studio. This studio is normally a big tent that is moved around the world. The show has it's own test track. There is always a feature where Clarkson, Hammond and May discuss car related topics which is called "conversation street".

Season 1 started on 18 November 2016 and had 13 episodes. Season 2 was filmed a year later, but due to injuries to Richard Hammond, the release was delayed until 8 December 2017. In season 2 the tent stayed in the Cotswolds for all the episodes.

[[Doaa el-Adl]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Egyptian people, Cartoonists, BBC 100 Women

Doaa el-Adl (Arabic: دعاء العدل) is an Egyptian cartoonist.  She was named one of the 100 most "inspirational and influential women" in the 2016 BBC 100 Women initiative.

[[Jair Bolsonaro]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Presidents of Brazil, Current national leaders, Anti-Communists, Roman Catholics

Jair Messias Bolsonaro (born March 21, 1955) is a Brazilian politician. He is the 38th and current President of Brazil since 2019. He was a member of the Chamber of Deputies from 1991 until he became president in 2019. He was also a member of the Social Liberal Party (PSL) until he formed his own party, Alliance for Brazil, in November 2019. He is known for his far-right and populist political views.

[[Independiente Medellín]]

CATEGORIES: Colombian football clubs, 1913 establishments in South America, 1910s establishments in Colombia

Deportivo Independiente Medellín, also known as DIM, is a Colombian professional football club based in the city of Medellín. The club currently plays in the Categoría Primera A. They play their home games at Estadio Atanasio Girardot. That is part of the Atanasio Girardot Sports Complex.

They has won the Categoría Primera A six times: in 1955, 1957, 2002-II, 2004-I, 2009-II and 2016-I. Their best performance internationally was in 2003, when the team got third place in Copa Libertadores.

[[List of attacks on U.S. territory]]

CATEGORIES: United States-related lists, History-related lists

This is a list of attacks against territory held by the United States

[[Drum machine]]

CATEGORIES: Drum machines

Drum machine is an electronic musical instrument made to imitate the sound of percussion instruments. Drum machines are commonly used in electronic music genres, but also used in other genres.

[[100 Women (BBC)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments in the United Kingdom, BBC 100 Women, Awards

100 Women is a BBC series started in 2013. It looks at the role of women in the twenty-first century. It organised events in London and Mexico.

After the women are named, the BBC has three weeks of information about women. Women from all over the world make comments on Twitter about the interviews and debates.

[[Riham El Hour]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Cartoonists, Moroccan writers, BBC 100 Women

Riham El Hour (Arabic: ريهام الحر, born March 8, 1977), is a cartoonist from Morocco.  She was first woman to join the Union of Moroccan Professional Caricaturists. She was named one of BBC's 100 women of 2016. She uses her cartoons to speak for women and against male guardianship laws. 

[[Swissair Flight 111]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 in North America, Aviation disasters in the 1990s, Disasters in Canada, September events

Swissair Flight 111 was a scheduled flight from New York to Geneva, Switzerland on September, 2 1998. The aircraft was a McDonnell Douglas MD-11. Onboard were 215 passengers and 14 crew members. The plane had a cockpit fire. It crashed into the Atlantic Ocean near Nova Scotia. All 229 people died. It was the second-worst accident ever in the Halifax, Nova Scotia area.

[[Unary function]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

A unary function is a function that takes just a single argument. In contrast, a function that takes more than one argument is called a polyadic function.

This description of a function's arguments is known as its arity.

[[Arity]]

CATEGORIES: Logic, Mathematics, Computer science

In logic, mathematics, and computer science, the arity of a function is the number of arguments that the function takes.

[[Institut catholique d'arts et métiers]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in France, 1898 establishments in Europe, Lille, Nantes, Toulouse, 1890s establishments in France

Institut catholique d'arts et métiers is a graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the Université Fédérale Toulouse Midi-Pyrénées (Southern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at ICAM.

Most of the 4500 graduate engineer students at ICAM live in dedicated residential buildings nearby research labs and metro public transports on a campus that is shared with 100,000 students from Université Fédérale Toulouse Midi-Pyrénées.

[[Fore-and-aft rig]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing, Boats

A fore-and-aft rig is a sailing rig that mainly has sails that are set along the line of the keel instead of perpendicular to it. Such sails are described as fore-and-aft rigged.

[[Sloop]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing, Boats

A sloop is a sailboat usually with one mast and fore-and-aft rigged sails. It can also describe a square rigged sailing ship of two or more masts which is sometimes called a sloop of war. The French called them corvettes. Originally the definition of a sloop was vague. A 1750 book said sloops "are sailed and masted as men's fancies lead them, sometimes with one mast, with two, and with three." Modern recreational sloops are almost always one-masted sailing ships with fore-and-aft sails. Their simple layout makes them popular with amateur sailors. The sloop is a manageable sailboat layout up to a length of about 45.

[[East Croydon station]]

CATEGORIES: 1841 establishments in Europe, 1840s establishments in England

East Croydon station is a railway station and tram stop on the Croydon Tramlink. It is in fare zone 5.

[[Bonus]]

Bonus may mean:

Bonus may also refer to:

[[Courage in Journalism Award]]

CATEGORIES: Journalism awards

The Courage in Journalism Award is a prize by the International Women's Media Foundation (IWMF) for women journalists.  It recognizes women who write from dangerous areas.

Since 1990, more than 100 women from 54 countries received the award. In 2014, the IWMF started a new award, the Anja Niedringhaus Courage in Photojournalism Award, named for the photojournalist killed in Afghanistan during the elections.

The 2016 award ceremonies were on October 22 in New York, and October 29 in Los Angeles.    

[[Brig]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing, ships

A brig is a sailing ship with two square-rigged masts. During the Age of Sail, brigs were seen as fast and maneuverable. They were used as both naval warships and merchant vessels. Even after the sailing age ended they were used as training ships. The brig was one of the smaller two-masted sailing ships. They popular in the 18th and early 19th centuries. Brigs fell out of use with the arrival of the steam ship because they required a relatively large crew for their small size. They were also difficult to sail into the wind.  They are not to be confused with a brigantine, which has different rigging (a brigantine has a gaff-rigged mainsail, while a brig has a square mainsail with an additional gaff-rigged spanker behind the mainsail). A brig is different from a three-masted ship because it only has two masts.

[[1956 Grand Canyon mid-air collision]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters in the United States, 1956 in the United States, 20th century in Arizona

The 1956 Grand Canyon was a mid-air collision that happened on Saturday, 30 June 1956 at 11:31 am Mountain Standard Time. A United Airlines plane running as United Airlines Flight 718 hit another airplane owned by Trans World Airlines (TWA), operating as Trans World Airlines Flight 2. The aircraft involved was a Douglas DC-7 and a Lockheed L-1049 Super Constellation. The crash happened over the Grand Canyon within the boundaries of Grand Canyon National Park. All 128 passengers and crew on board both flights died in the collision. The crash was the first commercial airline crash with over 100 deaths, and led to lots of changes in flight control in the United States. The crash site today is considered as a National Historic Landmark.

[[Glyfada]]

CATEGORIES: Athens

Glyfada is a district in southern Athens and a famous coastal resort.

The area developed as a tourist destination through the 1970s and 1980s and has a large number of hotels, shops, restaurants and clubs. It is situated close to the old international airport.

[[Shelby County, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Tennessee counties

Shelby County is a county in the U.S. state of Tennessee. The estimated population for 2016 was 970,221.

[[Cutter (boat)]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing, Ships

A cutter is typically a small, but in some cases a medium-sized, watercraft designed for speed rather than for capacity.  Traditionally a cutter is a smaller sailing ship with a single mast. It is fore-and-aft rigged, with two or more headsails and often has a bowsprit. The cutter's mast may be set farther back than on a sloop.

In modern usage, a cutter can be either a small- or medium-sized ship whose occupants exercise official authority. Examples are harbor pilots' cutters and cutters of the U.S. Coast Guard or UK Border Force.

Cutters can also be a small boat serving a larger one to ferry passengers or light cargo between larger ships and the shore. This type of cutter may be powered by oars, sails or a motor.

[[Plastic wrap]]

CATEGORIES: Polymer chemistry, Materials

Plastic wrap (also cling wrap, food wrap, or clingfilm) is a thin plastic material. It is used for sealing food in containers. It keeps food fresh over a long period of time without spoiling. It is usually sold on rolls in boxes with a cutting edge.

Plastic wrap was first made from polyvinyl chloride (PVC). A common, cheaper alternative to PVC is low-density polyethylene (LDPE). LDPE doesn't stick to itself as well as PVC.

In the United States and Japan, Plastic wrap has sometimes been made of polyvinylidene chloride (PVdC). PVdC was the main ingredient in Saran Wrap, a popular brand of plastic wrap. Now, Saran Wrap is made with polyethylene.

Research shows that plastic wrapping of food is often not wasteful, because the food lasts longer. A study showed that only 3% of wrapped food was wasted in the UK, but up to 50% of food was wasted in an African country, where it was sold unwrapped.

[[Bad Moms]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 comedy movies, American comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about dysfunctional families, 2010s feminist movies

Bad Moms is a 2016 American comedy movie. It was released in July 2016.

[[Unterbäch]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Unterbäch is a municipality in the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Wiler (Lötschen)]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Wiler (Lötschen) is a municipality of the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Carshalton railway station]]

CATEGORIES: 1868 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1860s establishments in England, Railway stations opened in 1868

On 1st October 1868, Carshalton station opened. The two main trains that run in this station is Southern and Thameslink. This station is in fare zone 5.

[[Beah Richards]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from Mississippi, 1920 births, 2000 deaths, People from Vicksburg, Mississippi, Emmy Award winning actors

Beah Richards (July 12, 1920 – September 14, 2000) was an American actress. She performed on stage, in movies and on television. During her career, she received two Primetime Emmy Awards for her performances on television.

Richards made many guest television appearances in shows, like The Bill Cosby Show, Designing Women and ER.

Richards was born in Vicksburg, Mississippi. Emphysema took her life in September 2000. She was age 80.

[[ER (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 American television series debuts, 2009 American television series endings, 1990s American drama television series, 1990s American workplace television series, 1990s medical television series, 2000s American drama television series, 2000s American workplace television series, 2000s medical television series, American medical television series, American workplace drama television series, Emmy Award winning programs, English-language television programs

ER was an American medical drama series on NBC. The show aired from September 19, 1994 to April 2, 2009.

[[ZooParc de Beauval]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 establishments in France, Zoos, Centre-Val de Loire

The ZooParc de Beauval (or Beauval zoo) is a zoo in Saint-Aignan, Loir-et-Cher. It has nearly 3,000 animals, including two giant pandas, found nowhere else in France. It was created in 1980 by Françoise Delord. It is considered to be one of the largest zoos in Europe.

[[Jib]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing

A jib is a triangular sail that sets ahead of the foremast of a sailing vessel. Its tack (lower leading edge) is attached to the bowsprit, to the bow, or to the deck between the bowsprit and the foremost mast. Jibs and spinnakers are the two main types of headsails on a modern boat.

[[Brian (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names, Surnames

Brian (sometimes spelled as Bryan) is a common name in the English language. The name came from Irish and Breton origins. The name is also a surname of Occitan origins.The exact meaning of Brian is not known. However, it is possible the  name is from Old Celtic, meaning "high" or "noble".

[[LaMia Airlines Flight 2933]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters in the 2010s, November 2016 events, 2010s in South America, History of Colombia

LaMia Airlines Flight 2933 was a flight operated by LaMia that crashed near the city of Medellín in Colombia. The airplane was carrying players from the Chapecoense football team. The airplane had an aircraft registration of CP. The airplane crashed on 28 November 2016, at around 22:00 local time. The crash killed 71 people. Seven people originally survived the crash. However, one of the survivors, a goalkeeper known as Danilo, died a few hours after the plane crashed. The three Chapecoense players that survived were Alan Ruschel, Jakson Follmann, and Neto.

[[List of accidents and incidents involving commercial aircraft 1919 – 1959]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters

This page is a list of accidents and incidents involving commercial aircraft from 1919 to 1959.

[[List of accidents and incidents involving commercial aircraft 1960 – 1989]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters

This page is a list of accidents and incidents involving commercial aircraft from 1960 to 1989.

[[List of accidents and incidents involving commercial aircraft 1990 – 2021]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters

This is a list of accidents and incidents involving commercial aircraft from 1990 to 2021.

[[Hurricane Otto]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in weather, Hurricanes, November 2016 events, History of Panama, History of Costa Rica, History of Nicaragua, 2016 in North America

Hurricane Otto was a strong tropical cyclone in November 2016. The storm was the southernmost hurricane on record to hit Central America. It was also the first Atlantic storm to survive the crossover into the Pacific Ocean since Hurricane Cesar-Douglas in 1996.

Otto started late on November 21 in the southwest Caribbean Sea.

Costa Rica, southern Nicaragua and Panama had heavy damage from the storm.

At least 23 people died because of Hurricane Otto.

[[NES Classic Edition]]

CATEGORIES: Nintendo video game consoles

The NES Classic Edition (also known as NES Mini) is a smaller version of the Nintendo Entertainment System with 30 games pre-installed. It is also known as the Famicom Mini in Japan. It was released in North America and Europe on November 11, 2016, in Japan and Australia on November 10, 2016,

and November 23, 2016 in Russia. The console comes with one controller. The cable of the controller is 0.7 meter long.

The Super NES Classic Edition, released in 2017, is the successor to the NES Classic Edition.

[[Morton Sobell]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, Living people, Engineers from New York, Criminals from New York City

Morton Sobell (born April 11, 1917 in New York City) is an American former engineer with General Electric and Reeves Electronics. He worked on military and government contracts. He was found guilty of spying for the Soviets as a part of a ring that included Julius Rosenberg and others. Sobell was tried and convicted of espionage in 1951 and sentenced to 30 years in prison. He was released in 1969 after spending 17 years and 9 months in prison.

In 2008, at the age of 91, he told The New York Times that he did turn over military secrets to the Soviets during World War II. This was the first time he publicly admitted guilt.

[[Sumner Redstone]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2020 deaths, American billionaires, American Jews, Businesspeople from Boston, Massachusetts, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California

Sumner Murray Redstone (born Sumner Murray Rothstein; May 27, 1923 – August 11, 2020) was an American businessman and media magnate. He was the majority owner and chairman of the board of the National Amusements theater chain. Redstone and his family are majority owners of CBS Corporation and Viacom (itself the parent company of Viacom Media Networks, BET Networks, and the movie studio Paramount Pictures).

According to Forbes, as of September 2015, he was worth US$5 billion.

Redstone was formerly the executive chairman of both CBS and Viacom. In February 2016, at the age of 92, a week after a court-ordered examination by a geriatric psychiatrist, Redstone resigned both chairmanships, replaced by Leslie Moonves at CBS and Philippe Dauman at Viacom. Redstone then became chairman emeritus.

Redstone was born in Boston, Massachusetts. He studied at Harvard College and at Georgetown University. He was married to Phyllis Raphael from 1947 until they divorced in 1999. He then was married to Paula Fortunato from 2002 until they divorced in 2009. He had two children: Brent and Shari.

Redstone died on August 11, 2020 at his mansion in Beverly Hills, California at the age of 97.

[[Sid Hartman]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2020 deaths, American centenarians, American journalists, Writers from Minneapolis, Minnesota

Sid  Hartman (March 15, 1920 – October 18, 2020) was an American sports journalist for the Minneapolis Star Tribune and the WCCO 830 AM radio station. He was also a 20-year panelist on the weekly Sports Show with Mike Max, which aired Sunday nights at 9:30 p.m. on WUCW 23 in the Twin Cities metro area.

Hartman died on October 18, 2020 in Minneapolis at the age of 100.

[[Aharon Yehuda Leib Shteinman]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Belarusian Jews, Israeli centenarians, Israeli rabbis, Jewish centenarians, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Brest, Belarus, Polish Jews, Refugees from Nazism

Aharon Yehuda Leib Shteinman (אהרן יהודה לייב שטינמן), also Shtainman or Steinman (1913 – 12 December 2017) was a well-known Haredi rabbi and posek (halakhic authority) in Bnei Brak, Israel. Following the death of Rabbi Yosef Shalom Elyashiv in 2012, he was widely regarded as the Gadol Hador (Leader of the Generation), the leader of the non-Hasidic Lithuanian world.

[[Bob Dold]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Illinois, United States representatives from Illinois, US Republican Party politicians, People from Evanston, Illinois

Robert James "Bob" Dold Jr. (born June 23, 1969) is an American politician. He was the U.S. representative for the 10th congressional district of Illinois. Dold served from 2011-2013, as well as 2015-2017. In the 2016 election, he lost to Congressman Brad Schneider. Robert is a member of the Republican Party.

[[Jonas Mekas]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2019 deaths, American movie directors, American poets, Lithuanian writers, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Jonas Mekas (December 24, 1922 – January 23, 2019) was a Lithuanian-American filmmaker, poet and artist. He was often called "the godfather of American avant-garde cinema." His work were exhibited in museums and festivals worldwide.

His best known works were Walden, Reminiscences of a Journey to Lithuania and As I Was Moving Ahead Occasionally I Saw Brief Glimpses of Beauty.

Mekas died on January 23, 2019 at his home in New York City at the age of 96.

[[Camren Bicondova]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 births, Living people, American television actors, American dancers, Models from San Diego, California, Actors from San Diego, California, American child actors

Camren Renee Bicondova (born May 22, 1999) is an American actress, dancer and model. Bicondova is best known for her role as young Selina Kyle/Catwoman on the Fox television series Gotham.

[[Institut national universitaire Jean-François Champollion]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in France, 2002 establishments in France

Institut national universitaire Jean-François Champollion is a graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the Université Fédérale Toulouse Midi-Pyrénées.

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at Univ JFC.

[[Desmond Morris]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, English painters, British zoologists, British educators, Ethologists, People from Wiltshire

Desmond John Morris (born 24 January 1928) is an English zoologist, educator, ethologist and surrealist painter. He is a popular author in human sociobiology. He was known for writing The Naked Ape (1967). 

Morris was born in Purton, Wiltshire, England. He studied at Dauntsey's School in West Lavington, Wiltshire. 

[[Carshalton Beeches railway station]]

Carshalton Beeches station opened on the 1st October 1906. The train operator on this station is Southern (train operating company). This station is in fare zone 5.

[[Clarel (poem)]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

Clarel: A Poem and Pilgrimage in the Holy Land is an epic poem by American writer and poet Herman Melville. The work was published in New York by G. P. Putnam & Company in 1876. It was author's last big book. The poem is really huge. It is composed of four parts. It consists of 150 cantos and comprises almost 18, 000 lines. It is written in rhymed verse. All the poem is written in iambic tetrameter, only final section is written in iambic pentameter. In some places the poet uses alliteration. The poem tells about a young man, named Clarel, who went on a trip to the Holy Land. The journey became for him a pilgrimage. The main theme of the poem is the seeking for faith. The main hero had lost his faith during his studies and wanted it back. One of his companions, named Vine, is believed to be a portrait of Nathaniel Hawthorne. Hawthorne was Melville's friend and a writer, too. The poem ends with some words of hope for the hero.

Then keep thy heart, though yet but ill-resigned --

Clarel, thy heart, the issues there but mind;

That like the crocus budding through the snow --

That like a swimmer rising from the deep --

That like a burning secret which doth go

Even from the bosom that would hoard and keep;

Emerge thou mayst from the last whelming sea,

And prove that death but routs life into victory.

Melville's poem was not much appreciated in 19th century. In 20th century, however, it was called by Robert Penn Warren a precursor of The Waste Land. In fact, T.S. Eliot's poem is about seeking for faith, too.

[[Mauisaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Plesiosaurs

Mauisaurus ("Maui reptile") is a genus of plesiosaur that lived during the Upper Cretaceous about 80 to 69 million years ago. It was the largest plesiosaur, and perhaps the largest marine reptile in New Zealand waters at the time. Mauisaurus haasti is the only known species of the genus. A handful of specimens have been found, although only a few are well preserved and mostly complete. 

With 68 cervical vertebrae, Mauisaurus had one of the longest necks of any plesiosaur. It was large, over 8 in length. Like other plesiosaurs, it had a long slender body, with numerous vertebrae, allowing flexible movement. On its underside, Mauisaurus had two sets of large flippers. These aided in swimming at high speeds, but may have also allowed the plesiosaur to venture onto shorelines for short amounts of time. Mauisaurus was a carnivore, with sharp jagged teeth that would have been used to grip fish or squid.

[[Dapedium]]

CATEGORIES: Extinct fish

Dapedium is an extinct ray-finned fish from the Triassic and Jurassic.

[[Komlosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs of Europe, Jurassic

Komlosaurus (Komlo lizard) is a dinosaur known from footprints found in Hungary.

[[Ludvik Dolezal]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2016 deaths

Ludvik Dolezal (1956 - December 26, 2016) and a Czech man known by 'Dirtiest man in Europe was dead in December 26, 2016 and his age 60 years in Hradec Králové Region, Czech Republic. 

[[Parts of a sail]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing

In sailing the parts of a sail have certain terms that clearly describe them.

There are two types of common mainsails. The Three Sided Mainsail and the Four sided Mainsail. Each of these Mainsail types have many different names according to exact location and relationship of supporting spars.

[[Pterygotus]]

CATEGORIES: Chelicerata, Arthropods, Extinct species

Pterygotus anglicus is an extinct Eurypterid, related to arachnids (the spider family) and commonly called "sea scorpions." It lived in the Silurian and Devonian periods.

Fossils have been found in North America, South America, Europe and Australia. It is related to the larger Jaekelopterus. It is similar to the freshwater Slimonia.

Pterygotus could reach a body length of 1.6. It had a pair of large compound eyes. It also had another pair of smaller eyes in the center of its head. It had 4 pairs of walking legs. A fifth pair of legs were swimming paddles. It also had a pair of large pincers.

[[American Airlines Flight 96]]

CATEGORIES: Ontario, Disasters in Canada, 1972 in North America, Aviation disasters in the 1970s, 1970s in Canada, June events

American Airlines Flight 96 was a flight operated by American Airlines. The flight was operated with a McDonnell Douglas DC-10. On 12 June 1972, the flight went into explosive decompression after a cargo door was blown out from the airplane. This incident occurred near the city of Windsor, Ontario, Canada. Because the incident occurred near the city, this incident is sometimes referred to as the Windsor Incident.

The incident was caused because of the cargo door. The cargo door was blown out of the plane because the locks of the cargo door failed. When the locks failed, the cargo door blew out and caused rapid decompression in the cargo area of the airplane. This caused the collapse of part of the passenger section of the airplane, which in turn led to some problems with the plane. The rudder of the airplane was jammed to the right, and cable controls to the second engine were separated. Luckily, no hydraulics were broken. Despite having little control of the airplane, Captain Bryce McCormick was successful in landing the airplane at Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport. After the incident, McDonnell Douglas, the maker of the aircraft, made minor changes to the locks of the cargo door. These changes would prove to be not successful with the crash of Turkish Airlines Flight 981. The crash was caused by exactly the same reason as this incident.

[[Buriolestes]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropods

Buriolestes (meaning "Buriol's robber") is a genus of early sauropodomorph dinosaurs from the Late Triassic of Brazil. It contains one species, B. schultzi, named in 2016. The type specimen was found alongside a specimen of the lagerpetid dinosauromorph Ixalerpeton.

[[Lariniscotes]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils

Lariniscotes is a trace fossil attributed to sea scorpions. The tracks were probably made by Pterygotus or Eurypterus.

[[Sonnet on the Great Suffering of Jesus Christ]]

CATEGORIES: Poems

"Sonnet on the Great Suffering of Jesus Christ" (Sonet na całą Mękę Pańską) is a poem by 17th century Polish poet Stanisław Herakliusz Lubomirski. It is one of the finest examples of sonnet form in Old Polish literature. The poem is a part of The Poems of Lent (in Polish Poezje postu świętego). It was translated into English by Michael J. Mikoś (Michael J. Mikos).

== The author == 

Stanisław Herakliusz Lubomirski was a Polish nobleman. He was born in 1642. He travelled a lot in his youth. He visited France, Spain, Italy and Austria. He as interested in literature and theatre. After he had returned to Poland, he became a politician. He was a member of Sejm (Parliament). He became also the Great Marshall (that is a secretary of internal affairs). He died in 1702.

[[Eurypterus]]

CATEGORIES: Chelicerata, Arthropods, Extinct species

Eurypterus is a type of extinct sea scorpion. It is the most famous type of sea scorpion, although it was far from the largest. It lived during the Silurian era and out has been found in the United States, Canada and Europe. The first Eurypterus fossil was discovered in 1818. 

[[Crackdown (disambiguation)]]

Crackdown has multiple meanings.

[[64-bit computing]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer science, 64-bit computing refers to a microprocessor's data stream. It means an operating system can use more computer memory at one time. This makes a 64-bit system much faster than a 32-bit system. A 32-bit system can only use up to 3.56 gigabytes of random-access memory (called RAM or memory). A 64-bit system can use much more memory making it considerably faster. Using an analogy, a 64-bit system is like a 64 line highway. If each bit were a car, it means 64 of them can move at the same time. 

[[Sutton Common railway station]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 establishments in Europe, 1930s establishments in England

Sutton Common station opened in 1930. The only train that operates at this station is Thameslink. This station is in fare zone 4.

[[Singapore Airlines Flight 006]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in Asia, Aviation disasters in the 2000s, History of Singapore, 2000s in Taiwan, October events

On October 31, 2000 Singapore Airlines Flight 006 crashed after taking off on the wrong runway at Chiang Kai-shek International Airport in Taiwan, caused by pilot error in bad weather. The aircraft was a Boeing 747-400 with 179 people on-board. 83 people were killed in the crash while 96 survived.

[[LOT Polish Airlines Flight 16]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in Europe, Aviation, 21st century in Poland, Warsaw

LOT Polish Airlines Flight 16 a Boeing 767 was a regular flight from Newark to Warsaw, that made a belly landing at Warsaw Chopin Airport on November 1, 2011 without any loss of life to the 231 passengers and crew on-board.

[[Forestay]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing

On a sailing vessel, a forestay, sometimes called a jibstay, or a headstay, is a piece of standing rigging. It keeps a mast from falling backwards.  It is usually attached to the very top of the mast. The other end of the forestay is attached to the bow of the boat.  

Often a sail is attached to the forestay.  This sail may be a jib or a genoa.  In a cutter rig, the jib or jibs are flown from stays in front of the forestay, perhaps going from the masthead to a bowsprit.  The sail on the forestay is then referred to as the staysail. A forestay might be made from stainless steel wire or rod.

[[Arrondissements of the Bas-Rhin department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

There are 5 arrondissements in the Bas-Rhin department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Bas-Rhin are:

[[Šiprage]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Šiprage (Шипраге) is a settlement in the Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska entity, Kotor Varoš Municipality. The first Kotor-Varosian settlement, the medieval town  Kotor, existed certainly before the 9th century, because, according to credible sources, it was previously "destroyed several times."  It  was named as Vasekatro „near Banja Luka“.

Šiprage is on the Vrbanja river. In 1991, 956 people lived in Šiprage. The highest elevation is 520 m.

During the Bosnian War (1992–95), Bosnian Serb Police and Army forces destroyed villages upstream along the Vrbanja to Kruševo Brdo. One of the 18 camps for detained Bosniaks from the Kotor Varoš Municipality was at the Police station (MUP) in Šiprage.

After 1996, most of the Bosniak villages were partly restored thanks to the Luxembourgish government. During the war, an Orthodox church was built in the centre of the village.

[[Kotor Varoš]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska

Kotor Varoš or Kotor-Varoš (Котор Варош) is a town and municipality in Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina.

In 2013, 22,001 people lived in Kotor Varoš.

The elevation of Kotor Varoš is 220.  Total municipality area is 564.26.

Kotor Varoš is on the Vrbanja river, on its southeastern upstream line of the Banja Luka, about 30 and to Šiprage  also,30.

[[Deck (ship)]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing, Ships

Decks are the main horizontal parts of a ship's structure. The crew stand and walk on the deck. A deck is the floor of a boat or ship, but open boats only have floorboards. 

[[Vrbanja river]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina

The Vrbanja (Врбањa) is a river in western Bosnia and Herzegovina. Along with the Ugar, it is the largest right tributary of the Vrbas. Its drainage basin covers an area of approximately 703.5 km2. It has significant hydropower potential. The estimations of the Vrbanja's length vary from 84 km to 95.4 km.

[[Wole Soyinka]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Nigerian writers, Playwrights, Poets

Akinwande Oluwole "Wole" Babatunde Soyinka (Yoruba: Akinwándé Oluwo̩lé Babátúndé S̩óyinká; born 13 July 1934) is a Nigerian playwright and poet. He was awarded the 1986 Nobel Prize in Literature, the first African to be honored in that category.

[[Vrbas (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina

The Vrbas (Врбас)  is a river in the western part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is one of the larger tributaries of river Sava. The Vrbas is about 250 km long. The drainage basin is around 6273 km2. The average flow at the mouth is 114 m3/s.

Vrbas starts from two springs on Ze Mountain (branch of Vranica), at 1715 m above sea level. Vrbas River cuts a composite valley, passing through Skopljanska valley, Vinačka klisura (gorge), Jajce valley, canyon valley Tijesno, Banja Luka valley, and a lower flow through  Lijevče polja (field).

The main left tributaries of the Vrbas are: Semešnica, Pliva, Black River and Krupa. The main right tributaries are Bistrica, Ugar, Svrakava, Vrbanja river, and Turjanica.

Its mouth is in Bosanska Gradiška.

[[Banja Luka]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Banja Luka (Бања Лука), or Banjaluka is a city in the western part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is located on the Vrbas river. It is the second largest city in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and many people say it is one of the country's most beautiful cities.December 2016 It is the administrative center of the Republika Srpska and the economic and cultural center of this part of Bosnian Krajina.

Its elevation is 163 m, and its total area is 1,238.91 km2. According to the 2013 census, the City of Banja Luka has 185,042 inhabitants.

In the first century AD, Romans won the area of Banja Luka, which was then inhabited mainly members of Mezeji, an  Illyrian tribe. This area was completely within the Roman province called Illyricum. Today, the city of Banja Luka is located on the road that led from Dalmatia to Pannonia, or from Salona to today's Bosanska Gradiška. Today's citadel Kastel, which is in what was the center of the city at the time, was a Roman military fortress.

Slavs settled Balkans and all of the current Banja Luka are in the sixth and seventh centuries, and they built several fortresses in the valley of the river Vrbas.  There are not many written records from that time.  The earliest Slavic settlement is also called "Vrbas," and it was first mentioned in 1320. The name of the town Banja Luka first appears in writing in 1494, in a work by Croatian-Hungarian King Vladislav. The name comes from banjaluk that is the Turkish-Bosnian slang for "spaing." This is because of the natural hot water suitable for baths that still exist in today's oldest settlement, Gornji Šeher/Upper Seher.

[[Ugar (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina

The Ugar  (Brzica until 1878) is a river of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a tributary of the Vrbas river.

The Ugar's length is around 44.5 kilometres. Its drainage basin is around 328 km2. Its largest right tributaries are: Pljačkovac, Ilomska, Kobilja, Zirin Potok and Kusin Potok (Ziro's and Kuso's creeks). The left tributaries are the creeks: namely Lužnica Potok, Dedića Potok, Andrijevića Potok, Bunar, Oraški Potok, and Kukavički Potok.

It starts at the slopes of Vlašić, upstream of Sažići and Melina villages. This is around 1590 meters above sea level. It is a watershed area of Vrbanja, Ilomska and Bila rivers. Its discharge is  6.98 

[[Ilomska]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Ilomska ( Иломска) is a river in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is right tributary of the Ugar. It is about 20 in length. The river starts in Vlašić's Mountain. It is an essential body of water for surrounding wildlife.

Ilomska flows between the Žežnička Greda (altitude 1,477) and Javorak (1,499) mountains. It has a curved flow around Lisina (1,494) and Runjavica (1,316) mountains, through  coniferous (fir and spruce) and mixed spuce-beech woods.

Its flow below Petrovo polje has sharp curves.

After two attractive waterfalls, Ilomska flows into the Ugar, a few kilometers downstream from Vitovlje village. The height of the bigger water flow is around 40 meters. Waterfalls in this wildness attract mountain-climbers, tourists, and fishermen.

[[Vlašić (mountain)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Vlašić (Влашић) is a mountain  in Dinaric Alps. It is in the very center of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Its highest peak is Paljenik with an elevation of 1,943 m. It is famous for its pastures, cattle-breeding and cheese. It overlooks the town of Travnik.

The mountain is named for the Vlassi people (called Vlachs in Bosnia). They tended their sheep there since the end of the Roman Empire. They brought one of the trademarks to the area, Vlašić cheese, about the year 1,000. Originally they used sheep milk but later used milk from cows. It is left to ripen for up to three months. The area is also known for the Tornjak dog and Pramenka sheep. The Tornjak is believed to have existed for more than a thousand years. They are bred to guard the sheep from wolves and bears. The Tornjak's name comes from the Croatian word tor which means "a fenced area for sheep."

[[Travnik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Travnik  (Травник ) is a town in central Bosnia and Herzegovina, 90 west of Sarajevo. It is the capital of the Central Bosnia Canton. It is in the Travnik Municipality. In 2013, the town of Travnik had 16,534 residents. The Travnik metropolitan area population was 57,543 people. In 1699 it became the residence of the viziers of the Ottoman province of Bosnia.

Travnik is close to the geographic center of Bosnia and Herzegovina at 44. The river Lašva flows from west to east through the city. Travnik is in the Lašva valley. This valley connects the Bosna river valley to the Vrbas river valley.

Travnik is 514 above sea level. The Vilenica and Vlašić mountains are two of the geographical features found near Travnik. Vlašić mountain is at the very center of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Its highest peak is Paljenik with an elevation of 1943.

[[Central Bosnia Canton]]

CATEGORIES: Bosnia and Herzegovina

The Central Bosnia Canton (Srednjobosanski kanton, Županija Središnja Bosna) is the sixth of ten cantons of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is in the center of the country, to the west of Sarajevo. The center of the canton government is in Travnik. According to the census of 2013, the population was 273,149 in the Central Bosnia Canton. This is a population density of 85.65/km2

The canton is split into the municipalities of Bugojno, Busovača, Dobretići, Donji Vakuf, Fojnica, Gornji Vakuf-Uskoplje, Jajce, Kiseljak, Kreševo, Novi Travnik, Travnik, Vitez.

[[West Sutton railway station]]

West Sutton station opened in 1930. The only operator for this station is Thameslink. This station is in Fare Zone 5.

[[Wallington railway station]]

Wallington station opened in 1847. The trains for this station are operated by Southern (train operating company). This station is in fare zone 5.

[[Arrondissement of Haguenau-Wissembourg]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Haguenau-Wissembourg is an arrondissement of France in the Bas-Rhin department in the Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Haguenau.

[[Versace]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 establishments in Europe, Italian fashion houses, 1970s establishments in Italy

Versace S.p.A, usually called Versace is an Italian luxury fashion house. It was founded by Gianni Versace in 1978. One of the logos of the brand represents the head of Medusa.

Since the death of Gianni Versace in 1997, Donatella Versace is the head of designs. Her daughter Allegra Versace owns half of the company.

[[Arrondissement of Molsheim]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Molsheim is an arrondissement of France in the Bas-Rhin department in the Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Molsheim.

[[Nanotyrannus]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous dinosaurs, Tyrannosaurids

Nanotyrannus (meaning "dwarf tyrant") is possibly a separate genus of tyrannosaurid dinosaur, or juveniles of  Tyrannosaurus or a similar genus. The issue is debated whether Nanotyrannus existed as a separate species or not ruling the land, destroying every competing species and being the apex predator of it's time. 

Only two or three specimens are known. They are from the end of the Upper Cretaceous, 67 million years ago.

[[Arrondissement of Saverne]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Saverne is an arrondissement of France in the Bas-Rhin department in the Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Saverne.

[[Bosniaks]]

CATEGORIES: Slavic peoples, Bosnia and Herzegovina people

The Bosniaks (Bošnjaci/Бошњаци, feminine: Bošnjakinja/Бошњакиња) are South Slavic nation and ethnic group. They come from Old Bosnia, which is today Bosnia and Herzegovina, though many of them are from the other Balkan populations, especially Serbia, Montenegro and Croatia. They come from medieval Bosnians or  Bošnjani,  Slavic that lived in what was then Bosnia. Medieval Bosniaks or Bosnians (called Dobri bošnjani = Good Bosnians) practiced different religions but they all spoke the Bosnian language. Today, Bosniaks are  mostly Bosnian-speaking, and write in the  Latin alphabet or  Cyrillic alphabet. Most modern Bosniaks are  Muslims, and some are  agnostic and  atheists. They have both  European and Islamic heritage. Both within the Balkans region and throughout the world, Bosniaks are often noted  for their unique culture, which has been influenced by both eastern and western civilizations and schools of thought over the course of their history.

The Oxford English Dictionary says the ethnonym Bosniak  was first used in English by the British diplomat and historian Paul Rycaut in 1680. He spelled it Bosnack to sound like the post-classical Latin Bosniacus (possibly earlier than 1682), the French word Bosniaque (1695 or earlier) or the German word Bosniak (1737 or earlier). An ethnonym is a name of a group of people.  The 1836 version of Penny Cyclopaedia V. 231/1 uses the modern spelling: 

All Slavic languages use the suffix -ak for masculine nouns. For example, people from the ethnic group in Poland can be called Polak and people from Slovakia Slovaks (Slovák). Consequently, "Bosniak" is logic equivalent to its non-ethnic counterpart "Bosnian," which came to English from Middle French as Bosnien): a native of Bosnia.

English-speakers usually say Bosnian Muslims when they mean Bosniaks, but this is not completely correct because not all Bosniaks are Muslims.  Partly because of this, ever since the country Yugoslavia broke up, people have started to say Bosniak instead of Muslim as an official way to talk about this group of people ethnic term to avoid confusion. They also say Bosnians, but this word can mean anyone from Bosnia or Herzegovina, not just members of the Bosniak ethnic group.

A few million Bosniaks live in the Balkans, and about one million other Bosniaks live in other parts of the world. Ethnic cleansing and genocide during World War II (1939-1945) and the Bosnian War (1993–95) killed many Bosniaks and drove others to move away from where they had been living. Partially because of this this, there has been a Bosniak diaspora in a number of countries, including Bosnian Austrians, Germany, Bosnian Australians, Sweden, Turkey, Canada, and the United States. 

[[Arrondissement of Sélestat-Erstein]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Sélestat-Erstein is an arrondissement of France in the Bas-Rhin department in the Grand Est region. Its capital is the city of Sélestat.

[[Arrondissement of Strasbourg]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Grand Est

The arrondissement of Strasbourg is an arrondissement of France in the Bas-Rhin department in the Grand Est region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Strasbourg.

[[Joe Ranft]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2005 deaths, Movie directors from California, Pixar, American animators, American voice actors

Joseph Henry "Joe" Ranft (March 13, 1960 – August 16, 2005) was an American screenwriter, animator, storyboard artist, voice actor and magician. He worked for Pixar Animation Studios and The Walt Disney Company. His brother, Jerome Ranft, is a sculptor who also worked on several Pixar movies.

He received an Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay nomination as one of the writers of Toy Story (1995). He was also a story supervisor for the film. He had just finished his assignment as head of story for the 2006 movie Cars, when he was killed in a car crash.

[[Bosnian War]]

CATEGORIES: Wars, 1990s in Bosnia and Herzegovina

The war in Bosnia and Herzegovina  or Bosnian War  is generally accepted name for an international military conflict in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which lasted from  April 6th 1992 to December 14th 1995, between Serbia and Montenegro, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croatia. This war is often appointed and as The aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina and Civil War in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina was formally indicted Serbia and Montenegro for genocide before the International Court of Justice. The Court 21st February  2007 published a judgment in which he concluded that the war have had  international character.

It is estimated that in the nearly four-year war killed between 100,000 and 200,000 people, while over two million people to leave their homes. According to recent reports in the war has killed around 94,000 inhabitants, and displaced about 1.8 million. War is caused by a complex combination of the general political, social and security crisis in the country, which followed the end of the Cold War and the fall of the socialist system in Yugoslavia. The war ended with the signing Peace Agreement in Dayton, Ohio on 21 November 1995.

[[Flåm, Norway]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norway

Flåm is a village in Norway. It is in the municipality of Aurland in Sogn og Fjordane county.

The closest airport is Sogndal Airport, Haukåsen, which is about 70 kilometres from Flåm. The European route E16 highway between Oslo and Bergen runs through Flåm.

[[Laetitia Casta]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, French models, French movie actors, French stage actors, French television actors, People from Normandy

Laetitia Casta (born 11 May 1978) is a French actress and model. She is a spokesmodel for L'Oréal since 1998. She was a Victoria's Secret Angel from 1998 to 2000.

[[Muck, Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland

Muck is an island in Scotland. It is the smallest main island of the Small Isles, which are part of the Inner Hebrides. There are about 27 people living on the island. Most of them live near Port Mòr.

[[North Rona]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland

North Rona is an island in Scotland. It is in the Inner Hebrides.

It has an area of 109 hectares (270 acres). The maximum elevation is 108 metres (354 ft). No people live on the island.

[[Ischigualasto Provincial Park]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Argentina, World Heritage Sites in South America

Ischigualasto Provincial Park is a protected area in San Juan Province, north-western Argentina. The park is also called Valle de la Luna ("Valley of the Moon") due to its otherworldly appearance.

It contains the geological formation called the Ischigualasto Formation. The formation is also included in the Talampaya National Park in the La Rioja Province. The Ischigualasto Formation has fossils from the Triassic period. These are some of the oldest known dinosaur remains.

In 2000 UNESCO included Ischigualasto in its World Heritage Sites.

[[Martin Sjögren]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Martin Sjögren (born 27 April 1977) is a Swedish football coach. He became the coach of the Norway women's national football team in 2016. He won the Damallsvenskan title with Linköpings FC in 2016, then agreed to take the Norway national team job.

[[Port Mòr]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Scotland

Port Mòr is a harbor and settlement on the Isle of Muck in the Inner Hebrides off the West Coast of Scotland. It has a population of 27 people.

[[Andrew Kishino]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s births, Living people, American voice actors

Andrew Kishino (born March 20, 1970) is a Japanese Canadian voice-over artist with recent roles including Janja on The Lion Guard and Saw Gerrera on Star Wars: The Clone Wars.

[[Collonges, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Collonges is a municipality of the district of Saint-Maurice in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Dorénaz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Dorénaz is a municipality of the district Saint-Maurice in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[List of protected areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of national parks, Europe-related lists, Geography of Bosnia and Herzegovina

[[Sutjeska National Park]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Bosnia and Herzegovina, IUCN Category II, National parks in Europe

The Sutjeska National Park is a national park in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is in the Republika Srpska. Established in 1962, it is Bosnia and Herzegovina's oldest national park.

The park includes the highest mountain in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Maglić. The park covers an area of about 17500.

Perućica Forest Reserve is located within the park. It is 6 long, 1 wide, and has an area of 1400. It is a UNESCO recognized site. The forest has many trees that are 300 years old. It is a primeval forest.

[[Cockpit (sailing)]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing

A cockpit is a name for the location of the controls of a vessel. It is usually an open well in the deck of a boat outside the cabin. In modern boats a cockpit may refer to an enclosed area. Smaller boats typically have an aft cockpit, towards the stern of the boat. Larger vessels may provide a center cockpit with greater protection from the weather. On a recreational sailboat, the cockpit is often the safest place for the crew.

[[Gummy bear]]

CATEGORIES: Candy

A gummy bear is a small fruit gum candy that is made to look like a bear. It is often sticky.

[[Kruševo Brdo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Villages in Europe

Kruševo Brdo is a village in central Bosnia and Herzegovina. It belongs to the Municipality of Kotor Varoš. It is divided into Krševo Brdo I and II for administration.

This village is located at the beginning of the valley of the Vrbanja river.  It is on the northeastern slopes of the Vlašić mountain. It is 8 km to Šiprage and 38 to Kotor-Varoš.  The valley spreads along the Vrbanja river to its estuary in Vrbas (Banja Luka). The Ilomska river is north of Kruševo Brdo. All local roads descend into this place.

During the Bosnian War (1992–95), Bosnian Serb Police and Army forces destroyed Bosniaks's villages downstream along the Vrbanja from Kruševo Brdo, via Šiprage,  and Kotor Varoš to Banja Luka. After 1996, most of the Bosniak's villages were partly restored thanks to the Luxembourgish government.

[[Misiones Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

Misiones (Departamento de Misiones) is a department in Paraguay. The capital is the city of San Juan Bautista. Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-08.

Its present name was given to the province because it was a region where there were several Jesuit missions.

[[Eigg]]

CATEGORIES: Inner and Outer Hebrides

Eigg is a small island off the coast of Scotland.  It is 9 km wide and has a population of 83 people. Eiggs highest point is it's only mountain, An Sgùrr.

[[Dayton S. Mak]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States, American centenarians, Civil servants, People from Sioux Falls, South Dakota

Dayton S. Mak (born July 10, 1917) is a former U.S. diplomat. He served posts in England, Libya, Lebanon, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Germany. He was the first U.S. ambassador of Kuwait. Mak was also former Director of the Bureau of Intelligence and Research, for Near East South Asia Affairs.

[[Leah Bracknell]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, English movie actors, English television actors, British educators, Actors from London

Leah Bracknell (born Alison Rosalind Bracknell 12 July 1964 – September 2019) was an English actress. She was best known for her role as Zoe Tate in Emmerdale. She was also a teacher with the British School of Yoga and designs and produces her own line of jewelry.

In October 2016, Bracknell revealed that she was suffering from terminal lung cancer. She died from the disease at her Worthing home in September 2019, aged 55.

[[Gord Downie]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from glioblastoma, Cancer deaths in Canada, Canadian rock musicians, Musicians from Ontario, Actors from Ontario, Writers from Ontario

Gordon Edgar "Gord" Downie (6 February 1964 – 17 October 2017) was a Canadian rock musician, writer, and occasional actor. 

He was the lead singer and lyricist for the Canadian rock band The Tragically Hip. He released five solo albums: Coke Machine Glow (2001), Battle of the Nudes (2003), The Grand Bounce (2010), And the Conquering Sun (2014) and Secret Path (2016). On the first three of these, he was backed by the Country of Miracles;

Downie was diagnosed with glioblastoma, a rare form of brain cancer in May 2016. He died from the disease on 17 October 2017 in Toronto at the age of 53.

[[Nobby Stiles]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2020 deaths, English footballers, English football managers, Deaths from prostate cancer, Deaths from dementia, Manchester United F.C. players, Sportspeople from Manchester

Norbert Peter "Nobby" Stiles MBE (May 18, 1942 – October 30, 2020) was an English footballer. He was born in Collyhurst, Manchester.

[[Jill Gascoine]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, British movie actors, British television actors, British stage actors, Actors from London, Writers from London

Jill Gascoine (11 April 1937 – 28 April 2020) was a British actress and novelist. She was best known for her role as Detective Inspector Maggie Forbes in the 1980s television series The Gentle Touch and its spin-off series C.A.T.S. Eyes. In the 1990s, she also became a novelist and has published three books.

In June 2013, Gascoine publicly revealed that she has Alzheimer's disease. In November 2016 her husband, Alfred Molina, reported that she was "in a very advanced stage of Alzheimer's", and had been in a specialist care home for over two years. She died from the disease on 28 April 2020, aged 83.

[[Ian St John]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Liverpool F.C. players, People with cancer, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers

Ian St John (7 June 1938 – 1 March 2021) was a Scottish footballer. He played as a centre-forward. He is best known as a Liverpool player from  1961 to 1971. He won two First Division league titles and an FA Cup (scoring the 117th minute winning goal in the 1965 final) with Liverpool. He played for Scotland 21 times. He later became a manager and pundit. He was born in Motherwell, Lanarkshire. In 2008, he was added to the Scottish Football Hall of Fame.

In June 2014, he announced that he had surgery for bladder cancer in April of that year. The surgery removed his bladder and prostate gland.

St John died on 1 March 2021 after a long-illness in Arrowe Park, Merseyside at the age of 82.

[[Canna]]

CATEGORIES: Inner and Outer Hebrides

Canna is a small island in the Small Isles in the Inner Hebrides. As of 2017, there are 12 people on the island. Canna is linked to its neighbouring island Sanday by a single road.  Canna has its own native animal, the Canna Fruit Bat.

[[Rum (island)]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Scotland

Rum (often spelt Rùm) is a small island in the Small Islands in the Inner Hebrides. The population ia around 22 as of 2017. 

[[Sanday]]

CATEGORIES: Inner and Outer Hebrides

Sanday is an island off the coast of Canna. Sanday is home to 9 people as of 2017. 

[[Raasay]]

CATEGORIES: Inner and Outer Hebrides

[[Gay Byrne]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Irish radio personalities, Irish television presenters, People from Dublin

Gabriel Mary "Gay" Byrne (5 August 1934 – 4 November 2019), affectionately known as Uncle Gay, Gaybo or Uncle Gaybo, was a veteran Irish presenter of radio and television for several decades. His most known role was first host of The Late Late Show over a 37-year period spanning 1962 until 1999. 

[[Elizabeth Dawn]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from emphysema, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, People with cancer, Actors from Leeds

Elizabeth "Liz" Dawn MBE (8 November 1939 – 25 September 2017] was an English actress. She was best known for her role as Vera Duckworth in the long-running British soap opera, Coronation Street.

Dawn was awarded an MBE in October 2000 for her services to charity and for having helped raise hundreds of thousands of pounds for hospitals in the Manchester and Leeds areas.

[[Errol Christie]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in London, People with cancer, British boxers, Sportspeople from Leicester

Errol Christie (29 June 1963 – 11 June 2017) was a former professional English boxer and currently a boxing trainer. He was the captain of the English amateur boxing team from 1980 to 1983 and European amateur champion in 1983. After turning professional he was a regular fixture on ITV Fight Night in the 1980s. After retiring from boxing he became a trainer in white collar boxing.

In March 2015 Christie was diagnosed with small-cell lung cancer. He died in London on 11 June 2017 from complications of the disease, aged 53.

[[Paul Rycaut]]

CATEGORIES: 1629 births, 1700 deaths, British diplomats, Knights Bachelor

Sir Paul Rycaut (1628–1700) was a British diplomat, author and traveler. Rycaut served as secretary to the British Embassy at Constantinople. Afterward, he served as consul to the Levant Company in Smyrna, Turkey. He was the English ambassador to Hamburg. Rycaut was a  Fellow of the Royal Society.

[[Cantor's theorem]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In set theory Cantor's theorem states that the set which contains all subsets of a set has a greater cardinality than the set itself. Georg Cantor showed this in an article he published in 1890. The theorem is valid both for finite and infinite sets.

[[Small Isles]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Scotland

The  Small isles are the four islands, Muck, Rùm, Eigg, Canna and several other islands. They are a small archipelago of islands in the Inner Hebrides, off the west coast of Scotland. They are south of Skye and north of Mull and Ardnamurchan. The Small Isles is one of 40 National Scenic Areas in Scotland. They can be reached by taking a ferry from either Arisaig or Mallaig on the mainland.	

[[Lycorhinus]]

CATEGORIES: Heterodontosaurs, Jurassic dinosaurs

Lycorhinus is a genus of omnivorous heterodontosaurid dinosaur.

[[Concepción, Paraguay]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Paraguay

Concepción is a district and city in northern Paraguay and capital of the Concepción Department. It is next to the Paraguay River.

The city is at about 400 to the north of Asunción, the capital of Paraguay.

[[Square rig]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing

Square rig refers to a type of sail and rigging where the sails are mounted on horizontal spars. The number of masts, the square sails and how the yards (spars) are set out distinguishes a square-rigged ship. The classic example of a square-rig is a three masted fully rigged ship. The square-rigger descends from the lateen-rig. Its angled sails became square sails. The full-rigged ship is a ship with square-rigged sails on all its masts. The square rig with all its sails and rigging is hard to handle when tacking or "coming about". In the trade winds, square-rigged ships have an advantage, especially in deep water. 

[[Water Under the Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Adele songs

"Water Under the Bridge" is a song by English singer-songwriter Adele.  It is the sixth song on her third studio album, 25.  It was written by Adele and her frequent writing partner, Greg Kurstin, who also produced the song.  "Water Under the Bridge" was released as the fourth single from 25 on November 4, 2016.

The song is a more upbeat song, similar to "Rolling in the Deep".   So far, it has charted at number 26 on the US Billboard Hot 100.  It was certified gold by the RIAA in 2017 for shipments of 500,000 copies in the US.

[[Večići]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Večići is a village in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is in the Kotor Varoš Municipality in central Bosnia and Herzegovina. It spreads across Večićko polje (Večići's field), nearby the mouth of Cvrcka (in Vrbanja river), and Vrbanjci, a larger village.

In 1991 its population was 1744. In 2013 it was 797, all of whom are Bosniaks.

During the Bosnian War, the village was a pocket of Bosniak resistance against the Bosnian Serb Army and Police forces. It suffered severe damages, including destruction of the village mosque. The anthropologist Madelyn Iris noted that

"No home had been left undamaged, and no extended family had been left entirely intact." Some of the villagers died in a massacre at nearby Grabovica in November 1992 and 150-200 men and boys were killed in the village school. As of 2017 these people are still on the list of missing persons.

[[Merchant vessel]]

CATEGORIES: Ships

A merchant vessel or trading vessel is a boat or ship that transports cargo or carries passengers for hire. This does not include pleasure craft that do not carry passengers for hire. Warships are also not considered to be merchant ships.

[[Cvrcka]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina

The Cvrcka is a river in Central Bosnia, the largest left bank tributary of Vrbanja river.

It rises in area of Skender Vakuf on the northern slopes of Čemernica, on the same drainage divide as the Jakotina. Jakotina is  another tributary of the same river, which flows in same parallel direction to Vrbanja river. It streams are consisted by two rivers: Međurača (source at about 1,200 m) and Vukača (source at about 1,150 m). Its estuary is between Večići and Vrbanjci (310 m above sea level).

[[Vrbanjci]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Vrbànjci is a village in the Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the Municipality of Kotor Varoš, Republika Srpska.

[[Bosanka (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Bosanka (Bosnian women) is a river in central Bosnia. It is a right tributary of the Vrbanja river. It rises on the southern slopes of the Uzlomac mountain (elevation about 800) in four streams. The length is about 6. Flowing through Petrovići, and its mouth in Vrbanja river is between the villages of Dabovci and Dudići. The mouth of the river is downstream from Vrbanjci, along highway M-4 (Banja Luka - Doboj). 

The only significant (left) tributary to Bosanka is the Vodalka. 

In 1950 there were eight watermills in the Bosanke and Vodalke river basins.

On the eastern side of Vodalke are several creeks, such the Zmajevac, Pirizevac and Breska. On the western side are the Jelovac, Pušića potok, Svinjara and Jošavka. 

During the War in Bosnia people living in the area of the Bosanka were expelled and killed. This is especially true in the village of Vrbanjci, and nearby surrounding Večići, Hrvaćani,  Garići and Rujevica.

[[Tony Atkinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from multiple myeloma, British economists, Welsh writers

Sir Anthony Barnes "Tony" Atkinson, (4 September 1944 – 1 January 2017) was a British economist. He was the Senior Research Fellow of Nuffield College, Oxford and Centennial Professor at the London School of Economics. A student of James Meade, Atkinson virtually single-handedly established the modern British field of inequality and poverty studies. He worked on inequality and poverty for over four decades.

Atkinson died on 1 January 2017 from multiple myeloma in Oxford, England, aged 72.

[[Hilarion Capucci]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Activists, Archbishops, Eastern Catholics, Syrian Christians

Hilarion Capucci (2 March 1922 – 1 January 2017) was a Syrian Catholic bishop. He served as the titular archbishop of Caesarea in the Melkite Greek Catholic Church. He was born in Aleppo, Syria. During his time in office, he was a critic of Israel, showing support with the Palestinians.

On 20 July 1947, he was ordained a priest of the Basilian Alepian Order. On 30 July 1965, he was appointed archbishop and consecrated.

On 1 January 2017, the Vatican announced that Capucci had died in Rome, aged 94.

[[Memo Morales]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Venezuelan singers

Guillermo Enrique Morales Portillo, better known as Memo Morales (6 April 1937 – 1 January 2017) was a Venezuelan singer also known as El Gitano Maracucho. He was the voice main of important orchestras of the country. 

In 1981, he founded, with Luisín Landaez, La Nuestra, and in 1984, with Cheo García, created La Gran Orquesta de Cheo y Memo. They performed together until Garcia's death in 1994.

Morales died on 1 January 2017 in Caracas, Venezuela from a heart attack, aged 79.

[[Uzlomac]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Europe, Geography of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Uzlomac is a long mountain in Central Bosnia,  Bosnia and Herzegovina,  east from line direction Maslovare –  Vrbanjci – Kotor Varoš – Čelinac. It stretches in  southeast – northwest direction, through the mountainous area, from Kruševica river to Jošavka. Its maximum altitude is 1018. 

On Uzlomac rise many tributaries of Vrbanja river, Usora and Ukrina, i.e. tributaries of  Vrbas and Bosna (river) confluences.

[[Yaakov Neeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Government ministers of Israel, Israeli academics, Israeli lawyers, Jewish academics, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish lawyers, People from Tel Aviv

Yaakov Neeman (יעקב נאמן‎ , 16 September 1939 – 1 January 2017) was an Israeli lawyer and academic. He was born in Tel Aviv. Neeman served as Minister of Justice in 1996 and again from 2009 through 2013. He also served as Minister of Finance from 1997 through 1998.

He was also professor of law at the Bar-Ilan University.

Neeman died on 1 January 2017 in Jerusalem, aged 77.

[[Get Dumb]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs

"Get Dumb" is a 2007 single by Swedish DJs Axwell, Steve Angello and Sebastian Ingrosso, (the three later known as Swedish House Mafia) along with Dutch DJ Laidback Luke. The song was also the first ever collaboration by the Swedish trio before their formation as a supergroup.

[[Small-cell carcinoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Small-cell carcinoma (also known as "small-cell lung cancer", or "oat-cell carcinoma") is a type of highly malignant cancer that most commonly arises within the lung, although it can occasionally arise in other body sites, such as the cervix, prostate, and gastrointestinal tract. Small cell carcinoma has a shorter doubling time, higher growth fraction, and earlier development of metastases compared to a non-small cell carcinoma.

[[Ciarán Hinds]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Irish movie actors, Irish television actors, Irish stage actors, People from Belfast

Ciarán Hinds (ˈ KEER HYNDZ; born 9 February 1953) is an Irish movie, television and stage actor. 

He is known for his roles in Road to Perdition, The Sum of All Fears, The Phantom of the Opera, Munich, There Will Be Blood, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2, The Woman in Black, Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, Ghost Rider: Spirit of Vengeance and Frozen. He has been cast as Steppenwolf, in the 2017 movie Justice League.

[[Olivia (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Olivia is a female given name in English. It is derived from the Latin word olive. It dates back to the 13th century. Many people think the name was first used by William Shakespeare for a character in Twelfth Night.

People with the name include Olivia Newton-John, Olivia de Havilland and Olivia Munn.

[[Wonder Woman (2017 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 movies, Warner Bros. movies, American superhero movies, American action movies, DC Extended Universe movies, 2010s superhero movies, Wonder Woman movies, 2010s feminist movies, Movies directed by Patty Jenkins

Wonder Woman is an American superhero movie. It is based on the DC Comics character Wonder Woman. It is distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures.

[[Muriel (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames, Given names

Muriel is a female given name in the English language. It is also a family name. The name has been around for a long time in Breton, Celtic, Irish and Scottish Gaelic languages.

The name was common in medieval England, often formatted as Merial. Usage of Muriel peaked in the early 1920s. Use of the name has steadily declined over time.

People with the family name include Alma Muriel. Fictional characters named Muriel include Muriel Heslop from Muriel's Wedding.

[[Emmanuel Niyonkuru]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths by firearm, Civil servants, Burundian people, Assassinated people, African businesspeople

Emmanuel Niyonkuru (20 July 1962 – 1 January 2017) was a Burundian politician. He was appointed to the Government of Burundi as Minister of Water and Environment in 2015, after having been elected as a senator for the district of Muramvya. He was born in the Commune of Rutegama, Burundi.

Niyonkuru was assassinated by gunshot in the capital city of Bujumbura on 1 January 2016, aged 54. A woman was reportedly arrested.

[[Joseph A. Califano Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Health, Education, and Welfare, Politicians from New York City, US Democratic Party politicians

Joseph Anthony Califano Jr. (born May 15, 1931) is a retired American politician. He served as United States Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare from 1977 through 1979 under the Jimmy Carter administration. He is the founder and chairman of The National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University (CASAColumbia), an evidence-based research organization.

He is one of two living former Secretaries of Health, Education, and Welfare (the other is his predecessor, F. David Mathews).

He has been Adjunct Professor of Public Health (Health Policy and Management) at Columbia University Medical School (Department of Psychiatry) and School of Public Health and is a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.

[[Usora (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Usora is left tributary of the Bosnia in central Bosnia. The total length of the river Usora – from sources below the top of the mountain Očauš to the mouth above the Doboj  is about 82 kilometers. The town of Teslić, through which it flows, bears the  local name Velika Usora (Great Usora), since under the city at a place called Sastavci meets with his same named, but a lot less left tributary Mala Usora (Little Usora). It  also comes from the mountain masiff Uzlomac – Borja – Očauš below it in smaller distances rises more Bosnia river and their tributaries, as well as the basin Vrbanja river and Ukrina. In its upper reaches, the river makes a wide loop around Borja, from its southwest to northeast slopes.

Great Usora created by merging Gomjenice and Brkića stream. Small Usora springs below (south) of the main road M-4 (Banja Luka – Matuzići, some 10 km west of Pribinić). Before Sastavci locality, right tributary to it are: Mišića rijeka, Great Ostružnja, Inova , Miljkovača, Velika rijeka (Great river), Brezna  and smaller streams, as well as left: Rankovića rijeka, and Gračanica.

In much of the flow Ukrina is flooding  river but the increasingly frequent flooding causes significant damages.

In the early Bosnian history Usora belonged to  gold-bearing river, and it is believed that this is still in its upper course along with the many large and small tributaries and streams. Obvious hydro-energy potential Usora is permanently unused, and fish stocks almost negligible, especially if one takes into account the centuries-old discharging untreated waste industrial water Chemical Distillation of wood in Teslić.

[[Echinodon]]

CATEGORIES: Heterodontosaurs, Cretaceous dinosaurs

Echinodon is a genus of Heterodontosaur dinosaur. It has been found in the Lower Cretaceous of Europe, 140 million years ago.  

Saurechinodon is a synonym of this genus.

[[Mel Lopez]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Mayors of Manila

Gemiliano "Mel" Campos Lopez, Jr. (1 September 1935 – 1 January 2017) was a Filipino politician. He served as the Mayor of Manila from 1986 to 1987 and 1988 to 1992. He was also an assemblyman of the Batasang Pambansa (former parliament of the Philippines) from 1984 to 1986. He was born in Manila.

Lopez died from a heart attack on 1 January 2017 in Quezon City. He was 81.

[[Megalosauridae]]

CATEGORIES: Megalosauridae

Megalosauridae is a monophyletic family of carnivorous theropod dinosaurs in the order Megalosauroidea. They appeared in the Middle Jurassic, 

They are closely related to the family Spinosauridae. Some members of this family include Megalosaurus, Torvosaurus, Eustreptospondylus, and Afrovenator. 

Megalosaurids were among the first major adaptive radiations of large theropod dinosaurs, but they became extinct by the end of the Jurassic period. They were a relatively primitive group of basal tetanurans with two main subfamilies, Megalosaurinae and Afrovenatorinae. 

The basal genus Eustreptospondylus differs from both subfamilies. Its position is unclear

[[François Chérèque]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, Deaths from leukemia, People from Nancy, Trade unionists

François Chérèque (1 June 1956 – 2 January 2017) was a French trade unionist. He was the leader of the trade union centre French Democratic Confederation of Labour (CFDT, Confédération française démocratique du travail) from 2002 to 2012. He was born in Nancy, Meurthe-et-Moselle.

Chérèque died from leukaemia on 2 January 2017 at the age of 60.

[[Squash (drink)]]

CATEGORIES: Soft drinks

Squash (also called cordial or dilute) is a non-alcoholic concentrated syrup. It is used in beverage making.  It is usually fruit-flavoured. Squash is made from fruit juice, water, and sugar. Modern squashes may also contain food coloring and additional flavoring. Some traditional squashes contain herbal extracts, most notably elderflower and ginger. The original name for Squash was "Lemon Squash" but the name was shortened to include other flavors.

[[Viktor Tsaryov]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Russian footballers, Sportspeople from Moscow, Soviet sportspeople

Viktor Grigoryevich Tsaryov (Виктор Григорьевич Царёв; 2 June 1931 – 2 January 2017) was a Russian footballer. He played professionally from 1954 to 1966. He was best known for playing as a midfielder for Dynamo Moscow. He later managed the USSR football team and Dynamo Moscow. He was born in Moscow.

Tsaryov died on 2 January 2017 in Moscow at the age of 85.

[[Bogdan Tuszyński]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Poland, Polish historians, Polish journalists, People from Łódź, Polish writers

Bogdan Romuald Tuszyński (4 July 1932 – 1 January 2017) was a Polish sports journalist, reporter and historian. He was best known for his sports report Studio S-13 of the Polskie Radio, beginning in 1970. He started his job as an editor of Przegląd Sportowy (1951–1952). He later moved to Polskie Radio in 1953, leaving them in 1981. He also reported on the Peace Race every year. He published about thirty books between 1975 and 2009.  

Tuszyński was born in Łódź. His daughter, Agata Tuszyńska (born 1957), also became a journalist.

Tuszyński died after a long illness on 1 January 2017 in Warsaw. He was 84.

[[Lateen]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing, ships

A lateen (from French latine, meaning "Latin") or latin-rig is a triangular sail set on a long yard mounted at an angle on the mast. It runs in a fore-and-aft direction.

Dating back to Roman navigation, the lateen became the favorite sail of the Age of Discovery. This was mainly because it allowed a boat to tack "against the wind". It is common in the Mediterranean, the upper Nile River, and the northwestern parts of the Indian Ocean. It is the standard rig for feluccas and dhows. Another form is used on small recreational boats like the Sailfish and Sunfish.

[[John Berger]]

CATEGORIES: Booker Prize winners, 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Artists from London, English painters, English poets, People from Hackney

John Peter Berger (5 November 1926 – 2 January 2017) was an English art critic, novelist, painter and poet. 

Berger was born in Hackney, London, England. He was the son of Miriam (nee Branson) and Stanley Berger. Berger served in the British Army from 1944 to 1946. He studied at the Chelsea School of Art and the Central School of Art in London.

Berger's novel G. won the 1972 Booker Prize. He wrote an essay on art criticism, Ways of Seeing. The essay was written as an accompaniment to a BBC series. It is often used as a university text.

Berger died on 2 January 2017 in Paris at the age of 90.

[[Tacking (sailing)]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing

Tacking or coming about is a term in sailing that means the boat is changing directions by turning the bow of the vessel in relationship to the wind. It also means the course you are on relative to the direction of the oncoming wind. A tack with the wind blowing over the port (left) side of the boat is called a "port tack". A tack with the wind coming over the starboard side of the boat is called a "starboard tack". The sailboat's helmsman is responsible for communicating with the rest of the crew when making a tacking maneuver. When making a tack the helmsman calls out "ready about!" When the crew is ready they call out "ready", and the maneuver is started. The opposite of a tack (into the wind) is a jibe (changing direction while moving with the wind).

[[The Lego Ninjago Movie]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s action movies, 2010s adventure movies, 2017 comedy movies, 2017 animated movies, English-language movies, American action comedy movies, American adventure movies, American animated movies, Computer-animated movies, Danish movies, Lego, Warner Bros. movies, Prequel movies

The Lego Ninjago Movie is an American-Danish 3D computer-animated action comedy adventure martial arts movie. It is directed by Charlie Bean and written by Dan Hageman, Kevin Hageman, Kevin Chesley and Bryan Shukoff. The movie was released in the United States on September 22, 2017 through Warner Bros. and starts the voices of  Jackie Chan, Dave Franco, Olivia Munn, Justin Theroux, Zach Woods, Kumail Ninjiani, Abbi Jacobson, Fred Armisen and Michael Pena. It is the second spin-off of the 2014 movie The Lego Movie.

[[Derek Parfit]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, British philosophers, British writers, People from Oxford

Derek Parfit (11 December 1942 – 1 January 2017) was a British philosopher. He specialized in problems of personal identity, rationality, ethics, and the relations among them.

[[Battle of Austerlitz]]

CATEGORIES: Wars involving France, 19th century in Europe

Total: 9,000

Total: 36,000

In the battle of Austerlitz,   Napoleon Bonaparte  fought Russian and Austrian troops. The battle took place near Austerlitz (now in the Czech Republic) in 1805. Napoleon’s big victory let him create the Confederation of the Rhine. The book War and Peace by Leo Tolstoy contains a detailed description of the battle.

[[Rogue One]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 science fiction movies, American epic movies, American sequel movies, Prequel movies, Movie spin-offs, Star Wars movies

Rogue One: A Star Wars Story (or just Rogue One) is an American science fiction movie. It was released worldwide in December 2016. A Lucasfilm movie, it is directed by Gareth Edwards. It was written by Chris Weitz and Tony Gilroy with the story by John Knoll and Gary Whitta. The film stars Felicity Jones, Diego Luna, Ben Mendelsohn, Donnie Yen, Mads Mikkelsen, Alan Tudyk, Jiang Wen and Forest Whitaker.

It is the first movie in the Star Wars anthology series. The story follows Jyn Erso, daughter of the unwilling designer of the Galactic Empire's super-weapon the Death Star. Her mission is to get the diagram so it can be destroyed.

[[Richard Machowicz]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2017 deaths, American martial artists, American military people, American television personalities, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from brain cancer, People from Detroit, Michigan

Richard John "Mack" Machowicz (May 30, 1965 – January 2, 2017) was an American television presenter and Navy SEAL. He was the host of the Discovery Channel and Military Channel show Future Weapons. He also was a member of the Spike series Deadliest Warrior. He was born in Detroit, Michigan.

Machowicz was diagnosed with brain cancer in 2015. His condition got worse in December 2016. He died on January 2, 2017 in Pearland, Texas at the age of 51.

[[Alfonso Wong]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Comics artists, Comics writers, Chinese writers, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Disease-related deaths in California, People from Hong Kong

Alfonso Wong (王家禧, 1925 – 1 January 2017) was a Hong Kong manhua artist. He also wrote under the pen name "Wong Chak" (王泽), which is his son's name. He created the comic strip Old Master Q (Lao Fu Zi), which has been published since 1962. He was born in Tianjin, China and moved to Hong Kong in 1960. He had six sons.

Wong died from organ failure on 1 January 2017 in California, United States. He was 91.

[[Granny (orca)]]

CATEGORIES: 1910s births, 2017 deaths, Cetaceans, Individual animals

Granny (1911 – January 2017), also known by scientific name J2, was an orca, or killer whale. With an age of about 105, Granny was the oldest orca humans know of to ever live. She was first captured in 1967 with a group of orcas. However, she was believed to be too old for public aquariums and was released.

In January 2017, it was announced that researchers considered Granny dead. She had last been seen on October 12, 2016.

[[Prince Oscar, Duke of Skåne]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 births, Living people, Princes and princesses, Swedish royalty

Prince Oscar, Duke of Skåne (Oscar Carl Olof; born 2 March 2016) is the second child and only son of Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden. His older sister is Princess Estelle. 

[[SOCATA MS.880 Rallye]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation in France, Civil aircraft

The SOCATA MS.880 Rallye is a French light aircraft used by civilian and military users. It's first mission is training. 

[[Sir Thaddeus]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

Sir Thaddeus, or the Last Lithuanian Foray: A Nobleman's Tale from the Years of 1811 and 1812 in Twelve Books of Verse (in Polish Pan Tadeusz, czyli ostatni zajazd na Litwie. Historia szlachecka z roku 1811 i 1812 we dwunastu księgach wierszem) is a long poem by Polish romantic poet Adam Mickiewicz. It is regarded as a national epic. It was first published in Paris in 1834. The poet was then in exile in France. Sir Thaddeus is a story of a conflict between two noble families, the Soplicas and the Horeszkos. The time is 1811 and 1812, shortly before Napoleon invaded Russia. When attacked by Russian soldiers, both families fought against the enemy. The conflict between the families was ended with the marriage of Thaddeus Soplica and Sophia Horeszko.

Adam Mickiewicz was born in the East of the former Polish-Lithuanian state. Because of that he called Lithuania his mother-country.

Litwo! Ojczyzno moja! ty jesteś jak zdrowie.

Ile cię trzeba cenić, ten tylko się dowie,

Kto cię stracił. Dziś piękność twą w całej ozdobie

Widzę i opisuję, bo tęsknię po tobie.

Lithuania, my country, thou art like health; how much thou shouldst be prized only he can learn who has

lost thee. To-day thy beauty in all its splendour I see and describe, for I yearn for thee. (Translation in prose by George Rapall Noyes).

The poem is written in 13-syllable metre, very common in Polish literature.

[[Charles J. Colgan]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, Businesspeople from Maryland, Businesspeople from Virginia, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Virginia, Politicians from Maryland, Politicians from Virginia, US Democratic Party politicians

Charles Joseph Colgan (September 25, 1926 – January 3, 2017) was an American politician and businessman. He served as a member of the Virginia Senate from the 29th district from January 1976 to January 2016. He also served two terms as President pro tempore from 2008 to 2012, and for less than four months in 2014.

Colgan was born in Frostburg, Maryland. He served in the U.S. Air Force (USAF) in 1945. He was married twice and had eight children.

Colgan died from a vascular illness on January 3, 2017 in Aldie, Virginia. He was 90.

[[Ivo Brešan]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Croatian screenwriters, Novelists, Playwrights, Yugoslavian people

Ivo Brešan (27 May 1936 – 3 January 2017) was a Croatian playwright, novelist and screenwriter. He was for known for political satire. He was on screen from the early 1970s to 2006. His work included Acting Hamlet in the Village of Mrdusa Donja (1973), How the War Started on My Island (1996) and Marshal Tito's Spirit (1999). He had written screenplays with his son Vinko Brešan.

Brešan was born in Vodice. In 2001, he was awarded the Vladimir Nazor Award for Life Achievement in Literature

Brešan died on 3 January 2017 in Zagreb at the age of 80.

[[Rolf Noskwith]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British businesspeople, British Jews, German Jews, Jewish businesspeople, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, People from Chemnitz

Rolf Noskwith (19 June 1919 – 3 January 2017) was a British businessman. During the Second World War, he worked under Alan Turing as a cryptographer at the British military base Bletchley Park in Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire.

Noskwith was born in Chemnitz, Saxony, Germany. His parents were Eastern European-born Jews. He moved with his family to England in 1932. He was educated at Cambridge.

Noskwith died on 3 January 2017 in London at the age of 97.

[[Halal snack pack]]

CATEGORIES: Australia, Fast food

A halal snack pack, or HSP, is a dish that comes from Australia. It is made up of halal-certified doner kebab meat (mainly lamb, chicken or beef), chips, sauces (mainly chili, garlic and barbecue sauces) and often cheese. The exact origin of the halal snack pack is unknown. Halal snack packs have become more popular since 2015, when the Facebook group "Halal Snack Pack Appreciation Society" was created.

[[Diego Luna]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Actors from Mexico City, Child actors, Mexican movie actors, Mexican movie directors, Mexican television actors

Diego Luna Alexander (born 29 December 1979) is a Mexican actor, director and producer. He has appeared in many movies, including Y tu mamá también (2001), Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights (2004), The Terminal (2004), Milk (2008), Elysium (2013) and Rogue One (2016). He currently stars as Miguel Ángel Félix Gallardo in the Netflix crime series Narcos: Mexico (2018–present).

Luna was born in Toluca and grew up in Mexico City. His mother Fiona Alexander, a British set designer, died in a car accident when Luna was two. His father Alejandro Luna is a Mexican set designer. He was married to actress Camila Sodi from 2008 to 2013. They have two children.

[[Donnie Yen]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Actors from Hong Kong, Chinese movie directors, Choreographers, Judoka, Mixed martial artists, Chinese movie actors, Chinese movie producers, Chinese television actors

Donnie Yen (born 27 July 1963), also known as Yen Ji-dan (甄子丹), is a Chinese-born Hong Kong actor, martial artist, movie director, producer and action choreographer. He is also a wushu world champion many times. He is best known for his role as Ip Man in the Ip Man (2008–2015) trilogy movies. He also appeared in Shanghai Knights (2003), Flash Point (2007) and Rogue One (2016). 

Yen was born in Guangzhou, Guangdong. When he was two years old, his family moved to Hong Kong. They later moved to Boston, Massachusetts, United States when he was 11. He has been married twice and has three children.

[[Hercules (2014 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 movies, American movies, Movies based on Greek and Roman mythology

Hercules is an American 2014 action-adventure-fantasy film. Directed by Brett Ratner, it stars Dwayne Johnson, Ian McShane, Rufus Sewell and John Hurt and is based off the graphic novel Hercules: The Thracian Wars. It was released on July 25, 2014 and was one of two movies released in 2014 which were about the mythical warrior, the other being The Legend of Hercules; unlike the former, this film gained mixed to positive critical reviews and was a box office success.

[[Igor Volk]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Colonels, Cosmonauts, Russian military people, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Igor Petrovich Volk (Игорь Петрович Волк, Ігор Петрович Волк; 12 April 1937 – 3 January 2017) was a Soviet cosmonaut and test pilot. He was best known for his involvement as a research cosmonaut in the Soyuz T-12 in 1980. It was seventh manned spaceflight to the Soviet space station Salyut 7. He bomber pilot in the Soviet Air Force. He later joined the Moscow Aviation Institute in 1962. He had over 7000 flight hours logged in over 80 different aircraft. He had the rank of colonel in the Russian Air Force.

Volk was born in Zmiiv, Kharkiv Oblast, Ukrainian SSR. He was given many awards, most famously the Hero of the Soviet Union and the Order of Lenin titles. He was married and had two children.

Volk died on 3 January 2017 while on holiday in Plovdiv, Bulgaria. He was 79.

[[René Ballet]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Communists, French journalists, French novelists, People from Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

René Ballet (1928 – 2 January 2017) was a French journalist and author. He was a communist and a member of the French Communist Party. He started his career as a civil servant in Paris in 1961. He was first a civil servant in finance and later in national education. He was the writer of 14 novels and 35 essays. In 1978, he started working for the communist newspaper L'Humanité.

Ballet was born in Saint-Étienne. He grew up in Grenoble. He joined the French Resistance during World War II. He lived in Vanves.

Ballet died on 2 January 2017 at the age of 88.

[[Wayne Westner]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2017 deaths, People from Johannesburg, South African golfers, Sportspeople who committed suicide, Suicides by firearm

Wayne Brett Westner (28 September 1961 – 4 January 2017) was a South African golfer. He turned professional in 1982. He had a total of 13 wins in his career. He was best known for his 1993 Dubai Desert Classic win. He also notably won the World Cup of Golf in 1996 with Ernie Els. His career ended in 1998 because of injury. He was born in Johannesburg.

Westner was reportedly involved in a hostage event on 4 January 2017 at his home in Pennington, KwaZulu-Natal. He later committed suicide (killed himself) with a gunshot wound to his head at his home. He was 55.

[[Rigging]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing, ships

The rigging of a sailing ship is made up of the ropes and/or chains used to support the ship's masts, yards and sails. The standing rigging is used to support the masts. The running rigging supports the yards and sails. Some types of sailboats that have unsupported masts do not have any rigging. These include the junk rig and catboat rigs. Bermuda sloops with a single mast and one headsail use fairly simple rigging. Cutter-rigged ketches and schooners have the most complex rigging.

[[Djoser]]

CATEGORIES: Pharaohs

Djoser (other names include Netjerikhet, Tosorthos, and Sesorthos) was the first Pharaoh, or king of the Third Dynasty of Egypt, c. 2670 BCE. He is known for the building of the first pyramid built in Egypt, the Step Pyramid at Saqqara. The Third Dynasty, based in Memphis, was the beginning of the Old Kingdom, a period of stability, achievement and unity.

There have been claims that he was not the first king, as the Abydos King List and the Turin King List give a king by the name of Sanakht. There is no archaeological evidence to support this, and most experts agree that Djoser was the first. He ruled for at least 20 years, but he had so many temples, tombs and monuments built that some experts say he may have ruled for up to 30 years.

There is a painted limestone statue of Djoser, which is the oldest discovered life sized Egyptian statue. It was found in Saqqara during archaeological digging in 1924-1925. The statue is now in the Egyptian Museum in Cairo.

[[Abdul Halim Jaffer Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Indian musicians, Composers

Abdul Halim Jaffer Khan (February 15, 1927 – January 4, 2017) was an Indian sitar player and composer. Khan was born in Madhya Pradesh, India. He won the national awards Padma Shri (1970) and Padma Bhushan (2006) and was awarded the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for 1987. He composed musical movie scores for Goonj Uthi Shehnai (1959), Kohinoor (1960) and Jhanak Jhanak Payal Baaje (1971).

Khan died on January 4, 2017 at his home in Mumbai, India from cardiac arrest, aged 89.

[[Sonny Perdue]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Agriculture, Veterinarians, Businesspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), Governors of Georgia (U.S. state), US Republican Party politicians

George Ervin "Sonny" Perdue III (born December 20, 1946) is an American politician. He was the 31st United States Secretary of Agriculture from April 25, 2017 to January 20, 2021. He was the 81st Governor of Georgia from 2003 to 2011. In January 2003, he became the first Republican Governor of Georgia since Reconstruction.

Perdue serves on the Governors’ Council of the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington, D.C..

On January 18, 2017, incoming U.S. President Donald Trump announced that he would nominate Perdue to be United States Secretary of Agriculture. His nomination was sent to the Senate on March 9, 2017. He was approved by the United States senate with a vote of 87-11 on April 24, 2017.

[[Joe Manganiello]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American activists, American philanthropists, American movie directors, American movie producers, American television directors, American television producers, Actors from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Writers from Pennsylvania

Joseph Michael "Joe" Manganiello (ˌ MANG; maŋɡaˈnjɛllo; born December 28, 1976) is an American actor, director, producer, author and philanthropist.

He played Flash Thompson in Sam Raimi's Spider-Man trilogy and had many recurring roles in television on ER, How I Met Your Mother, and One Tree Hill, before landing his breakout role as werewolf Alcide Herveaux on the HBO television series True Blood.

He played the supervillain Deathstroke in Zack Snyder's 2017 movie Justice League. He appeared as Burke in the 2018 movie Rampage.

Manganiello has appeared in movies such as Magic Mike, What to Expect When You're Expecting, and Sabotage.

In late 2013, he became a published author when his first book, Evolution, was released by Simon & Schuster's Gallery Books. He is active with several charities, including Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, and he serves on the committee of The Art of Elysium.

In 2015, he married Sofía Vergara after three months of dating. They now live in Los Angeles, California.

[[Deathstroke]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics characters

Deathstroke (Slade Joseph Wilson) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. The character was created by Marv Wolfman and George Perez.

He is a mercenary and assassin who first appeared in The New Teen Titans (vol. 1) #2 (1980). Wizard magazine rated him the 24th greatest villain of all time. Also, in 2009, Deathstroke was ranked as IGN's 32nd greatest comic book villain of all time.

Originally the archenemy of the Teen Titans, writers have developed him over the years as a villain of other heroes in the DC Universe; parallels have been established between him and Batman, and he has a deep-seated grudge against Green Arrow. The character has been adapted from the comics into multiple forms of media, including several Batman related projects and the Teen Titans animated series.

Deathstroke later appeared on The CW's live action TV series Arrow, where he is portrayed by Manu Bennett.  Joe Manganiello has been cast as Deathstroke for the DC Extended Universe movie series.

[[Stoning]]

CATEGORIES: Capital punishment

Stoning or lapidation is a form of capital punishment: a group of people throws stones at the convicted person, until this person dies. Today, it is mostly used in countries which follow sharia law.

[[Hypnic jerk]]

CATEGORIES: Sleep

A hypnic jerk, hypnagogic jerk or sleep twitch sometimes happens when a person is falling asleep. It is an involuntary movement, that is, not done on purpose. It may cause them to jump and awaken suddenly for a moment.  

Hypnic jerks are one form of involuntary muscle twitches called myoclonus. Such movements do occur in healthy people. They have been associated with causes such as irregular sleep patterns or stress. Certain substances such as caffeine may also cause them.

[[Mads Mikkelsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Actors who played Bond villains, Danish movie actors, Danish television actors, People from Copenhagen, Voice actors

Mads Dittmann Mikkelsen (born 22 November 1965) is a Danish actor. He is best known for his roles in the movies King Arthur (2004), Casino Royale (2006), Coco Chanel & Igor Stravinsky (2009), The Hunt (2012) and Doctor Strange and Rogue One (both 2016). He also played Hannibal Lecter in the NBC television series Hannibal (2013–15).

Mikkelsen was born in Østerbro, Copenhagen. His older brother, Lars, is also an actor. He married Hanne Jacobsen in 2000. The couple have two children.

[[Jiang Wen]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Chinese television actors, Chinese movie directors, Chinese screenwriters, Chinese movie actors

Jiang Wen (born 5 January 1963) is a Chinese movie actor, screenwriter and director. He directed and starred in the movies In the Heat of the Sun (1994), Devils on the Doorstep (2000), Let the Bullets Fly (2010) and Gone with the Bullets (2014). He also directed a segment of the movie New York, I Love You (2008). In 2016, he starred as Baze Malbus in the Star Wars anthology movie Rogue One.

Jiang was born in Tangshan, Hebei. He moved to Beijing when he was ten. He has been married twice and has three children.

[[Dick Latessa]]

CATEGORIES: Tony Award winning actors, Drama Desk Award winners, 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, Actors from New York City

Richard Robert "Dick" Latessa (September 15, 1929 – December 19, 2016) was an American stage, movie, and television actor. He was born in Cleveland, Ohio. He was known for his stage role as Wilbur in the musical Hairspray. In 2003, he won a Tony Award and Drama Desk Award in 2003.

Latessa died of heart failure in Manhattan, New York City, New York on December 19, 2016, aged 87.

[[Sharpeville massacre]]

CATEGORIES: Apartheid-related violence, 20th century in South Africa

The Sharpeville massacre was when a crowd of between 5,000–7,000 black people protested at the police station in Sharpeville, South Africa on March 21, 1960. The police started shooting into the crowd. A total of 69 people were killed including 8 women and 10 children, and 180 people were injured, including 31 women and 19 children. In South Africa today, this day is a public holiday in honor of human rights.

The demonstration was to protest against pass laws. The crowd went to the police station demanding to be arrested for not carrying their passes. At some point the South African Police started shooting. People have different explanations to what the crowd was doing. Some say that the crowd was peaceful. Others say that the crowd were throwing stones at the police. The shooting started when the crowd started going toward the fence around the police station. Some say this was what led Nelson Mandela to engaging in more violent protests.

[[Tullio De Mauro]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Italian politicians, Italian writers, Linguists

Tullio De Mauro (31 March 1932 – 5 January 2017) was an Italian linguist and politician. He was the Italian Minister of Education from 2000 to 2001, under Prime Minister Giuliano Amato (2nd government). He was also a professor of general linguistics at the Faculty of Humanities of the University of Rome. He was born in Torre Annunziata, Campania.

De Mauro died on 5 January 2017 in Rome at the age of 84.

[[Kafr Bara]]

CATEGORIES: Local government in Israel, Settlements in Israel, Villages in Asia

Kafr Bara is an Israeli-Arab local council in Israel's Central District, Kafr Bara is a village located in the southern triangle area near Jaljulia under 2,400 square-dunum area of influence.

[[Snowy owl]]

CATEGORIES: Strigiformes

The snowy owl (Bubo scandiacus) is an owl native to the Arctic regions of North America and Eurasia. They hunt rodents.  

Lemmings are a favourite prey. 

The male's mating call sounds like krek-krek, while the female's mating call sounds like pyee-pyee or prek-prek.

In the novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (USA edition: Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone), Harry is assigned a female snowy owl as his animal companion. Her name is Hedwig.

[[Poyang Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of China

Poyang Lake is the largest freshwater lake in China. It is in the Jiangxi Province. Poyang is fed by the Gan, Xin, and Xiu rivers. They connect to the Yangtze through a channel.

Lake Poyang has always shrunk in the dry season and expanded in the wet season. It reached its greatest size during the Tang Dynasty, when its area reached 6000. It is now around 3210. Lake Pohang became much smaller because of the Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River.

[[Nanuqsaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Tyrannosaurids

Nanuqsaurus ('meaning polar bear lizard') is a genus of  theropod dinosaur. It is only known from one specimen, DMNH 21461, a partial skull roof found in Alaska. This dinosaur may grown to about 6 m (~20 ft) long, half the size of Tyrannosaurus.

The skull would have been about 50 cm (1.65 ft) when complete.

[[Madoc (poem)]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

Madoc is a long poem by Robert Southey. The author is famous as the third of the Lake Poets. Madoc is an epic poem. It was first published in 1805. The poet worked on the poem for ten years. It tells about legendary Welsh prince Madog, ab Owain Gwynedd. He lived in 12th century. According to the legend, he explored America long before Christopher Columbus. The poem is divided into two parts. The first is named Madoc in Wales while the second Madoc in Aztlan.  The poem is written in Blank verse that is in unrhymed iambic pentameter.

Fair blows the wind, the vessel drives along,

Her streamers fluttering at their length, her sails

All full, she drives along, and round her prow

Scatters the ocean spray. What feelings then

Filled every bosom, when the mariners,

After the peril of that weary way,

Beheld their own dear country ! Here stands one,

Stretching his sight toward the distant shore,

And, as to well known forms his busy joy

Shapes the dim outline, eagerly he points

The fancied headland and the cape and bay,

Till his eyes ache, o'erstraining.

The poem was reviewed in The Poetical Register, and Repository of Fugitive Poetry.

Irish poet Paul Muldoon named his book Madoc: A Mystery (1990) after Robert Southey's poem.

[[Arrondissements of the Bouches-du-Rhône department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

There are 4 arrondissements in the Bouches-du-Rhône department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Bouches-du-Rhône are:

[[Arrondissement of Aix-en-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The arrondissement of Aix-en-Provence is an arrondissement of France, in the Bouches-du-Rhône department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Aix-en-Provence.

[[Arrondissement of Arles]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The arrondissement of Arles is an arrondissement of France, in the Bouches-du-Rhône department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Arles.

[[Arrondissement of Istres]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The arrondissement of Istres is an arrondissement of France, in the Bouches-du-Rhône department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Istres.

[[Nata de coco]]

CATEGORIES: Foods

Nata de coco (also called coconut gel) is a chewy, translucent, jelly-like food produced by the fermentation of coconut water, which gels through the production of microbial cellulose by Acetobacter xylinum. Originating in the Philippines, nata de coco is most commonly sweetened as a candy or dessert, and can accompany a variety of foods, including pickles, drinks, ice cream, puddings, and fruit mixes.

[[Arrondissement of Marseille]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The arrondissement of Marseille is an arrondissement of France, in the Bouches-du-Rhône department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital, and the prefecture of the department, is the city of Marseille.

[[Carl Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: Video game characters

Carl "CJ" Johnson is the main playable character of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. The game's main storyline begins with Carl returning to Los Santos following the tragic demise of his mother.

CJ is a member of the Grove Street Families, a street gang located in Los Santos.

Prior to events in San Andreas, CJ causes the accidental death of his brother. Eventually he decides to leave his gang life behind by moving to Liberty City, where he commences to work with Joey Leone in the car theft business.

He is voiced by rapper Young Maylay.

[[Nisha Ayub]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights activists

Nisha Ayub is a transgender rights activist from Malaysia.  She started the the SEED Foundation to help transgender people and Justice for Sisters for legal help.    In 2016, she received the International Women of Courage Award.

When Nisha was 21 years old, she was sentenced to prison under Sharia law (Islamic law) for wearing women's clothing.   When she got out of prison, she started working for the rights of transgender people in Malaysia. 

[[Justice for Sisters]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights organizations in Asia

Justice for Sisters is a non-profit organization that works for rights for transgender people in Malaysia. Nisha Ayub started the organization.  The organization tries to repeal Malaysia's transgender laws. 

In 2014, Justice for Sisters went to court against the Sharia law.  The Court of Appeals agreed with the organization, and said the law was discriminatory and unconstitutional.  In 2015, the Federal Court reversed the court of Appeals.

[[Jeremy Stone]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Cancer deaths in California, American activists, Writers from New York City

Jeremy J. Stone (November 23, 1935 – January 1, 2017) was an American nuclear arms-control activist. He served as president of the Federation of American Scientists from 1970 to 2000. It led initiatives in arms control, human rights, and foreign policy. He retied inn 2000. Stone continued his work at a new organization called Catalytic Diplomacy.

Stone was born in New York City, New York. He studied at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and at Swarthmore College. Stone died in Carlsbad, California on January 1, 2017 from complications of prostate cancer, aged 81.

[[Willie Evans]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, American football players, Sportspeople from Buffalo, New York

Willie R. Evans (December 1, 1937 – January 4, 2017) was an American football player. He was the running back for the University at Buffalo football team in the late 1950s. He was born in Buffalo, New York.  After his football career, Evans taught in Buffalo area schools for more than 30 years.

Evans died on January 4, 2017 in Buffalo, New York, aged 79.

[[Jordi Pagans i Monsalvatje]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Spanish painters, People from Barcelona

Jordi Pagans i Monsalvatje (18 April 1932 – 4 January 2017) was a Spanish painter. He was born in Barcelona, Spain. He was known for his traditional figurative and realistic paintings and drawings of the landscape of Cadaqués and Barcelona. His career began in 1948. He retired in 2014.

Pagans died in Barcelona, Spain from congestive heart failure on 4 January 2017, aged 84.

[[Christopher Weeramantry]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Sri Lankan lawyers, Judges, People from Colombo

Christopher Gregory Weeramantry, AM (November 17, 1926 – January 5, 2017) was a Sri Lankan lawyer. He was a Judge of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) from 1991 to 2000. He was the ICJ's Vice-President from 1997 to 2000. 

Weeramantry was born in Colombo, Sri Lanka. He studied at Royal College Colombo, at King's College London, and at the University of Ceylon.

Weeramantry was a Judge of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka from 1967 to 1972. He was also an Emeritus Professor at Monash University and the President of the International Association of Lawyers against Nuclear Arms.

Weeramantry died in Colombo, Sri Lanka of natural causes on January 5, 2017, aged 90.

[[Om Puri]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian movie actors, Indian television actors, Haryana, Honorary Officers of the Order of the British Empire

Om Prakesh Puri GBR (18 October 1950 – 6 January 2017) was an Indian actor. He has appeared in mainstream commercial Pakistani, Indian, British, and Hollywood movies. He was also in independent and art movies. 

Puri was known for his roles in Gandhi (1982), Ardh Satya (1983), City of Joy (1992), Wolf (1994), East Is East (1999) and in The Hundred-Foot Journey (2014). His career began in 1972. He also narrated the widely known Indian nature documentary Bharat Ek Khoj (1988).

He has been awarded Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award of India. He won two National Film Awards in 1981 and in 1983. He was nominated for a BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role in 1999 for his role as George Khan in East Is East. 

Puri was born in Ambala, Haryana, India. He studied at the Film and Television Institute of India and in the National School of Drama. He was married to Nandita Puri from 1993 until they divorced in 2013. 

Puri died in his sleep of a heart attack at his home in Andheri, Mumbai, India on 6 January 2017, aged 66.

[[Jill Saward]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, English activists, Crime victims, English politicians, Writers from Liverpool

Jill Saward (14 January 1965 – 5 January 2017) was an English campaigner on issues relating to sexual violence. She was born in Liverpool. Saward was the victim of the 1986 Ealing vicarage rape, a crime whose sentencing scandalized the UK and led indirectly to changes in the law.

In 2009, she campaigned against a European Court of Justice ruling that DNA of people cleared of crimes must be deleted from the DNA Database after six years, or 12 years for serious crimes.

Saward stood against David Davis in the 2008 Haltemprice and Howden by-election in 2008. She lost the election after winning only 2.1% of the votes.

Saward died on 5 January 2017 in Wolverhampton from a cerebral hemorrhage, aged 51.

[[Penelope Wilton]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Actors from Yorkshire, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Knights and Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire, People from North Yorkshire

Dame Penelope Alice Wilton DBE (born 3 June 1946) is a British actress. On television, she is best known for her roles in Ever Decreasing Circles (1984–1989) and Downton Abbey. She appeared in the TV film Half Broken Things in 2007. She also played the recurring role of Harriet Jones in Doctor Who (2005–08).

Wilton's movie appearances include Clockwise (1986), Cry Freedom (1987), Shaun of the Dead (2004), Match Point (2005), Pride & Prejudice (2005), The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel (2011) and The BFG (2016).

Wilton was born in Scarborough, North Yorkshire, England. She has been married twice. She has a daughter, Alice (born 1977), with actor Daniel Massey.

[[Mighty Magiswords (International TV Series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 American television series debuts, 2010 American television series endings, English-language television programs

Mighty Magiswords is a French-German-Italian animation series produced by Alphanim and Nickelodeon Productions, and distributed by Nelvana, Discovery Kids and Globosat.

The series deals with the two light warriors, Prohyas and Vambre, with their dragon pet Gulp, go on adventures with their magiswords and the powerful imagination of the twins who was carefree and stayed with him. With Gulp, an anthropomorphic dragon that is the pet of Prohyas and Vambre.

In May 2005, the series was first broadcast in Jetix Germany and Nickelodeon Germany on the German worlds, and then was devoted to another in Jetix France, Jetix Italy, Nickelodeon Italy and Nickelodeon France.

In July 2006, the series was broadcast on Nickelodeon Latin America until 2009. In 2007, it was aired on Jetix Latin America through 2008 through the Jetix Original series. The series introduces the producer before inviting Jetix Animation Concepts, a 2006-2009 company that was produced by Yin Yang Yo, Get Ed and Super Robot Monkey Team Hyperforce Go.

During episodes, the series has three seasons and episodes with five episodes each season.

'Robin's Tales'  was the end of an hour of the series issued on May 1, 2009, and its sequel  Robin's Halloween Debuts '' was the other end of an hour of the series was issued on 4 September 2010. His two last episodes are characterized first, Steven and the Titans with the Army Robin has discovered stealing his evil man, and in the second and final adventure continues with a special Halloween during the October season , Everyone has halloween, and then Steven and Connie love and have to leave the adventures through the final door during the Halloween extremes.

During the last five years, to his farewell messages

 Powerful Magistrates, 2005-2010 

After five years, Alphanim canceled new seasons and new five episodes during the total of 5x5 episodes. When Jetix replaced by Disney XD, Disney XD eliminated the series, and Disney XD was emitted the series currently in Europe.

[[Decoration of Honour for Services to the Republic of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: Austria, Orders, decorations, and medals, 1952 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Austria

The Decoration of Honour for Services to the Republic of Austria is a national honour awarded by the Republic of Austria. It is a visible honour. It is also called the Order of Merit of the Austrian Republic.

The Order has 15 levels. It is Austria's highest honour.

[[Mint (money)]]

CATEGORIES: Money, Manufacturing, Coins

A mint is an industrial facility which makes coins that can be used in currency.

In coin collecting, the term "mint condition" means the coin has never been used ("in circulation"), just like it came out of the mint where it was made.

The earliest metallic money did not consist of coins, but of unminted metal in the form of rings and other ornaments or of weapons. These were used for thousands of years by the Egyptian, Chaldean and Assyrian empires.

The first mint was perhaps in Lydia in the 7th century BC, for coining gold, silver and electrum. The Lydian innovation spread to neighboring Greece, where several city-states operated their own mints. Some of the earliest Greek mints were in city-states on Greek islands such as Crete. A mint existed at the ancient city of Cydonia on Crete at least as early as the fifth century BC.

[[Vlissingen]]

CATEGORIES: Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Cities in the Netherlands, Settlements in Zeeland, Municipalities of Zeeland

Vlissingen, Zeelandic: Vlissienge, English: Flushing, is a city, municipality and seaport in the province of Zeeland, the Netherlands.

The city has about 33,000 people. The municipality has about 44,000 (2016). It has been an important harbor for centuries. Most of the Royal Netherlands Navy ships are built in Vlissingen.

[[BOAC Flight 911]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters in Asia, 1966, 1960s in Japan

British Overseas Airways Corporation Flight 911, was a Boeing 707 that was flying from San Francisco to Hong Kong, with stopovers at, Honolulu, Fukuoka, and Tokyo. On the 5th of March, 1966 the aircraft broke up in mid-air and crashed into Mount Fuji due to faulty maintenance to the vertical stabiliser. All 113 passengers and 11 crew members on board the plane were killed, in the 6th worst aviation accident on Japanese soil.

[[Jerusalem Delivered]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

Jerusalem Delivered (La Gerusalemme liberata la dʒeruzaˈlɛmme libeˈraːta) is an epic poem by the Italian poet Torquato Tasso, first published in 1581. It tells a largely fictional version of the First Crusade in which Christian knights, led by Godfrey of Bouillon, battle Muslims in order to take Jerusalem. The poem is composed of eight-line stanzas grouped into 20 cantos of varying length.

The work belongs to the Italian Renaissance tradition of the romantic epic poem. The poet frequently borrows plot elements and character types directly from Orlando furioso ("The Frenzy of Roland"), written in 1516 by Ludovico Aristo (1474-1533). Tasso's poem also has elements inspired by the classical epics of Homer and Virgil, especially in those sections of their works that tell of sieges and warfare. One of the most typical literary devices in Tasso's poem is the emotional conflict suffered by characters torn between their heart and their duty; the depiction of love at odds with martial courage or honor is a central source of lyrical passion in the poem.

[[Bermuda rig]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing, ships

A Bermuda rig, also called a Marconi rig, is a fore-and-aft rig that uses a triangular mainsail. The sail is usually attached to a boom at its foot. It has a number of variations. Due to the physics of the wind, the tall thin sails of the Bermudian rigs have more power sailing into the wind than other types. This is why it is such a popular rig with modern sailboats. It was called a Marconi rig after the inventor Guglielmo Marconi because its system of mast stays that looked like the early wireless masts. However, the name Bermuda rig was in use two centuries earlier. It came from the late 1600s when European sailors noticed how well the small sloops in Bermuda worked.

[[Agricultural fencing]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Agricultural fencing is a type of fence that is often used in agriculture. Fencing is often used to help control livestock on farms. The fence can make sure they do not leave the farm. On farms that grow produce, fencing can be used to keep out wildlife that may eat or damage the crops.

[[Robotics]]

CATEGORIES: Robots

Robotics is a part of engineering and science. It is the work of creating and building robots. It is interdisciplinary, involving people who have studied mechanical engineering, electrical engineering or computer programming. It also needs people who understand the work of the robot. As an example, geologists need to be involved in making a robot that will take soil samples on another planet.

Robots are sometimes used to do things that humans cannot, like finding and destroying bombs, or going places that are too hot, small, dangerous or distant for humans. Some robots look like humans, but most just look like machines. Some robots can move by themselves, others need to be partly or completely controlled by a human.

Robotics comes from the word robot, which in turn comes from the Slavic word robota. Robota means labor, or work. Karel Čapek invented the word robot to use in a play.  This play was called R.U.R. (Rossum's Universal Robots). The word robotics was first used by Isaac Asimov in his story "Liar!" published in 1941.

[[Outsourcing]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Outsourcing is a term from economics: Sometimes a company decides to change its structure, in such a way, that it no longer performs certain tasks which are not its core business. Instead, the company hires or collaborates with other companies which can then perform these functions.

Any business or company can hand over a part of their process or specific services to be handled by a third party. According to The Deloitte Global Outsourcing Survey 2018, among the industries that refer to outsourcing are technology and media, financial services, consumer and energy, followed by government and public services and life sciences and healthcare.

Among the industries that generate the most revenue are information technology outsourcing and business processes, that includes financial outsourcing and consumer. 

Global outsourcing industry revenue from 2010 to 2018, by service type 

(in billion U.S. dollars)

[[Time in Armenia]]

CATEGORIES: Time by country, Armenia

Armenia Time (AMT) is the standard time that is used in Armenia. It is 4 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC+4). During its DST period, it used Armenia Summer Time (AMST) which was 5 hours ahead of UTC (UTC+5). The time zone was discounted in 2012.

[[SilkAir Flight 185]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters in the 1990s, December events, 1997 in Asia

On December 19, 1997 a SilkAir Boeing 737-300 operated as SilkAir Flight 185 was a flight from Jakarta to Singapore with 97 passengers and 7 crew members on-board, which crashed into the Musi River for unknown reasons killing all 104 people on-board.

The cause of the crash remains disputed for the National Transportation Safety Committee, but the National Transportation Safety Board concludes the crash as a pilot suicide by the captain. But the Los Angeles Court thinks that the cause of the crash was a rudder malfunction.

[[James Adomian]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American radio actors, American comedians, American television personalities, American radio personalities, American television presenters, Actors from Omaha, Nebraska, Writers from Omaha, Nebraska

James Adomian (born January 31, 1980) is an American stand-up comedian, writer and actor.

[[Grass jelly]]

CATEGORIES: Desserts

Grass jelly, or leaf jelly, is a jelly-like dessert eaten in Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Southeast Asia and Taiwan. It is made using the Platostoma palustre plant (a member of the mint family). It has a mild, slightly bitter taste. It is served chilled, with other toppings such as fruit, or in bubble tea or other drinks. Outside of Asia, it is sold in Asian supermarkets.

[[Sago]]

CATEGORIES: Carbohydrates, Food ingredients

Sago ' is a starch that comes from the spongy centre of tropical palm stems. In many cases, it comes from Metroxylon sagu. It is a major staple food for many people living in New Guinea and the Moluccas. It is called saksak, rabia, and sagu in those areas. 

The largest suppliers are usually in Southeast Asia, particularly Indonesia and Malaysia. Big quantities of sago are often sent to Europe and North America for cooking purposes. 

[[Tapioca]]

CATEGORIES: Carbohydrates, Food ingredients

Tapioca (tapiˈɔkɐ) is a starch extracted from cassava root (Manihot esculenta). This species is native to the North Region of Brazil, but spread throughout the South American continent. The plant was carried by Portuguese and Spanish explorers to most of the West Indies, and continents of Africa and Asia, including the Philippines and Taiwan. It is now cultivated worldwide.

[[Konjac]]

CATEGORIES: Araceae, Plants of Asia

Konjac (lang KOHN; Amorphophallus konjac; syn. A. rivieri; Japanese: 蒟蒻/菎蒻; こんにゃく; konnyaku; 곤약; gonyak; 蒟蒻), also known as konjak, konjaku, konnyaku potato, devil's tongue, voodoo lily, snake palm, or elephant yam (though this name is also used for A. paeoniifolius), is a plant of the genus Amorphophallus. 

[[Iveta Mukuchyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people

Iveta Mukuchyan (Իվետա Մուկուչյան) is an Armenian-German singer-songwriter, model and actress. She was born in Yerevan, Armenia. She moved to Hamburg, Germany in 1992. In 2009, Mukuchyan returned to Armenia. She competed in the Hay Superstar content where she finished fifth. In 2010, Mukuchyan received the "Discovery of the Year" award at the Armenia Awards in Moscow, Russia. In 2012, she took part in the The Voice of Germany. She was also named as "Sexiest Armenian".

In May 2016, Mukuchyan represented her country at the Eurovision Song Contest 2016. She sang the song "LoveWave" and finished in the top 10. In the same year, she was also in the cast of the movie Run Away Or Get Married.

[[Leg-of-mutton sail]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing

A leg-of-mutton sail (LOM) is a simple triangular sail set on a long spar mounted horizontally on the mast. It runs in a fore-and-aft direction. The leg-of-mutton uses a spar mounted high instead of a boom. This gives the helmsman more visibility and there is no boom hit his or her head on. It is a favorite type of sail for small boats. These include puddle ducks and canoes. A LOM is very similar to a spritsail. But instead of being square or having four corners, the LOM has three. Instead of the spar being mounted diagonally, as with the spritsail, it is mounted horizontally.

[[Medical laboratory]]

CATEGORIES: Health care

A medical laboratory or  clinical laboratory is a laboratory where tests are usually done on laboratory specimens. This is to get information about the health of a patient. Labs perform tests on tissue, blood and other body fluids. Medical labs analyze data in five major categories. These are chemistry, immunology, hematology, microbiology and transfusion medicine.

[[Central Africa Time]]

CATEGORIES: Time zones, Africa

Central Africa Time (CAT) also known as South Africa Standard Time (SAST) in South Africa, is a time zone in Africa that is 2 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC+2). It is the same time as Eastern European Time (EET) during winter, and Central European Summer Time (CEST) during summer. This time zone does not observe daylight saving time, because it is near the equator.

This time zone is used in:

[[Lelio Lagorio]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Italian politicians, People from Trieste, Socialist politicians

Lelio Lagorio (9 November 1925 – 7 January 2017) was an Italian politician. He was a member of the Italian Socialist Party (Partito Socialista Italiano, PSI). He served as the first President of Tuscany from 1970 until 1978. Before that, he was mayor of Florence from 1964 to 1965. He was born in Trieste.

Lagorio died on 7 January 2017 in Florence. He was 91.

[[Buckingham Canal]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District

The Buckingham Canal is a 796 canal in India. It runs from Kakinada city in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh to cuddalore district of Tamil Nadu. It is a freshwater navigational canal. It runs parallel to the Coromandel Coast. The canal connects natural backwater areas along the coast to the Chennai port. 

Buckingham Canal was built by the British during their rule in India. It was first constructed in 1806 from Chennai North to present Ennore. Later it was extended up to the Pulicat Lake, about 40 north of Chennai. In 1837 it was extended about 316 from north of Chennai to Vijayawada and 219.8 south of Chennai to Parangipettai.

[[Kosasthalaiyar River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Tamil Nadu

The Kosasthalaiyar River is one of the three rivers flowing in the Chennai Metropolitan area. It is a 136 long river that starts near Pallipattu, Thiruvallur District. Its northern tributary, the Nagari River, starts in Chitoor district, Andhra Pradesh. It joins the main river in the Poondi Resorvoir. It pass over the pulicat lake

Kosasthalaiyar River catchment area spreads in Vellore, Chitoor, North Arcot, Thiruvallur and Chennai districts. The discharge capacity of the river is 110000m3/sec. The flood discharge capacity is about 125000m3/sec.

[[Vattaparai Falls]]

CATEGORIES: Waterfalls, Bodies of water of Asia, Geography of India, Kanyakumari district

Vattaparai Falls is a waterfall in the district of Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu. It is 40 high. It is in the forest region of Keeriparai, which is also known as Keerparai reserve forest near Bhoodhapandi village on the Pazhayar River.

There is a Kali temple near the waterfalls. But this has been in a underdeveloped area, only a single tea shop can be seen near.This stream is pollution free and people were allowed to bathe here.

[[Agaya Gangai]]

CATEGORIES: Waterfalls, Bodies of water of Asia, Geography of India, Namakkal district

Agaya Gangai is a waterfall in Tamil Nadu. It is in the Kolli Hills of the Eastern Ghats. The name means that the waterfall is "The Ganges of the Sky". 

Agaya Gangai Waterfall starts near the Arapalleswarar Temple in Namakkal district of Tamil Nadu. The 300ft waterfall joins Aiyaru river. It is in a valley that is surrounded by mountains on all sides. 

The caves of Korakka Siddhar and Kalaanginatha Siddhar are in the nearby forest.

[[Tilikum (orca)]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2017 deaths, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, Cetaceans, Individual animals

Tilikum (November 1981 – January 6, 2017), nicknamed Tilly, was an orca, or killer whale. He was notable for his role in the deaths of three humans, including two trainers. The first death, in 1991, was a trainer at the Sealand of the Pacific in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada. In 1992, he was moved to SeaWorld in Orlando, Florida, United States. In 1999, Tilikum killed a trespasser in his inclosure. In 2010, Tilikum killed trainer Dawn Brancheau. This would lead to the documentary movie Blackfish being based on Tilikum.

Born in 1981, Tilikum was captured in 1983 at Hafnarfjörður, near Reykjavík, Iceland.

Tilikum died on January 6, 2017 at SeaWorld Orlando of a bacterial infection, aged 35.

[[James Mancham]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Presidents of Seychelles, Prime Ministers of Seychelles, Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire

Sir James Richard Marie Mancham KBE (11 August 1939 – 8 January 2017) was a Seychellois politician. He was the first President of Seychelles from 1976 to 1977. He was born in Victoria. He was also Prime Minister of Seychelles from 1975 to 1976.

Mancham died from a possible stroke on 8 January 2017 at his home in Glacis. He was 77.

[[Nat Hentoff]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Critics, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts

Nathan Irving "Nat" Hentoff (June 10, 1925 – January 7, 2017) was an American historian, novelist, jazz and country music critic, and syndicated columnist for United Media. 

[[Shameless (U.S. TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 American television series debuts, American comedy-drama television series, Television series set in Chicago, Illinois, English-language television programs

Shameless is an American comedy-drama television series which airs on Showtime. This remake of the British series is set in Chicago, although filmed in Los Angeles, with the exterior scenes shot in Chicago.

The series is about a dysfunctional family of an alcoholic named Frank Gallagher. He is a single father of six children. While he spends his days drunk or in search of misadventures, his kids learn to take care of themselves. His older daughter, Fiona, took responsibilities as a parent and raised her five siblings.

It stars William H. Macy as Frank Gallagher and Emmy Rossum as Fiona Gallagher. It also stars Joan Cusack who plays Sheila Jackson, a woman who loves Frank and is obsessive. Justin Chatwin, Jeremy Allen White, Cameron Monaghan, Emma Kenney, Ethan Cutkosky, Steve Howey and Shanola Hampton are also in the show.

It first aired on January 9, 2011. It has been nominated for many awards such as Emmy Awards, Screen Actors Guild Awards and Golden Globe Awards.

[[Jerzy Kossela]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Polish musicians, Guitarists

Jerzy Kossela (né Kosela; 15 July 1942 – 7 January 2017) was a Polish guitarist and vocalist. He was born in Częstochowa, Poland. Kossela was the founding member of the bands Electron, Niebiekso-Czarni, Pięciolinie and Czerwone Gitary.

Kossela died on 7 January 2017 in Gdynia, aged 74.

[[Lech Trzeciakowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Polish historians, People from Poznań, Polish writers

Lech Trzeciakowski (24 December 1931 – 7 January 2017) was a Polish historian. He was born in Poznań, Poland. Trzeciakowski served as director of the Western Institute (Instytut Zachodni) in Poznań from 1974 to 1978.

Trzeciakowski died on January 7 2017 in Poznań of cancer, aged 86.

[[Ricardo Piglia]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Argentine writers

Ricardo Piglia (November 24, 1941 – January 6, 2017) was an Argentine one of the most famous contemporary writers in Argentina. He was born in Adrogué and raised in Mar del Plata. He was known for his fiction books Artificial Respiration (1980), The Absent City (1992), Burnt Money (1997); and criticism including Criticism and Fiction (1986), Brief Forms (1999) and The Last Reader (2005).

Piglia died at 75 on January 6, 2017 in Buenos Aires, Argentina after suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis for three years.

[[Francine York]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in California, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Minnesota

Francine York (born Francine Yerich; August 26, 1936 – January 6, 2017) was an American movie and television actress. She was born in Aurora, Minnesota. Her career began in 1961. She was known for her role as Lydia Limpet in Batman and appeared on Death Valley Days with Ronald Reagan. She retired in 2014.

York died in Van Nuys, California on January 6, 2017 from cancer, aged 80.

[[Tom Harpur]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Anglican priests, Canadian Christians, Canadian journalists, Canadian radio personalities, Canadian television presenters, Christian theologians, Columnists, Writers from Toronto

The Reverend Thomas William "Tom" Harpur (April 24, 1929 – January 2, 2017) was a Canadian author, broadcaster, journalist, columnist and theologian. He was an ordained Anglican priest. 

He was a known figure of the Christ myth theory. He believed in the idea that Jesus did not exist but is a fictional or mythological figure. He was the author of a number of books, including For Christ's Sake (1993), Life after Death (1996), and The Pagan Christ (2004).

[[Géori Boué]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2017 deaths, French singers, People from Toulouse

Georgette "Géori" Boué (16 October 1918 – 5 January 2017) was a French soprano. She worked with the French repertory theater areas. She was known especially for her work in Thais. She was born in Toulouse. Her career began in 1939. She retired in 1970.

Boué died in Paris on 5 January 2017 at the age of 98.

[[Paul Goble]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Writers from Surrey

Paul Goble (27 September 1933 – 5 January 2017) was an English writer and illustrator of children's books. He especially wrote about Native American stories. His book The Girl Who Loved Wild Horses won a Caldecott Medal in 1979.

Goble died from Parkinson's disease on 5 January 2017, aged 83.

[[Brinicle]]

CATEGORIES: Oceans

A brinicle is a column of ice that forms in seawater. The name is a combination of the words "brine", which means saltwater, and "icicle". A brinicle starts forming from the top of the water down. A brinicle freezes everything in its way as it forms. It can reach the bottom of the ocean, where it can also form ice on the seabed. It is dangerous to sea stars and sea urchins living on the bottom of the ocean. They move too slowly to get out of the way. They are very rare and only occur in places where it is very cold, such as Antarctica. 

[[Angelo Sodano]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Italian Roman Catholics, People from Piedmont, Roman Catholic bishops

Angelo Raffaele Sodano (born 23 November 1927) is an Italian Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. He was Dean of the College of Cardinals from 2005 to 2019. He was born in Isola d'Asti, Piedmont.

He was Cardinal Secretary of State from 1991 to 2006, under both popes John Paul II and Benedict XVI. On 27 April 2005, he was elected to succeed Benedict XVI as Dean of the College of Cardinals by his fellow Cardinal Bishops. Sodano was the first person since 1828 to serve as Dean and Secretary of State at the same time.

On 22 June 2006, Benedict XVI accepted Sodano's resignation as Secretary of State on 15 September 2006. He was replaced by Tarcisio Bertone, then Archbishop of Genoa.

On 21 December 2019, the Legion of Christ discovered that Sodano was the one who led efforts to cover up the reports of abuse when he was serving as Secretariat of State. Sodano was accused of seeking a deal to bury documents detailing abuse. The same day, Pope Francis accepted Sodano's resignation as Dean of the College of Cardinals. 

[[Spartak Belyaev]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Russian physicists, People from Moscow

Spartak Belyaev (October 27, 1923 – January 5, 2017) was Russian theoretical physicist. He was born in Moscow. Belyaev was awarded a Lomonosov Gold Medal.

He was elected as a head of Russian Academy of Sciences and also held the same position at the Budker Institute of Nuclear Physics. For his breakthroughs and research in physics he was awarded Feenberg medal in 2004. On May 17, 2011 he and Gerard 't Hooft were awarded a Lomonosov Gold Medal by the Russian Academy of Sciences.

Belyaev died on January 5, 2017 in Moscow, Russia, aged 93.

[[Cedarosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropods, Dinosaurs of North America

Cedarosaurus is a genus of sauropod dinosaur from the Lower Cretaceous epoch. It was a herbivore of unknown size. Cedarosaurus was named for the Cedar Mountain Formation in eastern Utah, USA. It was a brachiosaurid sauropod that ate tall vegetation from the tree canopy. The skeleton was found in the Cedar Mountains the late 1990s by a team of paleontologists from the Denver Museum of Nature and Science. The skeleton was missing the neck, head and other parts.

[[Saurexallopus]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils

Saurexallopus (Pronunciation: Saw-ex-allo-pu) is an ichnogenus, which is a trace fossil of a footprint. What made the footprint is unknown although possibly it was by a bird.

[[Dijon FCO]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s establishments in France, 1998 establishments in Europe, French football clubs, Dijon

Dijon Football Côte-d'Or is a football club which plays in France.

[[Otto Wichterle]]

CATEGORIES: Czech people, Chemists

[[Quentin Matsys]]

CATEGORIES: 1460s births, 1530 deaths, Dutch painters

Quentin Matsys (other spellings: Massijs, Matsijs, Metsys for the last name; Quinten or Kwinten for the given name) was a Dutch painter. He was born around 1466 in Leuven. He died in 1530 in Antwerp.

[[Peoria, Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Arizona, 1954 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Arizona

Peoria is a city in Maricopa and Yavapai counties in the US state of Arizona. Most of the city is in Maricopa County. The northern part is in Yapavai County. It is a major suburb of Phoenix. It was named for Peoria, Illinois because that is where many of the early settlers came from.

In the 2010 United States Census, 154,065 people lived in the city. Peoria is the ninth largest city in Arizona. Peoria has a Mayor–council government; a mayor and six councilmen who are all elected.

[[Waterbed]]

CATEGORIES: Furniture

A waterbed is a bed or mattress filled with water. Waterbeds intended for medical therapy date back to the 19th century. The modern waterbed was invented San Francisco in the late 1960s by Charlie Hall. It was patented in 1971. It became a very popular in the United States in the 1980s and 1990s.

Waterbeds are made of two types: hard-sided and soft-sided.

[[2017 Fort Lauderdale airport shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 mass shootings in the United States, 2017 murders in the United States, 2010s in Florida, Attacks on buildings and structures in the United States, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, January 2017 events, Mass murder in 2017, Mass murder in Florida, Massacres in the United States, Murders by firearm in Florida

The 2017 Fort Lauderdale airport shooting was an attack in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, United States. It took place at the Fort Lauderdale—Hollywood International Airport on January 6, 2017.

At 12:55 pm Eastern Standard Time, a man started shooting. The shooting killed five people. Forty two people were injured.

[[Devil (Islam)]]

CATEGORIES: Islam

In Islam, the Devil is known as Iblīs (Arabic: إبليس‎‎), Shayṭān, (Arabic: شيطان‎‎, plural: شياطين shayāṭīn) or Shaitan.

His primary activity is to incite humans to commit evil and lead the wrong path through deception. which is referred to as "whispering into the hearts".

The Quran mentions that satans are the assistants of those who disbelieve in God: "We have made the evil ones friends to those without faith."

Muhammad said that every man has his own Shaitan (Satan). Some Shaitan is attached to bad people and makes them evil. Such gangs of people are called Shayateen.

it actually means that It is a human weakness. Shaitan runs in the blood of human beings.  Muhammad's shaitan became a Muslim,(he said it) it means it can't call him towards evil. Khata (mistake) is not a evil/sin, just mishap. No prophet of God is exempt from Shaitan. These are human weaknesses. Vision of Hadhrat Moses (as) while traveling along the sea coast when the fish got lost. He said Shaitan made him forget it.

There is other Shaitan who calls towards evil thing. Other Shaitan doesn't call towards sins but it causes human errors. No human is exempt from it.

It was a word used in olden times for 'evil mind' of a human.

[[Punica]]

CATEGORIES: Myrtales

Punica is a small genus of fruit-bearing deciduous shrubs or small trees. It belongs in the family Lythraceae.

[[Unadilla, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Georgia (U.S. state)

Unadilla is a town in Dooly County, Georgia. The population of Unadilla was 3,717 as of 2013.

[[Needed Me]]

CATEGORIES: Rihanna songs

"Needed Me" is a song by Barbadian singer Rihanna.  It is the seventh track from her eighth studio album, Anti.  The song was written by Rihanna, DJ Mustard, Adam Feeney, Brittany Hazzard, Charles Hinshaw, Derrus Rachel, Khaled Rohaim, Lewis Hughes, Nick Audino, and Te Whiti Barbrick, while DJ Mustard produced the song.  It was released as a single in the US on March 26, 2016.  "Needed Me" reached number seven on the Billboard Hot 100.  On the year-end Hot 100 of 2016, the song ranked number 13.  It has been certified four-times Platinum by the RIAA.

[[Mentha arvensis]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae, Plants of Asia

Mentha arvensis – also known as field mint wild mint, or corn mint – is a species of Mentha genera, family Lamiaceae. 

It has circumboreal distribution. It is native to the temperate regions of Europe and western and central Asia. It is also found naturally in North America.

[[John Deely]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Pennsylvania, American philosophers, American educators, Writers from Pennsylvania, Writers from Chicago, People from Latrobe, Pennsylvania, Writers from Houston, Texas

John Deely (April 26, 1942 – January 7, 2017) was an American philosopher and semiotician. He was a Professor of Philosophy at Saint Vincent College and Seminary in Latrobe, Pennsylvania. He was at the Center for Thomistic Studies of the University of St. Thomas in Houston, Texas. He was born in Chicago, Illinois.

Deely died in Latrobe, Pennsylvania on January 7, 2017 from cancer, aged 74.

[[Heinz Billing]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2017 deaths, German centenarians, German computer scientists, German educators, German physicists, German writers, People from Saxony-Anhalt

Heinz Billing (7 April 1914 – 4 January 2017) was a German physicist and computer scientist. He is thought to be a pioneer in the construction of computer systems, computer data storage and built prototype laser interferometric gravitational wave detector. He was award the Konrad Zuse Medal in 1987. 

Billing was born in Salzwedel, Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. He studied at University of Göttingen. During his career, Billing worked at Aerodynamic Test Centre at Göttingen, the Max Planck Institute for Astrophysics, and at the Max Planck Institute for Physics. In 1943, he married Anneliese Oetker. They had three children. He turned 100 in April 2014 

Billing died on 4 January 2017 in Garching bei München, Bavaria, Germany at the age of 102.

[[Robert Lighthizer]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American lawyers, United States Trade Representatives, Politicians from Ohio, US Republican Party politicians

Robert Emmet Lighthizer (born October 11, 1947) is an American lawyer. He was the 18th United States Trade Representative from May 15, 2017 to January 20, 2021.

Lighthizer is a partner with the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, where he works to gain access to foreign markets on behalf of U.S. corporations. In the 1980s, he served as deputy trade representative during President Ronald Reagan's administration.

[[Lois Smith]]

CATEGORIES: Drama Desk Award winners, 1930 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Kansas, People from Topeka, Kansas

Lois Smith (born November 3, 1930) is an American actress. She won a Drama Desk Award in 2006.

She has played supporting roles in movies including East of Eden, Five Easy Pieces, Resurrection, Fatal Attraction, Fried Green Tomatoes, Dead Man Walking, Tumbleweeds, Twister,  and Please Give.  

In television she has performed in series that include  The Americans, True Blood, and Desperate Housewives.

[[Eddie Garcia]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2019 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Filipino actors, Movie directors

Eduardo Verchez García (2 May 1929 – 20 June 2019), popularly  known as Eddie Garcia or Manoy, was a Filipino movie actor and movie director. He appeared in over 600 movies and TV shows as of 2019.

He is also the only person in the Philippines inducted into the FAMAS Hall of Fame in three categories: Best Actor, Best Supporting Actor and Best Director.

On 8 June 2019, Garcia suffered a neck fracture after having a fall and was hospitalised in Manila. He was soon moved to Makati, where he died on 20 June 2019. He was 90.

[[Henry Haller]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2020 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Swiss people, American chefs

Henry Haller (January 10, 1923 – November 7, 2020) was a Swiss-American chef. He served as Executive Chef of the White House from 1966 to 1987. He served under the presidencies of Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan. He retired on October 1, 1987.

Haller was born in Altdorf, Switzerland. He studied as an apprentice at hotels and ski resorts in Bern, Davos and Lucerne. He married Carole Itjem in the 1950s. They had four children. Haller died on November 7, 2020 in Rockville, Maryland at the age of 97.

[[Mixed reality]]

A system that uses mixed reality  combines reality and virtual reality.

[[Greg Jelks]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2017 deaths, African-American baseball players, Australian sportspeople, Philadelphia Phillies players

Gregory Dion "Greg" Jelks (August 16, 1961 – January 5 or 6, 2017) was an American Australian baseball third baseman. He played with the Philadelphia Phillies of the National Basketball League (NBL) in 1987. He later moved to Australia and played for Perth Heat and the national team. He was born in Centre, Alabama.

Jelks died sometime returning to Australia from the United States. His death was confirmed when his plane arrived in Sydney. He was 55.

[[Sex Tape (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 comedy movies, 2010s sex comedy movies, American sex comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about families, Movies about marriage, Movies about suburbia, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies about pornography, Movies directed by Jake Kasdan

Sex Tape is a 2014 American comedy movie.

[[Michael Chamberlain]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, New Zealand writers, Australian writers, Australian educators, New Zealand educators, Deaths from acute myeloid leukemia

Michael Leigh Chamberlain (27 February 1944 – 9 January 2017) was a New Zealand-born Australian writer, teacher and pastor. He was best known due to the August 1980 death of his missing daughter Azaria as the result of a dingo attack while camping near Uluru in the Northern Territory, Australia. 

Chamberlain's then-wife Lindy was falsely convicted of the baby's murder in 1982 and he was convicted of being an accessory after the fact. The findings of a 1987 royal commission made sure that the couple was innocent, but not before they were hated by the public and negatively covered by the media.

Chamberlain died on 9 January 2017 at Gosford Hospital, on the New South Wales central coast, aged 72 from complications of acute myeloid leukemia.

[[Phil Rudd]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, AC/DC, Australian criminals, Australian drummers, Australian rock musicians, Musicians from Melbourne, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees, Rock drummers

Phillip Hugh Norman Witschke Rudzevecuis (born 19 May 1954), better known as Phil Rudd, is an Australian drummer. He is best known for being a member of the hard rock band AC/DC from 1975 to 1983, and again from 1994 to 2015. He lives in Tauranga, New Zealand. In November 2014, he was arrested for many crimes, including threatening to kill, trying to plan a murder and keeping illegal drugs. In July 2015, he was sentenced to eight months home detention.

Rudd was born in Melbourne. He is of a German and Irish background. His stepfather was from Lithuania. He has six children.

[[Urk]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Flevoland, Municipalities of Flevoland, Former municipalities of North Holland, Former municipalities of Overijssel

Urk is a town and municipality in the province of Flevoland, the Netherlands. It has about 20,000 people (2016), and is both a former municipality of North Holland and of Overijssel.

Urk is a former island and well-known for its fishery activities.

[[Dokkum]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Friesland, Noardeast-Fryslân

Dokkum is a city in the province of Friesland, the Netherlands. It is a part of the municipality of Noardeast-Fryslân. It has about 13,000 people (2014).

[[Ulf Dinkelspiel]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Sweden, Government ministers of Sweden, Politicians from Stockholm

Ulf Adolf Roger Dinkelspiel (4 July 1939 – 9 January 2017) was a Swedish politician and financier. He was a member of the Moderate Party. He served as the Minister of European Affairs and Foreign Trade from 1991 to 1994. He was born in Stockholm.

Dinkelspiel died from cancer on 9 January 2017 in Stockholm. He was 77.

[[Winschoten]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Netherlands, Settlements in Groningen (province), Former municipalities of Groningen (province), Oldambt

Winschoten is a small city in the province of Groningen, the Netherlands. Since 2010, it has been a part of the municipality of Oldambt. It has about 18,000 people (2013).

There is a railway station with direct connections to Groningen and Leer (Germany).

[[Zierikzee]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Netherlands, Settlements in Zeeland, Former municipalities of Zeeland, Schouwen-Duiveland

Zierikzee, Zeelandic: Zurrikzeê, is a city in the province of Zeeland, the Netherlands. It is a part of the municipality and island of Schouwen-Duiveland. It has about 11,000 people (2015). 

[[Torgny (village)]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Belgium, Luxembourg (Belgium)

Torgny is a village in the province of Luxembourg, Belgium. It is part of the municipality of Rouvroy. About 200 people live there. 

Torgny is the southernmost settlement in Belgium.

[[Tithe]]

CATEGORIES: Religion

A tithe, means the tenth-part of something, usually income, paid to a religious organization.  A tithe can be seen as a tax, a fee for a service or a voluntary contribution.   Tithing came from the Book of Numbers.  In ancient Israel, the tribes of Levites were the priests. The other tribes gave tithes to the tribes of Levies because they had been given no land in Canaan.  Tithes may be money or crops or other valuable thing.

[[Gouda, Netherlands]]

CATEGORIES: Gouda, Cities in the Netherlands, Settlements in South Holland

Gouda is a town (with city rights) in the province of South Holland, the Netherlands. In 2016 about 71,000 people lived there.

The city is famous for its Gouda cheese and stroopwafels. The city hall was built in the 15th century.

[[Jacob Cats]]

CATEGORIES: 1577 births, 1660 deaths, Dutch jurists, Dutch local politicians, Dutch poets, Dutch provincial politicians, Politicians from Zeeland, Writers from Zeeland

Jacob Cats (10 November 1577 in Brouwershaven - 12 September 1660 in The Hague) was a Dutch poet, jurist and politician. He is most famous for his emblem books. His poems were told like nursery rhymes for many years.

Cats was pensionary of Middelburg and Dordrecht, and grand pensionary of Holland.

[[The Bottom]]

CATEGORIES: Saba, Capital cities in North America

The Bottom is the capital of the Caribbean island of Saba. In 2001, 462 people lived there.

The town was first called De Botte, which is old Dutch for "The Bowl". This is because the town made a bowl shape at the bottom of the mountains.

[[ENAC Foundation]]

CATEGORIES: French Civil Aviation University

The ENAC Foundation (French: Fondation de l'École nationale de l'aviation civile) has been created in 2012. It is to promote scientific and public interest activities in aviation, aerospace and aeronautics.

[[List of Baku metro stations]]

CATEGORIES: Baku Metro, Railway stations in Asia, Rail transport in Azerbaijan, Buildings and structures in Baku, Rail transport lists

This is a list of metro stations of Baku Metro in Baku, Azerbaijan. At present Baku Metro has 26 metro stations. Line 1 has 13 metro stations, Line 2 has 10 metro stations and Line 3 has 3 metro stations.

[[La La Land (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 romance movies, 2016 comedy-drama movies, 2010s musical movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American musical comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, Dance movies, English-language movies, Movies about entertainers, Movies set in Los Angeles, California

La La Land is a 2016 American romantic musical drama movie. Its title is a reference to the nickname for the city of Los Angeles. It is also an idiom for being out of touch with reality.

[[Angelica Ross]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s births, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), American LGBT rights activists, People from Kenosha, Wisconsin

Angelica Ross (born 1980/1981) is an American activist for transgender rights.  She started TransTech Social Enterprises to help transgender people. She was born in Kenosha, Wisconsin.

[[Charlie Brotman]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Washington, D.C.

Charles J. "Charlie" Brotman (born December 30, 1927) is an American public relations specialist and public address announcer. He is known for his presentation of U.S. presidential inaugural parades of 11 presidents from Dwight D. Eisenhower to Barack Obama.

[[Leanne Pittsford]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American LGBT rights activists, Lesbians, LGBT businesspeople, LGBT people from California, Businesspeople from San Diego, California

Leanne Pittsford (born February 19, 1981 in San Diego) is a American entrepreneur.  She started the professional network Lesbians Who Tech.

[[Deaths in 2017]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, Index lists

The following is a list of notable deaths in 2017. For notable deaths for a selective month during the year, please see "Months".  Per month, names under each date are reported in alphabetical order by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are reported here also if notable.

[[Deaths in January 2017]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, January 2017 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in January 2017. For notable deaths of other months in 2017, please see "Months".

[[Ramanuja Devnathan]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian educators, Indian writers

Ramanuja Devanathan (2 April 1959 – 7 January 2017) was an Indian educator. He was the head of the Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan at Jammu and the former Vice Chancellor of Jagadguru Ramanandacharya Rajasthan Sanskrit University. He was the Registrar of Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan, New Delhi.

In 2013, Devanathan was the recipient of Maharana of Mewar Charitable Foundation (MMCF)'s 32nd annual award. He is also the editor of 2007 edition of English-Sanskrit Dictionary.

Devanathan died on 7 January 2017 in Mumbai while traveling on work of a heart attack, aged 57.

[[Miriam Goldberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2017 deaths, American centenarians, Businesspeople from Chicago

Miriam Harris Goldberg (May 18, 1916 – January 8, 2017) was an American newspaper publisher. She was born in Chicago. From 1972 to 2017, she was the editor and publisher of the Intermountain Jewish News in Denver, Colorado. She was inducted into the Colorado Women's Hall of Fame in 1987. She turned 100 in May 2016.

Goldberg died on January 8, 2017 in Denver at the age of 100.

[[Zygmunt Bauman]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, 20th century philosophers, 21st century philosophers, British philosophers, British sociologists, Continental philosophers, Jewish academics, Jewish British academics, Jewish British writers, Jewish scientists, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, People from Poznań, Polish academics, Polish communists, Polish Jews, Polish scientists, Polish writers, Writers from Leeds

Zygmunt Bauman (19 November 1925 – 9 January 2017) was a Polish-British sociologist and philosopher. He had been living in England since 1971. 

Bauman was born to a Jewish family in Poland. 

After World War II, he rose in the ranks of Poland's military and by the early 1950s he had become one of the youngest majors in the Polish army, but was driven out of Poland by a political purge in 1953 engineered by the Communist government of the Polish People's Republic. 

He was the Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Leeds. Bauman was one of the world's most eminent social theorists writing  on issues as diverse as modernity and the Holocaust, postmodern consumerism and liquid modernity.

[[Ali Shariatmadari]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Iranian politicians, Iranian educators

Ali Shariatmadari (1924 – 9 January 2017) was an Iranian academic and educationist. He was Minister of Culture in the interim government of Mehdi Bazargan in 1979. He was President of the Iranian Academy of Sciences from 1990 until 1998. He was also a Professor of Education at the Teacher Training University in Tehran and a member of High Council of the Cultural Revolution from 1982 until his death.

Shariatmadari died in Shiraz, Iran on 9 January 2017, aged 93.

[[Bayezid Osman]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Turkish people, People from Paris

Bayezid Osman, also known as Osman Bayezid Osmanoğlu with a surname as required by the Turkish Republic, or known by the Ottoman imperial name as Prince Şehzade Bayezid Efendi (بایزید عثمان; 23 June 1924 – 6 January 2017), was the 44th Head of the Imperial House of Osman, which ruled the Ottoman Empire from 1281 to 1922. The monarchy was abolished in 1922, with the modern Republic of Turkey replacing it.

Osman died in New York on 6 January 2017, aged 92.

[[Progressive supranuclear palsy]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP; or the Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome, after the doctors who described it in 1963) is a degenerative disease involving the deterioration and death of specific volumes of the brain.

Males and females are affected the same equally and there is no racial, geographical or occupational predilection. Approximately 6 people per 100,000 population have PSP.

It has been described as a tauopathy.

[[Peter Sarstedt]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Sussex, English singer-songwriters, English pop singers, English pop musicians, English guitarists, Singers from London, Musicians from London, Writers from London

Peter Eardley Sarstedt (10 December 1941 – 8 January 2017) was an English singer, instrumentalist and award-winning songwriter. He was the brother of musicians Eden Kane and Robin Sarstedt. His music was traditional folk music rather than traditional rock and roll.

[[Buddy Bregman]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, American composers, American television directors, American television producers, Writers from Chicago

Buddy Bregman (July 9, 1930 – January 8, 2017) was an American arranger, television producer, and composer. He was born in Chicago, Illinois.

He worked with many of the greatest musical artists of 20th Century popular music, including: Ella Fitzgerald, Bing Crosby, Judy Garland, Fred Astaire, Louis Armstrong, Sammy Davis Jr., Peggy Lee, Bobby Darin, Anita O'Day, Frank Sinatra, Count Basie, Oscar Peterson, Jerry Lewis, Paul Anka, Buddy Rich, Eddie Fisher, Annie Ross, and Carmen McRae. He became Ethel Merman's personal arranger.

In the early 1960s Bregman became a television producer and director. After producing several TV specials in Europe, he was hired by David Attenborough for BBC 2 in 1964. In 1966, he was appointed head of light entertainment for the weekday ITV company Rediffusion London.

Bregman wrote Jump Jim Crow – a musical for the Royal Shakespeare Company. It moved into London-based independent TV and movie production.

Bregman died in Los Angeles, California from complications of Alzheimer's disease on January 8, 2017, aged 86.

[[Rauda Morcos]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Lesbians, LGBT rights activists, Palestinian people

Rauda Morcos, Arabic: روضة مرقص , (born 1974) is a well-known Palestinian lesbian activist. She started Aswat (أصوات), the first Palestinian group for lesbian rights. In 2006, she received the Felipa de Souza Award from the International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission (Now called OutRight Action International). 

In 2002, Morcos joined the first online group for Palestinian lesbians in Israel and the Palestinian Authority. In 2003, she was outed after she gave an interview to an Israeli newspaper. Morcos asked that her sexual orientation not be published. But the newspaper wrote “lesbian” in the headline and printed her photograph. After Morcos's sexual orientation was made public, she was harassed and physically assaulted.  Her car was vandalized many times. She lost her job. She volunteered her time at Aswat until the organization had enough money to hire her.

== References == 

[[Temple Run 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 video games

Temple Run 2 is a video game for Android. It was released in January 17, 2013 by Imangi Studios. It was produced, designed and programmed by Keith Sheperd and Natalia Luckyanova. The art was by Kiril Tchangov. As of June 2014, Temple Run and Temple Run 2, it has been download over 1 billion times. 

[[Our Revolution]]

CATEGORIES: Bernie Sanders, Political organizations based in the United States

Our Revolution is an American progressive political action organization spun out of Bernie Sanders' 2016 presidential campaign to continue its work.

[[Versailles University Foundation]]

CATEGORIES: Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines

The Versailles University Foundation (French: Fondation Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines) has been created in 2011. It is to promote scientific and public interest activities in medicine, sciences, disability, sustainable development.

[[Boško Krunić]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Yugoslavian people, Communists

Boško Krunić (21 October 1929 in Prhovo – 23 January 2017 in Novi Sad) was a Yugoslavian Communist political figure. He was a Chairman of the Presidium of League of Communists of Yugoslavia for one year between 1987 and 1988. Krunić died on 23 January 2017 from a stroke at the age of 87.

[[Gombojavyn Ochirbat]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Communists, Mongolian people

Gombojavyn Ochirbat (Гомбожавын Очирбат, born 15 November 1929) is a Mongolian Communist political figure. 

He was a General secretaries of the Central Committee of the Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party from 14 March, 1990 until 13 April, 1990. During his reign, the party's leading role was abolished (on March 23).

[[Eduardo Martínez Somalo]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Roman Catholic bishops, Spanish Roman Catholics

Eduardo Martínez Somalo (31 March 1927 – 10 August 2021) was a Spanish cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. Martínez was born in the small town of Baños de Río Tobía in La Rioja, Spain. 

Martínez received his episcopal consecration on 13 December 1975. He was Cardinal protodeacon from 29 January 1996 to 9 January 1999. Martínez retired as Prefect of the Congregation for Institutes of Consecrated Life and Societies of Apostolic Life on 11 February 2004.

Martínez Somalo had a heart attack in July 2021. He died a month later on 10 August 2021 in Vatican City, aged 94.

[[Kim Yong-ju]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, Living people, Communists, North Korean politicians

Kim Yong-ju (Chosŏn'gŭl: 김영주; born 21 September 1920) is a North Korean politician and the younger brother of Kim Il-sung, who ruled North Korea from 1948 to 1994. 

Under his brother's rule, Kim Yong-ju held key posts in the Workers' Party of Korea during the 1960s and early 1970s, but he fell out of favor in 1974 following a power struggle with Kim Jong-il. Since 1998, he has held the ceremonial position of Honorary Vice President of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly, North Korea's parliament.

[[Nebelhorn]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Geography of Bavaria, Mountains of Germany

The Nebelhorn is a 2,244-high mountain in the Allgäu Alps. It is next to the village of Oberstdorf, in Germany. Its summit is a well-known viewing point of the Alps. It also gives its name to several competitions, including the Nebelhorn Trophy, a figure skating competition.

[[Fellhorn]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Geography of Bavaria, Vorarlberg, Mountains of Austria, Mountains of Germany

The Fellhorn is a 2038 tall mountain in the Allgäu Alps near Oberstdorf, Germany, on the border with Austria. According to Austrian information the mountain is 2039 m tall.

[[Back to the Future (franchise)]]

CATEGORIES: Back to the Future movies, English-language movies, Comedy science fiction movies, Universal Pictures movies

Back to the Future is an American live action trilogy, consisting of three movies:

The trilogy follows a teenager, who travels through time, by driving an automobile time machine, made by a scientist. Living in 1985, he travels to the past and future for several adventures in Hill Valley.

[[Ben Feringa]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Dutch academics, Dutch chemists, Dutch Nobel Prize winners, People from Drenthe

Bernard Lucas "Ben" Feringa (born May 18, 1951 in Barger-Compascuum) is a Dutch chemist, specialized in organic chemistry, materials science, nanotechnology and photochemistry.

Feringa studied at the University of Groningen and is also an academic at the same university. 

In 2016, he won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for supramolecular chemistry, together with Jean-Pierre Sauvage and Fraser Stoddart.

[[Milada Horáková]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1950 deaths

Dr Milada Horáková (25 December 1901, Prague - 27 June 1950, Prague) was a Czech politician and a victim of a judicial murder. She was executed by Communists on charges of treason. Moreover she was the only woman who was executed within these proceedings.

[[Leen Verbeek]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Aldermen of the Netherlands, Dutch civil servants, Dutch councillors, Dutch mayors, Dutch provincial politicians, Labour Party (Netherlands) politicians, Politicians from South Holland

Leendert "Leen" Verbeek (born March 5, 1954 in Leiderdorp) is a Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA).

He has been King's Commissioner of Flevoland since 2008.

From 1990 to 1994 he was an alderman of Houten, and from 2003 to 2008 mayor of Purmerend.

[[Heliskiing]]

CATEGORIES: Skiing

Heli-skiing is off-trail, downhill skiing or snowboarding that is accessed by a helicopter. This is instead of using a ski lift. As early as the late 1950s helicopters were used in Alaska and Europe to access remote terrain. The birth of heli-skiing as a commercial sport is attributed to Hans Gmoser in 1965.

Skiers get on the helicopter and are flown to a landing zone on the mountain. Skis, snowboards and ski poles are generally carried in an exterior basket on the helicopter. Snow conditions on the mountains vary considerably over the course of the winter. The snow is subjected to sun, wind, temperature variation, and new snowfalls. Snow conditions change almost every day. Risks include those of backcountry skiing, such as avalanches and tree wells, plus those of helicopter flight. Risks are lessened by using experienced pilots and certified guides. Also avalanche transceivers, avalanche air-bags, and radios make it safer.

[[Quirine Oosterveld]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Dutch volleyball players, People from Flevoland

Quirine Oosterveld (born March 5, 1990 in Almere) is a Dutch female volleyball player. 

Oosterveld plays for Rote Raben Vilsbiburg and played for Alterno Apeldoorn. She has been a member of the Netherlands women's national volleyball team since 2013.

[[Kanzelwand]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Geography of Bavaria, Mountains of Austria, Mountains of Germany, Vorarlberg

Kanzelwand is a 2058 high mountain on the border between Vorarlberg, Austria and Bavaria, Germany. The summit can be accessed by the Kanzelwand lift, or by hiking. The Fellhorn/Kanzelwand ski area is located here with 24 of pistes and 13 lifts.

[[Michiel van Hulten]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Dutch party chairs, Former MEPs, Labour Party (Netherlands) politicians, MEPs for the Netherlands, People from Flevoland

Michiel Frans van Hulten (born February 18, 1969 in Lelystad) is a Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA).

Van Hulten was an MEP from 1999 to 2004, and Chair of the Labour Party from 2005 to 2007 (succeeded by Lilianne Ploumen).

His father is retired politician Michel van Hulten.

[[Clare Hollingworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2017 deaths, English centenarians, English journalists, People from Leicester, Writers from Leicestershire

Clare Hollingworth (10 October 1911 – 10 January 2017) was an English journalist and author. She worked for the newspaper The Daily Telegraph. In 1939, she became the first person to report the beginning of World War II while in Poland. She was born in Knighton, Leicester, England. In World War I, her father took over the running of his father's footwear factory, and they moved to a farm near Shepshed.

Hollingworth moved to Hong Kong in the 1980s. She turned 100 in 2011. She died on 10 January 2017 in Central, Hong Kong at the age of 105.

[[Mojave Desert]]

CATEGORIES: Deserts, Geography of Arizona, Landforms of California

The Mojave Desert is a desert in California and Arizona.

[[Arrondissements of the Gard department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Occitanie

There are 3 arrondissements in the Gard department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Gard are:

[[The Daughter of Sláva]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

The Daughter of Sláva (in Czech Slávy dcera) is a poetic work by Ján Kollár. It is a long cycle of sonnets. In fact, it is an epic poem written in the form of sonnet. The author was a Slovak Lutheran pastor and poet, who wrote in Czech. The work was intended to become a national epic of all the Slavic peoples. It was first printed in 1824. It was published some more times and expanded in every edition. The number of poems increased from 150 to 645.

There is a pun in the title of the book. Sláva in Czech means Fame. Slavic people regard themselves as the people of fame, never the slaves, as they are considered to be in the West.

The work is provided with a Prologue (Předzpěv). This part is written in hexameter and pentameter. The metre is shaped like Greek one. It is based on length of vowels.

Ai, zde leží zem ta, před okem mým selzy ronícím,

někdy kolébka, nyní národu mého rakev.

Stoj noho! posvátná místa jsou, kamkoli kráčíš,

k obloze, Tatry synu, vznes se, vyvýše pohled.

(Předzpěv, lines 1-4)

The poem is divided into five parts. They are named after the rivers. The first part is named Sála, the second Labe, Rén, Veltava and the third Dunaj. These are the rivers, Slavic nations live around. Two next parts of the poem are named Lethe and Acheron. These are the rivers know from Greek mythology. All the sonnets are written in decasyllable. It is trochaic pentameter. In his poem Kollár described the past of the Slavs, full of glory, and bright future for them.

A hundred times I spoke, but now I call

To you divided, O Slavonians!

Let's be a whole and not a part in clans;

Be one in harmony or naught at all.

A dove-like nation we in scorn are styled.

But doves you know are come of such a stock

That loves to live within a common flock,

And so may you apply this trait reviled.

O Slavs, thou race of many fragments!

United forces e'er results will show,

But waste and dry the circling currents.

O Slavs, who are of many heads a race!

The wise indeed a death no worse can know

Than life that sloth, void, darkness doth embrace.

(Canto III, sonnet 62)

The poem is strongly influenced by Dante's Divine Commedy. The last parts of Kollár's work are descriptions Slavic heaven and hell. Ján Kollár was a representative of the Panslavism ideology. He believed in union of all the Slavs. He opposed everything, he thought to destroy this union. He described Adam Mickiewicz, the greatest Polish poet, to be in hell. It was because Mickiewicz wrote poems about Polish people's fight against Russian tzar.

[[Honeyberry]]

CATEGORIES: Dipsacales, Berries, Shrubs

The honeyberry (Lonicera caerulea) (also known as a blue honeysuckle, sweetberry honeysuckle, fly honeysuckle, blue fly honeysuckle, blue-berried honeysuckle or haskap) is a fruit that is edible. It is a member of the honeysuckle family. It is easy to grow and has few pests. They are native to Russia and can tolerate very cold weather. They can survive down to -55. They have been raised for centuries in Asia and Eastern Europe. Honeyberry is a well-behaved plant that is not seen as being an Invasive species.

[[Arrondissement of Alès]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Occitanie

The arrondissement of Alès is an arrondissement of France, in the Gard department, Occitanie region. Its capital is the city of Alès.

[[Gol Transportes Aéreos Flight 1907]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters in the 2000s, 2000s in Brazil, 2006, September events

Gol Transportes Aéreos Flight 1907, was flying from Manaus to Rio de Janeiro, the plane was a Boeing 737-800 with 154 people on-board. On September 29, 2006 the plane collided with a Embraer Legacy 600 while cruising over the Amazon. The Embraer landed safety at a military base with no loss to the seven people on-board, but the 737 crashed into the Amazon killing all 154 people on-board.

[[Arrondissement of Le Vigan]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Occitanie

The arrondissement of Le Vigan is an arrondissement of France, in the Gard department, Occitanie region. Its capital is the city of Le Vigan.

[[Arrondissement of Nîmes]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Occitanie

The arrondissement of Nîmes is an arrondissement of France, in the Gard department, Occitanie region. Its capital is the city of Nîmes.

[[Roy Innis]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, American civil rights activists, Politicians from New York City

Roy Emile Alfredo Innis (June 6, 1934 – January 8, 2017) was an American activist and politician. He had been National Chairman of the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) since his election to the position in 1968.

Innis died on January 8, 2017 in his apartment in Manhattan, New York from complications of Parkinson's disease, aged 82.

[[Jovanka Nikolić]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2017 deaths, Poets, Serbian people

Jovanka Nikolić (16 December 1952 – 8 January 2017) was a Serbian author and poet.

She graduated from the College of Education (Physical Education) at the University of Novi Sad and the Faculty of Dramatic Arts in Belgrade (Organization of stage, cultural and artistic activities). She worked in the sport organization sector and was, for a long time, involved in designing sports choreography for public ceremonies at major sports and social events.

Nikolić died on 8 January 2017 in Novi Sad, Serbia, aged 64.

[[Buddy Greco]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, American jazz musicians, American pop musicians, American pop singers, American pianists, American movie actors, American television actors, Singers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Musicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Armando "Buddy" Greco (August 14, 1926 – January 10, 2017) was an American jazz and pop singer, pianist and actor. He records, in several genres, have sold over one million records. He appeared often in the TV series Away We Go and had a role in the movie The Girl Who Knew Too Much. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Greco died on January 10, 2017 in Las Vegas, Nevada, aged 90.

[[Gardon]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Occitanie

The Gardon or Gard is a river in southeastern France, in the Lozère and Gard departments in the Occitanie region. It is a right tributary of the Rhône river.

The Gard department is named after this river.

[[Uta Ranke-Heinemann]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, German academics, German politicians, German Roman Catholics, German theologians, German writers, People from Essen, Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia, Writers from North Rhine-Westphalia

Uta Ranke-Heinemann (2 October 1927 in Essen – 25 March 2021) was a German theologian, academic and author. She held the (nondenominational) chair of History of Religion at the University of Duisburg-Essen in Essen, her birthplace. Her father Gustav Heinemann was an SPD politician and president of Germany 1969–74.

Ranke-Heinemann died on 25 March 2021, aged 93.

[[Mir Hazar Khan Khoso]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Prime Ministers of Pakistan, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Justice (R) Mir Hazar Khan Khoso (Urdu, میر ہزار خان کھوسو) (30 September 1929 – 26 June 2021), was the caretaker Prime Minister of Pakistan, from 25 March 2013 to 5 June 2013. 

Khoso is a retired judge. He was the Chief Justice of the Federal Shariat Court. He was the interim Prime Minister ahead of the general elections scheduled in May 2013.

Khoso died on 26 June 2021 in Karachi from a heart attack at the age of 91.

[[Jamshid bin Abdullah of Zanzibar]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people

Sayyid Jamshid bin Abdullah Al Said GCMG, (جمشيد بن عبد الله) (born 16 September 1929 in Unguja) was the last Sultan of Zanzibar. He ruled Zanzibar from 1 July 1963 to 12 January 1964. 

On 10 December 1963, Zanzibar received its independence from the United Kingdom as a constitutional monarchy under Jamshid. This state of affairs was short lived and he was overthrown by the Zanzibar Revolution. 

He fled into exile firstly to Oman and then to the United Kingdom, where, as of 2012, he continues to live in Portsmouth with his wife and six children as the Head of the Zanzibari Royal Family and as the Sovereign of the Order of the Brilliant Star of Zanzibar and the Most Illustrious Order of Independence of Zanzibar. Secondly, he is married to Zuleika bin Abdullah Al Aufy.

[[Orbital revolution]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy

Orbital revolution is the movement of a planet around a star, or a moon around a planet. For example, the Earth revolves around the Sun, and the Moon revolves about the Earth. 

Planets and moons revolve in elliptical orbits. One orbital revolution of a planet takes one year, while a revolution of the Moon takes a month. 

Astronomers usually use different words for the orbit of a planet around a star, and for the spin of a planet about its own axis. If an item is in orbit, it is "revolving", while the spin of a planet is called "rotating". The amount of time it takes for an object to revolve around the Sun is a year, and the amount of time it takes to revolve around its axis is one day. According to the Gregorian calendar, a year on Earth is equal to 365 days, with an extra day added every four years.

The amount of time it takes for an object to move around the sun is different for every object. For example, it takes the planet Mercury about 88 daya to revolve around the sun, but it takes the dwarf planet Pluto over 248 years to revolve around the sun.

[[Adenan Satem]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Malaysian politicians

Adenan bin Satem (27 January 1944 – 11 January 2017) was a Malaysian politician. He was the fifth Chief Minister of Sarawak from 1 March 2014 until his death. He was born in Kuching, Sarawak when it was under Japanese rule during World War II.

Satem died from a heart attack on 11 January 2017 in Kota Samarahan, Sarawak. He was 72.

[[American Pit Bull Terrier]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds, Terriers

The American Pit Bull Terrier is a dog breed. It is a medium-sized, solidly-built, short-haired dog. Its early ancestors came from the British Isles. Originally they were bred for fighting. As early as the 13th century in Great Britain, blood sports were popular. These included bull-baiting and bear-baiting where dogs would fight against these larger animals to entertain the crowds. In the 1800s, when baiting became illegal, the dogs fought each other. Pit bulls are not always aggressive despite their bad reputation. Some owners describe them as clowns and goofballs. Depending on how they are raised and treated, they can make very good family pets.

[[Kerime Nadir]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1984 deaths, Turkish writers

Kerime Nadir Azrak, (1917-1984) was a Turkish writer. She was born in Istanbul, Turkey in 1917. She attended "Saint Joseph French High School for Girls" in Bebek, Istanbul. After starting to write poetry and stories. Her first works were published in magazines such as Servet-i Fünun, Uyanış and Yarımay magazines. Other writings were published in Aydabir, Yedigün, Hayat magazines. She wrote about 40 novels. Many became movies. She died in Istanbul on March 20, 1984.

[[Tekin Akmansoy]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2013 deaths, Turkish actors

Tekin Akmansoy (born January 20, 1924, Saraykoy - died February 12, 2013) is a Turkish theater and cinema artist.

Tekin Akmansoy, who served in various theaters for many years, was one of the meddah traders.

Starting from 1974, Kayseri in the Kaynanalar Dizi has come to the forefront with the prospect of the awake businessman Nuri Kantar. This character has been portrayed in the movies of Kaynalar and Neutral Gantar family as well as the series for many years.

In the 1990s, her daughter Arzu Akmansoy directed and later returned to television with new series of Kaynanas, as well as series such as Görmeler. In 1998 he received the title of State Artist. Tahir revived the character of Pamukçuoğlu. Treatment with the diagnosis of pneumonia lost his life on February 12, 2013 in the hospital; He was buried next to his wife Meral Akmansoy, who died in 2002 at the Zincirlikuyu Cemetery, which was removed from the Teşvikiye Mosque on Thursday, February 14, 2013.

[[Cem Özer]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Turkish writers

Cem Özer (born October 5, 1959, Göksun, Kahramanmaraş), Turkish theater, cinema and serial player, server and writer.

The artist who created the Istanbul University Faculty of Law, later worked in communities such as the Dostlar Theater. He was recognized on television by the presentation of the program. He was a lucky competitor in the Dene competition. He has appeared in several motion picture films and series. Fashion designer Esin Maraşlıoğlu and actress Nurgül Yeşilçay were married.

[[Sırrı Gültekin]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2008 deaths, Turkish actors

Sırrı Gültekin (born 27 July 1924, Bakırköy, Istanbul - died 7 February 2008, Istanbul), Turkish actor, film director, screenwriter, film producer.

[[Ekrem Bora]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2012 deaths

Ekrem Şerif Bora (born 7 March 1934, Ankara - died 1 April 2012, Istanbul) is a cinema and series player.

[[Filiz Taçbaş]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Turkish actors

Filiz Taçbaş, (born 1964, Istanbul), Turkish cinema and drama player, former national tennis player.

When she was 10 years old, she went to the camera with Bilge Olgaç. After a long break, he continued to work on movies and series. The recognition of large audiences was made in 1992 by the headmen of the neighborhood. Taçbaş is a professional tennis player, a part of art life.

He got high points in 2007, entered the mill team, dressed in the form of a mill and writes articles about tennis in newspapers at the same time.

[[Osman Alyanak]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1991 deaths, Turkish actors

Osman Alyanak (born 1916, Istanbul - died September 30, 1991 - Istanbul) is a Turkish play and voice actor.

Osman Alyanak, who has been playing football for a while in Galatasaray, started acting in operas in his art life. After short-time plays in some theatrical ensembles, he moved to camera in 1950 and played supporting roles in various movies and series. Over 150 artists were working in the production, and at the same time had worked on voice acting. Besides being known as "Oralet Osman" because of the commercial film he played for a while, "Tayyare Osman" was known in Yeşilçam. 

[[Güzin Özipek]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2000 deaths, Turkish actors

Güzin Özipek (born March 11, 1925 - Istanbul, August 12, 2000 - Istanbul) Opera, cinema and theater artist.

[[Esra Akkaya]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births

Esra Akkaya (born 1970, Istanbul), is a Turkish theater, cinema and series actress.

[[Ahmet Üstel]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 1983 deaths, Turkish writers, Turkish actors

Ahmet Üstel (born 1930, Istanbul - died July 13, 1983, Istanbul) is a Turkish writer, producer and actor.

[[Savaş Başar]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 1985 deaths, Turkish actors, Turkish screenwriters

Savaş Başar (born June 15, 1938 - Silifke, - died August 21, 1985 - Ankara) Theater and movie actor, voice actor, director, screenwriter.

[[Yücel Erten]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Turkish actors

Yücel Erten (born 19 October 1945, Muş), is Turkish actor, director, art director, writer, translator.

[[Zeyno Günenç]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Turkish actors

Zeyno Günenç (born June 22, 1967, İzmit) is a theater, cinema and serialist.

[[Alper Kul]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Turkish writers, Turkish actors, Living people

Alper Kul (born 5 December 1975, Fatih, Istanbul), Turkish actor and writer.

[[Münibe Millet]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Turkish actors

Münibe Millet (born January 23, 1980, Elazığ) is a cinema and theater actor, theater and dance instructor.

[[François Van der Elst]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2017 deaths, Belgian footballers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Belgium, Deaths from cardiac arrest, People from Flemish Brabant

François "Swat" Van der Elst (1 December 1954 – 11 January 2017) was a Belgian footballer. He played as a right winger. He played from 1971 to 1986. He played for Anderlecht, New York Cosmos, West Ham United and Lokeren. He was born in Opwijk, Flemish Brabant.

On 1 January 2017, Van der Elst was put in an induced coma because of heart failure. He died from cardiac arrest on 11 January 2017 in Aalst, East Flanders. He was 62.

[[List of caravanserais in Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Accommodations, Buildings and structures in Azerbaijan, Lists of buildings, Azerbaijan-related lists

This is a list of caravanserais in Azerbaijan.

[[Egyptian goose]]

CATEGORIES: Geese, Birds of Africa

The Egyptian goose (Alopochen aegyptiacus) is a member of the duck, goose, and swan family, Anatidae. It lives in Africa, south of the Sahara and the Nile River Valley.

Egyptian geese were thought to be sacred by the people in Ancient Egypt. They appeared in much of their artwork. They have been raised for food and bred in parts of Africa since they were domesticated by the ancient Egyptians. Because of their popularity as an ornamental bird, they often escape. Small feral populations have become established in Western Europe.

[[St. Helier railway station]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 establishments in Europe, 1930s establishments in England

St Helier railway station opened in 1930. The only operator for the station is Thameslink. The station is in Fare Zone 4.

[[Bothriospondylus]]

Bothriospondylus ('excavated vertebrae') is a genus of sauropodomorph dinosaur known from a handful of vertebrae. it belongs to the family Bothriospondylidae that was coined by Richard Lydekker in 1885. The genus is based on the specimen BMNH R44529-5.

[[Richard Lydekker]]

CATEGORIES: British naturalists

Richard Lydekker (25 July 1849 – 16 April 1915) was an English paleontologist and mammalogist. He wrote a number books on natural history. He was a member of the Geological Survey of India. He later joined the British Museum of Natural History. He was responsible for creating their catalog on their vertebrate fossil collections.

[[Rubihorn]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Geography of Bavaria, Mountains of Germany

The Rubihorn is a mountain in Bavaria, Germany. It is 1975 tall and is to the east of Oberstdorf. With the Nebelhorn it makes part of the Daumen Group. On 9 July 1987 there was a rockfall on the north face. The remains can still be seen today.

[[Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Chief Justices of Pakistan

Saeed Uz Zaman Siddiqui (1 December 1938 – 11 January 2017) (pronunciation sa'eed -uz- zam'an; alternatively Saiduzzaman Siddiqui;  was a Pakistani jurist and legislator. He served as the Chief Justice of Pakistan at the Supreme Court of Pakistan from November 11, 2016 until his death in 2017. 

He was the Chief Justice of Pakistan when the 1999 military coup d'état was staged by then-Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee and Chief of Army Staff General Pervez Musharraf.

Siddiqui died at the age of 78 on 11 January 2017 in Karachi.

[[Martin Brandtner]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, American military people, People from Minneapolis, Minnesota

Martin L. Brandtner (3 July 1938 – 3 January 2017) was an American Marine Corps lieutenant general. He served as the Director for Operations for the Joint Staff until his retirement on 1 June 1993.

Brandtner died on 3 January 2017, at the age of 78, in Reno, Nevada. 

[[Bob McCullough]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, Australian sportspeople

Robert "Bob" McCullough OAM (died 9 January 2017) was an Australian sport administrator in the area of disability sport. He was President of the Australian Paralympic Federation and the International Stoke Mandeville Wheelchair Sports Federation.

McCullough died in Australia on 9 January 2017.

[[David Shulkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American physicians, United States Secretaries of Veterans Affairs, Independent politicians in the United States, Politicians from Illinois, Politicians from Pennsylvania, Politicians from Washington, D.C., People from Highland Park, Illinois

David Jonathon Shulkin (born June 22, 1959) is an American physician and politician. Shulkin was the 9th United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs from February 14, 2017 to March 28, 2018. He served as Under Secretary of Health for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. He was nominated by President Barack Obama on March 18, 2015 and sworn in on July 6, 2015.

On January 11, 2017, President-elect Donald Trump announced that he will nominate Shulkin to serve as United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs.

[[Warren Allen Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, LGBT writers, Gay men, LGBT businesspeople, LGBT people from New York City, Writers from New York City

Warren Allen Smith (October 27, 1921 – January 9, 2017) was an American gay rights activist, writer and humanities humanist. 

[[Takobeya (Japanese bureaucrats)]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Japan, Japanese language, Rooms

Takobeya is a room. When Japanese bureaucrats make a new law, they establish a takobeya. In general, 5-6 bureaucrats are gathered in takobeya to make a new law. Mainly a takobeya is changed from a conference room in the buildings of central government ministries.

Originally, takobeya means an accommodation hut for harsh labors at construction sites in the Meiji period. The work of bureaucrats in takobeya for laws are so harsh that bureaucrats call their room "Takobeya".

[[Manlio Rocchetti]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning make-up artists, Emmy Award winners, 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Make-up artists, People from Rome

Manlio Rocchetti (28 November 1943 – 10 January 2017) was an Italian makeup artist. He won an Academy Award at the 1989 Academy Awards for Best Makeup for the movie Driving Miss Daisy, which he shared with Lynn Barber and Kevin Haney.

His career started in 1960 and he has continued working on makeup with most recently in 2012. He often works with Martin Scorsese.

He also won an Emmy for the makeup in Lonesome Dove.

[[Tommy Allsup]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, American country guitarists, Musicians from Oklahoma, Native American people, American record producers, Grammy Award winners, People from Springfield, Missouri, Deaths from hernia

Tommy Allsup (November 24, 1931 – January 11, 2017) was an American rockabilly and country swing guitarist. 

Allsup was born near Owasso, Oklahoma in 1931. He was an enrolled member of the Cherokee Nation.

He worked with entertainers such as Buddy Holly and Bob Wills & His Texas Playboys. Allsup was touring with Holly, Ritchie Valens and J.P. "The Big Bopper" Richardson when he lost a fateful coin toss with Valens for a seat on the plane that crashed, killing Valens, Holly and Richardson on February 3, 1959.

Allsup died on January 11, 2017 at his home in Springfield, Missouri of complications from hernia surgery. He was 85 years old.

[[Kenny Wharram]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Deaths from heart failure, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Sportspeople from Ontario

Kenneth Malcolm Wharram (July 2, 1933 – January 10, 2017) was a retired professional ice hockey right winger who played 14 seasons in the National Hockey League. He played for the Chicago Black Hawks from 1951 through 1952 and again from 1958 until he retired in 1969. He won a Stanley Cup in 1961. He was born in North Bay, Ontario.

Wharram died on January 10, 2017 from heart failure in North Bay, Ontario, aged 83.

[[Jean-Jacques Annaud]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, French movie directors, French movie producers, French screenwriters, People from Ile-de-France

Jean-Jacques Annaud (born 1 October 1943) is a French movie director, screenwriter and producer. He is best known for directing Quest for Fire (1981), The Name of the Rose (1986), The Lover (1991), and Seven Years in Tibet (1997). 

Annaud has received many awards for his work, including four César Awards, one David di Donatello Award, and one National Academy of Cinema Award. Annaud's first movie, Black and White in Color (1976), received an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.

[[Mont Aigoual]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of France, Occitanie

Mont Aigoual (Mount Augal) is a French mountain in the Cévennes, a southern part of the Massif Central in the Occitanie region. It is on the border of the Lozère and Gard departments and is the highest mountain of Gard.

When the sky is clear, it is possible to see the Mediterranean Sea, the Pyrenees, and also the Alps and Mont Blanc in particular.

[[Stanley Russ]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from acute myeloid leukemia, Disease-related deaths in Arkansas, Politicians from Arkansas, US Democratic Party politicians, State legislators of the United States

Otis Stanley Russ (August 31, 1930 – January 5, 2017) was an American politician. He served as a member of the Arkansas Senate from the 21st (later 30th) district from January 1975 to January 2001. He also served as President pro tempore of the Senate from 1995 to 1997.

Russ was born in Conway, Arkansas. He married Nina Benton in 1951. They had two children, and she died in 2005.

Russ died from acute myeloid leukemia on January 5, 2017 in Conway. He was 86.

[[Russell Trood]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Queensland, Deaths from thyroid cancer, Liberal Party of Australia politicians, Members of the Australian Senate, Politicians from Melbourne, Politicians from Queensland

Russell Brunell Trood (5 December 1948 – 9 January 2017) was an Australian politician. He was a member of the Liberal Party. He served as a Senator for Queensland from 1 July 2005 until 30 June 2011. He later served as the National President of the United Nations Association of Australia from 2012 to 2016. He was born in Melbourne, Victoria.

Trood died from thyroid cancer on 9 January 2017 in Brisbane, Queensland. He was 68.

[[Mark Andrews]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2020 deaths, United States representatives from North Dakota, United States senators from North Dakota, US Republican Party politicians

Mark Andrews (May 19, 1926 – October 3, 2020) was an American politician from the state of North Dakota. He was a member of the United States Republican Party.

[[Roger Angell]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, Living people, Writers from New York City

Roger Angell (born September 19, 1920) is an American essayist. He is known for his writing on sports, especially baseball. He has been a regular contributor to The New Yorker and was its chief fiction editor for many years. He has written numerous works of fiction, non-fiction, and criticism, and for many years wrote an annual Christmas poem for The New Yorker.

He received a number of awards for his writing, including the George Polk Award for Commentary in 1980, the Kenyon Review Award for Literary Achievement in 2005 along with Umberto Eco, and the inaugural PEN/ESPN Lifetime Achievement Award for Literary Sports Writing in 2011.

He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2007 and is a long-time ex-officio member of the council of the Authors Guild.

[[Douglas Wass]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Civil servants, British politicians, People from Nottingham

Sir Douglas William Gretton Wass (15 April 1923 – 4 January 2017) was a British civil servant. He served as Permanent Secretary to HM Treasury from 1974 to 1983. Wass was Permanent Secretary to HM Treasury from 1974 to 1983 and served as joint head of the civil service in 1981.

He was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) in 1971, elevated to Knight Commander (KCB) in 1975 and further elevated to Knight Grand Cross (GCB) in 1980. In 1985, he was awarded an Honorary Degree (Doctor of Letters) by the University of Bath.

In 1983, the BBC invited Sir Douglas to present the annual Reith Lectures. In a series of six lectures titled Government and the Governed, he examined the role and responsibilities of government.

Wass died on 4 January 2017 in London at the age of 93.

[[Tony Rosato]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Toronto, Canadian comedians, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Canada, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Ontario, People from Naples

Antonio "Tony" Rosato (December 26, 1954 – January 10, 2017) was an Italian-born Canadian actor, voice actor and comedian. He was best known for his work on Saturday Night Live, Second City Television and Night Heat. He had voice roles in Sailor Moon, Franklin, George Shrinks, Atomic Betty and the video game Resident Evil 3: Nemesis (1999).

Rosato was born in Naples. He moved to Canada at the age of four. He grew up in the cities of Halifax, Ottawa and Toronto.

Rosato died from a heart attack on January 10, 2017 in Toronto, Ontario. He was 62.

[[Gavin Whittaker]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2017 deaths, Australian rugby league players, Cancer deaths in Queensland, Deaths from stomach cancer, Sportspeople from Queensland

Gavin Whittaker (13 January 1970 – 6 January 2017) was an Australian professional rugby league player. He played as in the front row during the 1990s. He played for the Canterbury-Bankstown Bulldogs, the Gold Coast Chargers and the Western Suburbs Magpies. He retired in 1998. He was born in Pittsworth, Queensland.

Whittaker died from stomach cancer on 6 January 2017 at his home in Parkwood, Queensland. He was 46, and would of turned 47th a week after his death.

[[Allgäu Alps]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Mountain ranges of the Alps, Mountain ranges of Germany, Mountains of Austria

The Allgäu Alps are a mountain range in the Northern Limestone Alps. They are located in Bavaria in Germany, and Tyrol and Vorarlberg in Austria. The range is directly east of Lake Constance. 

There are relatively high levels of rain and it is the rainiest place in Germany. While there are some permanent snowfields, there are no glaciers. Most mountains have grassy faces on one side, and sheer cliffs on the other. Further south the mountains begin to look Dolomite, as they have crevices and gullies. The main river in the region is the Iller, which splits the mountains in half. The high peaks are all on the east of the Iller. On the west they are usually not taller than 2200m. Many activities occur in them, including hiking and skiing.

[[Lucina da Costa Gomez-Matheeuws]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch women politicians, Netherlands Antilles

Lucina Elena da Costa Gomez-Matheeuws (5 April 1929 – 7 January 2017) was a Dutch Antillean politician for the National People's Party (PNP). She served as the Prime Minister of the Netherlands Antilles, an office her husband Moises Frumencio da Costa Gomez previously held, briefly in 1977. She was also the first female to hold the office. Prior to this, she was the Minister of Health and Environment, Welfare, Youth, Sports, Culture and Recreation (1970–1977).

Costa Gomez-Matheeuws died on 7 January 2017 in Willemstad, Curaçao at the age of 87.

[[Großer Krottenkopf]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Mountains of Austria, Tyrol (state)

The Großer Krottenkopf is the highest mountain in the Allgäu Alps. It is in Austria and is 2656 tall. It is part of the Hornbach chain, which runs along the main branch of the Allgäu Alps for 15km eastwards. There are several routes to climb it from different directions.

[[Tony Booth (artist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in England, English artists, People from Merseyside

Anthony "Tony" Booth (22 June 1933 – 11 January 2017) was a British artist. He was best known as the original poster artist for The Beatles and other bands in the Merseybeat era. He also worked with The Cavern Club. He was known as Brian Epstein's "right-hand man" in the 1960s in Liverpool. He was born in Merseyside and grew up in Moreton.

Booth died from cancer on 11 January 2017 in Upton, Merseyside, aged 83.

[[Party for Freedom]]

CATEGORIES: Islamophobia, Nationalist organizations in Europe, Eurosceptic parties, Political parties in the Netherlands, 2006 establishments in the Netherlands

The Party for Freedom, Dutch: Partij voor de Vrijheid (shortened PVV), is a right-wing political party in the Netherlands.

The party leader is Geert Wilders.

The party was founded on 22 February 2006. In the 2006 Dutch general election, PVV won 6 seats in the House of Representatives with 579,490 votes. In the 2010 elections, PVV won 24 seats with 1,435,349 votes. In the 2012 elections, PVV won 15 seats with 950,263 votes. In the 2017 elections, the PVV won 20 seats (+5) with 1,372,941 votes. In the 2021 elections they have won 17 seats (-3).

PVV is Eurosceptic, meaning they are against the European Union. They are also openly very critical of Islam. Economically, the party supports economic liberalism and wants to lower taxes. It is also a populist party.

The PVV gained a great amount of popularity in 2017, coming second in the election.

[[Anthony King (professor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, British academics, British educators, British scientists, Canadian scientists, Political scientists

Anthony Stephen "Tony" King FBA (17 November 1934 – 12 January 2017) was a Canadian-born British professor of government, psephologist and commentator. He was best known for his work at the University of Essex. He was considered a leading expert of democracy. He was also the BBC television analyst on election night from 1983 to 2005. He moved to the United Kingdom in the 1950s.

King died on 12 January 2017 at the age of 82.

[[Claudia Poll]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Costa Rican sportspeople, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Swimmers

Claudia Maria Poll Ahrens (born 21 December 1972 in Managua) is a Costa Rican swimmer of German descent.

She competes in the 200 m to 800 m freestyle swimming. 

At the 1996 Summer Olympics she won a gold medal in the 200 meter freestyle.

She is the only gold-medalist Costa Rica ever had.

At the 2000 Summer Olympics she won two bronze medals, in the 200 meter and 400 meter freestyle.

Claudia Poll began swimming in 1979 under coach Francisco Rivas.

No article about Claudia Poll can be complete without mentioning mentioning that she has tested positive for an illegal, performance-enhancing steroid and was suspended from competition for four years, according to an announcement this afternoon by the International Amateur Swimming Federation (FINA) in Lausanne, Switzerland. 6 June 2002"

Ironically, Poll's older sister, Sylvia, was a silver medalist at the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, beaten to the wall by East Germany's Heike Friedrich. After the collapse of Communism, East German Secret police (Stasi) files revealed that Friedrich — along with all other East German Olympic swimmers — had systematically been doped as a matter of national policy.

[[Silvia Poll]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Costa Rican sportspeople, Olympic silver medalists, Swimmers

Sylvia Poll Ahrens (born September 24, 1970 in Managua) is a Costa Rican swimmer of German descent.

She is a backstroker and freestyle swimmer.

At the 1988 Summer Olympics she won a silver medal in the 200 meter freestyle. It was the first medal for a Costa Rican athlete.

[[Yelko Gómez]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Cyclists, Panamanian sportspeople

Yelko Gómez (born March 9, 1989 in Chiriquí Province) is a Panamanian cyclist.

He has been riding for Hyundai-Momi-Continental since 2015.

In 2014 and 2015 he won the National Time Trial Championships.

[[Igloofest]]

CATEGORIES: Music festivals, 2007 establishments in Canada

Igloofest is a yearly music festival. It is held outside in Montreal, Canada at the Old Port of Montreal. It began in January 2007 with about 4,000 people attending. In 2012 about 70,000 people attended.

[[Graham Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English footballers, England national football team managers, English football managers, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, Sportspeople from Nottinghamshire

Graham Taylor OBE (15 September 1944 – 12 January 2017) was a British football manager and player. He was the chairman of Watford Football Club. He was the manager of the England national football team from 1990 to 1993. He also managed Lincoln City, Watford, Aston Villa and Wolverhampton Wanderers. He played for Lincoln City and Grimsby Town between 1962 and 1972.

Taylor was born in Worksop, Nottinghamshire. He married Rita Cowling in 1965. They had two daughters.

Taylor died from a heart attack on 12 January 2017 in Kings Langley, Hertfordshire. He was 72.

[[Dash]]

CATEGORIES: Punctuation

The dash is a punctuation mark that is usually written in the middle of a line of text. A hyphen is sometimes called a dash, but it is used differently. Dashes are used to add more drama to writing. But they can easily be overused. The two main forms of dashes are:

[[Hohes Licht]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Mountains of Austria, Tyrol (state)

The Hohes Licht is a mountain in the Allgäu Alps. It is 2651 high. It is the second highest in the Allgäu  range after the Großer Krottenkopf. The summit is in Tyrol, Austria.

Hohes Licht is 14km south of Oberstdorf. It was first climbed in 1854, and a "survey signal" was left on top for triangulation. On 6 August 1869 it was first climbed for leisure purposes by Hermann von Barth. When he arrived the signal was still there.

[[Oil refining]]

CATEGORIES: Industries

Oil refining is the name for a number of processes from chemical engineering, which transform crude oil into useful products such as different fuel oils, Liquefied petroleum gas, gasoline, kerosene or  diesel oil. These transformation occur in plants called petroleum refineries. The transformations are done in many steps. The refineries are large industrial complexes, that have many different sub-units, and facilities. Each refinery has its own unique arrangement and combination of refining processes. The exact setup of the refinery is largely determined by the its location, desired products and economic considerations.

Modern petroleum refineries process as much as 800,000 to 900,000 barrels (127,000 to 143,000 cubic meters) per day of crude oil.

[[Barbary]]

CATEGORIES: History of Africa, 16th-century establishments, 19th-century disestablishments

From about the 16th to the 19th century, barbary was a name for a region in North Africa, from Egypt to the Atlantic, and from the Mediterranean to the Sahara. The states were called barbary states or berbery states, after the people of the Berbers, who lived there. The coastal regions were commonly called barbary coast.

During the era of Colonialism, names were introduced or re-used, to split this area into single states: Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, and Libya.

Today, this region is commonly called Maghreb.

[[New Braunfels, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas, 1845 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Texas

New Braunfels (i/ˌnjuː ˈbrɔːnfəlz/ new'brawn'-fəlz) is a city in Comal and Guadalupe counties in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the seat of Comal County. New Braunfels is a principal city of the San Antonio–New Braunfels metropolitan statistical area. The city's population was 57,740 at the 2010 census. In 2015, its estimated population is 70,543.

New Braunfels is 30 northeast of downtown San Antonio. It is 19 southwest of San Marcos, and 45 southwest of Austin.

New Braunfels was established in 1845 by Prince Carl of Solms-Braunfels. Prince Solms named the settlement in honor of his home in Solms-Braunfels, Germany. The city has a strong German influence. This is seen in the downtown area architecture. The city uses ZIP codes 78130–78133 and telephone area code (830).

[[Brian Fletcher]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in England, English sportspeople

Brian Fletcher (18 May 1947 – 11 January 2017) was an English Jockey. He was born in Cockfield, County Durham. 

He was known for riding the horse Red Rum to win the Grand National in 1973 and 1974 and for second place in 1975. He first won the Grand National at the age of 20, in 1968 riding  Red Alligator. He retired in 1976 with a head injury. Fletcher is one of the only jockey to have won the Grand National three times. He won the Scottish National in 1974. His record winning time on Red Rum in the 1973 Grand National was to stand for 17 years till beaten by Mr Frisk ridden by Marcus Armytage. 

Fletcher died on 11 January 2017 in England, aged 69.

[[Partisan]]

CATEGORIES: International law

A partisan is an armed fighter, who is not part of the regular troops of a country or state. The term comes from Italian, where it meant member of a political party.  There is no separate legal status for partisans in international law.  The law of war uses four criteria to legally define someone as a prisoner of war, if the person is captured:

In 1977, there were two additional protocols: They clarified that it is sufficient to carry the weapons openly only on some occasions, to be titled armed combatant.

[[Nikolay Neprimerov]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Russian academics, Russian physicists

Nikolay Neprimerov (1 May 1921 – 11 January 2017) was a Doctor of Technical Sciences and professor of physics at the Kazan State University. Neprimerov was Head of the Department of Radioelectronics of the Kazan University for 32 years and is author of more than 150 scientific papers and 9 monographs. 

He also authored a book about the everyday life of military pilots during World War II. He was awarded numerous honours and medals. Neprimerov dedicated more than 40 years to and is internationally known for physical research in oil recovery.

[[One-Two-GO Airlines Flight 269]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 aviation disasters, 2007 in Asia, 2000s in Thailand

One-Two-GO Airlines Flight 269 (OG269), on September 16, 2007, a McDonnell Douglas MD-82 crashed after an aborted landing. It hit an embankment next to runway 27 at Phuket International Airport. The aircraft burst into flames on impact at about 3:45pm. The crash killed 89 of the 130 persons on board. OG269 was a scheduled domestic passenger flight from Bangkok to Phuket, Thailand.

A two-year investigation by the NTSB resulted in a report. It was based in part on the crash report published by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Committee of the Ministry of Transport. The probable cause of the accident was determined to be crew error.

[[Giulio Angioni]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Italian writers, European anthropologists, People from Sardinia

Giulio Angioni (28 October 1939 – 12 January 2017) was an Italian writer and anthropologist. He was known for his works Le fiamme di Toledo and Assandira . He was born in Guasila, Sardinia.

Angioni died on 12 January 2017 in Cagliari, Sardinia, aged 77.

[[Central Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Paraguay

Central (Departamento Central) is a department in Paraguay. The capital is the city of Areguá. Its ISO 3166-2 code  is PY-11.

The department has 2,297,739 inhabitants. That is more than any other department of Paraguay. The department is also the smallest of all the departments.

[[Jim Bunning]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from stroke, Detroit Tigers players, Los Angeles Dodgers players, Philadelphia Phillies players, Pittsburgh Pirates players, Sportspeople from Kentucky, United States representatives from Kentucky, United States senators from Kentucky, US Republican Party politicians

James Paul David "Jim" Bunning (October 23, 1931 – May 26, 2017) was an American former Major League Baseball pitcher and politician.

Bunning played as a pitcher in the Major League Baseball. In his career, he played for the Detroit Tigers (1955–1963), the Philadelphia Phillies (1964–1967; 1970–1971), the Pittsburgh Pirates (1968–1969) and the Los Angeles Dodgers (1969). He retired from baseball in 1971.

Bunning served in the United States House of Representatives from January 3, 1987 through January 3, 1999. He was a member of the Republican Party. Bunning served in the United States Senate from January 3, 1999 through January 3, 2011 after retiring.

Bunning was 67 years old when he entered U.S. Senate. Among the bills that Bunning sponsored is the Bunning-Bereuter-Blumenauer Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2004. Bunning was also the only member of the United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs to have opposed Ben Bernanke for Chief of the Federal Reserve.

In the 2010 Senate election, Bunning said he would not run and later supported then-eye doctor Rand Paul. Paul won the election with 56% of the vote.

[[Meir Banai]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Israel, Israeli pop singers, Israeli singers, Jewish Israeli musicians, People from Beer Sheba, Pop musicians, Rock musicians, Rock singers, Singer-songwriters, Soul musicians

Meir Banai (מֵאִיר בַּנַאי‎; 5 July 1961 – 12 January 2017) was an Israeli musician, singer, and songwriter. He was a pop, rock and soul musician. He released ten albums, starting in 1984. He was best known his 2007 album Shma Koli, which had traditional Jewish texts and prayers in the music. He was born in Beersheba.

Banai died from cancer on 12 January 2017 in Ganot. He was 55.

[[2010 Dutch general election]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 elections, 2010s in the Netherlands, Elections in the Netherlands

The 2010 Dutch general election to elect the members of the House of Representatives was held on 9 June 2010.

The conservative liberal People's Party for Freedom and Democracy won the most seats. Mark Rutte became the prime minister shortly after the election. The Christian Democratic Appeal lost the most seats in this election, while the Party for Freedom won the most.

[[Venkateswara Temple, Tirumala]]

CATEGORIES: Temples in India

Sri Venkateswara Swamy Temple is one of the most popular and most visited Vaishnavite temple in India. It is in the hills of Tirumala at the city of Tirupati in Chitoor District of Andhra Pradesh.This temple is dedicated to Lord Venkateswara, an avatar of Vishnu. This lord is also called by the names: Balaji, Govinda, Srinivasa, and Venkatajalapati. 

The Tirumala Venkateswara Temple is on the Venkatadri hill, which is one of the seven hills of the Seshadri hills range. This is why the temple is called Temple of Seven Hills. Tirumala Venkateswara Temple is the second richest temple in the world after the Padmanabhaswamy Temple,  Thiruvananthapuram.

The temple is daily visited by about 50,000 to 1,00,000 devotees. On Special days like Brahmotsava, Tirumala Temple is visited by more than 5 lakhs of devotees making the temple the most-visited holy place in the world.

[[Christian Democratic Appeal]]

CATEGORIES: Christian democratic parties, Political parties in the Netherlands, Christianity in the Netherlands, 1980s establishments in the Netherlands, 1980 establishments in Europe

The Christian Democratic Appeal, Christen-Democratisch Appèl (shortened CDA), is a political party in the Netherlands. It was the merger of three major former political parties: Anti-Revolutionary Party (ARP), Christian Historical Union (CHU) and Catholic People's Party (KVP).

The party was established on 11 October 1980. From 1982 to 2006, the party was very popular in the Netherlands. Their support was strongest in the 1986, 1989, 2002, 2003 and 2006 elections. In the 2010 elections, they lost 20 seats and received less than half of the votes from the previous election. In the 2012 elections, they received 801,620 and lost 8 more seats. In the 2017 elections they won 19 seats (+6), and in the 2021 elections 15 (-4).

The party leader is Wopke Hoekstra (former leaders Hugo de Jonge and Sybrand van Haersma Buma).

The party supports Christian democracy. The party can also have Jewish, Muslim and Hindu members of parliament. The party heavily supports the European Union and environmentalism. They call themselves a moderate party, but they have been in an alliance with the centre-right People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. The CDA believes that the toleration of "soft drugs" like marijuana should stop, and practices like abortion and prostitution should be limited. They also want a more friendly and open immigration policy. However, they do want immigrants to integrate into Dutch culture.

On 12 June 2021, MP Pieter Omtzigt left the CDA and has become an independent politician.

[[Democrats 66]]

CATEGORIES: Liberal parties, Political parties in the Netherlands, 1960s establishments in the Netherlands, 1966 establishments in Europe

Democrats 66, Democraten 66, official name: Politieke Partij Democraten 66 (shortened D66), is a political party in the Netherlands. They are a social liberal party. The party leader is Sigrid Kaag (former leaders Rob Jetten  and Alexander Pechtold).

The party was formed on 14 October 1966 by a group of young academics led by Hans van Mierlo. The party had their most success in the 1994 election, where they won 24 out of 150 seats. In the 2010 elections, they received 654,167 votes and won 10 seats. In the 2012 elections they received 757,091 votes and won 12 seats. In the 2017 elections they won 19 seats (+7), and in the 2021 election 24 (+5).

D66 is very supportive of the European Union. They historically supported the legalization of gay marriage, prostitution, and euthanasia. The party supports environmentalism and wants a mixed economy. D66 wants tax-cuts for the lower and middle classes. They also want direct democracy.

[[Euroscepticism]]

CATEGORIES: European Union

Euroscepticism is the criticism of the European Union (EU). Some observers also say that the total rejection of the EU is euroscepticism. Euroscepticism should not be confused with Anti-Europeanism, which is the dislike or fear of European culture and/or people.

Eurosceptics says that the European Union weakens the nation state. They also say that the European Union is too bureaucratic (meaning that important decisions are made by officials who aren't elected). In 2016, the countries with the most unfavourable view of the EU were Greece, France, Spain and the United Kingdom.

The rise of right-wing populist parties in Europe have been contributed to their Eurosceptic views. On 23 June 2016, the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union with 52% voting to leave.

[[Sweden Democrats]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 establishments in Sweden, Eurosceptic parties, Political parties in Sweden

The Sweden Democrats (Swedish: Sverigedemokraterna, SD) is a political party in Sweden.

The party was founded on 6 February 1988. In the 1988 Swedish general election, they only received 1,118 votes. However, their support has been slowly increasing since. In 2018, they received 1,135,627 votes and won 62 out of 349 seats in the Riksdag.

Other political parties in Sweden refuse to cooperate with the SD.

[[Ari Rath]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Austrian Jews, Israeli journalists, Jewish Israeli writers, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Refugees from Nazism, Writers from Vienna

Ari Rath (ארי רט‎; 6 January 1925 – 13 January 2017) was an Austrian-Israeli journalist and writer. He was born and grew up in Vienna. After the Anschluss, Rath, who was Jewish, came through a Kindertransport as a thirteen-year-old boy to Palestine. In 1975, he became an editor for The Jerusalem Post. Later, in 1979, he became the chief editor. In 1989, he left The Jerusalem Post, and taught at the University of Potsdam. He supported a peaceful bringing together of Israel and Palestine.

Rath died on 13 January 2017 in Vienna at the age of 92.

[[Alexandra Föderl-Schmid]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Austrian journalists, People from Upper Austria

Alexandra Föderl-Schmid (born 30 January 1971) is an Austrian journalist. She has been the chief editor of the newspaper Der Standard since 2007. She began working at the newspaper in 1990. She has been the newspaper's Germany on-the-scene reporter and Brussels-based European Union on-the-scene reporter.

Föderl-Schmid was born in Haslach an der Mühl, Upper Austria. She studied at the University of Salzburg.

[[Palakkad]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kerala

Palakkad is a city in the state of Kerala, India. It is the administrative capital of Palakkad District. Palakkad has the seventh most people in Kerala. Malayalam is the most spoken language in Palakkad city.

[[Irfan Pathan]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Indian cricketers

Irfan Khan Pathan is an Indian cricketer from Gujarat. He is a left arm fast bowler and left handed batsman. He started with the India national cricket team in the Border–Gavaskar Trophy. Pathan was the first person to take a hat-trick in the first over. He did this achievement against Pakistan at Karachi.

Irfan Pathan was born on 27 October 1984 in what is now Vadodara. His older brother is Yusuf Pathan. He is also a cricketer who played for the National Team of India. 

Irfan's top score in Test cricket: 102 out. Total wicket:100. ODI Top Score:83 out. Total wicket:173. 

[[Anton Nanut]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Classical musicians, Conductors, Deaths from disease, Slovenian people

Anton Nanut (13 September 1932 – 13 January 2017) was a Slovenian conductor of classical music. From 1981 to 1999, he served as the chief conductor of the RTV Slovenia Symphony Orchestra. He was a professor of conducting at the Academy of Music in Ljubljana. He also had worked with over 200 orchestras and had made over 200 recordings with many labels. He also worked with Milenko Stefanovic. He was born in Kanal ob Soči.

Nanut died after a long illness on 13 January 2017 in Šempeter pri Gorici. He was 84.

[[Oude IJsselstreek]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 establishments in the Netherlands, Municipalities of Gelderland

Oude IJsselstreek is a municipality of the province of Gelderland, the Netherlands. In 2016 about 40,000 people were living in this municipality.

Oude IJsselstreek is partly in the Achterhoek region and borders Germany.

It was created on 1 January 2005 from the former municipalities of Gendringen and Wisch.

[[Aa en Hunze]]

CATEGORIES: Aa en Hunze, 1990s establishments in the Netherlands, 1998 establishments in Europe

Aa en Hunze is a municipality of the province of Drenthe, the Netherlands. In 2016 about 25,000 people were living in this municipality.

Aa en Hunze lies in the northeastern part of Drenthe.

Aa en Hunze was established in 1998 by combining the municipalities of Anloo, Gasselte, Gieten, and Rolde.

[[Tracer]]

CATEGORIES: Comics characters, Fictional lesbians, Fictional British people, Video game characters

Tracer is a fictional video game character. She first appeared in an update for the game Heroes of the Storm. She later appeared in the 2016 video game, Overwatch. These games are made by Blizzard Entertainment, a company that makes and publishes video games.

In Overwatch, the character is known as Tracer, but her real name is Lena Oxton. Her personality is noticeably happy and energetic. She is known as one of the faster characters in the game, but also one with low health. In the game, she is able to teleport and time travel, with her abilities "Blink" and "Recall". She is an "Offense" hero commonly used to flank or distract the enemy team. Her Ultimate Ability, "Pulse Bomb" is commonly used to eliminate high priority targets in a small area, it can also stick to enemies and eliminate others nearby, Tracer herself can also be damaged by this if she is too close. 

In the real world, she is one of the more well known characters from Overwatch. This is because she is seen on the cover of the video game and Blizzard has made animated videos featuring her.

[[Noordoostpolder]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Flevoland, Former municipalities of Overijssel

Noordoostpolder is a municipality of Flevoland, the Netherlands, and a former municipality of Overijssel. In 2016 about 47,000 people were living in Noordoostpolder.

[[Dronten]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Flevoland, Municipalities of Flevoland

Dronten is a town and municipality of Flevoland, the Netherlands. 

In 2016 about 41,000 people were living in the municipality and 28,000 in the town of Dronten.

[[Zeewolde]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Flevoland, Municipalities of Flevoland

Zeewolde is a village and municipality of Flevoland, the Netherlands. 

In 2016 about 22,000 people were living here.

[[Kosi River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Bihar, Rivers of India, Rivers of Nepal

The Kosi river is a river in Asia. It is called the "Sorrow of Bihar" because of the damage caused when it floods.

[[Jallikattu]]

CATEGORIES: Events in India, History of Tamil Nadu

Jallikattu is a traditional event in Tamil Nadu. It is an ancient Tamil event where participants try to embrace a bull, when the bull try to knock them off. It displays the bravery of a person who embraces the bull. The person who wins the event was awarded with money in the ancient Tamil period

The earliest history of Jallikattu was from about 2500 years ago. It is held on the day of third day of Pongal festival and second day of Thai month of the Tamil calendar which is known as Maatu Pongal.

The Supreme Court ordered Jallikattu banned because of animal welfare issues.And the Tamil nadu youngsters protest against supreme Court's in the Marina beach .Banned more than 2 million people's participate the protest and the government of India special ordinance for jallikattu and lift the supreme Court's ban.After 3 years they conduct jallikattu

[[Scallion]]

CATEGORIES: Vegetables

A scallion is a vegetable. Scallions are also called spring onions, green onions, and salad onions. 

[[Achtkarspelen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Friesland

Achtkarspelen is a municipality of Friesland, the Netherlands. In 2016 the municipality had about 28,000 people.

[[Ameland]]

CATEGORIES: West Frisian Islands, Municipalities of Friesland

Ameland is an island and municipality of the province of Friesland, the Netherlands. In 2016 the municipality had about 3,600 people. The municipality covers an area of 269 km², the island an area of 59 km².

Ameland makes part of the West Frisian Islands (Waddeneilanden).

It lies west of the island of Schiermonnikoog and east of the island of Terschelling.

[[Hochfrottspitze]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Geography of Bavaria, Tyrol (state), Mountains of Austria, Mountains of Germany

The Hochfrottspitze is a mountain near Oberstdorf, Germany. It is the highest German mountain in the Allgäu Alps at 2649 high. The border with Austria is on its ridge. 

With the Trettachspitze and Mädelegabel, the Hochfrottspitze forms a well known trio of peaks on the main ridge of the Allgäu Alps. It was first climbed in 1869 by Hermann von Barth. The route to the top is difficult to climb. The mountain is made of dolomite.

[[Stadskanaal]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Groningen (province), Municipalities of Groningen (province)

Stadskanaal is a village and municipality of the province of Groningen, the Netherlands. 

About 32,000 people were living in the municipality in 2016, and about 20,000 in the village of Stadskanaal in 2012.

[[Kapelle]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Zeeland, Settlements in Zeeland

Kapelle, Zeelandic: Kapelle or Kapel'n,  is a village and municipality on the former island of Zuid-Beveland, Province of Zeeland, the Netherlands.

In 2017 the municipality had about 13,000 people.

In 2016 the village had about 7,000 people.

[[Blattodea]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

Blattodea is an order of insects made up of the cockroaches and termites.

[[Milton Metz]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, American radio personalities, American television personalities, People from Cleveland, Ohio, People from Louisville, Kentucky

Milton Metz (c. 1921 – January 12, 2017) was an American radio and television personality in Louisville, Kentucky. He was born in Cleveland, Ohio. He occasionally did commercial work for local radio and television stations until he was unable to due to his health in the last year of his life.

Metz was inducted into the University of Kentucky Journalism Hall of Fame in 1989. He was also named as a Gold Circle Honoree in 2009 by the Ohio Valley Chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.

Metz died in Louisville, Kentucky at a retirement facility from complications of a fall on January 12, 2017, aged 95.

[[Paleoconservatism]]

CATEGORIES: Conservatism, Political movements, Anti-Communists

Paleoconservatism (sometimes called paleocon) is a conservative idea that stresses tradition, limited government and civil society, along with religious, national and Western identity. The idea is mainly found in the United States.

According to scholar Michael Foley, paleoconservatives want more restrictions on immigration, cuts in multicultural programs, protectionism (basically meaning that foreign goods will be taxed more), isolationism, and to bring back traditional societal roles.

Paul Gottfried created the term in the 1980s. It was used to refer to conservative traditional Catholics and agrarian Southerners who turned against Communism during the Cold War.

[[Vsevolod Murakhovsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Ukrainian politicians, Russian politicians

Vsevolod Serafimovich Murakhovsky (Всеволод Серафимович Мураховский; 20 October 1926 – 12 January 2017) was a Ukrainian-Russian politician. He was born in Luhansk Oblast, Ukrainian SSR. Murakhovsky served as first deputy premier during the Gorbachev Era from 1985 through 1989.

Murakhovsky died on 12 January 2017, aged 90.

[[John Jacobs (English golfer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, British golfers, English businesspeople, Sportspeople from Yorkshire, Writers from Yorkshire

John Robert Maurice Jacobs OBE (14 March 1925 – 13 January 2017) was an English professional golfer, coach, entrepreneur, writer and administrator. He was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 2000. He was born in Yorkshire. He founded the PGA European Tour in 1972.

Jacobs' death was announced on 13 January 2017 at the age of 91.

[[Antony Armstrong-Jones, 1st Earl of Snowdon]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, English photographers, Movie directors from London, Writers from London

Antony Charles Robert Armstrong-Jones, 1st Earl of Snowdon (7 March 1930 – 13 January 2017), commonly known as Lord Snowdon, was an English photographer and filmmaker. He was married to Princess Margaret, younger daughter of King George VI and younger sister of Queen Elizabeth II.

Snowdon retired from the House of Lords on 31 March 2016.

Armstrong-Jones died at his home in Kensington, London, England on 13 January 2017, aged 86.

[[Gilberto Agustoni]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Roman Catholic priests, Swiss people, Schaffhausen

Gilberto Agustoni (26 July 1922 – 13 January 2017) was a Swiss Roman Catholic prelate. He served as the Prefect of the Apostolic Signatura from 1994 to 1998. He was later a Cardinal-Priest of the Roman Catholic Church. He was born in Schaffhausen.

Agustoni died on 13 January 2017 at the age of 94.

[[Horacio Guarany]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Argentine singers, Argentine writers, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Disease-related deaths in Argentina, Folk singers, Guitarists

Eraclio Catalin Rodríguez Cereijo (15 May 1925 – 13 January 2017), better known as Horacio Guarany, was an Argentine singer, musician and writer. He was called one of the most important Argentine folklore singers. He won a Platinum Konex Award in 1985. He began his career in the 1940s. He released around 57 solo albums. He was signed with the record labels Philips and EMI. He was born in Las Garzas, Santa Fe Province.

Guarany died from a cardiac arrest on 13 January 2017 in Luján, Buenos Aires Province. He was 91.

[[Magic Alex]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, 1942 births, The Beatles, Deaths from pneumonia, Engineers, Greek businesspeople, People from Athens

Yanni (later John) Alexis Mardas (Αλέξης Μάρδας; 2 May 1942 – 13 January 2017) was better known as Magic Alex, was a Greek electrical engineer and businessman. His nickname, "Magic Alex", was given to him by The Beatles when he worked with the group between 1965 and 1969, including being head of Apple Electronics. He was born in Athens, Greece.

Mardas died from complications of pneumonia in his apartment in Athens on 13 January 2017, aged 74.

[[Nationalist Movement Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Asia

The Nationalist Movement Party (sometimes called Nationalist Action Party; Turkish: Milliyetçi Hareket Partisi, MHP) is a political party in Turkey.

The MHP was founded on 9 February 1969 by Alparslan Türkeş. Their most successful performance in an election was in 1999, where they received 5,606,634 votes and won 129 out of 550 seats in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the last election, they received 5,599,600 votes and won 40 out of 550 seats.

The Nationalist Movement Party has been called a neo-fascist party, and has been linked to some violent militias. They are cultural nationalists, and moved from supporting secularism to having a pro-Islamic stance. They are Eurosceptics, meaning they are against the European Union.

Their slogan is: Ülkenin Geleceğine Oy Ver (meaning "Vote for the country's future").

The MHP refuses to have any form of dialogue with the left-wing Kurdish nationalist Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP).

[[National Alliance (Latvia)]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Europe, Eurosceptic parties, 2011 establishments in Europe, Establishments in Latvia

The National Alliance (officially called the National Alliance "All For Latvia!" or "For Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK"; Latvian: Nacionālā apvienība „Visu Latvijai!” or „Tēvzemei un Brīvībai/LNNK”; NA) is a political party in Latvia.

The current party was founded on 23 July 2011. The party is a merger of All For Latvia! and For Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK. Their support has been rising since their creation, and in the last parliament election they received 151,567 votes and won 17 out of 100 seats in the Saeima. In the 2014 European election, they received 63,229 votes and won 1 out of 8 seats.

The party is based on nationalism and conservatism. They are Eurosceptic, meaning that they are against the European Union. The party also wants the government to have a stricter anti-Russia stance.

[[Bonaire]]

CATEGORIES: Bonaire

Bonaire is an island of the Caribbean Netherlands and the former Netherlands Antilles. It is a special municipality (public body) of the Netherlands. It lies off the coast of Venezuela, near the islands of Aruba and Curaçao, which are also parts of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.

Bonaire lies at 12. It has a land area of 288  km². In 2014 about 18,000 people were living there.

Kralendijk is the island's capital city.

[[Epsom Downs railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, 1865 establishments in England

Epsom Downs railway station opened in 1865. The only operator for this station is Southern.

[[Surjit Singh Barnala]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in India, Lieutenant governors of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lieutenant Governors of Puducherry, Governors of Andhra Pradesh, Governors of Tamil Nadu, Governors of Uttarakhand, Punjabi people, Sikhism

Surjit Singh Barnala (21 October 1925 – 14 January 2017) was an Indian politician. He was Chief Minister of Punjab from 29 September 1985 to 11 June 1987. He was also the Governor of Tamil Nadu from 3 November 2004 to 31 August 2011, as well as Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. He was a member of the Shiromani Akali Dal party.

Barnala was born in Ateli, Punjab (Haryana) to a Sikh family. He married to Surjit Kaur Barnala. They had a daughter and two sons.

Barnala died after a long illness on 14 January 2017 in Chandigarh, Punjab. He was 91.

[[Prayagraj]]

CATEGORIES: Allahabad district, Cities and towns in Uttar Pradesh

Prayagraj (प्रयागराज formerly called as Allahabad), is a city in Uttar Pradesh state of India. It is located where Ganges and Yamuna rivers join. This city is a holy city for Hindus. It is best known for Kumbh fair. This fair occurs every 12th year in Prayagraj.

Previously Prayagraj known as Allahabad. The name has changed in Yogi Government Uttar Pradesh in 2018.

[[Mädelegabel]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Geography of Bavaria, Tyrol (state), Mountains of Austria, Mountains of Germany

The Mädelegabel is a mountain on the border of Austria and Germany. It is near Oberstdorf in the Allgäu Alps. It is one of the most-famous and most-climbed high mountains in the German Alps. 

Mädelegabel is 2645 high and made of Dolomite. It is the fourth tallest mountain in the Allgäu Alps, with a 400m tall rock face. With the Trettachspitze and the Hochfrottspitze, the Mädelegabel makes up the well known trio of peaks on the main ridge of the Allgäu Alps. Originally Mädelegabel was the name for all three mountains of the trio. Only later were they given different names. On its southeastern slopes is the Schwarzmilzferner, a small glacier. It was first climbed in 1818, by a survey team.

[[Udo Ulfkotte]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Germany, Deaths from myocardial infarction, German journalists, German Protestants, German political scientists, Writers from North Rhine-Westphalia

Udo Konstantin Ulfkotte (20 January 1960 – 13 January 2017) was a German journalist and political scientist. He was an assistant editor for the main daily Frankfurt newspaper, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (FAZ). Between 1986 and 1998, Ulfkotte lived in the Middle East mostly, inlcuding Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Oman, United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Jordan. He was became a Muslim while living in Afghanistan. He later became a born-again Christian. He later held conservative and anti-Muslim views and was against immigration. He was born in Lippstadt, North Rhine-Westphalia (then in West Germany).

Ulfkotte died from a heart attack on 13 January 2017 at the age of 56.

[[Jupiter Ghosh]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Bangladeshi cricketers

Jupiter Ghosh is a cricketer from Bangladesh. He was born on 22nd July 1989 in Bagerhat, Khulna. Jupiter Ghosh is a Bangladeshi first-class and List A cricketer. He is a right-handed batsman and right-arm bowler. Ghosh is an all-rounder and plays as a right-handed batsman. He is currently playing for Khulna Division.

[[Mexicana Flight 940]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters in the 1980s

Mexicana Flight 940, was flying from Mexico City to Los Angeles the plane was operated by a Boeing 727 with 159 passengers and 8 crew members on-board. On March 31, 1986  the plane suffered an in-flight fire and crashed near Michoacán, all 167 people on-board were killed, in Mexico's worst air-disaster.

[[Mark Fisher (theorist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2017 deaths, Bloggers, British journalists, Suicides in the United Kingdom, Writers who committed suicide

Mark Fisher (11 July 1968 – 13 January 2017) was a British writer, cultural theorist and blogger. He was also known by his blogging name k-punk from 2003. He was known for his writing on radical politics, popular culture and music. He wrote books, including Capitalist Realism (2009). He also wrote as a journalist for The Wire, The Guardian, Fact, New Statesman and Sight & Sound. He was based at Goldsmiths, University of London.

Fisher died on 13 January 2017 at the age of 48. His wife, Zöe Fisher, said he had taken his own life.

[[Gil Cuerva]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, Actors

[[ASAP (variety show)]]

CATEGORIES: Philippine television series, English-language television programs

ASAP  is the musical variety show in the Philippines shown on ABS-CBN and is seen worldwide through the subscription-based global TV channel The Filipino Channel. 

[[Urbeleskarspitze]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Mountains of Austria, Tyrol (state)

The Urbeleskarspitze is a mountain in the Allgäu Alps. It is 2632 tall. It is in the state of Tyrol, Austria. It is the fifth tallest mountain in the Allgäu Alps. It is also the second tallest mountain of the Hornbach chain. It is located next to the Bretterspitze in the Hornbach chain. It is made of dolomite, and has a bell-shaped summit. The first recorded climb was in 1869, by Hermann von Barth, but many think locals climbed it first. There are no easy routes to the top. There are only two useable routes, both of which are quite difficult.

[[Dabwali fire accident]]

CATEGORIES: 1995, 1990s in India, Building and structure fires in Asia, December events, Disasters in India, Disasters in the 1990s, Haryana

The Dabwali fire accident was a fire in a building in Haryana, India on 23 December 1995. At least 400 people were killed.

[[Chopper (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 comedy-drama movies, 2000 crime movies, 2000s biographical movies, 2000s black comedy movies, 2000s crime drama movies, 2000s criminal comedy movies, 2000s prison movies, Antisocial personality disorder, Australian biographical movies, Australian comedy movies, Australian crime movies, Australian drama movies, Cult movies, English-language movies, Melbourne, Movies based on books, Movies set in the 1980s, Movies set in the 1990s, Movies set in Australia, Prison comedy movies, Prison drama movies, Movies directed by Andrew Dominik

Chopper is a 2000 Australian black comedy crime drama movie. It was written and directed by Andrew Dominik and based on the autobiographical books by Mark "Chopper" Read. It stars Eric Bana as the title character and co-stars Vince Colosimo, Simon Lyndon, Kate Beahan and David Field. It has a cult following.

[[Interstate 275 (Michigan)]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways, Transport in Michigan

Interstate 275 (Michigan) is an interstate in Michigan, that acts as a western bypass of the Detroit metropolitan area.

[[Addis Ababa–Djibouti Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport, Djibouti, Transport in Africa

The Addis Ababa–Djibouti Railway is an international railway that connects Ethiopia's capital of Addis Ababa with Djibouti. It is linked to the Red Sea and Indian Ocean.

[[Smith & Wesson M&P]]

CATEGORIES: Pistols

Smith & Wesson M&P (Military and Police) is a series of handguns named after the famous 20th century Smith & Wesson service revolvers. They are designed mainly for military, police and personal defense use. They are offered in calibers including: .22 LR, .380 ACP, 9×19mm Parabellum, .357 Magnum and .45 ACP.

[[Supergirl (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American television series, Action television series, Drama television series, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

Supergirl is an American superhero action-adventure drama television series that originally premiered on October 26, 2015 on CBS. It is based on the DC Comics character Supergirl and stars Melissa Benoist. Supergirl is the cousin of Superman and along with him is one of the last surviving Kryptonians.

The series premiered on October 26, 2015 on CBS, and on May 12, 2016 it was renewed for a second season that premiered on October 10, 2016 by The CW. On January 8, 2017, The CW renewed the series for a third season.

[[Steinschartenkopf]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Mountains of Austria, Tyrol (state)

The Steinschartenkopf is a 2615 high mountain in the Allgäu Alps. It is north of the Hohes Licht, in Tyrol, Austria. It is the sixth tallest mountain in the Allgäu Alps. The popular Heilbronn Way (Heilbronner Weg) runs over the summit. It is the highest point on the Heilbronn Way.

[[Aswan High Dam]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Egypt, Dams, 1971 establishments in Africa, 1970s establishments in Egypt

The Aswan High Dam is a dam on the river Nile, near Aswan, Egypt. It was built from 1960 to 1971, and created Lake Nasser. 

[[Dick Gautier]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Culver City, California, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from Los Angeles County, California, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, Singers from Los Angeles County, California

Richard "Dick" Gautier (October 30, 1931 – January 13, 2017) was an American actor, comedian, singer and caricaturist. He was best as Hymie the Robot in the television series Get Smart, Robin Hood in the short-lived comedy series When Things Were Rotten. He also played Stanley Beamish in the short-lived sitcom series Mister Terrific (1967). He had many voice roles in the 1986 animated Transformers series.

Gautier was born in Los Angeles, California. He had three children from his first marriage. He married actress Barbara Stuart in 1967. They later divorced and Gautier married Tess Hightower.

Gautier died after a long illness on January 13, 2017 in Arcadia, California. He was 85.

[[Yama Buddha]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, 2017 deaths, Nepalese singers, Rap musicians

Anil Adhikari (अनिल अधिकारी; 30 May 1987 – 14 January 2017) was a Nepalese rapper. He was better known by his stage name Yama Buddha. He was a Nepalese hip hop artist, also known as "NepHop". He was known for his songs "Mero Juttama", "Saathi, Aaudaichu Ma", "Footpath mero ghar" and "Yo prasanga", all in Nepali. He began his career in 2007. He was a presenter of the rap battle show Raw Barz. He was born in the Eastern Development Region. He lived in the United Kingdom with his wife.

Yama Buddha died on 14 January 2017 in London at the age of 29.

[[Inner peace]]

CATEGORIES: Peace, Meditation

Inner peace (or peace of mind) happens when a person is able to make their mind calm despite stressful things that may be happening around them.

[[Marchspitze]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Mountains of Austria, Tyrol (state)

The Marchspitze is a mountain in the Allgäu Alps. It is made of Dolomite and is part of the Hornbach chain. The mountain is 2609 high. It is in Tyrol, Austria, 1.5 kilometres east of the Großer Krottenkopf. It is a hard climb and therefore not many people visit it.

[[Bretterspitze]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Mountains of Austria, Tyrol (state)

The Bretterspitze is a mountain in Tyrol, Austria. It is part of the Hornbach chain in the Allgäu Alps. The mountain is 2608 high. It is next to the Gliegerkarspitze to the west and the Urbeleskarspitze to the northeast. The summit of the Bretterspitze is made of dolomite.

[[Bockkarkopf]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Geography of Bavaria, Tyrol (state), Mountains of Austria, Mountains of Germany

The Bockkarkopf is a mountain in the Allgäu Alps on the main ridge. It is 2609 high. It is the ninth highest peak in the Allgäu Alps.

Bockkarkopf forms a border between Bavarian border with Tyrol. It is found between the Wilder Mann mountain to the southwest and the Hochfrottspitze mountain to the northeast. The popular Heilbronn Way (Heilbronner Weg) runs over the triangular peak.

[[Lieutenant Governor of Iowa]]

CATEGORIES: Lieutenant Governors of Iowa

The Lieutenant Governor of Iowa is a assistant governor. If the governor quits or dies, then the lieutenant governor will become governor of the state. The current Lieutenant Governor is Republican Adam Gregg since January 18, 2019.

Before 1990, the governor and lieutenant governor were elected in separate elections; since then they have run together on the same ticket.

[[Rudolf Slánský]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1952 deaths, Communist politicians, Czech Jews, Czechoslovak politicians, Jewish politicians, People executed by hanging

Rudolf Salzmann Slánský (1901–1952) was a Czechoslovak Communist politician. He was a longtime member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party. Later he was the General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee (1945-1951). Slánský was one of the main organizers of the 1948 Czechoslovak coup d'état. During World War II he was a member of Czechoslovak exile resistance in the foreign centre in Moscow. Slánský was executed on December 3, 1952 at Prague’s Pankrac Prison.

[[Aero Caribbean Flight 883]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 aviation disasters, 2010 in North America, 2010s disasters in North America, November 2010 events

Aero Caribbean Flight 883 was a passenger flight from Port-au-Prince to Havana with a stopover at Santiago de Cuba. On November 4, 2010, the ATR-72-212 crashed near Sancti Spíritus due to icing. All 68 people on-board were killed in Cuba's 3rd deadliest air-disaster.

[[Herbert Mies]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, German communist politicians, People from Mannheim, Politicians from Baden-Württemberg

Herbert Mies (23 February 1929 – 14 January 2017) was a German politician. He joined the Communist Party of Germany (KPD) in 1945. He was the chairman of the party from 1973 to 1989. He was a winner of the 1985–86 Lenin Peace Prize. He was born in Mannheim, Baden-Württemberg.

Mies died on 14 January 2017 in Mannheim at the age of 87.

[[Ferdinand Peroutka]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1978 deaths, Czech journalists, Czech writers

Ferdinand Peroutka (6 February 1895 – 20 April 1978) was a Czech journalist and writer. He is considered to be one of the most important journalists in Czech history.

[[Richard Divall]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Conductors, Disease-related deaths in Victoria (Australia), Musicians from Sydney, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, Order of Australia

Richard Divall AO OBE (9 September 1945 – 15 January 2017) was an Australian conductor and musicologist. He spent nine years as a music producer at the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. He was born in Sydney, New South Wales.

From 1972, on the invitation of Dame Joan Hammond, he became the music director of the Victoria State Opera in Melbourne, Victoria. He stayed with the opera for 25 years. His teachers included Nikolaus Harnoncourt, Sir Charles Mackerras, Sir Reginald Goodall and Wolfgang Wagner. He was also a professor in Melbourne, London and Malta.

Divall died after a long illness 15 January 2017 in Melbourne. He was 71.

[[After Eight]]

CATEGORIES: Candy

After Eight is the name of mint chocolate candies made by Nestlé.

[[Biberkopf]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Geography of Bavaria, Tyrol (state), Mountains of Austria, Mountains of Germany

The Biberkopf is a mountain in the Alps. It is on the border between Germany and Austria. The mountain is 2,599 high.

The Biberkopf is on the main ridge of the Allgäu Alps. It forms a border between Bavaria, Germany and Tyrol, Austria. It is about 15.5 km southwest of Oberstdorf and about 2.5 km east of the Schrofen Pass. The Biberkopf is sometimes called the most southerly point in Bavaria and Germany. However, its summit is 110 metres further north than the Haldenwanger Eck, which is 4,088 metres to the west. The mountain is made of dolomite.

[[Hornbach chain]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Mountain ranges of the Alps, Mountain ranges of Germany, Mountains of Austria

The Hornbach chain (Hornbachkette) is a string of mountains, about 15 kilometres long. They are part of the Allgäu Alps in the Austrian state of Tyrol. The Hornbach chain leaves the main ridge of the Allgäu Alps at the Öfnerspitze. It arcs from the north to the east. 

In the west another branch goes south, which is where the Großer Krottenkopf (2,656 m) is found. The mountain is the highest in the whole Allgäu Alps. 

On the main ridge of the Hornbach chain, the highest peaks are the Marchspitze (2,609 m), the Bretterspitze (2,608 m) and the Urbeleskarspitze (2,632 m). They are all in the ten most important summits of the Allgäu Alps.

[[Carlos Fernández Gondín]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Cuban politicians

Carlos Fernández Gondín (1 July 1938 – 7 January 2017) was a Cuban politician. He was born in Santiago de Cuba. He served as the Minister of the Interior of Cuba from 2015 until his death in 2017 during the Raul Castro presidency.

In 2015, he suffered a stroke. He died in Havana from complications of a chronic condition on 7 January 2017, aged 78.

[[Ryszard Parulski]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Polish sportspeople, People from Warsaw

Ryszard Parulski (9 March 1938 – 10 January 2017) was a Polish fencer. He won a silver medal in the team foil event at the 1964 Summer Olympics and a bronze in the same event at the 1968 Summer Olympics. He was born in Warsaw.

Parulski served as the vice-chairman of the Polish Olympic Committee from 1990 until 1992.

[[James Fairfax]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Australian businesspeople, Australian philanthropists, People from Sydney

James Oswald Fairfax (27 March 1933 – 11 January 2017) was an Australian company director and philanthropist. He was a member of the Fairfax family, an Australian family in the newspaper publisher industry. He became a director of John Fairfax & Sons Ltd in 1957 and took over from his father in 1977. He resigned in 1987 and sold his shares to his half brother Warwick Fairfax, during 'young Warwick's' ultimately disastrous takeover bid.

Fairfax was born in Sydney. He studied at Cranbrook School, Geelong Grammar School and Balliol College, Oxford.

Fairfax published a memoir in 1991. He died on 11 January 2017 in Sydney at the age of 83.

[[James Ferguson-Lees]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, British scientists, Ornithologists

Ian James Ferguson-Lees (8 January 1929 – 11 January 2017) was a British ornithologist. He became known as a member of the British Birds Rarities Committee who was responsible, with John Nelder and Max Nicholson, for publicly debunking the Hastings Rarities.

Ferguson-Lees was born in Italy. He died on 11 January 2017 in England at the age of 88.

[[Jan Szczepański]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Polish sportspeople, Boxers

Jan Antoni Szczepański (20 November 1939 – 15 January 2017) was a Polish boxer. He won the gold medal in the lightweight division (– 60 kg) at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, West Germany. In the final he defeated Hungary's László Orbán on points (5:0).

Szczepanski died on 15 January 2017, after long illness in Warsaw, aged 77.

[[Eddie Long]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cancer, American Baptists, People from North Carolina, People from Georgia (U.S. state)

Eddie Lee Long (May 12, 1953 – January 15, 2017) was an American pastor. He was the senior pastor of New Birth Missionary Baptist Church, a megachurch in unincorporated DeKalb County, Georgia, from 1987 until his death in 2017. 

[[Frank Spellman]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Jewish American sportspeople, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Frank Isaac Spellman (September 17, 1922 – January 12, 2017) was an American weightlifter. He set several Olympic records and earned a gold medal in 1948. Spellman has been elected to the United States Weightlifting Hall of Fame, the Helms Athletic Foundation Hall of Fame and the Porterville Quarterback Hall of Fame. He was born in Malvern, Pennsylvania.

In addition to being inducted into the Philadelphia Jewish Sports Hall of Fame in its class of 2003 / 2004, Spellman was inducted into the International Jewish Sports Hall of Fame in 1983. 

Spellman died on January 12, 2017 at the age of 94.

[[Xavier University]]

CATEGORIES: Big East Conference, 1931 establishments in the United States, Colleges and universities in Ohio, 20th-century establishments in Ohio

Xavier University (ˈ ZAY) is a co-educational Jesuit, Catholic university located in Norwood, an enclave of Cincinnati, Ohio, United States. It was established in 1831.

The school is the sixth-oldest Catholic and fourth-oldest Jesuit university in the nation. Xavier has an undergraduate enrollment of 4,485 students and graduate enrollment of 2,165. Xavier is primarily an undergraduate, liberal arts institution.

[[Greg Trooper]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Tennessee, American singer-songwriters, American guitarists, American pianists, Singers from New Jersey, Musicians from New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey

Greg Trooper (January 13, 1956 – January 15, 2017) was an American singer-songwriter. His songs have been recorded by many artists, including Steve Earle, Billy Bragg and Vince Gill.

[[Super Mario Run]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 video games, IOS games, Mario platform games, Nintendo video games, Video games developed in Japan, Android (operating system) games

Super Mario Run is a side-scrolling auto-running video game developed and published by Nintendo for iOS and Android devices. It was released first for iOS on December 15, 2016. It was released for Android in March 22, 2017.

Super Mario Run has three game modes. It has core game where the player controls Mario or other characters and automatically run across the screen while jumping to collect coins and other awards. It has a Toad Rally where players compete against ghosts of other players. It also has a Mushroom Kingdom area for players to expand using coins and other collectibles from the other game modes.

[[David Modell]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Businesspeople from Ohio, Businesspeople from Baltimore, Maryland, People from Willoughby, Ohio, Sportspeople from Baltimore, Maryland

David Modell (born David Orrick McDearmon, Jr.; August 16, 1960 – January 13, 2017) was an American business executive and sports team owner. He was born in Willoughby, Ohio. He served as President and COO of the National Football League's Baltimore Ravens. Modell served as chairman for 3ality Digital, Inc..

Modell died on January 13, 2017 from lung cancer in Baltimore, Maryland, aged 56.

[[Willoughby, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Willoughby is a city in Lake County, Ohio, United States and is a suburb of Cleveland. The population was 22,268 at the 2010 census.

[[Harwood Heights, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois

Harwood Heights is a village in Cook County, Illinois, United States. The population was 8,612 at the 2010 census. The current mayor is Arlene Jezierny. She is the second woman to serve as mayor in Harwood Heights, the first being Margaret Fuller.

[[Mohammed bin Faisal Al Saud]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Saudi Arabian businesspeople

Mohammed bin Faisal (1937 – 14 January 2017) was a Saudi businessman and a member of House of Saud. He was a son of King Faisal. He was one of the pioneers in the establishment of Islamic banking. He was born in Taif, Saudi Arabia. Mohammed bin Faisal was the chairman of the board of trustees of the King Faisal Foundation. He was also a member of Effat University's board of founders and of trustees.

Mohammed bin Faisal died on 14 January 2017 in Mecca, Saudi Arabia at the age of 80.

[[Nicodemo Scarfo]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, American gangsters, People from Brooklyn

Nicodemo Domenico "Little Nicky" Scarfo (March 8, 1929 – January 15, 2017) was a member of the American Mafia who eventually became the Boss of the Philadelphia crime family after the death of Angelo Bruno and Phil Testa. 

During his criminal career, Scarfo was described by some as psychotic, cruel and vicious. From many accounts of his former criminal associates who testified against him, he would want to murder someone if he was shown the slightest bit of disrespect or even if he was stared at.

[[John Wightman]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, American mayors, Politicians from Nebraska, US Republican Party politicians, State legislators of the United States, People from North Platte, Nebraska

John Matthew Wightman (October 2, 1938 – January 5, 2017) was an American politician from the state of Nebraska. He served two terms, from 2007 to 2015, in the Nebraska Legislature, representing a district in the central part of the state. Wightman was a member of the Republican Party. He was also mayor of Lexington, Nebraska.

Wightman died on January 5, 2017 of respiratory failure at the age of 78 in Lexington, Nebraska.

[[Claude Steiner]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American psychologists, Writers from Paris, Writers from California

Claude M. Steiner (6 January 1935 – 9 January 2016) was a French-born American psychotherapist and writer. He wrote about transactional analysis (TA). His writings have focused especially on life scripts, alcoholism, emotional literacy, and interpersonal power plays.

In the 1970s and '80s, Steiner was a founder and practitioner of Radical Psychiatry, a new approach to psychotherapy based in a social theory (of alienation) rather than a medical one (of individual pathology). Influenced by progressive movements of the time, work in this modality continues into the present and is gaining recent recognition worldwide.

Steiner died at his ranch in Ukiah, California on 9 January 2017, aged 81.

[[Kevin Starr]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American historians, Writers from San Francisco

Kevin Starr (September 3, 1940 – January 14, 2017) was an American historian. He was born in San Francisco, California. Starr was best known for his multi-volume series on the history of California, collectively called "Americans and the California Dream".

Starr died of a heart attack in San Francisco on January 14, 2017, aged 76.

[[Steve Dillon]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2016 deaths, Artists from London, Comics artists, Deaths from appendicitis, Disease-related deaths in New York City, People from Bedfordshire

Steve Dillon (22 March 1962 – 22 October 2016) was a British comic book artist. He was best known for his work with writer Garth Ennis on Hellblazer, Preacher and The Punisher. He began his career in the 1970s. He was born in London and grew up in Luton, Bedfordshire.

Dillon died of problems caused by appendicitis on 22 October 2016 in Manhattan, New York, United States. He was 54.

[[The Chainsmokers]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from New York City, American pop music groups

The Chainsmokers are an American pop and electronic dance music duo. They are made up with Drew Taggart and Alex Pall.

The duo released their first studio album, Bouquet, in October 2015. Their song, "Roses", reached the Top 10 on Billboard Hot 100. In 2016, "Closer", with vocals from Halsey, became their first #1 single on the Hot 100 chart.

The Chainsmokers are from New York City.

[[Krottenspitze]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Geography of Bavaria, Tyrol (state), Mountains of Austria, Mountains of Germany

The Krottenspitze is a mountain in the Allgäu Alps. It is 2,551 high. It is one of the few rocky summits of the main ridge that is visible from Oberstdorf. There are no marked routes to the Krottenspitze. It was first climbed in 1854 for survey work. It is made of Dolomite.

[[Rick Parfitt]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from sepsis, Infectious disease deaths in Spain, English singer-songwriters, English rock guitarists, English rock singers, Singers from Surrey, Musicians from Surrey, Writers from Surrey, People from Woking

Richard John "Rick" Parfitt, OBE (12 October 1948 – 24 December 2016) was an English musician, singer-songwriter and guitarist. He was born in Woking, Surrey. Parfitt was best known as a singer, songwriter and rhythm guitarist for rock band Status Quo.

Parfitt died, aged 68, on 24 December 2016 in a hospital in Marbella, Spain from sepsis complicated by an infected shoulder injury he suffered two days before.

[[Marbella]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Andalusia, Municipalities in Andalusia

Marbella is a city and municipality in southern Spain, belonging to the province of Málaga in the autonomous community of Andalusia. It is part of the Costa del Sol and is the headquarters of the Association of Municipalities of the region; it is also the head of the judicial district that bears its name.

[[Howard Shore]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning composers, Golden Globe Award winning composers, Grammy Award winners, 1946 births, Living people, Canadian composers, People from Toronto

Howard Leslie Shore (born October 18, 1946) is a Canadian composer. He is known for his movie scores. 

He has composed the scores for over 80 movies, mostly known for the scores for The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit movie trilogies. 

Shore has also composed a few concert works including one opera, The Fly, based on the plot of David Cronenberg's 1986 movie premiered at the Théâtre du Châtelet in Paris on July 2, 2008, a short piece Fanfare for the Wanamaker Organ and the Philadelphia Orchestra, and a short overture for the Swiss 21st Century Symphony Orchestra.

In addition to his three Academy Award wins, Shore has also won three Golden Globe Awards and four Grammy Awards.

[[Inauguration of Donald Trump]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in the United States, Donald Trump, January 2017 events, United States presidential inaugurations, 2010s in Washington, D.C.

The inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States happened on Friday, January 20, 2017, on the West Front of the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C.

The inauguration marked the beginning of the four-year term of Donald Trump as President and of Mike Pence as Vice President. The presidential oath of office was administered to Trump by Chief Justice John Roberts and the vice presidential oath of office was administered to Pence by Associate Justice Clarence Thomas.

Benedictions were given by several clerics (among them a rabbi and reverend Franklin Graham, son of the retired reverend Billy Graham, who for decades gave benedictions at the inauguration of US presidents).

The main theme in the inauguration speech of President Trump was his focus on the interests of the United States ("America first!", "Make America Great Again").

Spectators were far fewer than at the inaugurations of his predecessor Barack Obama, although this was contested by President Trump and his spokesman.  Most voters in Washington D.C. had voted for Hillary Clinton, Trump's main opponent in the United States presidential election, 2016.

Presidents Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, and Barack Obama, along with their respective wives, the First Ladies (including Hillary Clinton), had all confirmed their attendance at Trump's inauguration, and were all present. George H. W. Bush, age 92, did not attend the inauguration due to health reasons.

Many groups applied for demonstration permits for Donald J. Trump's inauguration, including Bikers for Trump, and the Women's March on Washington, scheduled for the day after inauguration day. Most of the demonstrators were against the new president, and a few were rioters.

[[Sumiko Mizukubo]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, Living people, Japanese movie actors, Japanese centenarians, Silent movie actors, Actors from Tokyo

Sumiko Mizukubo is a Japanese silent movie actress. She acted in several movies of Naruse Mikio and Ozu Yasujiro. She quit movie-acting in 1935. She was known for her roles in Chocolate Girl (1930), Apart From You (1933), Dragnet Girl (1933) and in Rappa to Musume (1933).

[[Amin Nasir]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2017 deaths, Asian footballers, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Football managers, Singaporean people

Amin Nasir (1968 – 16 January 2017) was a Singaporean football player and manager. He played as a defender for sides including Sembawang Rangers and Woodlands Wellington. 

Amin managed the S.League side Hougang United from 2013 to 2014. He also represented the Singapore national football team and was awarded a bronze medal at the 1993 Southeast Asian Games. His brother, Nazri, captained the Singapore national team from 1997 to 2003.

Amin was first diagnosed with colon cancer in 2012. He died on 16 January 2017 at the age of 48 in Yishun, Singapore. He was survived by his wife and two children.

[[Barry Cassin]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Irish movie actors, Irish television actors, Irish stage actors, Actors from Dublin

Barry Cassin (1924 – 14 January 2017) was an Irish television, stage and screen actor.  On stage, he is best known for his role in the production of Twelve Angry Men. He was born in Dublin.

On screen and on television, Cassin played mostly secondary roles such as in the recent movie Byzantium. Cassin's daughter, Anne, is a well-known journalist and news presenter for Raidió Teilifís Éireann.

Cassin died in Dublin on 14 January 2017, aged 92. 

[[Royal Rumble (2014)]]

Royal Rumble (2014) was a wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) made by WWE. It happened on January 26, 2014. It was performed at the Consol Energy Center in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. It was the twenty-seventh time a Royal Rumble was held and the first to be held in Pittsburgh.

Five matches were performed at the event. The most important match was the Royal Rumble match. Batista won it by last eliminating Roman Reigns and Roman eliminate 12 men which broke Kane's record for most eliminations in one match from 2001. Alexander Rusev also wrestled in WWE for the first time in the Royal Rumble match. 

[[List of longest-living state leaders]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of heads of state, Heads of government

This article lists 100 oldest known living or deceased heads of state or heads of government of sovereign states (often a president or prime minister), born no earlier than 1800, and whose ages are documented in reliable sources. Those currently living are in bold on gold. The longest-lived state leader with known exact date of birth and death was Chau Sen Cocsal Chhum, who lived to 103 years, 143 days. Ek Yi Oun, fellow Cambodian prime minister, lived between 102 years, 1 day, and 103 years, 364 days. Among the Living State Leaders the current eldest is Mustafa Ben Halim, the former Prime Minister of Libya who is currently 1921.

[[Lists of state leaders by age]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of state leaders by age

This article contains various lists of state leaders organized by age, defined as heads of state and/or heads of government.

[[Shigeru Kōyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Japan, Japanese stage actors, Japanese military people, Japanese movie actors, People from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japanese television actors

Shigeru Kōyama was a Japanese actor. He began acting in 1952. He appeared in Samurai Rebellion (1967), Taiyō o Nusunda Otoko (1979) and Beyond Outrage (2010). He was known in the United States for appearing in Black Rain (1986), starring Andy García, Michael Douglas and Ken Takakura. He was born in Kure, Hiroshima.

Kōyama died from pneumonia on 3 January 2017 in Kyoto Prefecture. He was 87.

[[Franca Sozzani]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2016 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Italy, Italian writers, Italian journalists, Mantua, People from Lombardy

Franca Sozzani (20 January 1950 – 22 December 2016) was an Italian journalist. She was the editor-in-chief of Vogue Italia from 1988 until her death in 2016. She was born in Mantua. Her son, Francesco Carrozzini (born 1982), is a director and photographer.

Sozzani died after a long illness on 22 December 2016 in Milan. She was 66.

[[Aleksandr Ezhevsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2017 deaths, Centenarians, Russian engineers, Recipients of the Order of Lenin, Russian politicians, Soviet politicians

Aleksandr Aleksandrovich Ezhevsky (Александр Александрович Ежевский; 3 November 1915 – 15 January 2017) was a Soviet Russian statesman and politician. He served as the minister of tractor and agricultural machinery (engineering) of the USSR from 1980 to 1988. He was given for Order of Lenin awards. He was born in Tulun, Irkutsk Governorate of Siberia.

Ezhevsky turned 100 in 2015. He died on 15 January 2017 at the age of 101.

[[Franz Jarnach]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from North Rhine-Westphalia, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Germany, Deaths from myocardial infarction, German pianists, German rock musicians, German television actors, Musicians from North Rhine-Westphalia, People from Bonn

Franz Jarnach (14 October 1943 – 16 January 2017) was a German actor and musician. He was also known by his stage name Mr. Piggi. He was best for his role as Schildkröte in the improv comedy series Dittsche. He appeared in the series at least 188 times between 2004 and 2014. He was a pianist for the 1960s British beat group Lee Curtis and the All-Stars. He appeared on the music program Beat-Club with the group twice. He was also a member of the rock band The Rattles during the early 1990s.

Jarnach was born in the Bad Godesberg district of Bonn, North Rhine-Westphalia. His father, Philipp Jarnach (1892–1982), was a composer.

Jarnach died from a heart attack on 16 January 2017 in Hamburg. He was 73.

[[Zdeněk Svěrák]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Czech screenwriters

Zdeněk Svěrák (born 28th March 1936 in Prague) is best known as a Czech actor and writer. He is also a noted playwright and songwriter. He is the holder of 3 Magnesia Litera awards and 3 Czech Leo awards. He studied at the Pedagogic University and was a teacher. After 4 years as a teacher, he started to work in Czechoslovak radio. There he met musician Jaroslav Uhlíř and since then he collaborated with him. 

Zdeněk Svěrák and Ladislav Smoljak are creators of czech most famous entertaining genious person Jára Cimrman. They have made 13 theatre plays about him and his life. As actor he appears in czech classic movies as: Na samotě u lesa, Marečku, podejte mi pero!, Trhák, Tři veteráni, Obecná škola or Vratné Láhve. He founded the Theater of Jara Cimrman in 1966.

Zdeněk's son, Jan Svěrák (*1965), is czech film director and one of 4 Czechoslovakian/Czech men who won Oscar. In 1997, the Father and son team won an Oscar for their movie Kolja. Zdeněk Svěrák starred in the movie. In 2014 he was awarded the President's Prize for lifetime achievements ad the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival.

[[Vicki Lansky]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, American children's writers, Deaths from cirrhosis, Disease-related deaths in Minnesota, Writers from Louisville, Kentucky, Writers from New York

Vicki Lee Lansky (née Rogosin; January 6, 1942 – January 15, 2017) was an American author and publisher. She wrote parenting books and other advice books. She wrote over forty books, first with Feed Me I’m Yours. Other books she wrote include Divorce Book for Parents, 101 Ways To Tell Your Sweetheart "I Love You" and five "101 Ways" books. Her books sold over six million copies.

Lansky was born in Louisville, Kentucky and grew up in Westchester, New York. She had two children with her first husband, Bruce. They later divorced. In 2008, she married Stephen M. Schaefer.

Lansky died from cirrhosis on January 15, 2017 in Plymouth, Minnesota. She was 75.

[[Cuvier's dwarf caiman]]

CATEGORIES: Crocodilia, Animals of South America

The Cuvier's dwarf caiman (Paleosuchus palpebrosus), also called a musky caiman and dwarf caiman, is a genus of Caiman native to northern and central South America. They are the smallest living crocodilians in South America. They live in freshwater lakes. It was first described by the French zoologist, Georges Cuvier, in 1807. They grow up to 1.4 long for males and 1.2 long for females. Cuvier's dwarf caiman weigh between 6 and 7. They live up to 40 years. Cuvier's dwarf caiman was first described by the French zoologist Georges Cuvier in

1807. It is one of only two species in the genus Paleosuchus. The Cuvier's dwarf caiman has an average length of 1.4 m (4.6 ft) for males. The average length for females is 1.2 m (3.9 ft). An adult weighs around 6 to 7 kg (13 to 15 lb). It has strong body armor, which provides protection against predators. Young dwarf caimans mainly

feed on invertebrates. It also eats small fish and frogs. Adults eat larger fish,

amphibians, and invertebrates, such as large molluscs. It is listed Least concern.

[[Věra Čáslavská]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, Czechoslovak people, Female athletes, Gymnasts, Sportspeople from Prague

Věra Čáslavská (3 May 1942 – 30 August 2016) was a Czechoslovakian artistic gymnast and Czech sportswoman. She was very attractive, cheerful and popular with the general public. Věra Čáslavská won 22 international titles between 1959 and 1968, including seven Olympic gold medals, four World titles and eleven European championship. Čáslavská and Soviet Larisa Latynina, they are only two female gymnasts, who win the all-around gold medal at two consecutive Olympics. In years 1964 - 1968 she wasn’t never lose out in big competition in multicontest.

[[Brachistochrone curve]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Mechanics, Physics

A Brachistochrone curve is the fastest path for a ball to roll between two points that are at different heights. A ball can roll along the curve faster than a straight line between the points.

The curve will always be the quickest route regardless of how strong gravity is or how heavy the object is. However, it might not be the quickest if there is friction.

The curve can be found using calculus of variations and optimal control.

[[Heliodor Píka]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1949 deaths, Czechoslovak people, European military people, Generals

General Heliodor Píka (July 3, 1897 Štítina – June 21, 1949 Plzeň ) was a Czechoslovakian army officer. He is also well known as representative of Czechoslovakian anti-Nazi resistance and a victim of communism.

[[Dermot Gallagher]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Irish politicians, Civil servants, Ambassadors to the United States

Dermot Anthony Gallagher (1944 – 15 January 2017) was an Irish civil servant. He served as the Secretary General of the Department of Foreign Affairs. He left office as Secretary-General on 24 January 2009 and was replaced by David Cooney, former Ambassador to the United Kingdom. He was known for serving as Ireland's ambassador to the United States and for helping establishing peace with Northern Ireland.

[[Han Peixin]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Chinese politicians, Communists

Han Peixin (韩培信) (October 1921 – January 15, 2017) was a People's Republic of China politician. He was born in Xiangshui County, Jiangsu.

[[Jiří Navrátil]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Activists, Anti-Communists, People from Prague

Jiří Navrátil (10 September 1923 – 16 January 2017) was a Czech scout leader and anti-communist activist. He served as the President of Junák, the Czech Scout and Guide association.

[[Eugene Cernan]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Apollo astronauts, Engineers from Illinois, American aviators, Scientists from Chicago

Eugene Andrew "Gene" Cernan (ˈ; March 14, 1934 – January 16, 2017), (CAPT, USN, Ret.), was an American naval officer and Naval Aviator, electrical engineer, aeronautical engineer, fighter pilot, and NASA astronaut.

Cernan was born in Chicago, Illinois. He was raised in Bellwood, Illinois and in Maywood, Illinois. He studied at Purdue University and at the Naval Postgraduate School. 

He traveled into space three times: as Pilot of Gemini 9A in June 1966, as Lunar Module Pilot of Apollo 10 in May 1969, and as Commander of Apollo 17 in December 1972, the final Apollo lunar landing.

On Apollo 17, Cernan became the eleventh person to walk on the Moon and the most recent man to walk on the Moon since he was the last to re-enter the Lunar Module Challenger after the mission's third and final mission. Cernan was also a backup crew member for the Gemini 12, Apollo 7 and Apollo 14 space missions.

Cernan died on January 16, 2017 at a hospital in Houston, Texas, aged 82.

[[Jan Jánský]]

CATEGORIES: Czechoslovak scientists, 1873 births, 1921 deaths, Deaths from coronary artery disease

Jan Jánský (30 March 1873 in Prague,Czech Republic - 8 September 1921 in Černošice) was a neurologist and psychiatrist. He was the the first to divide human blood into the four types (A, B, AB, 0) of the AB0 blood group system. His discovery saved millions of lives.

[[Emil Zátopek]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2000 deaths, Czech sportspeople, Czechoslovak people, Male athletes, Olympic gold medalists

Emil Zátopek (19 September 1922 - 22 November 2000) was a Czechoslovak runner from town Kopřivnice. He is mostly known for winning 3 gold medals at the 1952 Summer Olympic games in Helsinki. He won in 5,000 metres, 10,000 metres runs and in marathon. He never ran a marathon before. But he decided at the last minute to start with others. He set former record with time 2:23:03,2.

[[John W. Young]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Apollo astronauts, 2018 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Texas, American astronauts, American aviators, Engineers from California, Scientists from San Francisco

Captain John Watts Young (September 24, 1930 – January 5, 2018) was a retired American astronaut, naval officer and aviator, test pilot, and aeronautical engineer. He became the ninth person to walk on the Moon as Commander of the Apollo 16 mission in 1972. Young was on the first orbital Space Shuttle mission, STS-1, in April 1981. He was the only person to have piloted, and been commander of, four different classes of spacecraft: Gemini, the Apollo Command/Service Module, the Apollo Lunar Module, and the Space Shuttle.

Young was born in San Francisco, California. He studied at the Georgia Institute of Technology. In 1956, Young married Barbara White. They divorced in 1972. They had two children. Young died of complications from pneumonia in Houston, Texas on January 5, 2018 at the age of 87.

[[Len Deighton]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, British historians, Writers from London

Leonard Cyril Deighton (ˈ; born 18 February 1929), known as Len Deighton, is a British author. He is thought to be one of the top three spy novelists of his time (along with Ian Fleming and John le Carré). 

He is a well known military historian, cookery writer, and graphic artist. His first book, The IPCRESS File, was an instant bestseller. The Sunday Times called him "the poet of the spy story". 

Deighton was born in the London inner-city of Marylebone. He studied at St Marylebone Grammar School, at Saint Martin's School of Art and at the Royal College of Art. He is married to Ysabele Deighton. 

[[Sergei Makarov]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Olympic gold medalists, Russian ice hockey players

Sergei Mikhailovich Makarov (Серге́й Михайлович Макаров; born 19 June 1958 in Chelyabinsk, Soviet Union) is a Russian former ice hockey right wing. He was a two-time Olympic gold medalist. He was voted one of six players to the International Ice Hockey Federation's (IIHF) Centennial All-Star Team. This was in a poll conducted by a group of 56 experts from 16 countries.

[[Aswat]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights organizations in Asia, 2001 establishments in Asia

Aswat (Arabic: أصوات) is a Palestinian group for lesbian rights. Rauda Morcos is the co-founder. Aswat means "voices" in the Arabic language. The group started in 2001.

[[Kaliningrad Time]]

CATEGORIES: Time zones

Kaliningrad Time (UZ1) is a time zone in western Russia that applies to the city of Kaliningrad. It is 2 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC+2) since October 2014. Originally, under president Dmitry Medvedev's law in 2011, Kaliningrad Time was UTC+3 hours, the same time as the Further-eastern European Time and Eastern European Summer Time in the summer. Russia does not currently observe daylight saving time (DST).

[[Hans Berliner]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, American chess players, American computer scientists, German Jews, Jewish American academics, Jewish American sportspeople, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Refugees from Nazism, Scientists from Berlin

Hans Jack Berliner (January 27, 1929 – January 13, 2017) was a German-born American computer scientist and chess player. He was born in Berlin and of Jewish descent.

He was Professor of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University, was a former World Correspondence Chess Champion, from 1965–68. He was a Grandmaster of Correspondence Chess and an International Master for over-the-board chess. He directed the construction of the chess computer HiTech, and was also a published chess writer.

Berliner died on January 13, 2017 in Riviera Beach, Florida at the age of 87.

[[David Poythress]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, American military people, Politicians from Georgia (U.S. state), US Democratic Party politicians

David B. Poythress (October 24, 1943 – January 15, 2017) was an American politician and military commander. He was born in Bibb County, Georgia.

He has served terms as Secretary of State and Commissioner of Labor of the state of Georgia. Poythress also served as the Adjutant General of the Georgia National Guard from 1999 until 2007, initially appointed by Governor Roy Barnes and reappointed by Governor Sonny Perdue. He retired as a Lieutenant General.

Pothyress died on January 15, 2017 in Cartersville, Georgia at the age of 73.

[[M. M. Ruhul Amin]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Bangladeshi politicians, Bangladeshi Muslims, Chief justices, Deaths from disease

M. M. Ruhul Amin (23 December 1942 – 17 January 2017) was a Bangladeshi politician and judge. He served as the Chief Justice of Bangladesh from 1 June 2008 to 22 December 2009. He studied at the University of Dhaka. He was born in Lakshmipur District.

Amin died after an illness on 17 January 2017 in Bukit Merah, Singapore. He was 74.

[[Great Comet of 1811]]

CATEGORIES: Comets

The Great Comet of 1811 (C/1811 F1) was a comet visible to the naked eye for about 260 days. This was a record until the appearance of Comet Hale–Bopp in 1997. In October 1811, at its brightest, it displayed an apparent magnitude of 0, with an easily visible tail.

[[Dion, Pieria]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Villages in Greece

Dion was an Ancient Greek city in Pieria, Greece. It is now a village.

[[Chrysaor]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures

Chrysaor was the brother of the winged-horse Pegasus.

[[Christen-Democratisch en Vlaams]]

CATEGORIES: Christian democratic parties, Political parties in Europe, Politics of Belgium

Christen-Democratisch en Vlaams (shortened to CD&V) is a Flemish political party in Belgium. It belongs to the political ideology of the Christian democrats.

[[Colo (gorilla)]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2017 deaths, Individual animals, Ohio

Colo (December 22, 1956 – January 17, 2017) was an American Western gorilla. She was known as the first gorilla to be born in captivity anywhere in the world and as the oldest known gorilla in the world. Colo was born at the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium near Powell, Ohio. Colo's name came from the place of her birth, Columbus, Ohio. Tomatoes were her favorite food.

Colo died in her sleep on January 17, 2017 at the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium, aged 60.

[[Killing of Harambe]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths by firearm in the United States, Individual animals, 2016 in the United States, 2010s in Ohio, Cincinnati, Ohio, Deaths by firearm, May 2016 events

Harambe was a gorilla at the Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden. On May 28, 2016, a three-year-old boy climbed into a gorilla enclosure at the zoo and was grabbed and dragged by Harambe, a 17-year-old Western lowland gorilla. Fearing for the boy's life, a zoo worker shot and killed Harambe. It was recorded on video and was shown on news services around the world. There was a lot of argument about the decision to kill Harambe. A number of primatologists and conservationists said that the zoo had no other choice under the circumstances, and that they did the right thing.

The boy's mother also became the target of harassment on the internet and social media. On June 6, 2016, the Ohio prosecutor said that the mother would not face any charges of wrongdoing. The zoo was being investigated by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA), which sets the standards for zoos, and the USDA.

Experts Jack Hanna and Jane  Goodall defended the zoo's actions in killing Harambe.

[[American Pharoah]]

CATEGORIES: Thoroughbred racehorses

American Pharoah (born 2011; foaled February 2, 2012) is an American Thoroughbred racehorse. He won the American Triple Crown and the Breeders' Cup Classic in 2015. In winning all four races, he became the first horse to win the "Grand Slam" of American horse racing. He won the 2015 Eclipse Award for Horse of the Year and 2015 Champion three-year-old.

He was bred and owned throughout his racing career by Ahmed Zayat of Zayat Stables, trained by Bob Baffert, and ridden in most of his races by Victor Espinoza. He now stands  at stud at Ashford Stud in Kentucky.

His sire was Pioneerof the Nile and his dam was Littleprincessemma.

[[Rockabye]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 2016 songs

"Rockabye" is a house and pop song from the electronic dance group Clean Bandit. The song also has Jamaican singer Sean Paul and British singer Anne-Marie. The song is about how hard it is to be a single mother. The song refers to the nursery rhyme "Rock-a-bye Baby."

On 28 October 2016, the song entered the UK Singles Chart at #7. The following week, it went to #3. In its third week, it reached #1. In the United Kingdom, the song became their second #1, after "Rather Be" in 2014.  The song also topped charts in Australia, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, Denmark, Austria, Belgium, Italy, Sweden, Finland, and New Zealand.

In the United States, "Rockabye" began at #100 on Billboard Hot 100 during the week of 24 December. It was Clean Bandit's first entry on the chart since "Rather Be" with Jess Glynne. The song reached number nine on the US Hot 100, becoming their second US top-ten hit after "Rather Be".

[[Scottish Government]]

The Scottish Government is the national, devolved government of Scotland.  It has power over many aspects of government in Scotland, from healthcare provision, to justice, through to education.

[[Donald Trump Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Businesspeople from New York City, Children of Presidents of the United States, Trump family, Writers from New York City, American conservatives, American political writers, Television personalities from New York City, American political activists

Donald John "Don" Trump Jr. (born December 31, 1977) is an American businessman and former reality TV personality. He is the oldest child of real estate developer and President of the United States, Donald Trump, and his first wife, Czech model Ivana Trump. He works alongside his brother Eric as a trustee of The Trump Organization. A longtime company Executive VP, in his trustee role he and his brother ran the company during his father's presidency.

He wrote two books: Triggered in 2019 and Liberal Privilege in 2020.

On 12 February 2018, Donald Trump Jr's wife Vanessa opened mail with white powder in it, so she was rushed to hospital as a precaution.

[[Eric Trump]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from New York City, Children of Presidents of the United States, Trump family

Eric Frederick Trump (born January 6, 1984) is an American businessman, former reality TV personality and philanthropist. He is the third child and second son of the President of the United States, Donald Trump, and Ivana Trump.

Alongside his older brother Don Jr., he serves as a trustee of The Trump Organization. Trump and his brother took over the company during their father's presidency.

In 2006, he founded the Eric Trump Foundation, which raises money for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital.

[[Tiffany Trump]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, Models from Florida, Businesspeople from New York City, Children of Presidents of the United States, American Internet celebrities, Businesspeople from Florida, Trump family

Tiffany Ariana Trump (born October 13, 1993) is an American internet personality.

She was born at St Mary’s Medical Center in West Palm Beach, She is the daughter of the President of the United States, Donald Trump, and his second wife Marla Maples.

Trump is a frequent poster to Instagram. As of 2016, she had more than 460,000 followers. She worked as an intern at Vogue and modeled for a 2016 Andrew Warren fashion show during New York Fashion Week.

[[Fred Trump]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1999 deaths, American criminals, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from New York City, Deaths from pneumonia, Real estate developers, People with Alzheimer's disease, Trump family

Frederick Christ "Fred" Trump (October 11, 1905 – June 25, 1999) was an American real estate developer and philanthropist. He is the father of Donald Trump, a businessman who was elected President of the United States in November 2016. He also had a daughter Maryanne, who became an attorney and was appointed as a judge to the United States Court of Appeals.

Trump's development company built and managed single-family houses in Queens, barracks and garden apartments for U.S. Navy personnel near major shipyards along the East Coast, and more than 27,000 apartments in New York City.

Trump was born in The Bronx, New York. He married Mary Anne MacLeod in 1936. Their marriage would last until Trump's death in 1999. Trump died in New Hyde Park, New York from pneumonia complicated by Alzheimer's disease, aged 93.

[[Maryanne Trump Barry]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American judges, Politicians from New York City, Trump family, US Republican Party politicians, Women judges

Maryanne Trump Barry (formerly Desmond; born April 5, 1937) is an American attorney and a senior judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit after being appointed by President Bill Clinton. She served as judge from 1999 until her retirement in 2011. 

She is the older sister of Donald Trump, the 45th President of the United States.

Barry was born in New York City. She studied at Mount Holyoke College and at Columbia University. She later went to Hofstra University to earn her J.D.. From 1960 until their divorce in 1980, she was married to David Desmond. In 1982, she married John Barry. John died in 2000. Barry had one son, David.

[[William A. Hilliard]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, American editors, Journalists from Chicago

William A. Hilliard (May 28, 1927 – January 16, 2017) was an American journalist. He was editor of The Oregonian, the major daily newspaper in Portland, Oregon, from 1987 to 1994 and was that newspaper's first African-American editor.  He was also president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors in 1993–94.

[[Oscar López Rivera]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Puerto Rican people, Terrorists

Oscar López Rivera (born January 6, 1943) is a Puerto Rican nationalist. He was one of the leaders of the FALN.

[[Christopher C. Kraft Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2019 deaths, Engineers from Virginia, NASA, Scientists from Virginia

Christopher Columbus "Chris" Kraft Jr. (February 28, 1924 – July 22, 2019) was an American NASA engineer and manager. He was important in the creation of the agency's Mission Control operation.

[[Peter Jones (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Liberal Party of Australia politicians, Order of Australia, Politicians from Tasmania, Politicians from Western Australia, People from Launceston, Tasmania

Peter Vernon Jones AM (28 January 1933 – 16 January 2017) was an Australian politician. He served as a member of the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia from 1974 to 1986 from the seat of Narrogin. He was the Deputy Leader of the National Country Party in Western Australia. He was later a member of the Liberal Party.

Jones was born in Launceston, Tasmania. He married Margaret Antonia Maslin in 1960. They had three children.

Jones died on 16 January 2017 in Perth, Western Australia. He was 83.

[[Ronald Buxton]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, British engineers, Conservative MPs (UK), English politicians, People from Norfolk

Ronald Carlile Buxton (20 August 1923 – 10 January 2017) was a British politician and civil engineer. He was a member of the Conservative Party. He served as a Member of Parliament for Leyton from 1965 to 1966.

Buxton was born in Norfolk. He married Phyllida in 1959. They had four children.

Buxton died on 10 January 2017 at the age of 93.

[[Nigel Spearing]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in England, English politicians, Labour MPs (UK), People from Hammersmith, Politicians from London

Nigel John Spearing (8 October 1930 – 8 January 2017) was a British politician. He was a member of the Labour Party. He served as a Member of Parliament for South Newham from 1974 to 1997. Before this, he served as a Member of Parliament for Acton from 1970 to 1974. He was born in Hammersmith, London.

Spearing died from Alzheimer's disease on 8 January 2017. He was 86.

[[Les Lazarowitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, American engineers, Cancer deaths in Florida

Leslie "Les" Lazarowitz (October 2, 1941 – January 6, 2017) was an American sound engineer. He was active between 1971 and 1999. He was nominated for two Academy Awards in the Best Sound category. He was best known for movies including Taxi Driver (1976), Raging Bull (1980), Tootsie (1982), Carlito's Way (1993) and Groundhog Day (1993).

Lazarowitz died from cancer on January 6, 2017 in Florida. He was 75.

[[Claude Lebey]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, French critics

Claude Lebey (born Claude Jolly; 20 November 1923 – 10 January 2017) was a French food critic and writer. He was known for writing the food book Guide Lebey. He also wrote for the news magazines Paris Match and L'Express. He co-presented a show on TF1 between 1974 and 1981.

Lebey died on 10 January 2017 in Provence at the age of 93.

[[Steve Wright (bassist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s births, 2017 deaths, American bass guitarists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Musicians from California

Steve Wright (1950 – January 16, 2017) was an American bass guitarist. He played with The Greg Kihn Band. He was from El Cerrito, California.

Wright died from a heart attack on January 16, 2017 in Sacramento, California.

[[Sergei Aman]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, People from Moscow, Russian writers, Russian novelists, Writers from Moscow, Russian journalists

Sergei Aman (Сергей Аманович Хуммедов, born 12 February 1957) is a Russian writer and journalist.

Sergei Aman was born in former Soviet Union in Turkmenia. He graduated the Moscow State University in 1985.

In 1995 Sergei Aman became a journalist of the daily "Moskovskij Komsomolets". Also he worked in "Vechernyaya Moskva", "Stupeni", "The New Medical Gazette", magazine "Auto M".

The most famous book of Sergei Aman  is "Journalists" (novel). He published this novel in 2013. Also he wrote the love story Nights after in the book “On the Edge of Magellanic Clouds”.

In 2018 Sergei Aman  published the novel "Everything Will Be Okay, We're All Going to Die!"

Sergei Aman lives in Moscow. His hobby is sport fishing from a boat.

[[Brenda C. Barnes]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s births, 2017 deaths, Businesspeople from Chicago, American chief executives, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Chicago, Deaths from stroke

Brenda C. Barnes (1953 – January 17, 2017) was an American businesswoman. She served as the chief executive officer of Sara Lee from 2005 to 2010. She was also the first female CEO of PepsiCo from 1996 to 1997.

Barnes died from a stroke on January 17, 2017 in Naperville of Chicago, Illinois. She was 63. Her three children outlived her.

[[Yaron Ben-Dov]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Israel, Israeli footballers, Jewish Israeli sportspeople

Yaron Ben-Dov (11 January 1970 – 6 January 2017) was an Israeli footballer. He played for Ironi Rishon LeZion, Maccabi Netanya and Hapoel Tel Aviv. He was born in Netanya.

Ben-Dov died after an illness on 6 January 2017 at the age of 46.

[[Srirangam]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of India, Tiruchirapalli District

Srirangam is an island in the Kaveri River. It is a part of the city of Tiruchirapalli in Tamil Nadu, India. It is a famous place because it is one of the 108 Divya Desams, or holy places, according to Hinduism.

Srirangam is border by the Kaveri River and its tributary Kollidam River. Srirangam can be considered the largest functioning Hindu temple in the world, as it covers an area of about 631000 m2 with a perimeter of 4km (10,710 ft).

There are many other famous temples near Srirangam. They include Rockfort Temple, Samayapuram Mariamman Temple, and Vayalur Murugan Temple.

[[Ion Besoiu]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Romanian movie actors, Romanian television actors, Romanian stage actors

Ion Besoiu (11 March 1931 – 18 January 2017) was a Romanian actor. He played the lead role in the television series Toate pînzele sus. He appeared in movies when Romania was under a Communist one-party state rule. Those movies include Thirst (1961), Michael the Brave (1970), The Actor and the Savages (1975), Mihail, câine de circ (1979), The Last Assault (1985). His later roles included Loverboy (2011) and Bucharest Non Stop (2015). He was born in Sibiu.

Besoiu died on 18 January 2017 in Bucharest at the age of 85.

[[Gustav Frištenský]]

CATEGORIES: Czech sportspeople, 1879 births, 1957 deaths, Strength athletes

Gustav Frištenský (18 May 1879 – 6 April 1957) was a Czech strongman and Greco-Roman wrestler. He competed in the first half of the 20th century. During his career, he competed in almost 10,000 fights. His first fight was when he was just 19 years old and the last one was when he was 72. Frištenský was a legend among Czech strongmen.

[[Dzemijetul Hajrije]]

CATEGORIES: Islam, Immigration, Organizations based in the United States, 1906 establishments in the United States

Dzemijetul Hajrije is the oldest Muslim organization in the United States.  It is a benevolent society started in 1906 to help Muslim immigrants from Bosnia.

[[Nagham Nawzat Hasan]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Kurdish people, Living people

Nagham Nawzat Hasan (Arabic: نغم نوزات حسن ) or Nagham Nawzat is a doctor from Iraq. In 2015 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

Nagham Nawzat Hasan is a Kurdish Yazidi gynecologist. She works with Yazidi girls who were kidnapped by the Islamic State (ISIS).

After the city of Sinjar fell in 2014, ISIL killed many Yezidi men and enslaved many Yezidi women.  Hasan rescued many Yezidi girls. She gave psychological and medical help. She visits Yezidi people in refugee camps to encourage girls to visit her clinic. She started a program against sexual abuse called "I am Yezidi – I am against harassment."

[[Sinjar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iraq

Sinjar is a city in the north of Iraq.   It is in Shingal District, Nineveh Province, near Mount Shingal.  Many Yezidi people live in this city.  In 2014, it was the site of the Sinjar massacre.

== References == 

[[Takobeya labour]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, Imprisonment and detention, Labor, Poverty

Takobeya labour (タコ部屋労働, Romanization of Japanese: tako-beya rōdō) was a Japanese form of work. It was a harsh system started in Hokkaido during the Meiji period. It replaced Penal labour in Hokkaido. The workers slept in accommodation huts at construction sites. The concentration huts were called "Takobeya". Takobeya workers engaged in takobeya labour without enough meals. They were oppressed as labor camps. Some also died from overwork.

In 1946, the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in occupied Japan banned takobeya labour.

In Japanese, "Tako" often means octopus. But Takobeya (Tako room) doesn’t necessarily mean octopus room. About Takobeya's "Tako", the original meanings is not clear.

[[Latifa Ibn Ziaten]]

CATEGORIES: French people, Living people, Activists, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Latifa Ibn Ziaten (Arabic: لطيفة بن زياتن) is an activist from France. She started the Imad Association for Youth and Peace for interfaith understanding.  In 2016, she received an International Women of Courage Award.

Latifa ibn Ziaten was born in Morocco.  She is Muslim.  When she was a teenager, she moved to France.  In 2012, Latifa's son, Imad, died in a terrorist attack. Imad was a French soldier.

Latifa went to the neighborhood of her son's killer in Toulouse. She talked to the boys in the neighborhood.  The boys told her the killer was a hero of Islam. When she told them her son was killed, they apologized. Then Latifa decided to start an organization to help the young people. She tells young people to learn about Islam from their parents, not from the internet. Latifa receives threats and has a bodyguard.

[[Peter Abrahams]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, People from Johannesburg, Jamaican people, South African writers

Peter Henry Abrahams Deras (3 March 1919 – 18 January 2017), better known as Peter Abrahams, was a South African-born Jamaican novelist, journalist and political commentator. He was best known for his novels Mine Boy (1946), A Wreath for Udomo (1956), A Night of Their Own (1965), This Island Now (1966) and The View from Coyaba (1985). He also wrote the memoir, Tell Freedom (1954).

Abrahams was born in Vrededorp, Johannesburg. His father was from Ethiopia and his mother was mixed race. He moved to Jamaica in 1956.

Abrahams was found dead on 18 January 2017 in Rock Hall, Saint Andrew Parish. He was 97.

[[Yosl Bergner]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2017 deaths, Austrian Jews, Israeli Jews, Israeli painters, Jewish artists, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Vienna, People from Warsaw, Polish Jews

Yosl Bergner (יוסל ברגנר‎; 13 October 1920 – 18 January 2017) was an Israeli painter. He was best known for his art which had people with long pale faces, pointed chins and huge dark, soulful eyes. This was said to show joy and sadness of being Jewish. He was awarded the Israel Prize in 1980.

Bergner was born in Vienna, Austria. He grew up in Warsaw, Poland. He lived in Melbourne, Australia from 1937 until 1948, when he moved to Israel.

Bergner died on 18 January 2017 in Tel Aviv at the age of 96.

[[Charles "Bobo" Shaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, American drummers, American jazz musicians, Disease-related deaths in Missouri, Musicians from Mississippi

Charles Wesley "Bobo" Shaw (September 15, 1947 – January 16, 2017) was an American jazz drummer. He worked in the free jazz genre. He was best known as a member of the Human Arts Ensemble and Black Artists Group. He was born in Pope, Mississippi.

Shaw died on January 16, 2017 in St. Louis, Missouri. He was 69.

[[Rachael Heyhoe Flint, Baroness Heyhoe Flint]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, English sportspeople, English philanthropists, English businesspeople, People from Wolverhampton

Rachael Heyhoe Flint, Baroness Heyhoe Flint (11 June 1939 – 18 January 2017) was an English female cricketer, businesswoman and philanthropist. She was born in Wolverhampton, England.

Flint was best known for being captain of England from 1966 to 1978, and was unbeaten in six Test series, while in total she played for the English women's cricket team from 1960 to 1982. She was captain when England won the inaugural Women's Cricket World Cup, held in England in 1973. She was also the first women cricketer ever to hit a six in a test match.

Flint's death was announced by Lord's on 18 January 2017 at the age of 77.

[[Kingston Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Kingston is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Surrey. The parish capital is Kingston.

[[Saint Andrew Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Saint Andrew is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Surrey. The parish capital is Half Way Tree.

[[Portland Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Portland is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Surrey. The parish capital is Port Antonio.

[[Saint Thomas Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Saint Thomas is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Surrey. The parish capital is Morant Bay.

[[Clarendon Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Clarendon is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Middlesex. The parish capital is May Pen.

[[Manchester Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Manchester is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Middlesex. The parish capital is Mandeville.

[[Saint Ann Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Saint Ann is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Middlesex. The parish capital is Saint Ann's Bay.

[[Saint Catherine Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Saint Catherine is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Middlesex. The parish capital is Spanish Town.

[[Saint Mary Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Saint Mary is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Middlesex. The parish capital is Port Maria.

[[Saint Elizabeth Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Saint Elizabeth is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Cornwall. The parish capital is Black River.

[[Saint James Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Saint James is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Cornwall. The parish capital is Montego Bay.

[[Hanover Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Hanover is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Cornwall. The parish capital is Lucea.

[[Trelawny Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Trelawny is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Cornwall. The parish capital is Falmouth.

[[Westmoreland Parish, Jamaica]]

CATEGORIES: Parishes of Jamaica

Westmoreland is a parish in Jamaica. It is in the county of Cornwall. The parish capital is Savanna-la-Mar.

[[Willow Shields]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 births, Living people, American child actors, American dancers, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Albuquerque, New Mexico, Twin people from the United States

Willow Shields (born June 1, 2000) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as Primrose Everdeen in all four of the The Hunger Games movies (2012–2015). She was also a dancer on Dancing with the Stars in 2015. At the age of 14, she was the youngest to ever compete on the show.

Shields was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico. She has a twin sister and an older brother, both of whom are actors.

[[New Medical Gazette]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers, Russia, 1992 establishments in Russia

New Medical Gazette (NMG) ("Новая медицинская газета") is a Russian newspaper published in Moscow.

New Medical Gazette (NMG) was established in 1992 in Moscow by a group of journalists (Anatoly Baranov, Andrei Gusev and others; some of them had medical education and practical experience in health care).

The Russian newspaper NMG registered with the Ministry of press and information of the Russian Federation in December 18, 1992.

The first number of NMG was released on May 18, 1993. Since 1993 Andrei Gusev (Андрей Евгеньевич Гусев, born 27 October 1952 in Moscow) serves as NMG’s editor-in-chief.

NMG came out in format  A3 and A4. Since 1999 NMG has  web-based publications. 

The paper specialises in topical medical materials and medical news. 

Famous journalists and writers work in NMG’ editorial staff:  Sergei Aman, Anatoly Baranov, Andrei Gusev, Sergei Sokurov, etc. However, the newspaper authors write not only on medical topics. NMG has  literary pages created in conjunction with public fund "Union of writers of Moscow”.

[[Andrei Gusev]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, People from Moscow, Russian writers, Russian novelists, Writers from Moscow, Russian journalists

Andrei Gusev (Андрей Евгеньевич Гусев, born 27 October 1952) is a Russian writer and journalist.

[[William Margold]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Washington, D.C., American movie directors, American pornographic actors, Pornographic movie directors

William "Bill" Margold (October 2, 1943 – January 18, 2017) was an American pornographic actor and director. He was born in Washington, D.C., the capital of the United States. He began his career in 1972. He continued to perform until 2007. He had more than 250 credits to his name as an actor and director. He was added to the AVN Hall of Fame.

Margold died on January 18, 2017 in Los Angeles, California at the age of 73.

[[Rodney Bennett]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, British television directors

Rodney Bennett (24 March 1935 – 3 January 2017) was a British television director. He directed ten Doctor Who episodes, including the stories, The Ark in Space, The Sontaran Experiment, (both 1975) and The Masque of Mandragora (1976).

Bennet died on 3 January 2017 at the age of 81.

[[Hisham Al-Otaibi]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Asian politicians, Engineers, Kuwaiti people

Hisham Al-Otaibi (1946 – 4 January 2017) was a Kuwaiti politician. He served as the Minister of Finance and Industry from 1998 to 1999. He got a Bachelor of Science in engineering from the University of Oklahoma.

Al-Otaibi died on 4 January 2017 at the age of 70.

[[John Little (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Scottish footballers, Sportspeople from Calgary

Robert John "Johnny" Little (7 July 1930 – 18 January 2017) was a Scottish footballer. He played as a defender. He played for Queen's Park, Rangers, Morton and the Scotland national team.

Little was born in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. He moved to Scotland at a young age and grew up in Millport of Great Cumbrae.

Little died on 18 January 2017 at the age of 86.

[[Yaacov Zilberman]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Chess grandmasters, Jewish Israeli sportspeople, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Soviet sportspeople

Yaacov Zilberman (born May 26, 1954 in the Soviet Union) is an Israeli and former Soviet chess player. He became a grandmaster in 1998. 

Zilberman participated in the 30th Chess Olympiad at Manila in 1992. 

With Robert Hübner and Ivan Morovic he was first at the Capablanca Memorial, Elite at Havana in 1998.

[[École nationale supérieure d'informatique pour l'industrie et l'entreprise]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities, Colleges and universities in France, 1968 establishments in Europe, Strasbourg, 1960s establishments in France

École nationale supérieure d'informatique pour l'industrie et l'entreprise (National School of Computer Science for Industry and Business)  is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the University of Paris-Saclay (Northern France, associate member).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at ENSIIE.

Most of the 500 graduate engineer students at ENSIIE live in dedicated residential buildings nearby research labs and metro public transports.

[[Eddie Filgate]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2017 deaths, Centenarians, Fianna Fáil politicians, People from County Louth

Edward "Eddie" Filgate (16 September 1915 – 19 January 2017) was an Irish politician. He was a member of Fianna Fáil. He served as Teachta Dála (TD) from 1977 to 1982 for the Louth constituency. He was born in County Louth.

Filgate turned 100 in 2015. He died on 19 January 2017 at the age of 101.

[[Robert Timlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, American judges, Politicians from Buffalo, New York

Robert James Timlin (July 26, 1932 – January 17, 2017) was an American federal judge. He served as a Senior Judge of the United States District Court for the Central District of California from 2005 to his death in 2017. Before this, he served as a judge for the court from 1994 to 2005. 

Timlin was born in Buffalo, New York. He was married to Caroline. They had two children.

Timlin died on January 17, 2017 in Santa Barbara, California. He was 84.

[[Daniel Vischer]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Switzerland, People from Basel, Swiss politicians

Daniel Vischer (16 January 1950 – 17 January 2017) was a Swiss politician for the Green Party. He was a member of the National Council from 2003 to 2015.

Vischer was born in Basel. He was the son of jurist Frank Vischer (1923–2015). He was married and had two children.

Vischer died from cancer on 17 January 2017, a day after his 67th birthday, in Zürich.

[[Ludvík Svoboda]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1979 deaths

Ludvík Svoboda  (25 November 1895 – 20 September 1979) was a czechoslovak legionaire in world war I and Commander of Czechoslovak army in Russia in World war II. Later he became a president (1968-1975)

[[Kendang]]

CATEGORIES: Drums

A kendang is a two-headed drum.They are used in Gamelan music and by Maritime Southeast Asia. Different ethnic groups make it differently.

[[Vasco Núñez de Balboa]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish explorers, 1475 births, 1519 deaths, Executed people

Vasco Núñez de Balboa (1475–1519) was a Spanish explorer and conquistador. He was the first European to see the Pacific Ocean. Balboa was one of those who established the settlement at Darién in what is now Panama. He was elected mayor, then governor. In 1513, he claimed the Pacific Ocean and all of its shores for Spain. He was searching for gold at the time. In Darién, he had been replaced by a new governor, Pedro Arias Dávila. On orders from Spain, Dávila was to investigate Balboa. On Balboa's return to Darién in 1519, Dávila had him placed on trial, then executed for treason.

[[Eldar Kuliev]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2017 deaths, Soviet writers, Russian screenwriters, Russian movie directors, Writers from Moscow

Eldar Kaisynovich Kuliev (December 31, 1951 – January 14, 2017) was a Soviet movie director and screenwriter. He was born in Frunze, in present day Kyrgyz Republic. He was a writer of original script for the TV miniseries  The Wounded Stones.

Kuliev died at his home in Moscow, Russia on January 14, 2017, aged 65.

[[Ciel Bergman]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, American painters, People from Berkeley, California

Ciel Bergman, a.k.a. Cheryl Bowers (Cheryl Marie Olsen; September 11, 1938 – January 15, 2017) was an American painter of Swedish origin. Her work, was called post-modern, and had a focus on the environment as well as feminine consciousness. She was born in Berkeley, California.

[[Babette Cole]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, English children's writers

Babette Cole (10 September 1950 – 15 January 2017) was an English children's writer and illustrator. She was born on Jersey in the Channel Islands. She was known for her works in Drop Dead, Princess Smartypants and Prince Cinders. As a children's writer, Cole created more than 150 picture books.  Her best-seller Doctor Dog has been adapted as a successful children's cartoon series.

Cole died from a short-illness on 15 January 2017 in Devon, England, aged 66.

[[Steven Plaut]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2017 deaths, American economists, Deaths from kidney cancer, Israeli academics, Israeli Jews, Israeli scientists, Jewish academics, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Steven Plaut (1951 – January 17, 2017) was an American-born Israeli economist, academic and writer. He was an associate professor of Business Administration at Haifa University as well as a member of the editorial board of the Middle East Quarterly. Plaut was an outspoken critic of the Israeli-Arab peace process and Israel's unilateral withdrawal policy. He taught at Oberlin College, the Technion, UC Berkeley, UC Irvine, Central European University, Tel Aviv University, University of Nantes, and Athens Laboratory for Business Administration.

Plaut died in Haifa, Israel on January 17, 2017 from complications of kidney cancer at the age of 65.

[[Jalal Allakhverdiyev]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Azerbaijani people, Mathematicians

Jalal Eyvaz oglu Allakhverdiyev (Cəlal Eyvaz oğlu Allahverdiyev; September 17, 1929 – January 19, 2017) was an Azerbaijani mathematician. He was a member of the Academy of Sciences of the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic (now the Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences) (1972). He was born in Baku, Azerbaijan.

Allakhverdiyev was a Azerbaijan State Prize laureate of the Azerbaijan SSR (1982). He was director of the Institute of Cybernetics of the Academy of Sciences of Azerbaijan SSR since 1970.

Allakhverdiyev died in Baku on January 19, 2017, aged 87.

[[Teori Zavascki]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Aviation deaths, Judges, Brazilian politicians

Teori Albino Zavascki (August 15, 1948 – January 19, 2017) was a Brazilian justice of the Supreme Court of Brazil serving since November 29, 2012. At the time of his death, he was the justice in charge of the trials resulting from Operation Car Wash. He was born in Faxinal dos Guedes, Brazil. From 2003 through 2012, Zavascki served as Minister of Superior Court of Justice.

Zavascki was killed in a plane crash near Paraty, Brazil on January 19, 2017, aged 68.

[[Loalwa Braz]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2017 deaths, Murdered musicians, Brazilian singers, Brazilian writers, Singer-songwriters, People from Rio de Janeiro

Loalwa Braz Vieira (Loalva Braz, 3 June 1953 – 19 January 2017) was a Brazilian singer and songwriter. She was born in Rio de Janeiro. Braz was better known as providing the lead vocals for the French-Brazilian pop group Kaoma in their worldwide hit "Lambada". 

Braz, aged 63, was found dead in a burned car near a highway in Rio de Janiero on 19 January 2017. According to police, two men were seen leaving her house earlier that day. Police say Braz was murdered.

[[Miguel Ferrer]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from throat cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Santa Monica, California

Miguel José Ferrer (February 7, 1955 – January 19, 2017) was an American actor. He was mostly known for villainous roles such as Bob Morton in RoboCop. He also voiced Delgado in Beverly Hills Chihuahua 2, the villain Hun leader Shan Yu in Mulan (1998) and Big Boss in Rio 2. Ferrer's other notable roles include Dr. Garret Macy on Crossing Jordan, NCIS Assistant Director Owen Granger on NCIS: Los Angeles, Vice President Rodriguez in Iron Man 3, and FBI forensic pathologist Albert Rosenfield in Twin Peaks.

Ferrer was born in Santa Monica, California to Academy Award-winning actor José Ferrer and singer Rosemary Clooney. His first cousin is actor George Clooney. He never went to college because he began his Hollywood career at an early age. His career began in 1981. He was married to actress Leilani Sarelle from 1991 until they divorced in 2003. In 2005, he married Lori Weintraub. They had three children.

Ferrer died on January 19, 2017 from throat cancer at his home in Los Angeles, California, aged 61.

[[José Ferrer]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors, 1912 births, 1992 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Puerto Rican actors, Puerto Rican movie actors, Puerto Rican television actors, Stage actors, Movie directors, People from San Juan, Puerto Rico

José Vicente Ferrer de Otero y Cintrón (January 8, 1912 – January 26, 1992), known as José Ferrer, was a Puerto Rican actor, theatre and movie director. He was the first Puerto Rican actor, as well as the first Hispanic actor, to win an Academy Award (in 1950 for Cyrano de Bergerac). He was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico.

Ferrer was married to Rosemary Clooney, aunt of George Clooney, from 1954 through 1961 and again from 1964 through 1967. They had a son, actor Miguel Ferrer. In 1985 he received the National Medal of Arts from President Ronald Reagan, becoming the first actor to receive that honor.

Ferrer died of colorectal cancer in Coral Gables, Florida on January 26, 1992, aged 80.

[[Mike Kellie]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, English rock guitarists, English rock drummers, Musicians from Birmingham

Michael "Mike" Alexander Kellie (24 March 1947 – 18 January 2017) was an English multi-instrumentalist, and record producer. 

In a career spanning more than 40 years, Kellie has been a member of the rock bands the V.I.P.s, Spooky Tooth and the Only Ones. He also played with Traffic, on one song "Rainmaker" on the The Low Spark of High Heeled Boys album in 1971.

[[Wayne Barrett]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, American journalists, Writers from Connecticut, Writers from New York City, Columbia University faculty

Wayne Barrett (July 11, 1945 – January 19, 2017) was an American journalist. He was an investigative reporter and senior editor for the Village Voice for over 20 years. Barrett worked with the Nation Institute and contributor to Newsweek. He held degrees from St. Joseph's University and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, where he served on the adjunct faculty for over thirty years.

Barrett wrote many articles and books about politicians, especially New York City figures such as Ed Koch, Donald Trump, and Rudy Giuliani. 

Barrett died in Manhattan from lung cancer on January 19, 2017, aged 71.

[[Shaimaa Sabbagh]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2015 deaths, Activists, Egyptian poets, Poets

Shaimaa Sabbagh, Arabic: شيماء الصباغ , (b. 1984 - d. January 24, 2015) was an Egyptian poet and activist. She died at Tahrir Square during a demonstration to remember the anniversary of the Arab Spring.    

Sabbagh was a leading member of the Socialist Popular Alliance Party. She became a symbol against Egypt's military.

A photograph of Sabbagh's death got international attention. The Egyptian photographer was Islam Osama. He worked for the Egyptian newspaper Youm El Sabea. His photo received the Shawkan Photo Award in 2015. The man in the picture who tried to help Sabbagh was Sayyid Abu el-Ela.  He was a friend who was also at the demonstration.

A police officer was convicted of killing her. In 2015, the conviction was reversed.

== References == 

[[Red Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Baseball players from California, Chicago Cubs players, California Angels players

Charles Dwight "Red" Adams (October 7, 1921 – January 18, 2017) was an American professional baseball player, scout and pitching coach. He played as a pitcher. He was best known for playing for the Los Angeles Angels and later being a scout for the Los Angeles Dodgers. He also played for the Chicago Cubs of the Major League Baseball (MLB) in 1946. He was born in Parlier, California.

Adams died on January 18, 2017 in Fresno, California at the age of 95.

[[Samayapuram Mariamman Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples, Tiruchirapalli District

Samayapuram Mariamman Temple is a Hindu Temple. It is in Samayapuram, a suburb of Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu. The main deity of the temple is Mariamman. Mariamman is also known as "Samayapura Mariamman". The main deity is made of clay and sand like traditional Mariamman deities.

Followers believe that the Mariamman has enormous powers. These powers can cure any kind of disease or illness.They offer Mavilakku, a dish made up of jaggery, ghee and rice flour.

Samayapuram Mariamman Temple is the second wealthiest temple in Tamil Nadu after Palani Murugan temple. More than a thousand devotees visit Samayapuram on Sundays, Tuesdays and Fridays. These are holy days for Mariamman.

[[Alanganallur]]

CATEGORIES: Madurai district

Alanganallur is a panchayat town in the district of Madurai in the state of Tamil Nadu, India. This town is the headquarters of Alanganallur taluk and Alanganallur revenue block. The total population of this town is 11,075.

Alanganallur town is famous for the Jallikattu ceremony conducted throughout the four days of Pongal festival. Agriculture is the main occupation in the town.

The district headquarters Madurai city is 16 km away from this town. Alagar kovil is also near by, within 18 km.  Nearby places which attracts tourist are : The Thadakai Amman falls, Kodaikanal, Vaigai dam, Kumbakarai falls and Kutladampatti. There is a small dam named Sathiyar near Palamedu.

[[Akhilesh Yadav]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Politicians from Uttar Pradesh, Living people

Akhilesh Yadav (Akhilesh Yadav pronunciation.ogg; born 1 July 1973) is an Indian politician and the President of the Samajwadi Party. He is the 20th Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh. He became the Chief Minister on 15 March 2012 at the age of 38. He thus became the youngest Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh.

Yadav was born in the village of Saifai, Etawah District, Uttar Pradesh on 1 July 1973. He was born to Mulayam Singh Yadav and Malti Devi. Mulayam Singh Yadav is a politician, founder of Samajwadi Party and the former Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh.

Yadav first was elected to the 16th Lok Sabha from the Kannauj constituency in the year 2000. On 10 March 2012, he was appointed as the leader of Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh. He became the youngest Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh in 15 March 2012.

[[Abdul Kalam Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of India

Abdul Kalam Island, formerly known as Wheeler Island, is an island off the coast of Odisha, India, approximately 150 from the state capital Bhubaneshwar. The Integrated Test Range missile testing facility is located on the island. The island was originally named after English commandant Lieutenant Wheeler. On 4 September 2015, the island was renamed to honour the late Indian president, Abdul kalam.Abdul Kalam Island is located in the Bay of Bengal approximately 10 off the eastern coast of India and about 70 south of Chandipur in Balasore district, Odisha.  The island is about 2 in length and 390 in area.

[[Pulicat Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Andhra Pradesh, Lakes of India

Pulicat Lake is India's second largest brackish water lake after the Chilika Lake in Odisha. It straddles in the coast area of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu states with over 96% of it in Andhra Pradesh and 3% in Tamil Nadu situated on the Coromandel Coast in South India. The lake encompasses the Pulicat Lake Bird Sanctuary. The barrier island of Sriharikota separates the lake from the Bay of Bengal and is home to the Satish Dhawan Space Centre. The fishing village of Pulicat is at the south end of the lake, from which the lake got its name. The Satish Dhawan Space Center is located on the north end of the island.

[[Primogeniture]]

CATEGORIES: Law

Primogeniture is the system of inheritance by the firstborn, usually the eldest son. In feudal England and other legal systems, the legitimate first-born son gets the first right to inherit property. His claim is stronger than all daughters, younger sons and even elder illegitimate sons. The rule is that the eldest will always have the first claim. If there is no son, each of the daughters inherit an equal share of the estate. If there are no children, the property is often inherited by the eldest brother. Among siblings, sons inherit before daughters and so on. Primogeniture is Latin for "first born".

[[Journalists (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s books, Fantasy books, Novels

Journalists (Журналюги)  is a thriller novel by Russian writer Sergei Aman, published in 2013.

[[Jimmy Cliff]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Converts to Islam, Jamaican singers, Reggae musicians

Jimmy Cliff OM (born James Chambers; 30 July 1944) is a Jamaican ska and reggae musician, singer and actor. He is best known for his songs "Wonderful World, Beautiful People", "Many Rivers to Cross", "You Can Get It If You Really Want", "The Harder They Come", "Reggae Night" and "Hakuna Matata". He is also well known for his  covers of Cat Stevens' "Wild World" and Johnny Nash's "I Can See Clearly Now" from the movie Cool Runnings (1993). He also appeared in the movies The Harder They Come (1972) and Club Paradise (1986).

Cliff was born in Somerton District, Saint James. He was a Christian before becoming a Muslim. He is no longer religious. He is married has a daughter Lilty Cliff and a son Aken Cliff.

[[Padma River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Bangladesh, National symbols of Bangladesh

Padma River is a major river in Bangladesh. It is the main distributary of the Ganges, flowing generally southeast for 120 to its confluence with the Meghna River near the Bay of Bengal. The city of Rajshahi is situated on the banks of the river.

The Padma River enters Bangladesh from India near a place named Chapai Nababganj and meets the Jamuna River near a place Aricha and gets its name Padma again, but finally meets with the Meghna near Chandpur and adopts the name "Meghna" before flowing into the Bay of Bengal. It is the "National river of Bangladesh".

[[Molecular machine]]

CATEGORIES: Machines, Molecular biology

A molecular machine, or nanomachine, is any set of molecules which produce mechanical movements (output) in response to specific stimuli (input).  The term is common in nanotechnology where a number of complex molecular machines have been proposed which might be a way of making a "molecular assembler". Molecular machines can be divided into two broad categories: synthetic and biological.

The 2016 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Jean-Pierre Sauvage, Fraser Stoddart and Ben Feringa for the design and synthesis of molecular machines.

[[Trent Robinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Australian rugby league players, Coaches

Trent Robinson (born 15 March 1977) is an Australian professional rugby league coach. He is the coach of the Sydney Roosters of the National Rugby League (NRL). In 2013, his first year with the club, the Roosters won a premiership. He also coached the French side Catalans Dragons. He played for the Wests Tigers and the Parramatta Eels in the early 2000s.

[[National parks of Fiji]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Oceania, Fiji, Lists of national parks, Oceania-related lists

This is a list of national parks of Fiji.

On the island of Viti Levu:

On the island of Taveuni:

On the island of Ovalau:

[[Hans Breukhoven]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in London, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Dutch businesspeople, People from Rotterdam

Johannes Arie "Hans" Breukhoven (31 October 1946 – 20 January 2017) was a Dutch businessman. He was the founder and president of Free Record Shop. He founded the retail store in 1971. Free Record Shop had hundreds of stores in the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg. He was born in Rotterdam, South Holland.

Breukhoven died from pancreatic cancer  on 20 January 2017 in London, United Kingdom. He was 70.

[[Château Frontenac]]

CATEGORIES: Hotels

The Château Frontenac is a hotel in Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. It is operated as Fairmont Le Château Frontenac. Château Frontenac sits at an elevation of 54. It was made a National Historic Site of Canada in 1980. 

[[Western Region (Iceland)]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Iceland

The Western Region (Icelandic: Vesturland) is a region in the west of Iceland. The population of the region was 15,300 (2007). The biggest town in the region is Akranes. However, the capital town is Borgarnes.

[[Öfnerspitze]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Geography of Bavaria, Tyrol (state), Mountains of Austria, Mountains of Germany

The Öfnerspitze is a rocky mountain in the  Allgäu Alps. It is 2,576 high. It is southeast of the Krottenspitze, and joined to it by a flat piece of rock. It is made of Dolomite. There are no marked paths to the Öfnerspitze, and it is rarely climbed. It was first climbed in 1854 by a survey team.

[[Les Demoiselles d'Avignon]]

CATEGORIES: Paintings, Works about prostitution

Les Demoiselles d'Avignon (The Young Ladies of Avignon) was a  1907 cubist painting by Picasso. It represents five women in a brothel. It took him nine months to paint it. Picasso gave up all attempts at traditional painting in this early cubist painting. He distorted the female figures in a way that showed the influence of African art. When the 8 painting was shown in his studio to a group of painters and critics, they were outraged. Henri Matisse called it a hoax and an attempt to paint the fourth dimension, The art critic André Salmon wrote: "It was the ugliness of the faces that froze with horror the half-converted". Another painter, André Derain, wrote: "One day we shall find Pablo has hanged himself behind his great canvas". It has been called one of the most significant paintings of the 20th century. The two figures on the right are shown with African mask-like features, an interest of Picasso at the time.

[[James S. Vlasto]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from COPD, Writers from New York City

Dimitrius Solon "James" Vlasto (June 11, 1934 – January 17, 2017) was an American editor, political public relations consultant and public servant. He served in federal, New York state and city senior government positions. He was born in New York City. He served as a Public Relations Representative. 

Vlasto joined the Atlantis in 1956 after his service in the United States Army. In March 1966, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Jr. hired Vlasto to do PR for his campaign for Governor of New York on the Liberal Party ticket in 1966 against the incumbent Republican Nelson A. Rockefeller. 

Vlasto was also New York state public relations advisor for Senator George McGovern in the United States presidential election in New York, 1972, a member of the finance committee for presidential candidate Michael Dukakis in the United States presidential election in New York, 1988  and New York State public relations advisor for Morris Udall’s run for Democratic nomination for President in 1976.

Vlasto worked as press secretary for former Bronx Borough President Herman Badillo during his run for mayor.

Vlasto died of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in New York City on January 17, 2017, aged 82.

[[Jan Kruis]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Comics artists, People from Rotterdam

Jan Kruis (jɑn krœys; 8 June 1933 – 19 January 2017) was a Dutch comics artist. He was most well known for the strip  Jack, Jacky and the Juniors. He was born in Rotterdam, Netherlands. In 1996, he was given the Order of the Netherlands Lion.

Kruis died on 19 January 2017 at his home in Mantinge, Netherlands, aged 83.

[[Ger van Mourik]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Ger van Mourik (4 August 1931 – 19 January 2017) was a Dutch footballer who played as a rightback. van Mourik played his entire career for hometown club Ajax, making his debut on 3 June 1950 against Enschedese Boys.  He was Ajax' captain for eight years and played 277 matches for the club, scoring 1 goal. Van Mourik managed DWV from 1974 until 1982, leading the club to the Dutch amateur title in 1977. He also coached SV Marken.

[[Edwin Pope]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Florida, American journalists, Writers from Georgia (U.S. state)

John Edwin Pope (April 11, 1928 – January 19, 2017) was an American journalist. 

[[Klaus Huhn]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, German journalists, Writers from Berlin

Klaus Huhn (24 February 1928 – 20 January 2017) was a German sports journalist, writer and sports administrator. Huhn worked for the  East German mass-market daily newspaper, Neues Deutschland, and was chairman of the Sports Journalists Sub-Association within that country's important Union of Journalists. He was born in Berlin.

Huhn died on 20 January 2017 in Berlin, aged 88.

[[Harry J. Middleton]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, American journalists, American historians, Writers from Iowa

Harry Joseph Middleton, Jr. (October 24, 1921 – January 20, 2017) was an American journalist, author, and library director. He served as Lyndon B. Johnson's Presidential speech writer and staff assistant from 1967 to 1969. In 1970, Johnson named him the director of the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum (LBJ Library) on the campus of the University of Texas at Austin. He retired in 2002. Middleton also served as Executive Director of the Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation from 1993 until 2004.

Middleton was born in Centerville, Texas. He studied at Washburn University and at Louisiana State University. Middleton died at his home in Austin, Texas on January 20, 2017, aged 95.

[[JYP Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean record labels

JYP Entertainment (stylised as JYP 엔터테인먼트 in Korean) is a South Korean entertainment company located in Seoul. It was founded in 2014 by South Korean singer-songwriter Park Jinyoung. This company acts as a record label, talent agency, music production company, event management and concert production company, and music publishing house. It is currently one of the largest entertainment companies in South Korea. JYP is known for having current artists such as  Wonder Girls, 2AM, 2PM, Baek A-yeon, JJ Project, GOT7, Itzy, Bernard Park, DAY6, and Twice, Stray Kids, and former artists such as Park Ji-yoon, god, and Rain.

[[Trettachspitze]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Geography of Bavaria, Mountains of Germany

The Trettachspitze is a mountain in the Allgäu Alps in Germany. It is made of Dolomite and is 2595 high. It is one of the best-known mountains in the Allgäu Alps. 

It is the only high rocky mountain in the Allgäu Alps that is completely in Germany. With the Mädelegabel (2645) and the Hochfrottspitze (2649) it forms the famous threesome of mountains on the main ridge of the Allgäu Alps. It is found north of the Mädelegabel. It was first climbed in 1855 by 3 brothers, Urban, Alois and Mathias Jochum.

[[Wakinosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs of Asia

Wakinosaurus (meaning "Wakino lizard") is a dubious genus of theropod dinosaur. It is named from the find of a single tooth.‭ ‬The genus is dubious (doubtful) because it is almost impossible to assign further fossil material to it.

The find was made in Lower Cretaceous deposits in Fukuoka, Japan in 1990 by Masahiro Sato. The triangular-shaped tooth has fine serrations on its cutting edge, which is standard for a theropod dinosaur. 

[[Sixpence (British coin)]]

CATEGORIES: British currency

The sixpence (6d; ˈ), sometimes known as a tanner or half-shilling was a British coin. It was worth 6 pennies or 2 new pence. It has not been produced since 1970. The coin was first minted in silver during the reign of Edward VI of England. From 1947 it was made from cupronickel. Following decimalisation, on 15 February 1971, the coin remained in circulation but was reduced in value. It was taken out of circulation in 1980.

[[Survival mode]]

CATEGORIES: Video game design, Video game gameplay

Survival mode is a video game mode. In this mode a player must continue playing for as long as possible without dying. It must be done in one session with no interruptions. This is while the game becomes more difficult by adding waves of challenges.

[[Noppenspitze]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Mountains of Austria

The Noppenspitze is a rocky mountain in the Allgäu Alps. It is 2,594 high and made of Dolomite. It is in the central part of the Hornbach chain. The Noppenspitze was first climbed on 16 August 1890 by  Antony Spiehler and his guide, Johann Schiffer. The Noppenspitze is not climbed very much. According to the summit book in 2006, it was only being climbed about 5 - 15 times per year.

[[Altusried]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Altusried is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. It is the location of the open-air theatre Freilichtspiele Altusried.

[[Nemegtosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Titanosaurs, Cretaceous dinosaurs

Nemegtosaurus is a genus of titanosaur sauropod dinosaur found in Mongolia. A possible synonym of Nemegtosaurus is Opisthocoelicaudia. It was named after the place it was discovered, the Nemegt Basin.

[[Bad Hindelang]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Bad Hindelang is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. From 2008 it has a population of 4,915. It is known for its sulphur springs and pure mountain air. Today the municipality is a health resort. It is 825 above sea level.

[[Oberstaufen]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Oberstaufen is a municipality  in the district of Oberallgäu in Schwaben, Bavaria, Germany. It is on the B 308 road from Lindau to Immenstadt. 

[[Nomen dubium]]

CATEGORIES: Zoology, Taxonomy

A nomen dubium is Latin for "doubtful name" (plural nomina dubia). It is a scientific name in zoology which  is of unknown or doubtful use.

With a nomen dubium it may be impossible to decide whether a specimen belongs to that group or not. This may happen if the original type specimen is lost or destroyed. The zoological and botanical codes allow for a new type specimen, or neotype, to be chosen in this case.

A name may also be considered a nomen dubium if its name-bearing type is fragmentary or lacking important diagnostic features. This is often the case for species known only as fossils. To preserve stability of names, the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature allows a new type specimen, or neotype, to be chosen for a nomen dubium in this case.

It is one of a number of terms which are used in biological taxonomy.

[[Wiggensbach]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Wiggensbach is a municipality in Bavaria. It is about 7 west of Kempten, the next big town. Next door municipalities are Altusried in the north and Buchenberg in the south of the village. Wiggensbach is the main village. Ermengerst and Westenried are the two districts of Wiggensbach. There are 72 hamlets around the municipality. The village is between 870 above sea level.

Wiggensbach is twinned with Hattstatt in France. The 20th anniversary of the partnership was in 2003.

[[Hochvogel]]

CATEGORIES: Allgäu Alps, Geography of Bavaria, Tyrol (state), Mountains of Austria, Mountains of Germany

The Hochvogel is a 2,592 high mountain in the Allgäu Alps. The border between Germany and Austria runs over the summit. Climbers can ascend the summit on two marked routes. One of the most interesting climbs is by Hermann von Barth. He stayed overnight at the summit in 1869. On 14 December 1945 an American Flying Fortress crashed on the west of the Hochvogel.

[[Shaft (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s crime drama movies, 1971 drama movies, American crime drama movies

Shaft is a 1971 crime drama movie. It was directed by Gordon Parks.

[[Arrondissements of the Cantal department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

There are 3 arrondissements in the Cantal department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Cantal are:

[[Gordon Parks]]

CATEGORIES: Musicians from Kansas, Writers from Kansas, American photographers, American movie directors, Cancer deaths in New York City, 1912 births, 2006 deaths

Gordon Roger Alexander Buchanan Parks (November 30, 1912 – March 7, 2006) was an American photographer, musician, writer and movie director. He was the first African-American to produce and direct major movies. He was best remembered for his iconic photos of poor Americans during the 1940s.

He created the blaxploitation genre. He was the director of the movie Shaft in 1971.

Parks was born in Fort Scott, Kansas. He died due to cancer in Manhattan, New York. Parks was 93.

[[Ahmed Gailani]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, 1932 births, Afghan politicians, Deaths from disease, Muslims, Pashtun people

Sayyid Ahmed Gailani (پیر سید احمد گیلانی‎; 1932 – 20 January 2017) was an Afghan Islamic leader and politician. He was the leader (Pir) of the Qadiriyya Sufi order in Afghanistah. He was also the founder of the National Islamic Front of Afghanistan. The party was tied with the Mujahideen who led the war against the Soviet Union in the 1980s. He also founded the High Peace Council in 2001. He was born in Surkh-Rōd District, Nangarhar Province.

Gailani died after an illness on 20 January 2017 in Kabul. He was 84.

[[Charles Liteky]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, American activists, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, American Roman Catholics, People from Washington, D.C., United States Army Medal of Honor recipients

Charles James "Charlie" Liteky (February 14, 1931 – January 20, 2017), formerly known as Angelo Liteky, was an American peace activist. He received the religious name Angelo as a member of a Catholic religious community of priests and Brothers, the Missionary Servants of the Most Holy Trinity.  He studied theology at their major seminary, located near Winchester, Virginia.  He was ordained a priest in May, 1960.  He served as a United States Army chaplain in the Vietnam War and was awarded the Medal of Honor, the U.S. highest military honor. He got the honor for carry 20 wounded soldiers to safety during a 1967 battle while getting fired at by enemy soldiers. He was a Roman Catholic priest from 1960 until 1975. In 1986, he became the first person to give back the Medal of Honor.

Liteky was born in Washington, D.C. and joined the Army from Brooklyn, New York. He married Judy Balch in 1983.

Liteky died on January 20, 2017 in San Francisco, California. He was 85.

[[Philip Bond (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, People from Staffordshire

Philip G. W. Bond (1 November 1934 – 17 January 2017) was a British actor. He was best known for playing Albert Frazer in 24 episodes of the 1970s BBC drama The Onedin Line. He also appeared in the series The Saint (1963), Doctor Who (1964), The Hound of the Baskervilles (1968), The Avengers (1969), Z-Cars (1969–75), Only Fools and Horses (1985), Casualty (2007), and Midsomer Murders (2007). His movie roles include Count Five and Die (1957), Orders to Kill (1958), Foxhole in Cairo (1960), I Want What I Want (1972) and Fever Pitch (1997).

Bond was born in Burton-on-Trent, Staffordshire. He was married to Pat Sandys until their divorce. They had three children, including Samantha (born 1961).

Bond died on 17 January 2017 in Madeira, Portugal. He was 82.

[[Balderschwang]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Balderschwang is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. It is home to the Balderschwang Yew, which may be the oldest tree in Germany. It has a population of 219. With an average of 2,450 liters per square meter per year, Balderschwang is the place with the most rainfall in Germany. 

[[Diana Thorneycroft]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Canadian photographers

Diana Thorneycroft is a Canadian photographer and artist. She was born in 1956 in Claresholm, Alberta, Canada. She works in Winnipeg. Her work has been exhibited both nationally and internationally. Some of these include the Canadian Museum of Contemporary Photography, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art and the Canadian Cultural Centre in Paris. Her work has received numerous awards. Thorneycroft was awarded the 2016 Manitoba Arts Award of Distinction.

[[Opisthocoelicaudia]]

CATEGORIES: Titanosaurs, Cretaceous dinosaurs

Opisthocoelicaudia is a genus of titanosaur sauropod dinosaur. It is from Late Cretaceous rocks from Mongolia's Nemegt Basin. In 1965 a well preserved skeleton was found, missing only a neck and head.

[[Betzigau]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Betzigau is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. It was first mentioned in 1238 as Bezzingowe. From 1988 to 2008 Betzigau grew by 440 people. Since 1 May 1996 the mayor has been Roland Helfrich.

[[Acorn squash]]

CATEGORIES: Vegetables

Acorn squash (Cucurbita pepo var. turbinata), also called pepper squash or Des Moines squash, is a winter squash with distinctive longitudinal ridges on its exterior and sweet, yellow-orange flesh inside. It is a special kind of pumpkin. The plant originally grew in the southern United States and Mexico, but it has been cultivated worldwide.

[[Blaichach]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Blaichach is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. It is in the northeast of the municipality the Iller flows through Blaichach. Blaichach was first mentioned as Bilaicha in 1275. Between 1988 and 2008 Blaichach grew by 599 people.

[[Obermaiselstein]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Obermaiselstein is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in the German state of Bavaria. About 60% of the land in the municipality is used for forestry or alpine sports.

[[Bolsterlang]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Bolsterlang is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. From 1988 to 2008 Bolsterlang grew by 178 inhabitants. On March 16, 2014, Monika Zeller was again elected Mayor of Bolsterlang.

[[Arrondissement of Aurillac]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Aurillac is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Cantal département in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and préfecture of the department, is the city of Aurillac.

[[Arrondissement of Mauriac]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Mauriac is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Cantal département in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and subpréfecture of the department, is the city of Mauriac.

[[Buchenberg]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Buchenberg is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. Between 1988 and 2008 Buchenberg grew by 412 people. Toni Barth has been mayor of Buchenberg since March 2004. He is currently in his third term of office as mayor.

[[Arrondissement of Saint-Flour]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Saint-Flour is an arrondissement of France. It is part of the Cantal département in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and subpréfecture of the department, is the city of Saint-Flour.

[[Burgberg im Allgäu]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Burgberg is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. Between 1988 and 2008 Burgberg grew by 488 inhabitants.

[[Nurosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropods, Cretaceous dinosaurs

Not to be confused with Naosaurus, a genus of pelycosaur.

Nurosaurus is the informal name given to a genus of Sauropod dinosaur. It was from the Cretaceous period in Inner Mongolia, China. It was a herbivore or plant-eater. "Nurosaurus" grew to about 25 long. The proposed binominal name is Nurosaurus qaganensis (Dong 1992).

[[Stanley Park]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 establishments in Canada, Vancouver, Botanical gardens, Zoos, Aquariums

Stanley Park is a park in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The park opened on September 27, 1888. It was named after Frederick Stanley, 16th Earl of Derby, the Governor General of Canada at the time. It is the third largest urban park in North America. The park covers 404. It attracts about 8 million visitors every year. Stanley Park is larger than New York City's Central Park. In Stanley Park there is a large aquarium, a protected forest, the lost lagoon, totems and other attractions.

[[Dietmannsried]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Dietmannsried is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. It is located 20 south of Memmingem, and 15 north of Kempten. From 1988 to 2008 Dietmannsried grew by 1729 people. Since 2014 the mayor has been Werner Andres.

[[Durach]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Durach is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany.

The village came into international media attention in August 2008. A light aircraft hit power lines nearby. The pilot and passenger survived inside the plane dangling on power cables. They were rescued in front of cameras.

[[Fischen]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Fischen im Allgäu is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. Fishcen is found 5.5 north of Oberstdorf. It is on the banks of the river Iller.

[[Lída Baarová]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2000 deaths, Czech movie actors

Lída Baarova (born Ludmila Babková 7 September 1914 in Prague – 27 October 2000) was a Czech actress. She studied acting at Conservatory and received her first  film role in Pavel Čamrda's Career (Kariéra Pavla Čamrdy), filming was forbidden for students, she made up pseudonym Lída Baarova after her father's friend J.Š.Baar at age 17. The film was successful, so she had to leave the conservatory.

[[Walter Benz]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, German academics, German mathematicians, People from Mainz, University of Waterloo

Walter Benz (May 2, 1931 – January 13, 2017) was a German mathematician, an expert in geometry. Benz was born in Mainz, Germany. He studied at the Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz.

After a position at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main, he served as a professor at the Universities of Bochum, Waterloo and Hamburg where he was professor emeritus. Benz was honoured with the degree of a Dr. h.c.

Inner product spaces over the real numbers were the basis of a 2007 book by Benz: Classical Geometries in Modern Contexts.

[[Tibetan antelope]]

CATEGORIES: Caprids, Mammals of Asia

Tibetan antelope, also known as Chiru is a medium sized antelope most closely related to wild goats and sheep of the subfamily Caprinae. Tibetan antelope are native to northwest India and Tibet. They live on the treeless Steppe above 5000. They are an endangered species. They are a target for hunters for their fine underfur called chiru. It is used to make luxury shawls. It takes about four animals to make a single shawl. In order to collect the chiru, the animals must be killed. Because of this the Chiru are close to extinction.

[[John Hanson]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, British businesspeople, British historians, British educators, British politicians, British writers, People from Sheffield

Sir John Gilbert Hanson (16 November 1938 – 13 January 2017) was a senior British diplomat, senior executive, historian, and academic. He was born in Sheffield, West Riding of Yorkshire.

Hanson was the Director-General of the British Council between 1992 and 1998. Hanson then became the Warden of Green College, University of Oxford from 1998 to 2006. Under his leadership, Green College merged with Templeton College in 2008 to become Green Templeton College, located at what was previously Green College.

Hanson died in London on 13 January 2017 after a short illness, aged 78.

[[Vahit Melih Halefoğlu]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Turkish politicians, Ambassadors of Turkey

Vahit Melih Halefoğlu (19 November 1919 – 21 January 2017) was a Turkish politician and diplomat.

After the general elections held in 1983, Turgut Özal appointed him Minister of Foreign Affairs from outside of the parliament. In 1986, he was elected deputy of Ankara from the Motherland Party (ANAP). He did not stand for election in the 1987 general elections and ended his political career.

Halefoğlu died on 21 January 2017 in Istanbul, aged 97.

[[The Roches]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 establishments in the United States, Folk music groups, American rock bands, People from Park Ridge, New Jersey, 1970s establishments in New Jersey

The Roches (Maggie, Terre, and Suzzy Roche) were a vocal group of three songwriting Irish-American sisters from Park Ridge, New Jersey. They were known for their "unusual" and "rich" harmonies, quirky lyrics, and casually comedic stage performances.

The Roches were active as performers and recording artists from the mid-1970s through 2007, at various times performing as a trio and in pairs.

[[Veljo Tormis]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Composers, Estonian musical entertainers

Veljo Tormis (7 August 1930 in Kuusalu - 21 January 2017) was an Estonian composer. He was called as one of the greatest living choral composers and one of the most important composers of the 20th century in Estonia.

Internationally, he is known from his extensive body of choral music, which passes 500 individual choral songs, most of it a cappella. The great majority of these pieces are based on traditional ancient Estonian folksongs (regilaulud), either textually, melodically, or merely stylistically.

[[John Watkiss]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cancer, British artists, Comics artists, People from Stoke-on-Trent

John Watkiss (28 July 1961 – 21 January 2017) was a British artist. He was known for his painting and his work in comics and movie production. His career led him from cover artist for graphic novels to storyboard artist and character designer. He was born in Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire.

Watkiss' comics illustration work includes DC Comics' The Sandman #39 (1992) and #53 (1993), Sandman Mystery Theatre #5–8 (1993), Starman #18 (1996), and all 13 issues of Deadman.

Watkiss died of cancer at the age of 55.

[[Dan Caspi]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Israeli academics, Israeli activists, Israeli journalists, Jewish academics, Jewish activists, Jewish Israeli writers, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Romanian Jews

Dan Caspi (January 1, 1945 – January 22, 2017) was an Israeli lecturer, journalist and activist. He worked at the Communication Studies Department of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Beersheba, Israel.

[[İlhan Cavcav]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Turkish businesspeople, People from Ankara

İlhan Cavcav (October 4, 1935 – January 22, 2017) was a Turkish businessman. He served as the chairman of Gençlerbirliği, a Football club in Turkey for almost 40 years until his death. He was born in Ankara.

He was known for his hard negotiation tactics with the big clubs in Turkey and searching for abilities especially for discovering talent from Africa.

[[Chen Yu-mei]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2017 deaths, Taiwanese politicians, Civil servants

Chen Yu-mei (陳玉梅; 22 July 1966 – 22 January 2017) was a politician in the Republic of China. She served as Deputy Minister of the Overseas Community Affairs Council of the Executive Yuan from 18 September 2013 to 8 August 2014.

On 8 August 2014, Chen officially resigned to attend to other career plans. She was succeeded by Hsin Shih-chang, a professor from National Taiwan Normal University.

[[Cristina Adela Foișor]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Romanian sportspeople, Chess players

Cristina Adela Foișor (7 June 1967, Petroșani – 22 January 2017, Timișoara), née Badulescu, was a Romanian chess player, an Mnternational Master and Woman Grandmaster. She won the Women's Romanian Chess Championship five times.

She had competed for the world championship several times, most recently the Women's World Chess Championship 2012 when she went out in the first round in an Armageddon game. In the season 2016/17 she played for Schachfreunde Deizisau in 2. Bundesliga Süd. 

Foisor died of complications from pneumonia after several days in a coma at County Hospital of Timișoara, Romania, aged 49.

[[Andy Marte]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, 2017 deaths, Road accident deaths, Dominican Republic sportspeople, Atlanta Braves players, Cleveland Indians players, Arizona Diamondbacks players

Andy Manuel Marte (October 21, 1983 – January 22, 2017) was a Dominican professional baseball third baseman. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Atlanta Braves, Cleveland Indians and Arizona Diamondbacks. He also played in the KBO League for the KT Wiz. He was born in Villa Tapia, Dominican Republic.

Marte was killed in a car crash near San Francisco de Macorís, Dominican Republic on January 22, 2017, aged 33.

[[József Torgyán]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Hungarian politicians, Lawyers

József Torgyán (16 November 1932 − 22 January 2017) was a Hungarian lawyer and politician. He was chairman of the Independent Smallholders' Party. He served as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development in the government of Viktor Orbán from 1998 through 2001. He was born in Mátészalka, Hungary.

Torgyán in Budapest, Hungary on 22 January 2017 from heart failure, aged 84.

[[Pete Overend Watts]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from throat cancer, English rock guitarists, Musicians from Birmingham

Peter Overend Watts (13 May 1947 – 22 January 2017) was an English bass guitarist. He was known for being the founding member and guitarist of 1970s rock band, Mott the Hoople. He was born in Birmingham, England. His book "The Man Who Hated Walking" was published in 2013.

Watts died in Birmingham on 22 January 2017 from throat cancer at the age of 69.

[[Yordano Ventura]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, 2017 deaths, Road accident deaths, Dominican Republic sportspeople, Kansas City Royals players

Yordano Ventura Hernández (ɟʝorˈðano βenˈtuɾa; June 3, 1991 – January 22, 2017) was a Dominican professional baseball pitcher. He played for the Kansas City Royals of Major League Baseball (MLB) from 2013 through 2016. He was twice named to the All-Star Futures Game. He was born in Samaná, Dominican Republic.

Ventura made his MLB debut on September 17, 2013. He was known as a power pitcher, his fastball was much valued by the Royals during his tenure with the team. In 2014, Ventura's 96.2 mph average fastball velocity (96.4 for two-seamers) ranked second-best among MLB starters. He helped the Royals win the 2015 World Series.

On January 22, 2017, Ventura was killed in a car accident in the city of Juan Adrián, Dominican Republic, aged 25.

[[Jaki Liebezeit]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, German pianists, Saxophonists, Drummers, People from Dresden

Jaki Liebezeit (May 26, 1938 – January 22, 2017) was a German drummer. He was best known as a founding member of Can, who has been called "one of the few drummers to convincingly meld the funky and the cerebral". He also played the piano and saxophone. He was born in Dresden, Germany.

Liebezeit died on January 22, 2017 in Dresden, Germany from pneumonia, aged 78.

[[Park Ridge, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in New Jersey

Park Ridge is a borough in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. Park Ridge had a population of 8,645 as of the 2010 United States Census. The mayor of Park Ridge is Terence P. Maguire.

The borough is a part of the Pascack Valley region of Bergen County. It is bounded by the boroughs of Montvale, River Vale, Woodcliff Lake and Hillsdale.

The Hertz Corporation, a car rental company, had been headquartered in Park Ridge and was the borough's largest single taxpayer. Sony Corporation of America has an R&D and engineering facility in Park Ridge.

Famous people were either born or raised here in Park Ridge: James Gandolfini, The Roches, and Pat Nixon. 

[[ELF/Filecoder.A]]

CATEGORIES: Malware

ELF/Filecoder.A is a ransomware Trojan that infects Unix systems. There are different versions of the Trojan for several different flavors of Unix, including Linux, FreeBSD, and MacOS. Like other ransomware, it encrypts files on the system and demands payment for decryption.

[[Parliament of India]]

CATEGORIES: Government of India

The Parliament of India is the supreme legislative body of the Republic of India. The Parliament is composed of the President of India and the houses. It is bicameral with two houses: the Rajya Sabha (Council of States) and the Lok Sabha (House of the People).The Rajya Sabha is also known as the Upper house and the Lok Sabha is known as the lower house.But this does not mean that Lok Sabha is less powerful than Rajya Sabha.In fact,the Lok Sabha is much more powerful than the Rajya Sabha.

[[Hollywood Sign]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Los Angeles, California

The Hollywood Sign (formerly the Hollywoodland Sign) is a landmark and American cultural icon located in Los Angeles, California. It is near on Mount Lee, in the Hollywood Hills area of the Santa Monica Mountains. The sign overlooks Hollywood, Los Angeles.

"HOLLYWOOD" is spelled out in 45-tall white capital letters and is 350 feet (106.7 m) long. It was originally created in 1923 as an advertisement for a local real estate development, but it gained increasing recognition after the sign was left up. 

The sign was a frequent target of pranks and vandalism, but it has since undergone restoration, including the installation of a security system to deter vandalism. The sign is protected and promoted by The Trust For Public Land, a nonprofit organization, while its site and the surrounding land are part of Griffith Park.

[[Jefferson Memorial]]

CATEGORIES: Thomas Jefferson, Buildings and structures in Washington, D.C.

The Jefferson Memorial is a presidential memorial in Washington, D.C.. It was dedicated to the 3rd President of the United States Thomas Jefferson. The neoclassical Memorial building on the Tidal Basin off the Washington Channel of the Potomac River was designed by the architect John Russell Pope. 

Construction began in December 1938. It was complete in 1939 with a ceremony attended by then-President Franklin D. Roosevelt. As a National Memorial it was administratively listed on the National Register of Historic Places on October 15, 1966.

[[The World According to Novikoff (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 books, Novels, Fantasy books

The World According to Novikoff (Мир по Новикову) is a thriller novel by Russian writer Andrei Gusev, published in 2006.

[[Moshe Gershuni]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Israeli Jews, Israeli painters, Israeli sculptors, Jewish artists, People from Tel Aviv

Moshe Gershuni (11 September 1936 – 22 January 2017) was an Israeli painter and sculptor. He was known for his paintings in the 1980s which recognised The Holocaust. In 2003, he was awarded the Israel Prize for his paintings. However, Gershuni wanted to get the award without going to event. After this, his Israel Prize was not given to him. He was born in Tel Aviv.

Gershuni died on 22 January 2017 in Tel Aviv at the age of 80.

[[Special Administrative Region]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of China

A Special Administrative Region (SAR) is a region in China that has a high level of autonomy, or a lot of power to rule itself.  There are two SAR's in China, Hong Kong and Macau.  Unlike other regions in mainland China, SAR's have a Basic Law, a constitution that is different from that of the People's Republic of China (PRC).  Basic Law allows Hong Kong and Macau to have freedoms that are not in the rest of China, like freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of the Press, freedom of assembly, and freedom to petition. Basic Law also allows the SAR's to decide the economic rules of their region, which is why the economies are a lot less controlled in Hong Kong and Macau than in mainland China, as well as giving them the freedom to choose who to let into their own regions without needing a visa. As a result, Hong Kong and Macau have their own currencies, passports, official languages, etc. This is commonly known as the "one country, two systems" policy.

Chinese is an official language in both SAR's, but unlike mainland China where Mandarin is the main spoken language and simplified Chinese is the main written language, Cantonese is the most spoken language and traditional Chinese is the main written language in these areas.  The vagueness of simply stating Chinese as the official language allows this to happen.  Also, English and Portuguese, the main languages of the nations that controlled Hong Kong and Macau in the past in respective order, are also official languages in the respective SAR's.

[[Kasaragod]]

CATEGORIES: Kerala

Kasaragod District (കാസർഗോഡ് ജില്ല) is one of the 14 districts in the state of Kerala, India. Kasaragod became part of Kannur district following the reorganisation of states and formation of Kerala in November 1, 1956. Kasaragod was declared as a district on 24 May 1984.

[[Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sri Lanka, Capital cities in Asia

Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte, or Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte, is also known as Kotte. It is the official capital of Sri Lanka. Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte is in the urban area of Colombo.

[[Haldenwang, Oberallgäu]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Haldenwang is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. It is one the eastern side of the Iller valley. The mayor has been Josef Wölfle (CSU) since 1 May 2014. 

[[Deinocheirus]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous dinosaurs

italictitle

Deinocheirus (ˌ DY) is a genus of ornithomimid dinosaur from the Cretaceous of Mongolia. In 1965, arms and shoulder girdles were found.

More parts were found in 2014, and this large dinosaur was probably omnivorous.

[[Dmytro Grabovskyy]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, 2017 deaths, Cyclists, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Jewish Israeli sportspeople, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Soviet Jews, Ukrainian Jews, Ukrainian sportspeople

Dmytro Grabovskyy (Дмитро Грабовський, 30 September 1985 – 23 January 2017) was a Ukrainian-Israeli professional road bicycle racer. He was born in Simferopol, Ukraine. He last competed for UCI Continental team ISD-Lampre. He was second in the time trial for juniors at the 2005 World Championship Cycling in Madrid and he won the road race. 

Grabovsky became an Israeli citizen in 2014.

He died from a heart attack in 23 January 2017, aged 31.

[[Gorden Kaye]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English comedians, Actors from Yorkshire, People from Huddersfield

Gordon Fitzgerald Kaye, known professionally as Gorden Kaye (7 April 1941 – 23 January 2017) was a BAFTA-nominated English comic actor. He was best known for playing René Artois in the British TV comedy series %27Allo %27Allo!. He also was the roadie for Alberto y Lost Trios Paranoias.

Kaye was born in Huddersfield, West Riding of Yorkshire. When young, Kaye played rugby league for Moldgreen ARLFC before studying at King James's Grammar School, Almondbury, Huddersfield. Kaye died under hospice care in England on 23 January 2017, aged 75.

[[Ruth Samuelson]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from ovarian cancer, Politicians from South Carolina, Politicians from North Carolina, US Republican Party politicians

Ruth Culbertson Samuelson (November 4, 1959 – January 23, 2017) was an American Republican politician. She was a member of the North Carolina General Assembly, representing the 104th district in the North Carolina House of Representatives from 2007 to 2015. She announced on October 15, 2013, that she would not seek re-election for a fifth term and would leave office at the end of her current term, after the 2014 elections.

From 2000 to 2004, Samuelson served as a member of the Mecklenburg County Board of Commissioners, representing the Fifth District. In 2004, she ran for an At-Large seat on the Board of Commissioners, but lost in a tight general election race.

Samuelson was born in Charleston, South Carolina. She revealed in June 2016 that she had been diagnosed with ovarian cancer. Samuelson died on January 23, 2017 under hospice care in Charlotte, North Carolina, aged 57.

[[Time in Russia]]

CATEGORIES: Time by country, Russia

Russia currently has eleven time zones:

Daylight saving time (DST) is no longer observed in Russia but it was used from when it was part of the Soviet Union until 2011, then President Dmitry Medvedev announced on February 8, 2011, that summer time will be used all year, leaving Moscow Time on UTC+4 year round.

On 22 July 2014, Another bill was re-introduced, forcing all Russian time zones to move an hour back, and Moscow Time is now on UTC+3. However, the 

More time changes occurred in 2016. On March 27, several times were changed:

On April 24, another time zone was changed:

On July 24, another time zone was changed:

And, on December 4, another time zone was changed:

[[SpongeBob SquarePants (season 1)]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants seasons, 1999 television seasons, 2000 television seasons, 2001 television seasons

Season 1 of the Nickelodeon TV series SpongeBob SquarePants started on May 1, 1999 and ended on March 3, 2001.

[[SpongeBob SquarePants (season 3)]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants seasons, 2000s television seasons, 2001 television seasons

SpongeBob SquarePants is an American animated television series. The third season was on television from October 5, 2001 to October 11, 2004. 

Stephen Hillenburg, the creator of SpongeBob Squarepants, stopped making the television series in order to make The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie. The television series was meant to end after the movie was released. Because the movie was so popular, the television series continued.

The third season won both the 2003 and 2004 Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards for Favorite Cartoon.

[[Samhain]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals

Samhain is the Gaelic celebration at the end of the harvest season and the beginning of winter. It is pronounced SOW-in. This festival is also celebrated in Paganism and Wicca. It is now known as Halloween or All Hallows' Eve and celebrated on the 31st of October. 

[[Andrew Telegdi]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Hungarian politicians, People from Budapest, Politicians from Ontario, Privy Councillors (Canada)

Andrew Telegdi, PC (András Telegdi; May 28, 1946 – January 23, 2017) was a Hungarian-born Canadian politician.  He was a Liberal Member of Parliament in the Canadian House of Commons from 1993 to 2008, representing Waterloo and the successor riding of Kitchener—Waterloo.

In 2014, Telgedi ran and lost in the 2014 Waterloo Regional Elections.  He came in third place to become one of two councillors for Waterloo on the Waterloo Regional Council.

Telegdi was born in Budapest, Hungary. He studied at the University of Waterloo in the 1970s. Telegdi died on January 23, 2017 in Waterloo, Ontario, aged 70.

[[FAW Group]]

CATEGORIES: China

[[Richard DeVos]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2018 deaths, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, American Calvinists, Businesspeople from Grand Rapids, Michigan, Richard DeVos

Richard Marvin DeVos Sr. (March 4, 1926 – September 6, 2018) was an American businessman. He was known for being the co-founder of Amway along with Jay Van Andel (company restructured as Alticor in 2000), and owner of the Orlando Magic NBA basketball team.

In 2012, Forbes magazine listed him as the 60th richest person in the United States, and the 205th richest in the world, with an estimated net worth of $5.1 billion. At one point, he was one of the 10 richest Americans.February 2017

DeVos was born in Grand Rapids, Michigan. He studied at Calvin College. He served in the military in World War II in the United States Army Air Corps. He was married to Helen June Van Wesep from 1953 until her death in 2017. Together, they had four children. His son, Dick DeVos, is married to Betsy DeVos the 11th and current United States Secretary of Education.

He was a Reformed Christian.

DeVos died on September 6, 2018 from complication of an infection in Ada, Michigan at the age of 92.

[[Cère]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Occitanie

The Cère  is a French river, in the Massif Central, that flows through the Cantal, Corrèze and Lot departments. It is a left tributary of the Dordogne (river) and is the main river of the Cantal department.

For about 20, the Cère forms the border between, first, the Corrèze and the Cantal departments and, later, between the Corrèze and the Lot departments.

[[California National Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States, 2015 establishments in California, Politics of California

The California National Party (CNP) is a political party in the state of California. The party was founded in 2015. It has been described by California legislative historian Alex Vassar as "the biggest-promising political party you haven't heard of". It is currently chaired by Theo Slater. The party's main goal is achieving California's independence from the United States of America.  Their platform also includes a wide range of proposed reforms. This includes health care, schools and welfare. Many of their proposals are generally left of center and reflect the party's "pragmatic progressive" ideology. 

[[Yes California]]

CATEGORIES: Political activists

The Yes California Independence Campaign is an American political action committee. It promotes the secession of the state of California from the United States via a referendum proposed for 2019. The campaign president is Louis J. Marinelli. He is a former New Yorker who lives in Russia He has received help from the Russian government to promote his efforts. Marinelli was encouraged by the news of Brexit, the United Kingdom plan for leaving the European Union. The group has been nicknamed "Calexit" for California exit. The left-wing group was allowed to set up a makeshift embassy in Moscow under the name the “Embassy of the Independent Republic of California". The Kremlin has been known for supporting secessionist movements in Europe and the United States.

[[Administrator of the Small Business Administration]]

CATEGORIES: Administrators of the Small Business Administration, 1953 establishments in the United States

The Administrator of the Small Business Administration is the head of the Small Business Administration of the United States Government.

[[Vincent Viola]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American philanthropists, American military people, Businesspeople from New York City

Vincent "Vinnie" Viola (born 1956 in New York City) is an American billionaire businessman and philanthropist. Viola was the nominee for United States Secretary of the Army after being nominated by Donald Trump in December 2016. He withdrew his name from consideration on February 3, 2017.

He is the former chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), and the founder and chairman of Virtu Financial. Viola is the owner of the Florida Panthers, a National Hockey League (NHL) ice hockey team.

[[Heather Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Businesspeople from New Hampshire, Businesspeople from New Mexico, American military people, American educators, Politicians from New Hampshire, United States representatives from New Mexico, United States Secretaries of the Air Force, US Republican Party politicians

Heather Ann Wilson (born December 30, 1960) is an American politician. Wilson was the 24th United States Secretary of the Air Force from May 16, 2017 through May 31, 2019. She served as President of the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology in Rapid City, South Dakota. She is a former Republican member of the United States House of Representatives representing New Mexico from 1998 to 2009. She was the first female military veteran elected to a full term in Congress.

After leaving Congress she was leading consulting firm Heather Wilson & Company.

On January 23, 2017, President Donald Trump announced his intentions to nominate Wilson as Secretary of the Air Force. The United States Senate confirmed her nomination on May 8, 2017.

On March 8, 2019, Wilson said that she would resign as Secretary, on May 31, 2019, in order to become President of the University of Texas at El Paso.

[[The Mirage]]

CATEGORIES: Hotels, Buildings and structures in Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada

The Mirage is a 3,044 room hotel and casino resort located on the strip in Las Vegas, Nevada. The casino is owned by MGM Mirage. 

The Mirage has a 20,000-gallon saltwater aquarium with over 450 species of fish. It has an indoor tropical rainforest housed in its 100 tall atrium. In front of the Mirage is a volcano that erupts nightly depending on the season. Every hour there is a fire show. The huge balls of fire are choreographed to music and light up the lagoon next to it. 

The Mirage is connected by a free tram to Treasure Island, its sister property immediately to the north.

[[Marta Kubišová]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Czech singers

Marta Kubišová (1 November 1942 České Budějovice, then in Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia) is a Czech singer most popular in Czechoslovakia in 1960s. She won Zlatý slavík TV award in 1967. 

[[Ouija board]]

CATEGORIES: Board games

The Ouija (pronounced wee-jee or wee-jah) is a game board supposedly used to talk to the dead. It is designed to be a fun activity based on self-deception. They are also called "spirit boards" or "talking boards. It is a flat board with the numbers 0-9 and all the letters of the alphabet. It has the words "yes" and "no" at the top with the word "goodbye" on the bottom. The board uses a planchette, which is a small wooden plank in the shape of an upside down heart. It has a glass circle (or plain hole) in the top. The player asks a question.   Then one or more players guide the planchette to the letters or numbers to spell out a message. However, Scientists know the game is based on the ideomotor effect. A participant believes they are not controlling the message, that it comes from ghosts or spirits. It can seem very mysterious. But anyone can test a Ouija board by blindfolding or hiding the board from the ones moving the planchette. What usually results is gibberish and no message.

[[Plomb du Cantal]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Plomb du Cantal is a French mountain, the highest summit of Mounts of Cantal in the Massif Central, France. It is part of the Regional Natural Park of the Volcanoes of Auvergne (Parc Naturel Régional des Volcans d'Auvergne).

It is the highest mountain of the Cantal department and the second highest in the Massif Central, after Puy de Sancy that is 1885 high.

[[Xin Zhui]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors and Empresses of China, Chinese royalty, Deaths from hypertension

Xin Zhui (213 BC-163 BC) also known as Lady Dai or the Diva Mummy is a 2,100-year-old mummy from the Western Han Dynasty. To date, she is the best preserved ancient human ever found. She was the wife of Li Cang, the marquis of Dai. She had gained fame more than 2,000 years after her death. This was when her tomb was discovered inside a hill in Hunan, China. She and her jewels are located at the Hunan Provincial Museum.

[[Table (landform)]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

A table (landform) is a high rock structure with a flat top. There are many different terms for this landform feature.

The tuya is a structure formed by a subglacial (under ice) volcano. Lava erupts underneath an overlying glacier or ice sheet. It melts through to the surface and pools, producing the flat plateau on top with near-vertical walls along the ice-contact margin as the lava cools and hardens. 

A similar landform is the tepui, which has a rather different origin. A body of hard rock resists erosion. It was originally inside a body of softer rock such as limestone, which got eroded away to form a plain. The more resistant rock is left behind as an isolated mountain. The term is used for the table-top mountains of South America. Auyán-tepui in the Guiana Highlands, Venezuela is the source of the Angel Falls, the tallest waterfall in the world. It is 19 times higher than Niagara Falls.

Table Mountain in South Africa is the best-known example of a table landform.

[[Meierijstad]]

CATEGORIES: Meierijstad, 2017 establishments in the Netherlands

Meierijstad (literally Bailiwick City) is a municipality in North Brabant, a province in Netherlands. It is the largest municipality in the province and in the eastern part.

About 79,000 people live tehre, on an area of about 185 km².

Meierijstad is established in 2017. Two municipalities, Schijndel, Sint-Oedenrode and Veghel, joined to become Meierijstad.

Biggest settlement is the town of Veghel, also containing the town hall. However, council meetings are held at Dommelrode Castle in Sint-Oedenrode.

Both the Zuid-Willemsvaart canal and the A50 motorway cross municipality.

[[Chandannagar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India

Chandannagar is a municipal corporation in the state of West Bengal, India. It was formerly spelled Chandranagore. It  was a former French colony along with present Puducherry, Union territory. It is a part of the Kolkata Metropolitan Area. Chandannagar is located on the banks of the Hooghly River. The total area of the city is 20. The total population of the city is 166,867 according to the 2011 Census of India. Chandannagar was a French territory until India gained its  independence from France in 1949. In 1954 it came under the jurisdiction of West Bengal.

[[Abenaki language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of North America

Abenaki, or Abnaki, is an endangered Algonquian language of Quebec and the northern states of New England. The language has Eastern and Western forms. They differ in vocabulary and phonology. They are sometimes considered distinct languages.

Eastern Abenaki languages were spoken by several peoples, including the Micmac, Maliseet, Passamaquoddy, and Penobscot of coastal Maine. The last known fluent speaker of Eastern Abenaki (Penobscot) died during the 1990s. However, several Penobscot elders still speak Penobscot. There is an ongoing effort to preserve it and teach it in the local schools. Only a handful of Western Abenaki speakers remain today. 

[[Stencil]]

CATEGORIES: Printing

A stencil is a blocking material used to mask a surface. In it there are holes for ink or paint to pass through. That way an image is made on the material behind the stencil. Stencils are used when many copies are needed of the same image. It is used in street art, and many public notices.

Screen printing is a printing technique using a fine mesh. Ink is applied except in areas blocked by a stencil.

[[Virender Sehwag]]

CATEGORIES: Indian cricketers, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Virender Sehwag is a former Indian cricketer and former captain of the Indian National Cricket Team. He was renowned as a destructive and aggressive player. He holds numerous records in international and Indian cricket. He is a right arm batsman and right arm off-spin bowler.

Sehwag was the first Indian batsman to score Triple century in Test cricket. He scored 319 off 278 balls against South Africa in M. A. Chidambaram Stadium. It is the fastest triple century since then. He holds the massive Indian record of scoring the fastest 300,250,200 and 150 in Test cricket. Sehwag is the only personality of any nationality to be honoured as the Wisden Leading Cricketer in the World twice.

[[Place of articulation]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy

The Place of articulation tells where a sound is made (articulated). There are at least 13 different places of articulation. They are split into four big types. 

[[Naqsh Lyallpuri]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Indian writers, Songwriters

Jaswant Rai Sharma, (24 February 1927 – 22 January 2017) popularly known by his pen name Naqsh Lyallpuri, was an Indian ghazal and Bollywood song writer. He was born in Lyallpur (now called Faisalabad), British India. Lyallpuri worked with many Bollywood music directors including Madan Mohan, Khayyam, Jaidev, Naushad, and Ravindra Jain. He had close association with director B. R. Ishara from their first movie Chetna in 1970.

Lyallpuri was known for his work in Chetna, Gharonda, Dard, Kala Suraj, Taj Mahal: An Eternal Love Story, and Yatra. 

Lyallpuri died at his home in Mumbai, India on 22 January 2017 from complications of a hip fracture, aged 89.

[[Henry McMaster]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Governors of South Carolina, US Republican Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of South Carolina

Henry Dargan McMaster (born May 27, 1947) is an American politician. He is the 117th and current Governor of South Carolina since January 24, 2017. He became governor when Nikki Haley resigned to become the Ambassador to the United Nations. 

McMaster was born into a wealthy South Carolina family who owned many slaves before the American Civil War. His father John was also a politician. 

He last served as the 91st Lieutenant Governor of South Carolina from 2015 to 2017, as well as Attorney General of South Carolina from 2003 to 2011. From 1981 to 1985, McMaster served as United States Attorney, where he was known for Operation Jackpot. McMaster served on the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education and chaired the South Carolina Republican Party from 1993 to 2002.

[[Lawrence Kudlow]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Directors of the National Economic Council, American columnists, American economists, American journalists, American Roman Catholics, American television personalities, Bloggers, Jewish American entertainers, Jewish American writers, People from Englewood, New Jersey, Television personalities from New Jersey, University of Rochester alumni, Writers from New Jersey, American bloggers

Lawrence Alan "Larry" Kudlow (born August 20, 1947) is an American conservative commentator, economic analyst, television personality, and newspaper columnist. He was the 12th Director of the National Economic Council from April 2, 2018 to January 20, 2021. He was the host of CNBC's The Kudlow Report. As a syndicated columnist, his articles appear in numerous U.S. newspapers and web sites, including his own blog, Kudlow's Money Politic$.

Kudlow was born and raised in Englewood, New Jersey.

He is of Jewish descent, and converted to Roman Catholicism.deadlink

In March 2018, President Donald Trump appointed Kudlow to be Director of the National Economic Council, replacing Gary Cohn.

On June 11, 2018, Kudlow suffered a heart attack.

[[Daya (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: American R&B singers, American pop musicians, Musicians from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Singers from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 1998 births, Living people

Grace Martine Tandon (better known as Daya; born October 24, 1998) is an American singer-songwriter. She released her self titled extended play (EP), Daya, on September 4, 2015. The EP included the song "Hide Away". "Hide Away" peaked at #23 on Billboard Hot 100. On October 7, 2016, she released her first studio album Sit Still, Look Pretty.

In 2017, Daya was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Dance Recording for her work on the song "Don't Let Me Down" from the Chainsmokers.

Daya was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

[[Immenstadt]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Immenstadt im Allgäu is a municipality in the Oberallgäu, the southernmost district of Bavaria, Germany. It is in the German Alps. Armin Schaupp became mayor in 2008.

[[Tiliqua scincoides]]

CATEGORIES: Reptiles of Australia

The Australian Blue Tongue lizard or skink is the most common blue tongue lizard in Australia, occupying most of the east coast. This means they are the species that most interacts with people.

[[Soweto Uprising]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century riots, Apartheid-related violence

The Soweto Uprising was a series of protests lead by high school students in South Africa against introduction of Afrikaans as official language in education with oppression and neglecting their first languages. The uprising started  on  the morning of 16 June 1976.

Students from many Sowetan schools began to protest in the streets of Soweto because Afrikaans had been introduced a as the language of teaching in local schools. It is estimated that 20,000 students took part in the protests. The police responded by killing many protesters. The number of people killed in the uprising is usually given as 176, but estimates of up to 700 have been made. In remembrance of these events, 16 June is now a public holiday in South Africa, named Youth Day.

[[Siewert Öholm]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Sweden, Deaths from liver cancer, Swedish journalists, Swedish radio personalities, Swedish television presenters

Henrik Siewert Natanael Öholm (7 August 1939 – 25 January 2017), better known as Siewert Öholm, was a Swedish journalist and television presenter. He worked for Sveriges Radio between 1971 and 2002. He also worked on shows for Sveriges Television. He was also a debater for social conservatism values.

Öholm was born in Husby. He was married twice and had four sons, including MP politician Oskar Öholm.

Öholm died from liver cancer on 25 January 2017 in Växjö. He was 77.

[[Carlos Verdejo]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Chilean footballers

Carlos Enrique Verdejo Verdejo (2 October 1934 – 24 January 2017) was a Chilean footballer. He played as a forward. He played for Everton de Viña del Mar, Deportes La Serena, Santiago Wanderers and Palestino.

Verdejo was born in Valparaíso. He died in Viña del Mar at the age of 82.

[[Chuck Weyant]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, American racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Ohio

Chuck Weyant (April 3, 1923 – January 24, 2017) was an American racecar driver. He competed in 1955, 1957, 1958 and 1959 Indianapolis 500 races. Until his death, Weyant was the oldest living Indianapolis 500 veteran. He was born in St. Marys, Ohio.

Weyant died on January 24, 2017 at the age of 93.

[[Fred André]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, People from Haarlem, Sportspeople from North Holland

Fred André (31 May 1941 – 24 January 2017) was a Dutch footballer. He played as a centre-back. He played from the early-1960s to the late-1970s. He was best known for playing for Telstar from 1963 to 1976. He made 328 appearances for the club. He also played for Volendam. He later managed Telstar from 1983 to 1987. He was born in Haarlem, North Holland.

André died on 24 January 2017 at the age of 75.

[[Søren Elung Jensen]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Danish movie actors, Danish television actors, Deaths from lung cancer, Disease-related deaths in Denmark

Søren Elung Jensen (7 July 1928 – 22 January 2017) was a Danish actor. He was born in Odense. He appeared in 22 movies between 1960 and 1999.

Elung Jensen died from lung cancer on 22 January 2017 in Hellerup. He was 88.

[[Perthshire]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Scotland

Perthshire (Siorrachd Pheairt) is a county in central Scotland. Officially, it is the County of Perth, and a registration county in central Scotland. By "registration" is meant marriage and land registration uses Perthshire as a county. 

[[Trehafod]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wales, 1850s establishments in the United Kingdom

Trehafod is a village in the Rhondda Valley between Porth and Pontypridd in Rhondda Cynon Taf, Wales. A former coal mining area, the village is now best known as the site of the Rhondda Heritage Park, visiting site for everyone showing the life of coal mining in Rhondda. Trehafod has many buildings such as the Bed and breakfast and Hafod Primary School. Trehafod primary school is a school for ages 3 to 11 with 8 year groups.

[[Cantons of Bolivia]]

CATEGORIES: Cantons, Geography of Bolivia

There are 1,374 cantons in Bolivia.

The cantons come after the municipalities.

[[Ad astra (phrase)]]

CATEGORIES: Latin phrases

Ad astra is a Latin phrase that means "to the stars".

The phrase has origins with Virgil, who wrote sic itur ad astra ("thus one journeys to the stars", from Aeneid book IX, line 641, spoken by Apollo to Aeneas's young son Iulus) and opta ardua pennis astra sequi ("desire to pursue the high (or hard to reach) stars on wings" book XII, lines 892–893, spoken by Aeneas to his foe Turnus in their combat).

Another origin is Seneca the Younger, who wrote non est ad astra mollis e terris via ("there is no easy way from the earth to the stars", Hercules Furens, line 437, spoken by Megara, Hercules' wife).

[[Politics of the Netherlands]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the Netherlands

The politics of the Netherlands is that of an indirect democracy. It has a constitution and a monarchy that operates within the constitution. The democratic structure is determined by a parliament (the legislative branch) and a government (the executive branch). The government depends on the confidence of the parliament, but the two branches aren't strictly separated (the parliamentary system).

The parliament is called the States General (Dutch: Staten-Generaal) and consists of two chambers: a lower house, the so-called Second Chamber (Dutch: Tweede Kamer), comparable with the House of Representatives in other countries, and a upper house, the so-called First Chamber (Dutch: Eerste Kamer), comparable with the Senate in other countries, and often called likewise.

At a lower level, there are provinces, municipalities and water boards.

On a higher level, the Netherlands makes part of the Benelux, Council of Europe, European Union, NATO and the United Nations.

The Netherlands is officially called the Kingdom of the Netherlands. It is composed of four countries: the Netherlands itself (the European part) and three island countries in the Caribbean: Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. Three other islands in the Caribbean that belong to the Netherlands have a status of special municipalities of the Netherlands, the so-called Caribbean Netherlands.

[[P53]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Cancer

p53 (or tp53) is a gene vital to many forms of life, including humans. It codes for a protein which suppresses cancer. It has been called  "the guardian of the genome". 

The p53 gene is the most frequently mutated gene (>50%) in human cancer. Its protein product binds to DNA and regulates gene expression to prevent mutations of the genome.

p53 protein (TP53) is at low levels in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs). This allows the most important cell division to proceed rapidly.

[[PIA Flight 268]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 in Asia, 1990s disasters in Asia, Aviation disasters in Asia, Aviation disasters in the 1990s, History of Nepal, September events

On September 28, 1992 Pakistan International Airlines Flight 268 was approaching Tribhuvan International Airport in Nepal after a flight from Jinnah International Airport in Karachi, Pakistan, which crashed into a mountain in Kathmandu. All 167 people onboard the flight were killed, in Nepal's worst air-disaster.

[[Mauriac, Cantal]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Cantal

Mauriac is a commune in south central France in the region of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. It is a subprefecture of the Cantal department. It is also the capital of the arrondissement of the same name.

[[Rudolf Wille]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, German mathematicians, People from Bremen (state)

Rudolf Wille (2 November 1937 – 22 January 2017) was a German mathematician. He was professor of General Algebra from 1970 to 2003 at Darmstadt University of Technology. His best known work was the invention of Formal concept analysis. This is a method to find structures in data, based on objects and their shared attributes. It uses mathematical lattice theory. 

Wille was born in Bremen on 2 November 1937. He died on 22 January 2017 in Bickenbach, Hesse. He was 79.

[[Ralph Guglielmi]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, American football quarterbacks, New York Giants players, Sportspeople from Columbus, Ohio, Philadelphia Eagles players, St. Louis Cardinals players, Washington Redskins players

Ralph Vincent Guglielmi (June 26, 1933 – January 23, 2017) was an American football player. He played as a quarterback. He played in the National Football League (NFL) for the Washington Redskins, St. Louis Cardinals, New York Giants and the Philadelphia Eagles.

Guglielmi was born in Columbus, Ohio. He died on January 23, 2017 in Wallace, North Carolina, aged 83.

[[Butch Trucks]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, American rock drummers, Musicians from Jacksonville, Florida, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees, Suicides by firearm in the United States

Claude Hudson "Butch" Trucks (May 11, 1947 – January 24, 2017) was an American drummer. He was a founding member of The Allman Brothers Band. He was a member of the rock band from 1969 until they finally disbanded in 2014. He was added to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1995. He was born in Jacksonville, Florida.

Trucks died on January 24, 2017 in West Palm Beach, Florida at the age of 69. Police said that he had taken his own life by gunshot.

[[Giovanni Corrieri]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2017 deaths, Italian cyclists, People from Sicily, Tour de France cyclists

Giovanni Corrieri (7 February 1920 – 22 January 2017) was an Italian road bicycle racer. He was professional from 1941 to 1956. He won seven stages in the Giro d'Italia and three in the Tour de France. He was born in Messina, Sicily.

Corrieri died on 22 January 2017 in Prato, Tuscany at the age of 96.

[[Chuck Canfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Disease-related deaths in Minnesota, American mayors, American Christians, Businesspeople from Minnesota, Politicians from Minnesota, Independent politicians in the United States, People from Rochester, Minnesota

Charles Joseph Canfield (March 24, 1932 – January 24, 2017) was an American businessman. He served as the 43rd Mayor of Rochester, Minnesota from January 6, 1996 through January 6, 2003. Before being elected mayor in 1995, he was 2nd Ward Councilman for the city from 1986 until 1996. He owned a Shakey's Pizza restaurant in northwest Rochester along US Route 52 until its closure in the 2000s. He lost the 2002 mayoral election to Ardell Brede.

Canfield was born and raised in Rochester. He served as an Independent. He was a Christian. Canfield died in Rochester on January 24, 2017 from natural causes, aged 84.

[[TAM Airlines Flight 3054]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 aviation disasters, 2000s in Brazil

TAM Airlines Flight 3054 was a flight from Porto Alegre to São Paulo, Brazil by an Airbus A320 airplane. On July 17, 2007 the plane missed the runway at São Paulo and crashed into a TAM Express building and a Shell gas station. This was because of pilot error and because it was raining. All 187 people on board the plane and 12 people on the ground died. This was Brazil's worst airplane disaster.

[[Byron Dobell]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in New York City, American artists, American journalists, Writers from New York City

Byron Dobell (May 30, 1927 – January 21, 2017) was an American writer, editor, and artist. 

Dobell was born in New York City. He studied at Columbia University earning his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1947.

He is call as "one of the most respected and accomplished editors in New York magazine publishing history". He was the editor of several popular American magazines, including American Heritage and Esquire. He is known for helping the early careers of many writers such as Tom Wolfe, David Halberstam and Mario Puzo.  

In 1998, Dobell was inducted into the American Society of Magazine Editors Hall of Fame.

Dobell died in New York City on January 21, 2017 from complications of Parkinson's disease, aged 89.

[[Leslie Koo]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Billionaires, Taiwanese businesspeople

Leslie Koo Cheng-yun (辜成允; 28 November 1954 – 23 January 2017) was a Taiwanese business executive and billionaire. He served as Chairman of Taiwan Cement Corporation until his death in 2017. He was the second son of famous businessman and diplomat Koo Chen-fu. He was a member of the Lukang Koo clan, one of the five wealthiest families of Taiwan.

Koo died from a cerebral hemorrhage after falling from a flight of stairs in Taipei on 23 January 2017, aged 62.

[[Tom Wolfe]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2018 deaths, Infectious disease deaths in New York City, American journalists, Writers from Virginia, People from Richmond, Virginia

Thomas Kennerly "Tom" Wolfe, Jr. (March 2, 1930 – May 14, 2018) was an American author and journalist. He was born in Richmond, Virginia.

Wolfe best known for his work with and influence over the New Journalism literary movement. He began his career as a regional newspaper reporter in the 1950s, but achieved national fame in the 1960s following the publication of such best-selling books as The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test and two collections of articles and essays, Radical Chic & Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers and The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby.

His first novel, The Bonfire of the Vanities, published in 1987, was met with critical acclaim, became a commercial success, and was adapted as a major movie (directed by Brian De Palma).

Wolfe died in New York City on May 14, 2018 of an infection at the age of 88.

[[Nigel Rodley]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, British activists, British lawyers, Disease-related deaths in England, Human rights activists, Jewish activists, Jewish British academics, Knights Bachelor

Sir Nigel Simon Rodley (1 December 1941 – 25 January 2017) was a British human rights activist, lawyer and professor. He was a member of the United Nations Human Rights Committee. He was also a commissioner for the International Commission of Jurists. He held academic positions at the University of Essex and the London School of Economics.

He was of Jewish descent.

Rodley died after a short illness on 25 January 2017 in Colchester, at the age of 75.

[[Alagnon]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The Alagnon is a French river that starts in the Massif Central within the Regional Natural Park of the Volcanoes of Auvergne (Parc Naturel Régional des Volcans d'Auvergne) and that flows through the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. It is a left tributary of the Allier.

[[Fondation IONIS]]

CATEGORIES: Non-profit organizations of France, Education in France

The Fondation IONIS (IONIS Foundation) is an non-profit organization created by IONIS Education Group, the first educational group in France.

It is to promote research and social diversity in France and in other countries.

For example, it can be giving scholarship. The Foundation is under the Fondation de France.

[[Gil Ray]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2017 deaths, American rock drummers, American rock guitarists, American rock singers, Cancer deaths in the United States, Entertainers from Charlotte, North Carolina

George Gilbert "Gil" Ray (September 17, 1956 – January 24, 2017) was an American rock drummer, guitarist, and singer. He is known as a member of the bands Game Theory and The Loud Family with Scott Miller. He was born in Charlotte, North Carolina. He moved to San Francisco, California in 1982.

Ray died of cancer on January 24, 2017, at the age of 60.

[[Alexander Kadakin]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2017 deaths, Ambassadors of Russia, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Deaths from heart failure, People from Chișinău

Alexander Mikhailovich Kadakin (Александр Михайлович Кадакин; 22 July 1949 – 26 January 2017) was a Russian diplomat. He served as the Russian Ambassador to India twice: from 1999 and 2004, and again from 2009 until his death in 2017. He was also the Russian Ambassador to Nepal (1993–1997) and Sweden (2005–2009). He was born in Chișinău, USSR (now Moldova) to Russian parents.

Kadakin died from heart failure on 26 January 2017 in New Delhi. He was 67.

[[Katja of Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2017 deaths, Fashion designers, Swedish people

Katja Ingergard Geiger (born Karin Ingegerd Hallberg; 12 January 1920 – 25 January 2017), better known as Katja of Sweden, was a Swedish fashion designer.

[[Province of Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1730s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 1732 establishments, 18th-century establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

[[Lauben]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Lauben is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor has been Berthold Ziegler since 2002.

[[Siamogale melilutra]]

CATEGORIES: Extinct species, Mustelids

Siamogale melilutra was an extinct species of giant otter. It is from the late Miocene epoch, from Yunnan province, China. The skull has a combination of otter-like and badger-like cranial features. The new species belongs to the Lutrinae subfamily. Siamogale melilutra was about the size of a wolf. It was estimated to about 50. This is two to three times larger than any modern otter species.

[[Caning]]

CATEGORIES: Torture, Punishments

Caning is a form of punishment that involves beating a person with a cane, usually made of rattan. Each blow of the cane is called a "cut" or a "stroke". It is most often applied to the hands or buttocks. Caning, as a form of corporal punishment, is prohibited under international law as a form of torture. Caning was banned in British public schools only a few years ago. It is still practiced in places such as Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia, and Brunei.

[[Drumchapel]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Scotland

Drumchapel is a part of Glasgow, Scotland. It became part of Glasgow in 1938. Housing for about 30,000 people was built in the 1950s to help with overcrowding in Glasgow. At first there was only one post office and one telephone box. Drumchapel did not get its first shopping centre until the early 1960s. Local residents call it "The Drum". 

[[2017 Women's March]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in the United States, Donald Trump, Feminism, January 2017 events, Protests in the 2010s, 2010s in Washington, D.C.

The 2017 Women's March was a global demonstration on 21-22 January 2017. It was in response to the inauguration of Donald Trump, the 45th president of the United States of America. The Women's March on Washington was said to have seen an attedance of over 470,000 people in Washington alone, which was 3 times more than president Trumps inauguration. This demonstration spanned 7 continents, including Antarctica.

[[Harry Mathews]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Disease-related deaths in Florida, American poets, American historians, American journalists, Writers from New York City, Writers from Massachusetts

Harry Mathews (February 14, 1930 – January 25, 2017) was an American author of short fiction, poet, translator and essayist. He was also a translator of French. He sometimes wrote essays and fiction in the French language. In 1961 and 1962 he wrote articles for the Locus Solus. Mathews is best known for his novels The Conversions (1962) and My Life in CIA (2005). American conductor David Woodard praised his Plaisirs singuliers (1983) as "a long prose piece about masturbation."

Mathews was born in New York City. He was raised in Massachusetts. He studied at Princeton University and at Harvard University. In 1949 he eloped with his childhood friend and artist Niki de Saint Phalle. After having two children together, they separated in 1960. He later married Marie Chaix. Their marriage would last until Mathews' death in 2017.

Mathews died on January 25, 2017 at his home in Key West, Florida from natural causes, aged 86.

[[Niki de Saint Phalle]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2002 deaths, Deaths from emphysema, Cancer deaths in California, French painters, French sculptors, French movie directors, People from Hauts-de-France, Pop artists

Niki de Saint Phalle (Catherine-Marie-Agnès Fal de Saint Phalle, 29 October 1930 – 21 May 2002) was a French sculptor, painter, and filmmaker. She was born in Neuilly-sur-Seine, Hauts-de-Seine, France. 

Saint Phalle created a series of works in the early 1960s called Tirs ("Shots"). These pieces of art included polythene bags of paint in human forms covered in white plaster. After this, Saint Phalle, made life-size dolls of women, such as brides and mothers giving birth. They were primarily made of plaster over a wire framework and plastic toys, then painted all white.

In 1949, Saint Phalle eloped with her childhood friend and American writer Harry Mathews. They had two children. They separated in 1960. 

Saint Phalle died on 21 May 2002 in San Diego, California from emphysema, aged 71.

[[Angelino Alfano]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Italian politicians

Angelino Alfano (andʒeˈliːno alˈfaːno; born 31 October 1970) is an Italian politician. He served in the government of Italy as Minister of Foreign Affairs from 12 December 2016 to 1 June 2018.

[[Saint-Flour, Cantal]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Cantal

Saint-Flour (Sant Flor) is a commune in south central France in the region of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. It is a subprefecture of the Cantal department. It is also the capital of the arrondissement of the same name.

[[Bernard Cazeneuve]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, French mayors, Prime Ministers of France, Government ministers of France, Socialist Party (France) politicians

Bernard Cazeneuve (born 2 June 1963) is a French Socialist politician. He was Prime Minister of France from December 2016 to May 2017. He was born in Senlis, Oise.

[[Jack Mendelsohn]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, American television writers, American screenwriters, American comics artists, American painters, Writers from New York City

Jack Mendelsohn (November 8, 1926 – January 25, 2017) was an American writer-artist. He worked in animation, comic strips and comic books. He was an Emmy-nominated television comedy writer and story editor. He had many credits as a TV scripter, including Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In, Three's Company, The Carol Burnett Show and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. 

Among his work for feature movies, he was a co-screenwriter of Yellow Submarine (1968). In 2004, the Animation Writers Caucus of the Writers Guild gave him a Lifetime Achievement Award.

Mendelsohn was born in Brooklyn, New York. He served in the United States Navy during World War II. Mendelsohn died of lung cancer on the evening of January 25, 2017, aged 90.

[[Azerbaijan Basketball Federation]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 establishments in Azerbaijan, Basketball in Azerbaijan, Sport in Azerbaijan

Azerbaijan Basketball Federation (Azərbaycan Basketbol Federasiyası), also known as ABF, is the national governing body of basketball in Azerbaijan.

[[Tam Dalyell]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Scottish politicians, Scottish writers, People from Edinburgh

Sir Thomas Dalyell of the Binns, 11th Baronet (9 August 1932 – 26 January 2017), known as Tam Dalyell (Dalziel.ogg dee), was a Scottish Labour Party politician and writer. He was born in Edinburgh, Scotland. 

He was a Member of Parliament in the House of Commons from 1962 to 2005. He represented West Lothian from 1962 to 1983, then Linlithgow from 1983 to 2005. He is particularly well known for his creating of what came to be known as the "West Lothian question", on whether non-English MPs should be able to vote upon English-only matters after political devolution.

Dalyell died at age 84 after a short illness.

[[River Edge, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New Jersey

River Edge is a town in Bergen County, New Jersey. The population was 11,515 as of 2013.

[[Robert Garcia (New York politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from emphysema, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, People from the Bronx, Politicians from New York City, United States representatives from New York, US Democratic Party politicians

Robert "Bob" Garcia (January 9, 1933 – January 25, 2017) was an American politician. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1978 to 1990. Before this, he served in the New York State Assembly and the New York State Senate.

Garcia was born in Bronx, New York. His parents were from Puerto Rico. He had three children.

Garcia died from an infection due to his emphysema on January 25, 2017 in San Juan, Puerto Rico. He was 84.

[[Robert Garcia (California politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, American mayors, Gay men, LGBT people from California, LGBT politicians, People from Lima, People from Long Beach, California, US Democratic Party politicians

Robert Garcia (born December 2, 1977) is an American politician. He is a member of the Democratic Party. He has been the Mayor of Long Beach, California since July 2014.

Garcia was born in Lima, Peru. He moved to the United States at the age of five. He is gay.

[[Missen-Wilhams]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Missen-Wilhams is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria. Originnaly, there were two municipalities, Missen and Wilhams. On January 1, 1959, they combined to form Missen-Wilhams.

[[Robert Folsom]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Mayors of Dallas, Real estate developers, Deaths from natural causes

Robert "Bob" Folsom (February 15, 1927 – January 24, 2017) was an American politician and real estate developer. He served as the Mayor of Dallas, Texas from 1976 until 1981. He graduated from the Southern Methodist University. He was born in Dallas.

Folsom died from natural causes on January 24, 2017 at his home in Dallas. He was 89.

[[Nematocera]]

The Nematocera are a large suborder of flies which include the mosquitoes and midges. They usually have long thin bodies, with segmented antennae. Usually their larvae are aquatic, but there are many exceptions to this.

Examples of the Nematocera include the mosquitoes (Culicidae), crane flies (Tipulidae) and black flies (Simuliidae). Many of the other families are called gnats, and others are called midges.

Many species form mating swarms of males, and in some of these, competition for females is extreme. Although many species (as larvae) have a strong association with water, even within a single family there may be a trend toward semiaquatic and terrestrial habitats.

[[Billy Simpson]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1958 FIFA World Cup players, 2017 deaths, Northern Irish footballers, People from Belfast

William J. "Billy" Simpson (12 December 1929 – 27 January 2017) was a Northern Irish footballer. He played as a centre forward professionally from 1946 to 1961. He played for Linfield, Rangers, Stirling Albion, Partick Thistle, Oxford United and the Northern Ireland national team. He was born in Belfast.

Simpson died on 27 January 2017 in Glasgow, Scotland at the age of 87.

[[Rory McIlroy]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, British golfers, Members of the Order of the British Empire, Northern Irish sportspeople

Rory McIlroy, MBE (born 4 May 1989) is a Northern Irish professional golfer. He won the U.S. Open in 2011, The Open Championship in 2014 and the PGA Championship in 2012 and 2014. He was World Number 1 golfer for a total of 95 weeks between 2012 and 2015.

McIlroy was born in Holywood, County Down. He was engaged to Danish tennis player Caroline Wozniacki until their relationship ended in 2014.

[[Banggai cardinalfish]]

CATEGORIES: IUCN Red List endangered species

Banggai cardinalfish (Pterapogon kauderni) (also known as the Kaudern's cardinalfish) is a cardinalfish native to the Banggai Islands in Indonesia.

It has small bright silver flecks and black vertical stripes on a gray body.

[[Ofterschwang]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Ofterschwang is a municipality in Oberallgäu, in Bavaria, Germany. It is a winter sports venue. It is often used for Alpine skiing World Cup events. It is found west of Sonthofen, but east of the Austrian border. Between 1988 and 2008 Ofterschwang grew by 577 people. Ofterschwang was awarded the ADAC Tourism Prize by ADAC in 2010.

[[Bimba Bosé]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Madrid, Actors from Rome, Cancer deaths in Spain, Deaths from breast cancer, Spanish models, Spanish movie actors, Spanish singers, Spanish television actors

Eleonora Salvatore González (1 October 1975 – 23 January 2017), better known as Bimba Bosé, was an Italian-born Spanish model, actress and singer. In 2007, she recorded "Como un Lobo" with her uncle Miguel Bosé. She was also a runway model in London, Paris, New York City and Milan for designers such as Miguel Adrover, John Galliano and Yohji Yamamoto. She was born in Rome. Her grandmother was Lucia Bosè.

Bosé died from breast cancer on 23 January 2017 in Madrid. She was 41.

[[Valery Bolotov]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2017 deaths, Heads of state, Ukrainian military people, Ukrainian politicians

Valery Dmitrievitch Bolotov (Валерий Дмитриевич Болотов, Вале́рій Дми́трович Бо́лотов; 13 February 1970 – 27 January 2017) was a Ukrainian pro-Russian militant leader. He was known for his actions in the Donbass War in eastern Ukraine. He served as the leader of the unrecognised state Lugansk People's Republic from May to August 2014. He was born in Taganrog, Rostov Oblast.

Bolotov died on 27 January 2017 in Moscow Oblast at the age of 46.

[[Northeast Italy]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Italy

Northeast Italy (Italia nord-orientale or just Nord-Est) is one of the five official statistical regions of Italy used by the National Institute of Statistics (ISTAT), a NUTS1 level region.

[[Oy-Mittelberg]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Oy-Mittelberg is a municipality in the rural district Oberallgäu in Bavaria/Germany. Oy-Mittelberg is in the foothills of the Allgäu Alps. Since 2005 the mayor has been Theo Haslach.

[[Painted lady]]

CATEGORIES: Nymphalidae

The painted lady is a butterfly in the  Cynthia group of colourful butterflies. It is a relative of the red admiral butterfly. 

The painted lady is a subgenus of the genus Vanessa in the family Nymphalidae. They occur in most of the world.

They are migratory. Starting in early Spring, they journey from Africa to Europe to the United Kingdom and eventually the Arctic Circle. The journey is about 7,500 miles. They travel at up to 30 miles per hour. Their caterpillars feed on many different plants. In the UK their caterpillars may feed on thistles.

The lifespan of a painted lady imago (adult) is only about 2/3 weeks. Its function is dispersal and reproduction. The caterpillar's job is eating and transforming itself into the adult form.

[[Bob Fosse]]

CATEGORIES: American dancers, Tony Award winners, 1927 births, 1987 deaths, Actors from Chicago, American choreographers

Bob Fosse (June 23, 1927 – September 23, 1987) was an American dancer and actor. He won eight Tony Awards.

[[Dylan McDermott]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Connecticut, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1961 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, People from Waterbury, Connecticut

Dylan McDermott is an American actor from Connecticut. He is best known for his role on The Practice which won him a Golden Globe award.

[[Cupbearer]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations

A cupbearer is traditionally the person who fills the cups and serves the wine. In a medieval court (royal), the cupbearer brought his lord's ale or wine and tasted it to make sure it was not poisoned. The cupbearer was often a person of high rank. It was a distinct honor to be a cupbearer to a king. In the Bible, Nehemiah was cupbearer to the Artaxerxes I of Persia.

[[Liao dynasty]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese dynasties

The Liao dynasty also called Khitan empire, the  was an empire in Asia. It was formed by the Yelü clan of the Khitan people after the fall of the Tang Dynasty. They ruled from 907 AD to about 1125.  The first ruler was Yelü Abaoji, Khan of the steppe Khitan peoples.It was originally called the "Qidan Kingdom" until about 947. Its capital was the present day Bairin Left Banner in Inner Mongolia. Its territory included parts of Northern China, middle Mongolia, and Tianjin and 

Hebei to the south.

[[Luciano Ravaglia]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Italian scientists, Italian engineers

Luciano Ravaglia (Forlimpopoli; 13 December 1923 – Dovadola; 26 January 2017) was an Italian engineer. He was born in Forlimpopoli, Italy.

[[Rayville, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana, Parish seats in Louisiana

Rayville is the parish seat of Richland Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Time in Iran]]

CATEGORIES: Time by country, Iran

Iran Standard Time (IRST), also called Iran Time (IRT), is a time zone used in Iran. The standard time is 3.5 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC+03:30). During its daylight saving time, it uses Iran Daylight Time (IRDT), which is 4.5 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC+04:30), but however, from 2006 to 2007, IRDT was not used in Iran, but was re-introduced on March 21, 2008.

[[Čelinac]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Čelinac (Челинац) is a town and municipality in Central Bosnia, Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The municipality lies  about 15 to the east of the regional center,  city of Banja Luka.

It is located on Vrbanja river, between municipalities of Laktaši and Prnjavor to the north, Teslić to the east, Kotor Varoš, Skender Vakuf/Kneževo to the south, and Banja Luka to the west.

[[Northwest Italy]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Italy

Northwest Italy (Italia nord-occidentale or just Nord-Ovest) is one of the five official statistical regions of Italy used by the National Institute of Statistics (ISTAT), a NUTS1 level region.

Northwest Italy is defined only for statistical and for some elections.

[[Kevin Geer]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Nevada, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Kevin Scully Geer (November 7, 1952 – January 25, 2017) was an American actor. He appeared on stage and screen. He began his career in 1975. His best known stage performances included A Streetcar Named Desire (1988), The Rose Tattoo (1995), Flyovers, Side Man (both 1998) and Twelve Angry Men (2004). His television appearances included Oz, Law & Order, Homicide, China Beach, M*A*S*H and MacGyver. He also appeared in the movies A Force of One (1979), The Pelican Brief (1993), The Contender (2000), American Gangster (2007), Bunker Hill (2008) and The Men Who Stare at Goats (2009).

Geer was born in Reno, Nevada. He grew up in Los Angeles, California. He died from a heart attack on January 25, 2017 in Manhattan, New York. He was 64.

[[Heng Freylinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Luxembourgian sportspeople, Olympians, Wrestlers

Henri "Heng" Freylinger (23 September 1926 – 17 January 2017) was a Luxembourgian wrestler. He competed in the Greco-Roman welterweight event at the 1952 Summer Olympics.

[[Bob Holiday]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Brooklyn, American stage actors

Bob Holiday (November 12, 1932 – January 27, 2017) was an American actor. He was best known for playing Superman in the Broadway musical It's a Bird, It's a Plane, It's Superman! (1966). He had the most appearances as Superman than any other actor, making over 140 performances. He was born in Brooklyn, New York.

Holiday died on January 27, 2017 at his home in Hawley, Pennsylvania, aged 84.

[[Gisella Sofio]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Milan, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors

Gisella Sofio (19 February 1931 – 27 January 2017) was an Italian actress. She began her career in the 1950s. She had roles in the movies Accidents to the Taxes!! (1951), Rascel-Fifì (1957), La liceale (1975), The Big Heart of Girls and The Worst Week of My Life (both 2011). She was born in Milan.

Sofio died on 27 January 2017 in Rome at the age of 85.

[[Bill Fischer (American football)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, American football offensive guards, American football offensive tackles, Arizona Cardinals players, Sportspeople from Chicago

William Anton "Bill" Fischer (March 10, 1927 – January 20, 2017), nicknamed "Moose", was an American football player. He played as an offensive lineman. He played in the National Football League (NFL) for the Chicago Cardinals from 1949 to 1953. He was born in Chicago, Illinois.

Fischer died on January 20, 2017 in Cape Coral, Florida. He was 89.

[[Alexander Tikhanovich]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2017 deaths, People from Minsk, Pop singers, Soviet singers

Alexander Grigorievich Tikhanovich (Аляксандр Рыгоравіч Ціхановіч; 13 July 1952 – 28 January 2017) was a Belarusian pop singer. He was best known as a member of the band Verasy. He was awarded the Meritorious Artist and People's Artist honours of Belarus. He was born in Minsk, Byelorussian SSR, Soviet Union.

Tikhanovich died on 28 January 2017 in Minsk at the age of 64.

[[Rettenberg]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Rettenberg is a municipality  in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. Rettenberg is twinned with the village La Frénaye in Northern France (close to Le Havre). Rettenberg is the southernmost village with breweries (Engelbräu and Zötlerbrauerei) in Germany.

[[Sonthofen]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Sonthofen is the most southerly town of Germany. It is in the Oberallgäu region of the Bavarian Alps. Oberstdorf is 14 farther south but is not a town. In 2005, Sonthofen was awarded "Alpenstadt des Jahres" (Alpine city of the year).

In World War II Sonthofen was bombed twice. This was because Adolf Hitler had built the Ordensburg Sonthofen in Sonthofen. Young boys were trained there for Nazi Party organisations. Sonthofen was given town rights on 18 August 1963.

[[Lennart Nilsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Swedish photographers

Lars Olof Lennart Nilsson (24 August 1922 – 28 January 2017) was a Swedish photographer. He was known for his photographs of human embryos and other medical subjects once thought not to be photographable. He was also known for his extreme macro photography. His book, A Child Is Born (1965), featured many of his photographs. He was born in Strängnäs, Södermanland County.

Nilsson died on 28 January 2017 at the age of 94.

[[Sulzberg, Oberallgäu]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Sulzberg is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. Since 1990, Sulzberg has been twinned with the municipality Chailland (Mayenne) in France.

[[Lauda Air Flight 004]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters in the 1990s, May events, 1991 in Asia

Lauda Air Flight 004 was a passenger flight from Hong Kong to Vienna, Austria via Bangkok, Thailand. On May 26, 1991 the Boeing 767 exploded mid-flight over the Burma-Thai border. The thrust reverser in the No.1 engine did not work and killed all 223 people on board.

[[Geoff Nicholls]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from lung cancer, English rock musicians, Heavy metal musicians, Keyboardists, Musicians from Birmingham

Geoffrey James "Geoff" Nicholls (28 February 1948 – 28 January 2017) was a British musician and keyboardist. He was best known as a member of the heavy metal band Black Sabbath. He did not perform with the band after 2004. He was born in Birmingham.

Nicholls died from lung cancer on 28 January 2017 at the age of 68.

[[Insular Italy]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Italy

Insular Italy (Italia insulare or just Isole) is one of the five official statistical regions of Italy used by the National Institute of Statistics (ISTAT), a NUTS1 level region.

Insular Italy is defined only for statistical and for some elections and includes the two main Italian islands: Sicily and Sardinia, together with other small islands and archipelagos next to them.

[[Lucia Bosè]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2020 deaths, Actors from Milan, Beauty pageant winners, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Spain, Deaths from pneumonia, Italian models, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors

Lucia Bosè (nee Borloni; 28 January 1931 – 23 March 2020) was an Italian actress. She reached peak fame during the time of Italian neorealism in the 1940s and 1950s. She appeared in the movies Under the Olive Tree, Story of a Love Affair (both 1950), The Lady Without Camelias (1953), Death of a Cyclist (1955) and Harem Suare (1999). In 1947, she was Miss Italia.

Bosè was born in Milan. She was married to Spanish bullfighter Luis Dominguín from 1955 to 1967. The couple had three children, including Miguel (b. 1956, Panama City). She was the grandmother of Bimba Bosé (1975–2017).

On 23 March 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic in Spain, Bosè died of pneumonia caused by COVID-19 in Segovia. She was 89.

[[Many Clouds]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 births, 2017 deaths, Thoroughbred racehorses

Many Clouds (21 April 2007 – 28 January 2017) was a Thoroughbred racehorse. He was best known for winning the Hennessy Gold Cup (2014), the Grand National (2015) and the Cotswold Chase (2015, 2017).

Many Clouds was bred in Ireland but was trained in United Kingdom.

Many Clouds died on 28 January 2017 in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire. He collapsed after winning his second Cotswold Chase and died from a pulmonary haemorrhage. He was nine.

[[Wim Anderiesen Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Gerardus Willem "Wim" Anderiesen Jr. (2 September 1931 – 27 January 2017) was a Dutch footballer. He played as a defender at club level from the early-1950s to the mid-1960s. He played for Ajax from 1951 to 1961. He later played for Holland Sport.

Anderiesen was born in Amsterdam, North Holland. He was the son of and named after Wim Anderiesen (1903–1944). He died on 27 January 2017 in Heerhugowaard at the age of 85.

[[Smith & Wesson]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms, Springfield, Massachusetts, Companies based in Massachusetts, 1852 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Massachusetts

Smith & Wesson (S&W) is an American firearms manufacturing company. Their headquarters are in Springfield, Massachusetts. The company was founded in 1852. Smith & Wesson's pistols and revolvers have become standard issue to police and military forces. Smith & Wesson firearms are very popular among sport shooters.

Smith & Wesson is also known for the many types of ammunition it has introduced over the years. Many cartridge calibers bear the S&W name. For example, the .500 S&W Magnum.

[[Ni Yulan]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Living people, Chinese people, Lawyers, 1960 births

Ni Yulan is a Chinese business lawyer. In 2016, she received the International Women of Courage Award.

Ni fought for property rights for people who lost their homes because of building for the 2008 Beijing Olympics. She went to prison many times. In prison she was beaten and lost the use of her legs. She applied for a passport to travel to the U.S. to receive the award, but the Chinese government refused.

[[Tirso (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Sardinia, Rivers of Italy

The Tirso (Tirsu) is the most important river of Sardinia for its length ad the size of its drainage basin. It starts on the mountains of the centre of the island and ends in the Mediterranean Sea.

[[Theo Brokmann Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Theodorus Johannes Franciscus "Theo" Brokmann Jr. (born 3 July 1922) is a Dutch former footballer. He played as a striker. He played for Ajax from 1939 to 1951.

Brokmann was born in Amsterdam, North Holland. He was the son of and named after Theo Brokmann (1893–1956).

[[Michael Tönnies]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2017 deaths, German footballers, Sportspeople from Essen

Michael Tönnies (19 December 1959 – 26 January 2017) was a German footballer. He was born in Essen. He played as a striker. He played from 1978 to 1994.

Tönnies was best known for playing for MSV Duisburg, playing in 179 league games and scoring over a hundred goals. He also played for Schalke 04, SpVgg Bayreuth, 1. FC Bocholt, Rot-Weiss Essen and Wuppertaler SV. He held a Bundesliga record, scoring the fastest hat-trick (three goals). He held the record from 1991 until 2015, when Robert Lewandowski beat the record.

Tönnies died on 26 January 2017 at the age of 57.

[[Piet Ouderland]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch basketball players, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Piet Ouderland (17 March 1933 – 3 September 2017) was a Dutch footballer and basketball player. He was born in Amsterdam, North Holland.

As a footballer, Ouderland played as a striker. He played Ajax, AZ Alkmaar and the Netherlands national team. For Ajax, he made 261 total appearances with the club between 1955 and 1964. This made him a member of Club van 100. He also made seven appearances with the national team in 1962 and 1963. As a basketball player, he also played for the national team. He was the first Dutchman to play for the national sides of football and basketball.

[[Henry-Louis de La Grange]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Musicologists, French music critics, Writers from Paris

Henry-Louis de La Grange (26 May 1924 – 27 January 2017) was a French musicologist. He was known for being known as a biographer of Gustav Mahler. He was born in Paris. La Grange began working as a music critic in 1952, writing articles for the New York Herald Tribune and The New York Times, and the magazines Opera News, Saturday Review, Musical America, and Opus.

La Grange died in Paris on 27 January 2017 from complications of pneumonia, aged 92.

[[Christopher Bland]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, BBC, British businesspeople, British politicians, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from prostate cancer

Sir Francis Christopher Buchan Bland (29 May 1938 – 28 January 2017) was a British businessman and politician. He was born in Yokohama, Japan.

He was deputy chairman of the Independent Television Authority (1972), which was renamed the Independent Broadcasting Authority in the same year, and chairman of London Weekend Television (1984) and of the Board of Governors of the BBC (1996 to 2001), when he took up a position as chairman of British Telecommunications plc.  He left his position with BT in September 2007.

Before leaving BT, he became chairman of the Royal Shakespeare Company, in 2004.

Bland died on 28 January 2017 in Clanville, Hampshire from complications of prostate cancer, aged 78.

[[Number One Observatory Circle]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Washington, D.C., Vice Presidents of the United States

One Observatory Circle is the official residence of the Vice President of the United States. The Victorian house sits on the grounds of the United States Naval Observatory on Massachusetts Avenue just north of the British Embassy. It has been the residence of the Vice President since 1974.

[[Waltenhofen]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Waltenhofen is a municipality  in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. On 1 January 1972, the  previously independent municipality of Memhölz was incorporated into Waltenhofen. On January 1 1976, Niedersonthofen was added, and on April 1, 1976 Martin im Allgäu was also added. The mayor has been Eckhard Harscher since 2006.

[[Weitnau]]

CATEGORIES: Oberallgäu

Weitnau is a municipality in the rural district Oberallgäu in Bavaria/Germany. Since 2008 Alexander Streicher has been the mayor. Weitnau has been twinned with Magné in France since 1986. Weitnau is in the foothills of the Allgäu Alps.

[[Kaniyan Pungundranar]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil people

Kaniyan Pungundranar is an influential Tamil poet and philosopher who lived during the Sangam Age. He was said to be born in the village of Mahibalanpatti in Tirupattur taluk of Sivagangai district, Tamil Nadu.

Kaniyan Pungundranar composed two poems in Tamil in Purananuru and Natrinai. His poem in Purananuru is a famous poem, it starts with the lines of Yaadhum Oore Yavarum Kelir speaks about unity. Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, the former president of India spoke about these lines in the United Nations Organisation. At present, these lines are depicted in the UNO.

[[Andreas Sparman]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish writers, Swedish physicians, 1609 births, 1658 deaths

Andreas Sparman or  Andreas Palmcron (1609 – November 30, 1658) was a Swedish doctor. He was the personal physician to Queen Christina and King Charles X Gustav of Sweden. He is most known for his book, Sundhetzens Speghel, which is considered to be the best medical book of the century, and is sometimes considered to be the first Swedish cookbook.

[[Elkin Ramírez]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2017 deaths, Colombian singers, Deaths from brain cancer, Rock singers, Singer-songwriters

Elkin Fernando Ramírez Zapata (26 October 1962 – 29 January 2017) was a Colombian singer-songwriter. He was best known as the lead singer of the rock band Kraken. He was also a member to bands such as Kripzy (1981–1982) and Ferrotrack (1983–1984). He joined Kraken in 1985. He was born in Medellín, Antioquia.

Ramírez died from brain cancer on 29 January 2017 in Medellín. He was 54.

[[Walt Streuli]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Detroit Tigers players, Sportspeople from Memphis, Tennessee

Walter Herbert "Walt" Streuli (September 26, 1935 – January 19, 2017) was an American professional baseball player. He played as a catcher. He appeared in six Major League Baseball games over parts of three seasons with the 1954–1956 Detroit Tigers. 

Streuli was born in Memphis, Tennessee. He studied at Rhodes College. Streuli died in Greensboro, North Carolina on January 19, 2017, aged 81.

[[R-dropping]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation, Linguistics

R-dropping happens to English-speakers when the "r" sound is not pronounced after a vowel. Then the words "car" and "card"  both sound like "cah" and "cahd". That happens for most speakers in England and some speakers in the United States, especially in the Boston area. They usually pronounce "r" when the next word begins with a vowel as in "car is". For them, "spa" and "spar" sound alike.

The pronunciation of the R is kept in the Scottish, Irish and most of the U.S. and Canada versions of spoken English. The R-droppers include most of England, Wales, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa.

The issue of how the R is used is called rhoticity by linguists.

[[Jamshid Giunashvili]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Scientists from Georgia (country), Linguists, Ambassadors, People from Tehran

Jamshid Giunashvili (ჯემშიდ გიუნაშვილი; 1 May 1931 – 21 January 2017). He was a Georgian linguist, Iranologist, researcher, author, and diplomat. He having served as the first ambassador of Georgia to Iran for a period of ten years from 1994 through 2004.

[[Brunhilde Pomsel]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2017 deaths, German centenarians, People from Berlin

Brunhilde Pomsel (11 January 1911 – 27 January 2017) was a German broadcaster and secretary. She was born in Berlin. She was known as a personal secretary to politician Joseph Goebbels. She began work in the news department of the Third Reich's radio station in 1933. After World War II ended, she was not released from jail until 1950. She retired in 1971 at the age of 60.

Pomsel turned 100 in 2011. She died on 27 January 2017 in Munich at the age of 106.

[[Anne-Marie Colchen]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, French sportspeople

Anne-Marie Colchen-Maillet (8 December 1925 – 26 January 2017) was a French former track and field athlete and women's basketball player. She was born in Le Havre, France.

[[Sachet d'épices]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking methods

A sachet d'épices is a small cheesecloth sack containing herbs and spices. It is used to add flavor to stocks, soups and sauces. It means "small bag of spices" in French.

It is often simply called a sachet. It is used like a bouquet garni, but a sachet's ingredients are inside a cheesecloth while a bouquet garni is not. This means that spices such as whole peppercorns and dried herbs, which cannot be used in a bouquet garni, can go in a sachet.

[[Laurie Salas]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Human rights activists, People from Wellington

Dame Margaret Laurence "Laurie" Salas (née Hay, 8 February 1922 – 26 January 2017) was a New Zealand women's rights and peace activist. She was born in Wellington, New Zealand.

Salas was involved with the Playcentre movement, and became that organisation's first representative on the National Council of Women. Salas was a New Zealand committee member for the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, and she was also an honorary vice president of the New Zealand Institute of International Affairs. In the 1982 Queen's Birthday Honours Salas was appointed a Companion of the Queen's Service Order for community service.

Salas died on 26 January 2017 in Kaori, New Zealand, aged 94.

[[Atanas Kirov]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Bulgarian sportspeople

Atanas Kirov (Атанас Киров, 24 September 1946 – 27 January 2017) was a Bulgarian bantamweight weightlifter. He was born in Burgas, Bulgaria.

[[Fine Air Flight 101]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 in the United States, Aviation disasters in the 1990s, Aviation disasters in the United States, August events, 1990s in Florida, History of Miami, Florida

[[Zakia Soman]]

CATEGORIES: Activists, Living people, Indian activists, Year of birth missing (living people)

Zakia Soman (Arabic: زكية سومان ) is an activist from India. She is the head of the human rights group Bharatiya Muslim Mahila Andolan (BMMA).  In 2014, she received the Outstanding Women Achievers award from the National Commission for Women.

[[Howard Frank Mosher]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, American educators, Writers from New York, Writers from Vermont

Howard Frank Mosher (June 16, 1942 – January 29, 2017) was an American author and retired high school teacher. He was known for his novels Where the Rivers Flow North (1978) and A Stranger In the Kingdom (1991). He was a Guggenheim Fellow in 1979, and is the 1981 recipient of the Literature Award bestowed by the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters. 

Mosher was born in Cato, New York. He studied at Syracuse University in 1964. He taught English in Vermont at Orleans High and Lake Region Union High School during his early years. Mosher died of prostate cancer under hospice care in Irasburg, Vermont, aged 74.

[[Stuart Timmons]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2017 deaths, American historians, American journalists, American LGBT rights activists, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Gay men, LGBT journalists, LGBT people from Los Angeles, California, Writers from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Writers from Los Angeles, California

Stuart Timmons (January 14, 1957 – January 28, 2017) was an American journalist, activist, and historian. He was an award-winning author specializing in LGBT history. He was the author of The Trouble With Harry Hay: Founder of the Modern Gay Movement and the co-author of Gay L.A.: A History of Sexual Outlaws, Power Politics, And Lipstick Lesbians with Lillian Faderman. In 2007, Stuart began developing walking tours of LGBTQ historic sites in Los Angeles.

Timmons was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He studied at the University of California, Los Angeles. In 2008, he suffered a massive stroke that left him paralyzed from the waist down. 

Timmons died on January 28, 2017 at a hospital in Hollywood, California from cardiac arrest, at the age of 60.

[[Ion Ungureanu]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Moldovan politicians, Moldovan people, Movie actors

Ion Ungureanu (2 August 1935 – 28 January 2017) was a Moldovan actor and politician. He served as a member of parliament for first Parliament of Moldova from 1990 to 1994. During this time, he was Minister of Culture of Moldova. He was a screen actor between 1962 and 1990. He was born in Opaci.

Ungureanu died on 28 January 2017 in Bucharest, Romania at the age of 81.

[[Rocket League]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 video games, Sports video games, Windows games, PlayStation 4 games, Xbox One games

Rocket League is a vehicular association football video game. It is developed and published by Psyonix. It was first released on Microsoft Windows and PlayStation 4 in July 2015. It was later released on Xbox One, OS X and Linux in 2016. It is a sequel to Supersonic Acrobatic Rocket-Powered Battle-Cars (2008).

It is multiplayer and single-player. Single-player has the "Season" game mode where the player plays against bots. Multiplayer is online and has 1 versus 1, 2 versus 2, 3 versus 3 and 4 versus 4 modes.

Players control a rocket-powered car and use it to hit a ball that is much larger than the cars towards the other team's goal area to score points.

The game has received very positive reviews. As of January 2017, the game has had 25 million players since 2015.

[[Psyonix]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 establishments in the United States, Video game companies

Psyonix Inc. is an American video game development studio. It is based in San Diego, California. They were founded in 2000. They were officially incorporated on April 30, 2001. Psyonix are best known for publishing and developing Rocket League since 2015. Rocket League is a sequel to their other game, Supersonic Acrobatic Rocket-Powered Battle-Cars (2008).

Psyonix also worked on games such as Gears of War, Bulletstorm and Homefront.

[[Darryl Sutton]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2017 deaths, Australian rules footballers, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in Australia, People from Tasmania

Darryl Sutton (27 July 1952 – 28 January 2017) was an Australian rules footballer. He played for North Melbourne, Richmond and the Sydney Swans in the Victorian Football League (VFL). He was born in Tasmania.

Sutton had dementia. He died from pneumonia on 28 January 2017 at the age of 64.

[[Richard Portman]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Academy Award winners, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, Engineers from California, People from Los Angeles, California

Richard Portman (April 2, 1934 – January 28, 2017) was an American sound engineer. He worked on over 160 movies between 1963 and 2004. He won an Academy Award for Best Sound for The Deer Hunter (1978). He was nominated ten other times for Kotch (1971), The Godfather, The Candidate (both 1972), Paper Moon, The Day of the Dolphin (both 1973), Young Frankenstein (1974), Funny Lady (1975), Coal Miner's Daughter (1980), On Golden Pond (1981) and The River (1984). He was born in Los Angeles, California.

Portman died of problems from a fall on January 28, 2017 in Tallahassee, Florida. He was 82.

[[Arthur H. Rosenfeld]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, American physicists, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in California, Scientists from Birmingham, Alabama

Arthur Hinton "Art" Rosenfeld (June 22, 1926 – January 27, 2017) was an American physicist. He was Commissioner of the California Energy Commission from 2000 to 2010. From 1994 to 1999, he was a Senior Advisor for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy in the United States Department of Energy. In 2011, he was awarded the National Medal of Technology and Innovation by U.S. President Barack Obama.

Rosenfeld was born in Birmingham, Alabama. His wife of 53 years, Roselyn Bernheim "Roz" Rosenfeld, had died in 2009. They had two children.

Rosenfeld died from pneumonia on January 27, 2017 in Berkeley, California. He was 90.

[[Impasto]]

CATEGORIES: Painting

Impasto is a term used in painting and sometimes in pottery.

It means the paint is laid on thickly in places, thick enough so the brush or painting-knife strokes can be seen.  When dry, impasto gives texture, because some of the paint stands out from the canvas.

Impasto is an Italian word which means "to knead", or "to paste".

[[Azerbaijan Volleyball Federation]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 establishments, Volleyball, Sport in Azerbaijan, 1990s establishments in Azerbaijan

The Azerbaijan Volleyball Federation (Azərbaycan Voleybol Federasiyası) also known as AVF, is the governing body of volleyball and beach volleyball in Azerbaijan. The Azerbaijan Volleyball Federation was founded in 1992. It became a member of the International Volleyball Federation (FIVB) in 1992. It also joined the European Volleyball Confederation (CEV) in 1992. The Azerbaijan Volleyball Federation's president is Javid Gurbanov. Its headquarters are located in Baku.

[[Iraqi Airways]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the Middle East, 1946 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in Iraq

Iraqi Airways is the flag carrier of the Iraq. It began in 1945. It's first flight was to Syria in January 1946. It bought its first jet aircraft in the 1960s. They allowed the airline to add flights to cities in the Middle East, Asia and Europe. During the 1970s, it began its first flight to John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City. In 1991, when Iraq invaded Kuwait, all of its planes were grounded by the United Nations. A few years later, they allowed the airline to operate a few domestic flights. The airline was allowed to resume international flights 12 years later on May 30, 2003, after the War in Iraq ended. In 2015, the European Union banned the airline from flying there.

[[Tokitenkū Yoshiaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lymphoma, Disease-related deaths in Japan, Mongolian people, Sport in Mongolia, Sumo wrestlers

Tokitenkū Yoshiaki (born Altangadasyn Khüchitbaatar, Алтангадасын Хүчитбаатар; 10 September 1979 – 31 January 2017) was a Mongolian sumo wrestler. He made his professional debut in 2002. He reached the top makuuchi division just two years later. The highest rank he reached was komusubi. He held this three separate times, but never for more than one tournament. He earned one special prize, for Technique. He wrestled for Tokitsukaze stable. He was born in Altanbulag, Töv Province. He became a Japanese citizen in January 2014.

Yoshiaki died from lymphoma on 31 January 2017 in Tokyo. He was 37.

[[Leonard H. Perroots]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, 1933 births, American generals, Disease-related deaths in the United States, United States Air Force, People from West Virginia

Leonard Harry Perroots Sr. (April 24, 1933 – January 29, 2017) was an American Air Force general. He was the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) from October 1985 to December 1988. He retired on January 1, 1989. He was born in Morgantown, West Virginia.

Perroots died after a short illness on January 29, 2017 at the age of 83.

[[Deaths in February 2017]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, February 2017 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in February 2017. For notable deaths of other months in 2017, please see "Months".

[[Thomas Joseph Simpson]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Canadian military personnel of World War II, People from Ontario

Thomas Joseph Simpson (November 6, 1921 – January 28, 2017) was a Canadian Royal Navy veteran. He was one of only 114 Canadians to receive the Distinguished Service Medal (DSM) for World War II service. He was born in Windsor, Ontario.

Simpson died on January 28, 2017 in Windsor at the age of 95.

[[Masaya Nakamura (Namco)]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Businesspeople from Tokyo, Japanese movie producers, Namco

Masaya Nakamura was a Japanese businessman. He was the founder of Namco. He was sometimes called the "father of Pac-Man". He was the CEO of Namco until he stepped down in 2002. He also produced movies for entertainment company Nikkatsu. He was born in Tokyo.

On 30 January 2017, it was announced that Nakamura died on 22 January at the age of 91.

[[Erland Kolding Nielsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Danish academics

Erland Kolding Nielsen (13 January 1947 – 23 January 2017) was a Danish librarian and academic. He was best known as director of The Royal Library. He was also the president of the library organisation LIBER from 2003 to 2006. He was born in Frederiksberg.

Kolding Nielsen died on 23 January 2017 at the age of 70.

[[Sambre]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Rivers of Belgium, Hauts-de-France, Wallonia, Hainaut (province), Namur (province), Charleroi

The Sambre is a river that flows through France and Belgium. It empties into the Meuse at the city of Namur from the left side, and has a length of 193 km.

The Sambre river springs from the French commune of Fontenelle in the Hauts-de-France region at an altitude of 210 m. It continues through the Belgian provinces of Hainaut and Namur, passing the city of Charleroi.

[[Elizabeth Báthory]]

CATEGORIES: 1560 births, 1614 deaths, Hungarian people, Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment, Royalty and nobility, Serial killers

Elizabeth Bathory (1560–1614) was a countess who lived in Transylvania, then a part of the Kingdom of Hungary. She was from a very important family that included kings, cardinals, knights, and judges. Her family ruled Transylvania as an independent region within the Hungarian kingdom. She was well-educated, beautiful and wealthy. She was also virtually untouchable as a member of the Bathory family. 

She may have been a vicious female serial killer. It is impossible to know what  part of her story is fact and what part is fiction. Her gruesome legend has become a part of folklore. She is the central character in a number of books, plays and movies. As the "blood countess", she has often been compared to another fictional character, Count Dracula. Some scholars now argue that Báthory was not a murderer but instead may have been the victim of a political betrayal.

According to her legend, she was supposed to have tortured and killed over 650 servant girls. It also claimed she bathed in human blood. That, after hearing of all the deaths and tortures going on in her castle, the countess and her servants were put on trial. Her servants were said to have been executed. Báthory herself was walled up in a room in her own castle. There were only slits for air and food. She was found dead three and a half years later. After her death, the story of the evil countess began.

In 2008 a movie was made about her called Bathory starring Anna Friel. The movie suggested she did not spend her time bathing in blood. It was a rumor spread by those who were after her wealth. 

[[Charles Michel]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Alderman of Belgium, Belgian lawyers, Belgian mayors, Government ministers of Belgium, Mouvement réformateur (Belgium) politicians, People from Namur, Presidents of the European Council, Prime Ministers of Belgium, Walloon politicians

Charles Y.J.Gh. Michel (born December 21, 1975 in Namur) is a Belgian lawyer and politician of the Mouvement réformateur. From October 11, 2014 through October 27, 2019, he was the Prime Minister of Belgium.

Former European Commissioner Louis Michel is his father.

Michel Jr. studied at the Université Libre de Bruxelles and the University of Amsterdam. He successively worked as a lawyer in Brussels.

He held several political posts like government minister of Development Cooperation and an alderman and mayor of Wavre (last one still incumbent).

On 2 July 2019, the President of the European Council Donald Tusk announced a deal reached by EU Leaders which would make Michel his replacement and took office on 1 December 2019.

[[Louis d'Orléans, Prince of Condé]]

CATEGORIES: 1845 births, 1866 deaths, House of Orléans

Prince Louis of Orléans, "Prince of Condé" (Louis Philippe Marie Léopold; 1845 – 24 May 1866 was a French prince given the title of Prince of Condé at birth. He died in Australia in 1866 at age 20. 

[[Dana Air Flight 992]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 disasters, 2010s in Nigeria, Aviation disasters in the 2010s, July events, Lagos, Transport in Nigeria

Dana Air Flight 992 was a scheduled passenger flight from Abuja to Lagos, Nigeria. The aircraft was a McDonnell Douglas MD-83. On July 3, 2012, both engines stopped working. The aircraft crashed into a neighborhood in Lagos. All 153 people on-board the flight died. Ten people on the ground also died.

[[Bocas del Toro Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Panama

Bocas del Toro (meaning "Mouths of the Bull") is a province of Panama. The province is in the northwestern part of the country, bordering Costa Rica. The provincial capital is the city of Bocas del Toro on Colón Island.

[[Marta Becket]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American dancers, American painters, American choreographers, Entertainers from New York City

Marta Becket (August 9, 1924 – January 30, 2017) was an dancer, choreographer and painter. She was born in New York City. She performed for more than 40 years at her own theater, the Amargosa Opera House in Death Valley Junction, California. She retired in 2012.

The 2000 documentary movie about Becket's life, Amargosa won a 2003 Emmy Award for cinematographer Curt Apduhan, in addition to the movie's numerous festival awards and nominations.

Becket died on January 30, 2017 at her home in Death Valley Junction, California from congestive heart failure, aged 92.

[[James S. C. Chao]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Chinese businesspeople, Businesspeople from New York City, American philanthropists, People from Shanghai

James Si-Cheng Chao (趙錫成; born December 29, 1927) is a Chinese-American businessman and philanthropist. His daughter, Elaine, is the 18th and current United States Secretary of Transportation.

[[John Wetton]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Cancer deaths in England, British singer-songwriters, British bass guitarists, British keyboardists, People from Derbyshire

John Kenneth Wetton (12 June 1949 – 31 January 2017) was a British singer-songwriter and bass guitarist. He was born in Willington, Derbyshire. He rose to fame with bands Mogul Thrash, Family, King Crimson, Roxy Music/Bryan Ferry, Uriah Heep, and Wishbone Ash. He was known for playing the bass guitar. 

Wetton died in his sleep at his home in Bournemouth, Dorset on 31 January 2017 from colon cancer. He was 67. He was survived by his wife, Lisa and son, Dylan.

[[Philip M. Bilden]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Indiana, American philanthropists, American activists

Philip Michael Bilden (born 1964) is an American business leader. He is a private equity pioneer in Asia. Bilden is also a national security and cybersecurity advocate, and philanthropist.

Bilden was nominated to serve as the 76th Secretary of the Navy by President Donald Trump on January 25, 2017. He withdrew his nomination on February 26, 2017.

[[James Comey]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American lawyers, Directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Independent politicians in the United States, Politicians from New York, United States Deputy Attorneys General

James Brien "Jim" Comey, Jr. (born December 14, 1960) is an American lawyer. He was the 7th Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) from September 4, 2013 until May 9, 2017 when he was fired by President Donald Trump.

Comey was the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York from January 2002 to December 2003, and later, the United States Deputy Attorney General, from December 2003 to August 2005. As Deputy Attorney General, Comey was the second-highest-ranking official in the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), and ran its day-to-day operations.

[[E. Ahamed]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Indian politicians, Civil servants, People from Kerala

E. Ahamed (29 April 1938 – 1 February 2017) was an Indian politician. He served as Minister of State for External Affairs in the Manmohan Singh government from 2004 through 2014. He represented the Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency of Kerala and is the National President of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) from 2009 until his death in 2017. He was born in Malappuram, Kerala.

Ahamed died at the age of 78 at a hospital in Delhi, India after suffering from cardiac arrest during President Pranab Mukherjee's address to the parliament.

[[Filostrato (poem)]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems

Filostrato is a poem by 14th-century Italian poet Giovanni Boccaccio. It tells about Troilo's love for Criseyda. The historical importance comes from two reasons. One reason is that it is one of the first long poems written in ottava rima. The second is that it was a source for Geoffrey Chaucer's Troilus and Criseyde. Ottava rima is a strophe built of eight lines and rhymed abababcc.

Boccaccio's poem was based on Roman de Troie by Benôit de Sainte Maure, Historia troiana by Guido delle Colonne, a similar story by Binduccio dello Scelto and Historia Troiae by Filippo Ceppi.

[[Concha Ibáñez]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, Spanish painters, Spanish writers

Concha Ibáñez Escobar, also, Conxa Ibáñez (born 1926) is a Catalan painter and writer. She is known as a landscape artist. She has painted scenes in Catalonia, Castile, Andalusia, the Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands, Venice, Greece, Maghreb, Cuba, New York City.

Her illustrations in oil or engraving accompanied the works of the writers Baltasar Porcel, Miquel de Palol, Marta Pessarrodona, Cesareo Rodriguez-Aguilera and Josep Maria Carandell.

Ibáñez was born in Canet de Mar, Catalonia.

[[Etel Adnan]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Lebanese poets, American feminist writers, American poets, American artists, Lesbian feminists, LGBT writers, LGBT people from California, Writers from California

Etel Adnan (born 24 February 1925) is a Lebanese-American Feminist writer, poet, essayist, and visual artist.

[[Grethe Bartram]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Danish people, World War II people, Communists

Maren Margrethe Thomsen, known as Maren Margrethe "Grethe" Bartram and "Thora" (23March 2021 February 1924 – 31 January 2017) was a Danish war criminal. 

She was known for informing on at least 53 people from the Danish resistance movement during the Second World War. It resulted in the early communist resistance groups being dismantled and many of their members being sent to concentration camps. Bartram informed on her brother, husband and close friends.

Bartram was given the death penalty after the war but was later pardoned and the sentence was changed to life in prison. In 1956 she was released and moved to Halland in Sweden where she lived under her married name.

Bartram's was announced on 31 January 2017. She had died at her home in Halland, aged 92.

[[Neil Gorsuch]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American judges, United States Supreme Court justices, Politicians from Denver, Colorado, US Republican Party politicians

Neil McGill Gorsuch (born August 29, 1967) is an American judge and Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States since taking office on April 10, 2017. Before, he served as a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit from  August 8, 2006 through April 9, 2017.

On January 31, 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Gorsuch to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, to fill the seat left vacant after the death of Justice Antonin Scalia. On April 3, the Senate Judiciary committee approved his nomination with a 11-9 vote. On April 7, 2017, the Senate confirmed Gorsuch's nomination to the Supreme Court with a bipartisan 54–45 affirmative vote with three Democratic Senators joining all of the Republican Senators. He was sworn in on April 10, 2017.

[[Frank Pellegrino (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Manhattan, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in New York City, Deaths from lung cancer, Restaurateurs, Writers from Manhattan

Frank Joseph Pellegrino (May 19, 1944 – January 31, 2017) was an American actor, restaurateur and writer. He was best known for his roles in Goodfellas, Law & Order and The Sopranos. He was the co-owner of the restaurant Rao's in New York City. He also wrote cookbooks.

Pellegrino was born in the East Harlem neighborhood of Manhattan, New York. His son, Frank "Frankie" Pellegrino Jr., was also a restaurateur.

Pellegrino died from lung cancer on January 31, 2017 in Manhattan. He was 72.

[[David Burhani]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2017 deaths, African footballers, Tanzanian people

David Burhani (17 November 1990 – 30 January 2017) was a Tanzanian footballer. He played as a goalkeeper for Prisons, Mbeya City, Maji Maji and Kagera Sugar of the Tanzanian Premier League.

Burhani died on 30 January 2017 in Mwanza at the age of 26.

[[Side chain]]

CATEGORIES: Organic chemistry

A side chain in organic chemistry is a chemical group. It is attached to the molecule's "main chain" or backbone. A side chain is also known as a pendant chain.

Alkyl (saturated hydrocarbon) group side chains are represented by the placeholder R. Other non-carbon groups can be represented by X, Y, or Z.

[[John N. Mather]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, American mathematicians, Harvard University alumni, People from Los Angeles, California, Princeton University alumni

John Norman Mather (June 9, 1942 – January 28, 2017) was an American mathematician. He was known for his work on singularity theory and Hamiltonian mechanics. He worked at Princeton University. He was born in Los Angeles, California. He studied at Princeton and Harvard University.

Mather died on January 28, 2017 in Princeton, New Jersey at the age of 74.

[[Bharati Mukherjee]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiomyopathy, American educators, American writers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, People from Kolkata

Bharati Mukherjee (July 27, 1940 – January 28, 2017) was an American writer. She was a professor in the department of English at the University of California, Berkeley. She was known for her books about the experiences of being an immigrant. She was well known for her book Jasmine (1989).

Mukherjee was born in Calcutta, West Bengal, India. She later studied in the U.S. and Canada. She was married to writer Clark Blaise. They had two children.

Mukherjee died from problems caused by rheumatoid arthritis and takotsubo cardiomyopathy on January 28, 2017 in Manhattan. She was 76.

[[Eli Zelkha]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Businesspeople from California, Iranian Jews, Jewish American academics, Jewish businesspeople, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Tehran, Stanford University alumni

Elias "Eli" Zelkha (May 4, 1950 – January 8, 2017) was an American entrepreneur, venture capitalist and professor. He was the inventor of ambient intelligence, an idea from computer science to create an environment of machines that meaningfully interact with people. He studied at Colgate University and Stanford University.

Zelkha was born in Tehran, Iran and he was of Jewish faith. He was married to Alice and had three children.

Zelkha died on January 8, 2017 in Woodside, California at the age of 66.

[[Tabor]]

CATEGORIES: Percussion instruments

Tabor or tabret (Tabwrdd) refers to a portable snare drum played with one hand. The word "tabor" is simply an English variant of a Latin word meaning "drum" It has been used in the military as a marching instrument. It has also been used in parades.

[[Queenstown, New Zealand]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Zealand

Queenstown (Tāhuna) is a resort town in Otago in the south-west of New Zealand's South Island. It has a population of 13 200 (2015). The town is built around an inlet called Queenstown Bay on Lake Wakatipu. It has spectacular views of nearby mountains. These include The Remarkables, Cecil Peak, Walter Peak, Ben Lomond and Queenstown Hill. It was named after Queen Victoria.

[[Sandy Gandhi]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2017 deaths, Australian comedians, Columnists, People from New Delhi, Writers from New South Wales, Writers from Victoria (Australia)

Sandy Gandhi (born Sandra Aranha; 28 January 1958 – 1 February 2017) was an Australian comedian and columnist. She was based in Byron Bay, New South Wales. She called herself "Australia's Most Easterly Indian". She was best known for her stand-up comedy based on an Indian character she acted as. She was also an entertainment editor for The Echo. She appeared on Australia's Got Talent.

Gandhi was born in New Delhi, India. She grew up in Bangalore and Melbourne.

Gandhi died on 1 February 2017 in Byron Bay at the age of 59.

[[Deke Leonard]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, British rock guitarists, Welsh rock musicians

Roger "Deke" Leonard (18 December 1944 – 31 January 2017) was a British rock guitarist. He began his career in the 1960s. He was best known a member of the bands Man and Iceberg. He was born in Llanelli, south Wales.

Leonard died on 31 January 2017 at the age of 72.

[[Rhondda]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Wales

Rhondda or Rhondda Valley is a former coal mining community in Wales. The area is actually two valleys: the larger Rhondda Fawr valley (mawr large) and the smaller Rhondda Fach valley (bach small). The singular term 'Rhondda Valley' and the plural 'Rhondda Valleys' are both commonly used.

[[Porth]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wales

Porth is a village in the Rhondda Valleys, Wales. Porth is at the joint of the Rhondda Fawr and Rhondda Fach, Porth sees itself as the capital of the Rhondda.

[[Cymmer, Rhondda Cynon Taf]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wales

Cymmer is a village in the Rhondda Valley Wales. Cymmer is in the lower Rhondda Valley about half way between Treorchy and Pontypridd.

[[Ynyshir]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wales

Ynyshir is a village in Rhondda, Wales which neighbours Porth. Its name means "Long Meadow" or "Long Island".

[[Trealaw]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wales

Trealaw is a village in the Rhondda, South Wales.

[[Klootschieten]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Europe

Klootschieten ("Ball shooting" in English) is a sport played in the Netherlands and Frisia, Lower Saxony, Germany. In the game, players try to throw a ball (called a kloot) as far as they can. One version is played on frozen fields during the winter. A heavier ball is used when played on streets. A third version is played while standing still. The game is often played by teams of from three to five players. Two teams play at a time. Each team acts as the other's jury.

[[German Americans]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the United States

German Americans is a ethnic group of American citizens of German ancestry. According to the United States Census Bureau, in 2013 there were 46 million Americans who claimed some German ancestry. In parts of the Northern United States they outnumber any other ethnic groups. In Wisconsin, for example, 41% of the population is German-American. They are the largest ethnic group in the United States.

[[Étienne Tshisekedi]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, African politicians, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, Disease-related deaths in Belgium, Prime Ministers of the Democratic Republic of the Congo

Étienne Tshisekedi wa Mulumba (14 December 1932 – 1 February 2017) was a Congolese politician. He was the leader of the Union for Democracy and Social Progress (UDPS). He served as the Prime Minister of Zaire three times: in 1991, 1992–1993 and 1997. He was born in Kabeya Kamwanga, Belgian Congo.

Tshisekedi died from a pulmonary embolism on 1 February 2017 in Brussels, Belgium at the age of 84.

[[Paul-Eerik Rummo]]

CATEGORIES: Poets, 1942 births, Living people, Estonian people

Paul-Eerik Rummo (born 1942) is an Estonian politician and poet. He was born in Tallinn. His father, Paul-Eerik Rummo, was a writer. He studied philology at Tallin University. He worked as literary critic for some theatres. He was a secretary of Estonian Writers Society from 1987 to 1989. In 1994 he joined Estonian Reform Party. He became a member of parliament. The he was a minister of culture in cabinet of Mart Laar. He published many books of poetry, for example Ankruhiivaja (Anchor Heaver, 1962).

[[Dan Spiegle]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2017 deaths, American comics artists, American cartoonists, People from Washington

Dan Spiegle (December 12, 1920  – January 28, 2017) was an American comic book and cartoon artist. He was born in Cosmopolis, Washington. He was best known for comics based on movie and television characters from a group of companies including Dell Comics, DC Comics and Marvel Comics. He was known for illustrating the Jonah Hex and Scooby-Doo comic books.

Spiegle died on January 28, 2017 at the age of 96.

[[Guitar Gable]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, American singer-songwriters, American blues musicians, American pop musicians, American pop singers, American guitarists, Singers from Louisiana, Writers from Louisiana, Musicians from Louisiana

Gabriel Perrodin (August 17, 1937 – January 28, 2017), known as Guitar Gable, was an American Louisiana blues, swamp blues and swamp pop singer-songwriter and musician. He was best known for recording the original version of "This Should Go On Forever", and his part in the vibrant swamp blues and pop scene in Louisiana in the 1950s and early 1960s.

Gable died in hospital at Opelousas, Louisiana, on January 28, 2017, aged 79.

[[Aleksander Jackowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2017 deaths, Polish writers, European anthropologists, Polish historians, Critics, Polish educators, People from Warsaw

Aleksander Jackowski (19 January 1920 – 1 January 2017) was a Polish cultural anthropologist, ethnographer, and art critic. He worked at the University of Warsaw until his death in 2017. 

[[Air France Flight 358]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation, Ontario, Disasters in Canada, 2005 in Canada

On August 2, 2005, Air France Flight 358 was an Airbus A340 that skidded of the runway at Toronto Pearson International Airport, due to the pilots deploying the thrust reversers too slowly. Despite 12 people substantiating injuries, all 309 people on board the plane survived.

[[Bobby Freeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, American singer-songwriters, American soul musicians, American R&B musicians, American R&B singers, Singers from California, Musicians from San Francisco, Writers from San Francisco, People from Richmond, California

Robert Thomas "Bobby" Freeman (June 13, 1940 – January 28, 2017) was an African-American soul and R&B singer-songwriter and record producer. He was best known for his two Top Ten hits, the first in 1958 on Josie Records called "Do You Want to Dance" and the second in 1964 for Autumn Records, "C'mon and Swim".

Freeman was born in Alameda County, California. He was raised in San Francisco, California. He studied at Mission High School. He began his career in 1956 when he was 16 years old. Bobby was well known and liked as a local figure in Richmond California in the early 60's. Freeman died in San Francisco, California on January 28, 2017, aged 76.

[[Marcel Prud'homme]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Politicians from Montreal

Marcel Prud'homme (November 30, 1934 – January 25, 2017) was a Canadian politician. He was a member of the Senate of Canada for La Salle, Quebec from 1993 until his resignation in 2009. Before, he was a Member of Parliament (MP) in the House of Commons of Canada from 1963 through 1993 for Saint-Denis. He was born in Montreal, Quebec. He served as a Liberal in the MP from 1963 through 1993 and as an Independent from 1993 until his death in 2017.

In 2007, he was awarded the Order of Friendship of Russia.

Prud'homme died in Ottawa, Ontario on January 25, 2017 from a heart attack, aged 82.

[[Desmond Carrington]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, British television actors, British radio actors, British stage actors, British radio personalities, Actors from Kent

Desmond Herbert Carrington (23 May 1926 – 1 February 2017) was a British actor and broadcaster. He was best known for his weekly evening show, The Music Goes Round, on BBC Radio 2. His show went out on Sundays for 23 years from 1981 to 2004, when it moved to Tuesdays – then to Fridays. He retired in his final broadcast on 28 October 2016. He was known for playing Dr. Chris Anderson in the British soap opera Emergency – Ward 10. He was born in Bromley, Kent.

Carrington died at his home in Perthshire, Scotland on 1 February 2017 from complications of Alzheimer's disease, aged 90.

[[Ken Morrison]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, English businesspeople, People from Yorkshire

Sir Kenneth Duncan "Ken" Morrison CBE (20 October 1931 – 1 February 2017) was an English businessman. He was the Life President and former chairman of Morrisons (Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC), the fourth largest supermarket group in the United Kingdom since 1956.

Morrison died on 1 February 2017 from a short-illness at his home in Myton-on-Swale, North Yorkshire, aged 85.

[[Abdulkadir Kure]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Germany, Governors, Nigerian politicians

Abdulkadir Kure (26 February 1956 – 8 January 2017) was a Nigerian politician. He was a member of the People's Democratic Party (PDP). He served as Governor of Niger State from 29 May 1999 to 29 May 2007.

Kure was born in Lapai, Niger State. He was married to Zainab Abdulkadir Kure. They had two daughters and four sons.

Kure died on 8 January 2017 in Germany at the age of 60.

[[José Antonio Alonso]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Spain, Deaths from lung cancer, Government ministers, Spanish judges, Socialist politicians, Spanish politicians, Spanish socialists

José Antonio Alonso Suárez (28 March 1960 – 2 February 2017) was a Spanish politician and judge. He was a member of the Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE). He was the Minister of the Interior from 2004 to 2006 and the Minister of Defence from 2006 to 2008. He was born in León, León.

Alonso died from lung cancer on 2 February 2017 in Madrid. He was 56.

[[Albano Bortoletto Cavallin]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Brazilian people, Deaths from surgical complications, Roman Catholic archbishops

Albano Bortoletto Cavallin (25 April 1930 – 1 February 2017) was a Brazilian Roman Catholic bishop. He was born in Lapa, Paraná.

Bortoletto Cavallin became a priest in 1953. He served as the Bishop of Guarapuava from 1986 to 1992. He later served as the Archbishop of Londrina from 1992 until his retirement in 2006.

He died from surgical problems on 1 February 2017 in Londrina, Paraná. He was 86.

[[Stig Grybe]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Swedish comedians, Disease-related deaths in Sweden, Actors from Stockholm, Swedish movie actors, Swedish stage actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish voice actors

Stig Rudolf Grybe (18 July 1928 – 1 February 2017) was a Swedish actor and comedian. He was born in Stockholm. He was best known for his voice work and dubbing. He also appeared in original Swedish productions. He began his career in the 1940s. He appeared in 22 Swedish movies between 1947 and 2011.

Grybe died after a short illness on 1 February 2017 at the age of 88.

[[Ramón Martínez Pérez]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Spanish footballers, Melilla

Ramón Martínez Pérez (6 February 1929 – 6 January 2017), also known as Romaní, was a Spanish footballer. He played as a midfielder for Sevilla and Granada of La Liga. He also played for CD Málaga and made two appearances for the national team in 1952.

Martínez Pérez died on 6 January 2017 at the age of 87.

[[Ahmed Aboutaleb]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Deputy government ministers of the Netherlands, Aldermen of the Netherlands, Dutch civil servants, Dutch journalists, Dutch mayors, Dutch Muslims, Labour Party (Netherlands) politicians, Moroccan politicians, Naturalised citizens of the Netherlands, Politicians from Amsterdam, Politicians from Rotterdam

Ahmed Aboutaleb, Arabic: أحمد أبو طالب , (born August 29, 1961 in Beni Sidel) is a Dutch politician of Moroccan descent. He is a member of the Labour Party (PvdA) and the current mayor of Rotterdam.

Aboutaleb migrated to the Netherlands in 1976. He studied telecommunication and worked as a journalist and a civil servant. He was also director of Forum, an organisation aimed at multicultural issues.

From 2004 to 2007 he was an alderman of Amsterdam and from 2007 to 2008 deputy minister for social affairs and employment in the Fourth Balkenende cabinet.

Since January 2009 he has been mayor of Rotterdam.

Ahmed Aboutaleb is a Muslim, and married with four children.

[[David Copperfield]]

CATEGORIES: Books by Charles Dickens, English novels, English-language novels

David Copperfield is a novel by Charles Dickens. Like his other novels, it first came out as a series in a magazine under the title The Personal History, Adventures, Experience and Observation of David Copperfield the Younger of Blunderstone Rookery.

The story is told in the first person.  Some of the greatest Dickens characters appear in the novel, such as the evil clerk Uriah Heep. Other villains in David's life are his brutal stepfather, Edward Murdstone, and Mr. Creakle, the headmaster of the boarding school that Murdstone sends him to.

The evil characters are balanced by the good characters, such as Peggotty – the faithful servant of the Copperfield family and a lifelong companion to David. Others include David's aunt Betsy Trotwood and her friend Mr. Dick. Agnes Wickfield is a close friend of David since childhood, and later becomes David's second wife and mother of their children. Mr. Micawber is a gentle and friendly man who goes to debtors' prison, but in the end makes a success as a sheep farmer in Australia. He is based on Dickens's own father.

[[Dadou]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Occitanie

The Dadou is a river in southwestern France, right tributary of the Agout river. It flows through the Tarn department, in the Occitanie region.

[[Oran]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Algeria, 903 establishments, Establishments in Algeria, 10th-century establishments in Africa

Oran (Arabic: وهران‎‎  - Wahrān, Berber: ⵡⴰⵀⵔⴻⵏ - Wahren) is a city in western Algeria, situated at the coast. In 2010, about 853,000 people were living there. 

It is the capital of Oran Province and was established in 903.

Oran is the second biggest city in Algeria after Algiers. It is well-known because of its business activities and culture.

[[Boston accent]]

CATEGORIES: Dialects of English, Pronunciation

The Boston accent is a local accent of Eastern New England English. It is spoken specifically in the city of Boston, its suburbs, and much of eastern Massachusetts. Eastern New England English also traditionally includes New Hampshire and Maine. The accent originated with the Puritans who came to the area from East Anglia in the 17th century. It was also influenced by 19th and 20th century immigrants from Ireland. This resulted in the distinct r-dropping (locally called "wicked natural") dialect found in modern costal Massachusetts.

[[Flag of Portland, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Portland, Oregon

The city flag of Portland, Oregon, consists of a green field on which is placed a white four-pointed star from which radiate blue stripes, each bordered by L-shaped yellow lines. Narrow white lines separate the blue and yellow elements from each other and from the green background. Officially the flag has a height of 3 feet and a length of 5 feet.

City ordinance 176874, adopted September 4, 2002, designates the design and what it means. Green stands for "the forests and our green City"; yellow for "agriculture and commerce"; blue for "our rivers". Portland straddles the Willamette River near its joining with the Columbia River. City Ordinance 186794, adopted September 3, 2014, updated the proportions and the Pantone color specifications: White, PMS 279 (Blue); PMS 349 (Green); and PMS 1235 (Yellow).

The flag was designed in 1969 by a longtime Portland resident, noted graphic designer R. Douglas Lynch (1913–2009). The version of the flag adopted at that time included, over Lynch's objections, a dark blue canton containing the city seal in yellow and white; in 2002 Lynch and fellow members of the Portland Flag Association persuaded the city council to simplify the design to better reflect his original intent.

[[Patria (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: Non-fiction literature, 2016 books

Patria is a Spanish dramatic novel written in 2016 by Fernando Aramburu.

The novel is set in a small rural village from Gipuzkoa, Basque Country where the ETA established their totalitarian regime. This situation affects two families that were friends in the past, but not in the present.

[[Princess Françoise, Mademoiselle d'Estouteville]]

CATEGORIES: 1728 births, 1743 deaths, House of Grimaldi, Deaths from smallpox

Princess Françoise of Monaco (Marie Françoise Thérése; 20 July 1728 – 20 June 1743) was a member of the House of Grimaldi and a daughter of the-then reigning Princess Louise Hippolyte of Monaco. She was known as "Mademoiselle d'Estouteville".

[[Marisa Letícia Lula da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Brazilian people, Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in Brazil

Marisa Letícia Lula da Silva (née Rocco Casa; 7 April 1950 – 3 February 2017) was the second wife of President of Brazil Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. She served as the First Lady of Brazil from 2003 to 2010. She was born in São Bernardo do Campo, São Paulo. She had four children, three of which were fathered by Lula.

Letícia died from a stroke on 3 February 2017 in São Paulo at the age of 66.

[[Predrag Matvejević]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Academics, Bosnia and Herzegovina writers, Croatian writers

Predrag Matvejević (7 October 1932 – 2 February 2017) was a Bosnian Croatian writer and political activist. His book, Mediterranean Breviary: A Cultural Landscape (1987), was a bestseller in many European countries. It was also translated into more than 20 languages. He was born in Mostar.

Matvejević died on 2 February 2017 in Zagreb at the age of 84.

[[Jeff Sauer]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, American ice hockey players, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Ice hockey coaches, Sportspeople from Wisconsin

Jeffrey "Jeff" Sauer (March 10, 1943 – February 2, 2017) was an American ice hockey player and coach. He was the head coach at the Colorado College from 1971 to 1982 and the University of Wisconsin from 1982 to 2002. He was born in Fort Atkinson, Wisconsin.

Sauer died from pancreatic cancer on February 2, 2017 at the age of 73.

[[Cor van der Hoeven]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Cornelius "Cor" van der Hoeven (12 May 1921 – 1 February 2017) was a Dutch footballer. He played as a midfielder for DWS and Ajax. He also made three appearances with the national team. He was born in Amsterdam.

Van der Hoeven died on 1 February 2017 in Amsterdam at the age of 95.

[[Imljani]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Villages in Europe

Imljani (Имљани), is a village in Central Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Skender Vakuf Municipality. It consists of a few hamlets spreading on the Undervlašić's plateau, above the canyons of Ilomska and Ugar rivers. Actually, it covers the sub-plateau in the area of the angle between Korićanske stijene and Ugarske stijene ("Rocks of Ugar").

[[Marie Anne Éléonore de Bourbon]]

CATEGORIES: 1690 births, 1760 deaths, House of Bourbon, Nuns, People from Versailles

Marie Anne Éléonore de Bourbon (Marie Anne Éléonore Gabrielle; 22 December 1690 – 30 August 1760) was a granddaughter of King Louis XIV and was a nun at the Abbey of Saint-Antoine-des-Champs. Baptised with the names "Marie Anne Gabrielle Éléonore", she signed as Marie Gabrielle Éléonore (see right). 

[[Debra Baptist-Estrada]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Living people, Belizean people, Immigration, Year of birth missing (living people)

Debra Baptist-Estrada is a port commander from Belize. In 2016 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Sara Hossain]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Bangladeshi lawyers, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Year of birth missing (living people), Women lawyers

Sara Hossain is a lawyer from Bangladesh.  In 2016, she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Flash Airlines Flight 604]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters in the 2000s, 2004, 21st century in Egypt, 2000s in France, 2000s in Africa

Flash Airlines Flight 604, a Boeing 737-300, was a flight from Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt, to Paris, France, via Cairo. On January 3, 2004 the plane crashed into the Red Sea just moments after take-off at Sharm El Sheikh International Airport. All 135 passengers and 13 crew members on-board the plane died. The cause the crash remains disputed and suggested to be spatial disorientation from the Captain.

The crash remains Egypt's deadliest air-disaster, until the bombing of Kogalymavia Flight 9268, with 224 deaths. The crash is also the worst crash of a Boeing 737-300.

[[Fatemeh Ekhtesari]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Iranian poets, 1984 births

Fatemeh Ekhtesari (Farsi: فاطمه اختصاری )(born 1984 or 1985) is a poet from Iran. She is known for poems about Iranian women.

Fatemeh Ekhtesari was arrested with Mehdi Mousavi in 2013.  They were put in solitary confinement and interrogated. In January 2015, they were released on bail.  Ekhtesari received a prison sentence of 11½ years and 99 lashes. 

Ekhtesari's writing was approved by the Ministry of Islamic Guidance. However, Ekhtesari said she shook hands with male participants at a poetry event in Sweden.  This is illegal in Iran.  Ekhtesari made the statement during interrogation, but during the trial, she denied the charges.

More than 100 poets signed a letter asking for a pardon.  In 2016, Ekhtesari and Musavi escaped from Iran.

== References == 

[[Asim Basu]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory tract infection, Designers, Infectious disease deaths in India, Painters, People from Odisha

Asim Basu (ଅସୀମ ବସୁ; 30 November 1935 – 1 February 2017) was an Indian theatre artist and director, painter and playwright. He was known for his set design work in Ollywood movies and designing Oriya book covers and movie posters. He was awarded at the 2012 Parampara Awards. He was born in Balasore district, Odisha.

Basu died from a lung infection on 1 February 2017 in Bhubaneswar, Odisha at the age of 81.

[[Lou Rowan]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, 1925 births, Australian police officers, Cricket, People from New South Wales

Louis Patrick "Lou" Rowan (2 May 1925 – 3 February 2017) was an Australian Test cricket match umpire. He umpired a total of 25 Test matches between 1963 and 1971. He also umpired the first One Day International match at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on 5 January 1971. He was also a police detective in Queensland. He was born in Murwillumbah, New South Wales.

Rowan died on 3 February 2017 on the Gold Coast, Queensland at the age of 91.

[[Hassan Joharchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from liver disease, Disease-related deaths in Iran, Iranian actors, People from Tehran

Hassan Joharchi (حسن جوهرچی‎; 28 July 1968 – 3 February 2017) was an Iranian actor. He began his career in the 1980s. He was known for roles in  Oo yek freshteh bood (2005), Shoghe parvaz (2012) and Ensanha (2012). He was born in Tehran. He was married with two children.

Joharchi died from a cardiac arrest due to liver disease on 3 February 2017 in Tehran. He was 48.

[[Elliot Sperling]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2017 deaths, American academics, American activists, American historians, Human rights activists, People from New York City, Translators

Elliot Sperling (January 4, 1951 – January 2017) was an American historian and academic. He was one of the world's leading historians of Tibet and Tibetan-Chinese relations. He was also a well known human rights activist. He spent almost thirty years at Indiana University's Department of Central Eurasian Studies. He was born in New York City.

On February 2, 2017, it was announced that Sperling died in late January at the age of 66.

[[Kneževo, Bosnia and Herzegovina]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Kneževo, previously called Skender Vakuf, is a small town in Central Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina.

[[Čemernica (Bosnia)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Čemernica (altitude 1338) is a mountain in Central Bosnia, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is surrounded by the river Vrbas, and its confluences of the Ugar and Vrbanja rivers. It is south of Banja Luka. It is in the transitional areas which connects the municipalities of Mrkonjić Grad, Skender Vakuf and Banja Luka. At Čemernica's foothills there are the cities of Kotor Varoš (northeast) and Skender Vakuf (east). There is also the village of Bočac (west), including the hydroelectric power plant reservoir of "Bočac".

[[Zabrđe (Kotor-Varoš)]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Zabrđe is a populated place in the Kotor Varoš municipality of Central Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to the 2013 census, 611 people live there.

[[Grabovica (Kotor-Varoš)]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Grabovica is a settlement on the Vrbanja river in central Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kotor Varoš municipality. The new village is on the mouth of the Grabovička rijeka. The old village is about 3 upstream of the Vrbanja's tributary. Grabovica is at an altitude of about 450. It is 55 from Banja Luka. Grabovica is about 23 from Kotor Varoš. It is also about 8 from Šiprage.  

During the War in Bosnia, in Grabovica's Elementary school about 200 Bosniaks "disappeared" from the Večići village and its surrounding settlements. Their mass grave has not been discovered.

[[Tunceli]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Tunceli is a city in Turkey. It is the capital of Tunceli Province. In 2012, about 31,000 people were living there.

[[Lufengosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Prosauropods, Jurassic dinosaurs, 1940s in Asia

Lufengosaurus is a genus of early sauropod dinosaur from the Lower Jurassic of China. It lived in the earliest Lower Jurassic in what is now southwestern China.

Lufengosaurus was an omnivore. The largest Lufengosaurus skeleton is 6 long, 4 high and 1.5 wide. It weighted about 200. It could probably walk upright based on its powerful rear legs.

It was the first complete dinosaur skeleton mounted in China, and first time a dinosaur was depicted on a stamp.

[[Fusome]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

Fusome is a term from microbiology that describes a way different cells communicate with each other. Fusomes are simple openings, or pores, in the walls of certain types of cells. These allow certain chemical compounds to pass through.

[[Cartago Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Costa Rica

Cartago is a province of Costa Rica. It is in the central part of the country. The provincial capital is the city of Cartago.

[[Robert Dahlqvist]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2017 deaths, Rock guitarists, Swedish singers

Jens Robert Dahlqvist (16 April 1976 – 3 February 2017), nicknamed "Strängen" and "Strings", was a Swedish guitarist and singer. He was best known as a member of the rock bands The Hellacopters, Thunder Express and Dundertåget. He was born in Uddevalla, Västra Götaland County.

Dahlqvist died on 3 February 2017 at the age of 40.

[[Rob Stewart (filmmaker)]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths by drowning in the United States, Canadian movie directors, Canadian photographers, Writers from Toronto

Rob Stewart (December 28, 1979 – January 31, 2017) was a Canadian photographer and filmmaker. He was best known for writing, directing and narrating the documentary Sharkwater (2006). He was born in Toronto, Ontario.

Stewart went missing diving at Alligator Reef off the coast of Florida, United States on January 31, 2017. His dead body was found on February 3. He was 37.

[[Sang Chul Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Canadian Christians, Christian clergy

Sang Chul Lee (February 29, 1924 – January 28, 2017) was a Canadian Christian minister. He served as 32nd Moderator of the United Church of Canada from 1988 to 1990. He was born in Siberia, the son of Korean parents. He was married and had three daughters.

Lee died on January 28, 2017 in Newmarket, Ontario at the age of 92.

[[Mario R. Ramil]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, American judges, Cancer deaths in the United States, People from Quezon City, Politicians from San Francisco

Mario R. Ramil (June 21, 1946 – January 30, 2017) was an American judge. He served as an Associate Justice of the Hawaii State Supreme Court from 1993 to 2002. He was the second Filipino American to serve the position.

Ramil was born in Novaliches, Quezon City, Philippines. He moved to the San Francisco Bay Area when he was ten years old. He moved to Hawaii in 1975. He was married and had two children.

Ramil died from cancer on January 30, 2017 at the age of 70.

[[Eiður Svanberg Guðnason]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Ambassadors, Icelandic politicians, People from Reykjavík

Eiður Svanberg Guðnason (7 November 1939 – 30 January 2017) was an Icelandic politician and diplomat. He served as Ambassador of Iceland to Australia from 28 November 2003 until 22 February 2007. He was born in Reykjavík.

Eiður died on 30 January 2017 in Garðabær at the age of 77.

[[Gordon Aikman]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, 2017 deaths, British activists, Scottish LGBT people, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Disease-related deaths in Scotland, Gay men, People from Fife

Gordon Lewis Aikman BEM (2 April 1985 – 3 February 2017) was a British political researcher and campaigner. He was a Director of Research for the Better Together campaign that took place during the Scottish independence referendum in 2014. During that campaign, he was diagnosed with motor neurone disease. He later went on to campaign to raise awareness of the disease.

Aikman was born in Kirkcaldy, Fife. He was married to Joe Pike.

Aikman died from motor neurone disease on 3 February 2017 at the age of 31.

[[Georgi Taratorkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Moscow, People from Saint Petersburg, Russian movie actors, Russian television actors, Russian stage actors

Georgi Georgievich Taratorkin (Георгий Георгиевич Тараторкин; 11 January 1945 – 4 February 2017) was a Russian actor. He appeared on stage and on screen. He appeared in 25 movies from 1967 until his death. He was known for roles in Sofiya Perovskaya (1967), Crime and Punishment (1970), A Very English Murder (1974), Little Tragedies (1987) and Dyuba-Dyuba (1992). He was born in Leningrad, Russian SFSR, USSR.

Taratorkin died after a long illness on 4 February 2017 in Moscow at the age 72.

[[Yoshiro Hayashi (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Japanese politicians, People from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Yoshiro Hayashi was a Japanese politician. He was a member of the Liberal Democratic Party. He served as the Minister of Health and Welfare from 1982 to 1983 and the Minister of Finance from 1992 to 1993.

Hayashi was born in Shimonoseki, Yamaguchi Prefecture. He studied at the University of Tokyo. He had a son and a daughter. His son, Yoshimasa, was also a politician.

Hayashi died from multiple organ failure on 3 February 2017 at the age of 89.

[[Aito Mäkinen]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Finnish movie directors, Finnish movie producers, Finnish screenwriters

Aito Mäkinen (4 January 1927 – 30 January 2017) was a Finnish movie director, screenwriter and movie producer. He directed more than 45 movies between 1963 and 1999. His 1964 movie, Onnelliset leikit, appeared at the 4th Moscow International Film Festival. He was born in Turku.

Turku died on 30 January 2017 in Helsinki at the age of 90.

[[Marquesas Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of French Polynesia

The Marquesas Islands are a group of islands in the pacific ocean. They are a part of French Polynesia. The islands are located south of the Equator, about 1.600 km northeast of Tahiti. The total land area is 1274 km². In 2012, 9264 people lived on the Marquesas Islands. 

The Marquesas consist of fourteen bigger islands  and a number of smaller ones. They are commonly split into two groups: A northern one with the main islands Nuku Hiva, Ua Pou and Ua Huka, and a southern one, made of Hiva Oa, Tahuata and Fatu Hiva. 

The islands are of volcanic origin; there are high mountains and deep valleys on many islands. The climate is hot, with an average temperature of 28 degrees centigrade, and a lot of rainfall. Tropical rainforest grows on many islands, 

[[Cerium(IV) oxide]]

CATEGORIES: Oxides

Cerium(IV) oxide is an oxide of the rare earth metal cerium. Its formula is CeO2. It is white or light yellow in color. It is an important commercial product. It is used as an intermediate in the purification of the element from the ores. It reacts with carbon monoxide at high temperature to get cerium(III) oxide.

[[Jaguarundi]]

CATEGORIES: Felines

The jaguarundi (Puma yagouaroundi) is a small wild cat native to Central and South America. It is a smaller relative of the better-known cougar, and has many local names.

The cat is still widespread throughout the Amazon Basin, and is listed as least concern on the IUCN Red List since 2002. It is sometimes found in Mexico and southern Texas, and as far south as northern Argentina and these cats have been introduced to the state of Florida and state of Alabama in 1980's.

Jaguarundis are mostly daytime animals. They are comfortable in trees, but hunt on the ground.

According to a 2006 genomic study of Felidae, an ancestor of today's  Leopardus, Lynx, Puma, Prionailurus, and Felis lines migrated across the Bering land bridge into the Americas about 8.0 to 8.5 million years ago. 

[[West Kalimantan]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Indonesia

West Kalimantan (Kalimantan Barat) is a province of Indonesia. It is one of five Indonesian provinces in Kalimantan, the Indonesian part of the island of Borneo. Its capital city is Pontianak. The province has an area of 147307 with a recorded 2010 census population of 4,395,983. The latest official population estimate (as of January 2014) is 4,546,439.

[[Jacques I, Prince of Monaco]]

CATEGORIES: House of Grimaldi, 1689 births, 1751 deaths, Dukes and duchesses of France, Princes and princesses of Monaco

Jacques Goÿon, Count of Matignon (Jacques François Léonor; 21 November 1689 – 23 April 1751) was Count of Thorigny and Matignon, as well as the Prince of Monaco as Jacques I after his marriage to the-then reigning Princess Louis Hippolyte of Monaco. He also contructed the Hôtel Matignon

[[Starboy (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 albums, The Weeknd

Starboy is the fifth studio album by Canadian alternative R&B singer-songwriter The Weeknd.  It was released on November 25, 2016.  It entered the US Billboard 200 album chart at number one.  Starboy had the third-best first-week sales of 2016 in the US, selling over 348,000 album-equivalent copies in its first week.

[[MVG Class B]]

CATEGORIES: Rolling stock, Munich, 1981 establishments in Europe, 1980s establishments in Germany

The MVG Class B is a type of train used on the Munich U-Bahn. They are used on every line.

The MVG Class B began service in 1981.

There are 63 trains with two cars each. Five trains have been withdrawn.

[[We've Only Just Begun]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, Pop ballads, 1970 songs

"We've Only Just Begun" is a pop ballad by The Carpenters. 

The song is often used for a wedding song. It was first played in a wedding-themed commercial in the winter of 1970. It was released in September, 1970. It had Karen Carpenter's lead vocals and overdubbed harmonies by her and his brother Richard Carpenter.  "We've Only Just Begun" peaked at #1 on the Cash Box singles chart. It also hit #2 on the Billboard Hot 100. The song helped the Carpenters win two Grammy Awards including Best New Artist. They also won a Grammy for Grammy Award for Best Pop Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals.

[[Nickelodeon Animation Studios]]

CATEGORIES: Nickelodeon, Animation studios

[[MVG Class A]]

CATEGORIES: Munich, Rolling stock, 1971 establishments in Germany

The MVG Class A is a type of train used on the Munich U-Bahn. They are the oldest trains on the Munich U-Bahn.

The MVG Class A began service in 1971. They are used on every line.

There are 194 trains with two cars each. 18 trains have been withdrawn.

[[Heredia Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Costa Rica

Heredia is a province of Costa Rica. It is in the north-central part of the country. The provincial capital is the city of Heredia, in the Central Valley near the city of San José, Costa Rica, the national capital.

[[Desmosome]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

A desmosome is a cell structure for cell-to-cell adhesion. They are localized spot-like adhesions on the outer sides of plasma membranes.

Desmosomes help to keep cells together in a sheet.  They are found in epithelial tissue, like multilayer squamous epithelium.  The intercellular space is relatively wide up to about 30 nm.  

[[Cell junction]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

Cell junctions join cells in some biological tissues.

They have long protein chains, The proteins keep connections between neighbouring cells or between a cell and other structures. They also  control substance transport outside cell surfaces.

Vertebrates have three main types of cell junction:

[[Basil Hetzel]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Australian medical doctors, Order of Australia, People from Adelaide, Scientists from South Australia

Basil Stuart Hetzel, AC (13 June 1922 – 4 February 2017) was an Australian medical researcher. He was best known for his work in the fight against iodine deficiency. The disease is a major cause of goitre and cretinism around the world. He studied and worked at the University of Adelaide.

Hetzel was born in Adelaide, South Australia. He and his first wife, Mary Helen Eyles, had five children. She died in 1980 from cancer. He later married Anne Fisher in 1983.

Hetzel died on 4 February 2017 at the age of 94.

[[Björn Granath]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Sweden, People from Gothenburg, Swedish movie actors, Swedish stage actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish voice actors

Björn Gösta Tryggve Granath (5 April 1946 – 5 February 2017) was a Swedish actor. He was born in Gothenburg. He began his career in the 1960s. He appeared in over fifty movies between 1968 and 2017.

Granath died after a short illness on 5 February 2017 in Stockholm at the age of 70.

[[Sonny Geraci]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, American rock singers, Musicians from Cleveland, Ohio

Sonny Geraci (November 22, 1947 – February 5, 2017) was an American musician and singer. He was best known as lead singer of bands The Outsiders and Climax. He was also known as Peter Emmett during the 1980s. He was born in Cleveland, Ohio.

Geraci died on February 5, 2017 at the age of 69.

[[Miltos Papapostolou]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Greek footballers, Greek football managers

Miltiadis "Miltos" Papapostolou (Μιλτιάδης (Μίλτος) Παπαποστόλου) (September 9, 1935 – February 2, 2017) was a Greek football player and manager. 

He managed Egaleo, AEK Athens, Greece and Olympiacos. His career in management began in 1972. He retired in 1989. He was born in Domokos, Greece.

Papapostolou died on February 2, 2017 in Athens, Greece, aged 81.

[[Dritëro Agolli]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Albanian politicians, Deaths from lung disease, Poets

Dritëro Agolli (13 October 1931 – 3 February 2017) was an Albanian poet, writer, and politician. He was the former president of the defunct Albanian League of Writers and Artists. 

[[Luis Gómez-Montejano]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, People from Madrid

Luis Gómez-Montejano (24 August 1922 – 5 February 2017) was a Spanish football executive. He was the President of Real Madrid from 26 April to 3 July 2006. He was born in Madrid.

Gómez-Montejano died on 5 February 2017 at the age of 94.

[[Shumon Miura]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Japanese novelists, Japanese educators, Writers from Tokyo

Shumon Miura (12 January 1926 – 3 February 2017) was a Japanese novelist.

[[Benny Perrin]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2017 deaths, People who committed suicide, Arizona Cardinals players, Sportspeople from California, People from Orange County, California

Jesse Bennett "Benny" Perrin (October 20, 1959 – February 3, 2017) was a professional American football safety. He played four seasons for the St. Louis Cardinals in the National Football League from 1982 through 1985. He was born in Orange County, California.

Perrin played for the legendary University of Alabama football coach Bear Bryant from 1978 through 1981. He won the NCAA National Championships in 1978 and 1979.

Perrin committed suicide at the age of 57 on February 3, 2017 in Decatur, Alabama.

[[Lars-Erik Berenett]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from spinal cancer, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors

Lars-Erik Berenett (23 December 1942 – 1 February 2017) was a Swedish actor. He was well known for his title role in the movies about Roland Hassel and for his role as Harald Bovallius in the soap opera Skilda världar. Also, he is best known for his leading role in the series Jordskott. 

From 1971 to 1976, he was married to Evabritt Strandberg, with whom he had a son, Matti Berenett. Later he married Maria Kulle.

Berenett died in Stockholm, Sweden on 1 February 2017, aged 74.

[[Marc Spitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2017 deaths, American journalists, American playwrights, Writers from New York City

Marc Spitz (October 2, 1969 – February 4, 2017) was an American music journalist, author and playwright. 

Spitz's writings on rock and roll and popular culture appeared in Spin (where he was a Senior Writer) as well as The New York Times, Maxim, Blender, Harp, Nylon and the New York Post. He was a contributing music writer for Vanity Fair.

Spitz died on February 4, 2017 in Manhattan, New York, at the age of 47.

[[Amteka]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in India

Amteka is a village in the Chirang district in the state of Assam in India. The village covers an area of 697. It has a population of 5,646.

[[Puntarenas Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Costa Rica

Puntarenas is a province of Costa Rica. It is in the western part of the country, covering most the Pacific Ocean coast of Costa Rica. The provincial capital is the city of Puntarenas.

[[Electric locomotive]]

CATEGORIES: Locomotives

An electric locomotive runs on electricity as the name suggests. Electric locomotives cost the least to buy and operate. However, the railway electrification system is very expensive, so only tracks used by many trains per day are usually electrified. Thus, electrics are only the second next used type, behind diesel locomotives.

Electric locomotives get their power from three main sources: overhead lines, an on-board battery, or a third rail.   

There are many different types of electric locomotives. Battery-electric locomotives are powered by on-board batteries. They are used in situations where other types of engines could be dangerous.   

[[Sean Spicer]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, White House Press Secretaries, White House Communications Directors, Politicians from New York, US Republican Party politicians

Sean Michael Spicer (born September 23, 1971) is an American political strategist. He was the 28th White House Press Secretary and Communications Director for President Trump until his resignation on July 21, 2017.

Spicer was communications director of the Republican National Committee from 2011 to 2017 and its chief strategist from 2015 to 2017. On December 22, 2016, Spicer was named as Trump's White House Press Secretary and two days later Spicer was also named as the White House Communications Director. He assumed both positions with Trump's inauguration on January 20, 2017.

On July 21, 2017, Spicer announced his intention to resign as White House Press Secretary, and formally left the White House on August 31, 2017.

[[Heckler & Koch MSG90]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles

The Heckler & Koch MSG90 is a semi-automatic military sniper rifle. It is based on the PSG1 from Heckler & Koch. The MSG90 shoots 7.62×51mm NATO ammunition. MSG90 stands for Militarisch Scharfschutzen Gewehr. The 1990 part is the year was the sniper rifle was made.

[[Hans van der Hoek]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Rotterdam

Johannes Willem "Hans" van der Hoek (5 May 1933 – 4 February 2017) was a Dutch footballer. He was under contract at Feyenoord (1950-1960), SC Enschede (1960-1961), and ADO (1961-1962). He was born in Rotterdam, Netherlands.

van der Hoek died in Rotterdam, Netherlands on 4 February 2017, aged 83.

[[Edward Shames]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, Living people, American military people, People from Virginia

Colonel Edward Shames (born June 13, 1922) was a United States Army enlisted man and officer. He later served in the U.S. Army Reserve. 

During World War II he was assigned to the 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 101st Airborne Division. Shames is the last surviving officer of Easy Company, 2nd Battalion, 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment.

[[Edward Tipper]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, American military people, People from Detroit, Michigan, People from Colorado

Private First Class Edward J. Tipper Jr. (August 3, 1921 – February 1, 2017) was an American military person. He was a former private of the Easy Company, 2nd Battalion, 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment in the 101st Airborne Division, United States Army during the Second World War. 

He was one of the 140 original Toccoa men of Easy Company. Tipper was portrayed in the HBO miniseries Band of Brothers by Bart Ruspoli. Tipper's life story was featured in the 2009 book We Who Are Alive and Remain: Untold Stories from Band of Brothers.

Tipper was born in Detroit, Michigan. He signed up to the United States Army because of the Attack on Pearl Harbor. He studied at the University of Michigan and at Northern Colorado University. Tipper died on February 1, 2017 in Lakewood, Colorado, aged 95.

[[Gurudev Kalicharan Brahma Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in India, 2009 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in India

Gurudev Kalicharan Brahma Academy (Bodo: गुरुदेब कालिचरण ब्रह्म एकाडेमि)  is a private school in Chirang district of Assam state in India. 

It was started in 2009 by Amteka Primary Brahma Dharma Committee.

[[George E. Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, American physicists, Scientists from New York

PhysicsGeorge Elwood Smith (born May 10, 1930) is an American scientist and applied physicist. He is known for being the co-inventor of the charge-coupled device (CCD).

He was awarded a one-quarter share in the 2009 Nobel Prize in Physics for "the invention of an imaging semiconductor circuit—the CCD sensor, which has become an electronic eye in almost all areas of photography".

[[Amteka High School]]

CATEGORIES: Assam, Schools in India, 1996 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in India

Amteka High School (आमटेका गोजौ फरायसालि) is a Bodo medium school. It is located in the area Amteka of Chirang district, Assam, India. The school was established in the year 1996. It is the oldest high school in the Amteka area.

[[Rosa Taikon]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Activists, Swedish movie actors

Rosa Taikon (30 July 1926 – 1 June 2017) was a Swedish Romani silversmith and actor. Taikon was born in Kalderash, Sweden. She was the sister of Katarina Taikon.

Her silver jewelry has been exhibited in many galleries and museums such as the National Museum of Fine Arts and Röhsska Museum

Taikon was also a movie actress. She has appeared in Marianne (1953), Motorkavaljerer (1950), Kyssen på kryssen (1950) and Smeder på luffen (1949).

Taikon died on 1 June 2017 in Sweden at the age of 90.

[[Steve Lang]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2017 deaths, Canadian rock guitarists, Musicians from Montreal

Steve Lang (March 24, 1949 – February 4, 2017) was a Canadian rock musician. He was the bass guitarist for the band April Wine from 1976 to 1984. He was born in Montreal, Quebec. He was the father of musician Erin Lang (born 1979).

Lang died on February 4, 2017 at the age of 67.

[[Carmen Contreras-Bozak]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, People from New York City, Puerto Rican people

Carmen Contreras-Bozak (December 31, 1919 – January 30, 2017) was an American military technician. During World War II, she became the first Hispanic person to serve in the Women's Army Corps. She served from 1942 to 1945.

Contreras-Bozak was born in Cayey or Ponce, Puerto Rico. She later moved to New York City. She was married to Theodore John Bozak until his death in 1991. They had three children.

Contreras-Bozak died on January 30, 2017 in Land O' Lakes, Florida at the age of 97.

[[Crewe railway station]]

CATEGORIES: 1830s establishments in England, 1837 establishments in Europe, Railway stations in England, Listed buildings, Cheshire

Crewe railway station is a railway station in the town of Crewe in Cheshire, England.  It opened in 1837 and is one of the most significant train stations in the world. It has twelve platforms and a modern passenger entrance containing a bookshop and ticket office. It is a major junction on the West Coast Main Line and acts as a rail gateway for North West England. It is a Grade II listed building.

The station is managed by Avanti West Coast, who also provide the majority of trains that stop there. Northern Trains, East Midlands Railway, West Midlands Trains and Transport for Wales also provide regular trains from the station. CrossCountry provide one early morning train a day.

Crewe's location was chosen after fellow Cheshire towns Winsford and Nantwich had rejected a proposal for the station to be built there. 

As a result of the station's significance, the town of Crewe is now famous for its railways and railway infrastructure. The town's football club, Crewe Alexandra, are nicknamed "The Railwaymen" in reference.

[[Ichnogenus]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy, Ichnology

An ichnogenus is a trace fossil. The names are a category of taxonomy for fossil traces whose origin is not exactly known. They are a part of taxonomy called ichnology.

Very common trace fossils are dinosaur trackways and fossil burrows of worm-like creatures in ancient sea floors.

[[José Gea Escolano]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, People from the Community of Valencia, Roman Catholic bishops, Spanish Roman Catholics

José Gea Escolano (14 June 1929 – 6 February 2017) was a Spanish Roman Catholic bishop. He was born in El Real de Gandia, Community of Valencia.

Gea Escolano became a priest in 1953. He served as the Bishop of Ibiza from 1976 to 1987. He was later the Bishop of Mondoñedo-Ferrol from 1987 until his retirement in 2005.

Gea Escolano died on 6 February 2017 in Valencia, at the age of 87.

[[Roger Walkowiak]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, French cyclists, Sportspeople from Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, Tour de France winners

Roger Walkowiak (2 March 1927 – 6 February 2017) was a French road bicycle racer. He was a professional rider from 1950 until 1960. He won the 1956 Tour de France. He was born in Montluçon, Allier.

Walkowiak died on 6 February 2017 in Vichy, Allier, at the age of 89.

[[Subgenus]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy

A subgenus is a category in taxonomy which is not often used. In biological classification. It is a group above species, but below the genus.

[[Ritchie Yorke]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Australian journalists, Deaths from COPD, Disease-related deaths in Queensland, Australian critics, People from Brisbane, Writers from Queensland

Ritchie Yorke (12 January 1944 – 6 February 2017) was an Australian writer, broadcaster, historian and music journalist. He was born in Brisbane, Queensland. He worked for publications such as Rolling Stone, The Sunday Mail and Billboard. He was well known for his work in the United Kingdom and Canada. In 1969, he was at the Bed-In of John Lennon and Yoko Ono in Montreal, Quebec.

Yorke died from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on 6 February 2017 in Brisbane. He was 73.

[[Vanessa (butterfly)]]

Vanessa is a genus of brush-footed butterflies. It has an almost world-wide distribution. 

It includes the famous red admiral species, and the painted ladies of the subgenus Cynthia.

[[Klagenfurt]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian state capitals, Districts of Carinthia (state), Cities and towns in Carinthia (state)

Klagenfurt am Wörthersee (ˌklaːɡn̩fʊʁt ʔam ˈvœʁtɐzeː; Southern Austro-Bavarian; Celovec), usually known as just Klagenfurt (lang KLAH) is a city in Austria. It is the capital of Carinthia. It is also a district of Carinthia. About 99,000 people lived there in 2016.

[[Wilhelm Eduard Weber]]

CATEGORIES: 1804 births, 1891 deaths, German physicists, Fellows of the Royal Society, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, German academics, German inventors, German philosophers, German scientists, People from Saxony-Anhalt

Wilhelm Eduard Weber (24 October 1804 – 23 June 1891) was a German physicist. He and Carl Friedrich Gauss invented the first electromagnetic telegraph.

[[Eisenstadt]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian state capitals, Districts of Burgenland, Cities and towns in Burgenland

Eisenstadt (Hungarian: Kismarton, Austro-Bavarian: Eisnstod, Croatian: Željezno) is a city in Austria. It is the capital and a district of Burgenland. About 14,000 people are living there (2016).

It is situated near the Hungarian border.

[[Sankt Pölten]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian state capitals, Districts of Lower Austria, Cities and towns in Lower Austria

Sankt Pölten (zaŋkt ˈpœltn̩; East Central Austro-Bavarian), mostly abbreviated to the official name St. Pölten, is a city in Austria. It is the capital and a district of Lower Austria. About 53,000 people lived there (2016). It lies in the Mostviertel region.

[[Tyrol (region)]]

CATEGORIES: Tyrol, Alps

For other uses, see Tyrol.

Tyrol (German: Tirol, Italian: Tirolo, Ladin: Tirol) is a (historical) region in the Alps. It is the very northern part of Italy and a  western part of Austria. 

It borders to the Italian region of Lombardy, the Swiss canton of Graubünden and the Austrian state of Vorarlberg in the west, the German state of Bavaria in the north, the Austrian states of Salzburg and Carinthia in the east, and the Italian region of Veneto in the south.

The region of Tyrol is similar to the former County of Tyrol. This county was part of Austria-Hungary till 1919. After World War I it was divided between Austria (North Tyrol) and Italy (South Tyrol). Nowadays these expressions have different meanings (see below).

It is split up into:

A. Tyrol (state) (a state of Austria):

B. Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol (a region of Italy):

Since 1996 the region of Tyrol has been a Euroregion, called Tyrol-South Tyrol-Trentino Euroregion (German: Europaregion Tirol-Südtirol-Trentino, Italian: Euregio Tirolo-Alto Adige-Trentino).

The region of Tyrol is also divided into three languages. In East and North Tyrol German is spoken. South Tyrol is primarily German with a little Italian and Ladin, Trentino is primarily Italian with a little German and Ladin.

The region of Tyrol is a very mountainous area. It belongs to three ranges of the Eastern Alps. A great part of the Southern Limestone Alps (among them the Dolomite Alps) and also a southern part of the Central Eastern Alps cover the Italian part of Tyrol, whereas the middle of the Central Eastern Alps and a great part of the Northern Limestone Alps (among them the southern Allgäu Alps) cover the Austrian part of Tyrol.

Several well-known geographical locations lie in Tyrol. For example the Brenner Pass, a mountain pass on the border of Austria and Italy, Lake Garda, the biggest lake of Italy and partially in Tyrol, and various places, in the state of Tyrol: Innsbruck (its capital) and Lienz, and in Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol: Trento (its capital), Bolzano / Bozen and Merano.

[[Iran Air Flight 655]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 in Asia, Aviation disasters in the 1980s, 1980s in Iran

Iran Air Flight 655 was an Iranian passenger flight from Tehran to Dubai. The aircraft was an Airbus A300 with 274 passengers and 16 crew members on-board. On July 3, 1988 the plane was shot down by the USS Vincennes in the Persian Gulf during the Iran–Iraq War. At the time the Vincennes was exchanging fire with small Iranian gunboats. During the skirmish, flight 655 took off from Bandar Abbas International Airport. The airport was used by both civilian and military flights.

The Vincennes mistook the civilian aircraft for an Iranian Air Force Grumman F-14 Tomcat fighter on an attack run. The Vincennes attempted to warn the aircraft several times but received no reply. However, the warnings were sent on a military frequency to a non-existent F-14 Tomcat. The Airbus crew did not have access to those channels and would not have heard the warnings. The Vincennes fired two missiles which both struck the fuselage of the plane. All 290 occupants on-board were killed.

[[Boy Asistio]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Filipino politicians, Mayors

Macario "Boy" Asistio Jr. (April 6, 1936 – February 6, 2017) was a Filipino politician. He served as the Mayor of Caloocan, a city in Metro Manila region of Philippines, from 1980 to 1986. He was reelected for the port in 1988 till 1995. Asistio unsuccessfully ran as mayor in the elections again in 2013 and 2016.

Asistio died on 6 February 2017 at the age of 80 at the Metro Antipolo Hospital and Medical Center in Antipolo, Philippines. He was in coma and admitted to the intensive care unit.

[[Hans Rosling]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Swedish academics, Swedish scientists, Swedish physicians, People from Uppsala

Hans Rosling (27 July 1948 – 7 February 2017) was a Swedish medical doctor, academic, statistician, and public speaker. 

He was the Professor of International Health at Karolinska Institutet and was the co-founder and chairman of the Gapminder Foundation. He helped develop the Trendalyzer software system. He rose to international fame after producing a TED Talk in which he promoted the use of data to explore development issues.

Rosling died on 7 February 2017 in Uppsala, Sweden from pancreatic cancer, aged 68.

[[Smail Hamdani]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Ambassadors of Algeria, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Prime Ministers of Algeria

Smail Hamdani (11 March 1930 – 6/7 February 2017) was an Algerian politician. He was Prime Minister of Algeria from 15 December 1998 to 23 December 1999.

Hamdani became a member of the National Liberation Front (FLN). In 1962 when Algeria gained independence, he was named as chief of staff of the provisional government led by Abderrahmane Farès. Under the presidency of Ahmed Ben Bella, Hamdani was appointed ambassador to Belgium.

Hamdani died in his sleep either on the night of 6 February or on morning of 7 February 2017 from a heart attack, aged 86.

[[Svend Asmussen]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2017 deaths, Danish musicians, Jazz musicians, Violinists

Svend Asmussen (28 February 1916 – 7 February 2017) was a jazz violinist from Denmark. He was known as "The Fiddling Viking". He played and recorded with many of the greats of Jazz, including Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman and Stephane Grappelli. He played publicly until 2010 when he had a blood clot, his career having spanned eight decades.

Asmussen died on 7 February 2017, aged 100.

[[Tzvetan Todorov]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Bulgarian writers, French historians, French sociologists, French philosophers, French literary critics, Writers from Paris, People from Sofia

Tzvetan Todorov (dzvetɑ̃ todɔʁɔv; Цветан Тодоров; March 1, 1939 – February 7, 2017) was a Bulgarian-French historian, philosopher, structuralist literary critic, sociologist and essayist. 

He was the author of many books and essays, which have had a significant influence in anthropology, sociology, semiotics, literary theory, thought history and culture theory.

Todorov died on February 7, 2017 in Paris, aged 77.

[[Richard Hatch]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American television producers, American television writers, Actors from Santa Monica, California, Actors from Chicago, Writers from California, Writers from Chicago

Richard Lawrence Hatch (May 21, 1945 – February 7, 2017) was an American actor, writer, and producer. He was best known for his role as Captain Apollo in the original Battlestar Galactica television series, and also as Tom Zarek in the 2003 remake of Battlestar Galactica. 

Hatch was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for his role as Apollo. Early in his career, Hatch won an Obie Award for his role in the musical PS Your Cat Is Dead.

Hatch was also known for his role as Philip Brent in All My Children and as Inspector Dan Robbins in The Streets of San Francisco.

Hatch was born in Santa Monica, California. He worked in Chicago, Illinois during his early stage career. Hatch died on February 7, 2017 from pancreatic cancer under hospice care in Los Angeles, aged 71.

[[Sotsha Dlamini]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Prime Ministers of Swaziland

Sotsha Ernest Dlamini (27 May 1940 – 7 February 2017) was a Swazi politician. He served as Prime Minister of Swaziland from 6 October 1986 to 12 July 1989. 

[[Richard Lyon (U.S. Admiral)]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Admirals, American mayors, Military people from California, People from Pasadena, California, Politicians from Los Angeles County, California, Yale University alumni

Richard "Dick" Lyon (July 14, 1923 – February 3, 2017) was an American politician and retired United States Navy admiral. He served as Mayor of Oceanside, California from 1992 through 2000. Lyon was the first admiral of Special Warfare ("SEAL").

Lyon was born in Pasadena, California. He was selected a member of the United States Olympic swim team for the 1940 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, but the 1940 games were canceled due to the outbreak of World War II. Lyon graduated from Yale University in 1944.

Lyon died on February 3, 2017 in Oceanside, California, aged 93.

[[Steve Sumner]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, English footballers, New Zealand sportspeople, People from Blackpool, Sportspeople from Lancashire

Steven Paul Sumner (2 April 1955 – 8 February 2017) was an English-born New Zealand football player. He was born in Blackpool, Lancashire. Sumner was captain of the national team during the country's first successful campaign to qualify for the World Cup in 1982.

In 1991 he was inducted into the New Zealand Soccer Media Association Hall of Fame and was then awarded FIFA's top award, the FIFA Order of Merit, before the opening of the 2010 FIFA World Cup, along with Johan Cruyff and former South African president Thabo Mbeki.

Sumner died on 8 February 2017 in Auckland, New Zealand from prostate cancer, aged 61.

[[Mark Rylance]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors, Drama Desk Award winners, 1960 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, English playwrights, English theatre directors, Actors from Kent, Writers from Kent, People from Ashford, Kent

Sir David Mark Rylance Waters (born 18 January 1960) is an English actor, theatre director and playwright. He was the first artistic director of Shakespeare's Globe in London, from 1995 to 2005. 

His movie appearances include Prospero's Books (1991), Angels and Insects (1995), Institute Benjamenta (1996), and Intimacy (2001). Rylance won the Academy Award and the BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of Rudolf Abel in Bridge of Spies (2015). He played the title role in Steven Spielberg's The BFG (2016).

In 2016, he was named in the Time 100 list of the most influential people in the world.

[[Guillermo Lasso]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Ecuadorian businesspeople, Presidents of Ecuador, Current national leaders, People from Guayaquil, Conservatives, Bankers, Political writers

Guillermo Alberto Santiago Lasso Mendoza (born 16 November 1955) is an Ecuadorian businessman and politician. Lasso is the 47th President of Ecuador since 24 May 2021. He was the presidential candidate for the 2013, 2017 and 2021 elections for the party Creating Opportunities.

He arrived in second place with 22.68% of valid votes, but as incumbent President Rafael Correa received 57.17% of votes, a round-off didn't take place. In early 2017, he launched his second presidential campaign against former Vice President Lenín Moreno and other candidates. In February 2017, both Lasso and Moreno made it to a run-off election on April 2, 2017. He lost the election with 49% of the vote.

In 2020, Lasso announced his candidacy for the presidency again in the 2021 election. He advanced to the second round of the election in February 2021, against Andrés Arauz. He defeated Arauz in the April 2021 run-off.

[[Neil Gehrels]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2017 deaths, American astronomers, American physicists, Astrophysicists, Scientists from Wisconsin

Cornelis A. "Neil" Gehrels (October 3, 1952 – February 6, 2017) was an American astronomer. He worked in the field of Gamma ray astronomy. He was the Chief of the Astroparticle Physics Laboratory at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center from 1995 until his death.

Gehrels was born in Lake Geneva, Wisconsin. He grew up in Tucson, Arizona. His father, Tom (1925–2011), was also an astronomer.

Gehrels died on February 6, 2017 at the age of 64.

[[Timothy West]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from Bradford

Timothy Lancaster West CBE (born 20 October 1934) is an English movie, stage and television actor. He is known for his roles as Bradley Hardacre in Brass, as King Francis in Ever After: A Cinderella Story, as Commissioner Berthier in The Day of the Jackal and as Stan Carter in EastEnders.

[[Arthur Lehning]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 2000 deaths, Anarchists, Dutch centenarians, Dutch historians, Translators, Writers from Utrecht (city)

Paul Arthur Müller-Lehning (23 October 1899 – 1 January 2000) was a Dutch writer, historian and anarchist. He was born in Utrecht. He was known for French translations of Mikhail Bakunin works. In 1992, he won the Gouden Ganzenveer, and in 1999, the P. C. Hooft Award.

Lehning died on 1 January 2000 in Lys-Saint-Georges, Indre, France. He was 100.

[[Paul Di'Anno]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Criminals from London, English rock singers, Fraudsters, Heavy metal singers, People from Chingford, Singers from London

Paul Andrews (born 17 May 1958), better known by his stage name Paul Di'Anno, is a British singer. He is best known as the first lead singer of heavy metal band Iron Maiden from 1977 to 1981.

Di'Anno was born in Chingford, London. In 2011, he was jailed for fraud.

[[Ólöf Nordal]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Government ministers, Icelandic politicians, People from Reykjavík

Ólöf Nordal (3 December 1966 – 8 February 2017) was an Icelandic politician. She was a member of the Independence Party. She served as the Minister of the Interior from 4 December 2014 to 11 January 2017.

Ólöf was born in Reykjavík. She was married to Tómas Már Sigurðsson and had four children.

Ólöf died from pancreatic cancer on 8 February 2017 in Reykjavík. She was 50.

[[Tara Palmer-Tomkinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from ulcers, Deaths from peritonitis, Disease-related deaths in England, People with cancer, English models, English pianists, English television personalities, English television presenters, I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here! contestants, Socialites, Writers from Hampshire

Tara Palmer-Tomkinson (23 December 1971 – 8 February 2017) also known as T P-T, was an English socialite, "it girl", television presenter, model and charity patron.

[[Alan Simpson (scriptwriter)]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung disease, Disease-related deaths in London, English television writers, Screenwriters from London

Alan Simpson, OBE (27 November 1929 – 8 February 2017) was an English scriptwriter. He was born in London. He was best known for the Galton and Simpson comedy writing partnership with Ray Galton. He wrote the BBC sitcom Steptoe and Son (1962–1974), Hancock's Half Hour (1954–1961) and the first two series of  Comedy Playhouse (1961–1963).

Simpson was appointed an OBE in 2000 and he and Galton received a BAFTA Fellowship on 8 May 2016.

Simpson died on 8 February 2017 in London from lung disease, aged 87.

[[Ray Galton]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from dementia, English television writers, Screenwriters from London

Raymond Percy "Ray" Galton, OBE (17 July 1930 – 5 October 2018) was an English scriptwriter. 

Galton was best known for the Galton and Simpson comedy writing partnership with Alan Simpson. He, along with Simpson, wrote the BBC sitcom Steptoe and Son (1962–1974), Hancock's Half Hour (1954–1961)  and Comedy Playhouse (1961–1975).

Galton died on 5 October 2018 at his Paddington, London home from dementia, aged 88.

[[Mikhail Tolstykh]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, 2017 deaths, Assassinated people, Colonels, Ukrainian military people

Mikhail Sergeyevich Tolstykh (Михаи́л Серге́евич Толсты́х; July 19, 1980 – February 8, 2017), better known by his callsign Givi (Ги́ви), was a Ukrainian commander in the pro-Russian Somalia Battalion in the War in Donbass. He served as Lieutenant colonel.

On February 16, 2015, Tolstykh was included by the European Council in their sanctions list.

Tolstykh was killed on February 8, 2017 in Donetsk, Ukraine by a rocket launcher explosion, aged 36.

[[Antonín Přidal]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Czech people, Czech journalists, Czech educators

Antonín Přidal (13 October 1935 – 7 February 2017) was a Czech translator and writer. He translated works from English, Spanish and French to Czech. He was also a journalist and university lecturer. He was born in Prostějov, Czechoslovakia. 

He worked at the Janáček Academy of Music and Performing Arts since 1991. In 1998, he received the Prize of Ferdinand Peroutka. His most notable works include Všechny moje hlasy (1967) and Sudičky (1968).

Přidal died on 7 February 2017 in Brno, Czech Republic from a stroke, aged 81.

[[Richard B. Wright]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Accidental deaths in Canada, Writers from Ontario

Richard B. Wright, CM, (March 4, 1937 – February 7, 2017) was a Canadian novelist. His break-through 2001 novel was Clara Callan. He won three major literary awards in Canada for Clara Callan: The Giller Prize, the Trillium Book Award, and the Governor General's Award.

Wright died on February 7, 2017 at a hospital in St. Catharines, Ontario from complications of a fall. He was 79 years old.

[[Vladimir Vladimirovich Kara-Murza]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Russian politicians, Russian writers, Russian journalists, Human rights activists, Critics, People from Moscow

Vladimir Vladimirovich Kara-Murza (Влади́мир Влади́мирович Кара́-Мурза́, born 7 September 1981) is a Russian politician, critic, activist and journalist.

Since 2012, he served as Senior Policy Advisor at the Institute of Modern Russia. He is an elected member of the Coordinating Council of the Russian Opposition. He serves on the federal council of the Republican Party of Russia – People's Freedom Party and the Solidarnost pro-democracy movement.

Kara-Murza is a coordinator of Open Russia, which promotes civil society and democracy in Russia.

On 2 February 2017, Kara-Murza was hospitalized for sudden multiple organ failure and was placed on life-support.

His father was television host and Putin critic Vladimir Kara-Murza Sr..

[[Arabesque (group)]]

CATEGORIES: German musical groups, 1977 establishments in Europe, 1984 disestablishments in Europe, Girl groups, Musical groups established in 1977, 1970s establishments in Germany, Musical groups disestablished in 1984

Arabesque was a disco girl group. It was created in 1977 in Frankfurt, West Germany. When the trio formed in 1977, it had members: Karen Ann Tepperis, Mary Ann Nagel and Michaela Rose. They released a single called, "Hello Mr. Monkey". It became very successful in Asia, especially Japan and Korea.

Shortly after the release, Mary Ann Nagel decided to leave the group.Her spot was taken by Heike Rimbeau. In 1978, they released the successful album, Friday Night. Karen Ann Tepperis had a son in 1978 and left the group. A former gymnast named Jasmin Vetter replaced her. Heike left the group in 1979 due to her pregnancy. A country singer named Elke Brückheimer replaced Heike for a few months. Finally in June 1979, Sandra Ann Lauer was accepted into the group. The trio had members Michaela, Jasmin and Sandra from 1979, until they split.

The first album they released with Sandra was City Cats. In 1980, they released their most successful album, Marigot Bay. Apart from it being popular in Asia, it was the first album that was successful in their native country. That same year they released Midnight Dancer. In 1981, "In For A Penny, In For A Pound" was released. Caballero was released in 1982. Their last 3 albums had different musical genres than just disco. Why No Reply, Dance Dance Dance and Time To Say Goodbye were not as successful as their previous albums. Two songs from their last album, "Ecstasy" and "Time to Say Goodbye" became very popular in the 1980s.

Arabesque split up in 1984 because Sandra wanted to sing by herself. Jasmin and Michaela formed their own group called "Rouge". It lasted until 1988.

[[Val Demings]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, African American politicians, American police officers, Politicians from Jacksonville, Florida, United States representatives from Florida, US Democratic Party politicians

Valdez Venita "Val" Demings (née Butler; March 12, 1957) is an American police officer and politician.

She serves as the member of the United States House of Representatives from FL. She served as Chief of the Orlando Police Department, the first woman to hold the position. She was the Democratic nominee in both 2012 and 2016 to represent Florida's 10th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives, the latter of which Demings won.

In June 2020, Demings became one of the final four finalists for Joe Biden's running mate for the 2020 election.

In May 2021, Demings announced her plans to run for the United States Senate, challenging Republican incumbent Marco Rubio in the 2022 election.

[[Ron Rifkin]]

CATEGORIES: Drama Desk Award winners, Tony Award winning actors, 1939 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City

Ron Rifkin (born Saul M. Rifkin; October 31, 1939) is an American actor. He is best known for his roles as Arvin Sloane on the spy drama Alias, Saul Holden on the American family drama Brothers & Sisters and District Attorney Ellis Loew in Curtis Hanson's Oscar winning movie, L.A. Confidential. 

[[Mohamud Muse Hersi]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, African military people, African politicians, Generals, Heads of state, Muslims, Somali politicians

Mohamud Muse Hersi  (Maxamuud Muuse Xirsi, محمد موسى حرسي‎; 1 July 1937 – 8 February 2017), nicknamed "Adde", was a Somali politician. He was the President of the Puntland region from 8 January 2005 to 8 January 2009. He was a military general until the 1970s.

Muse Hersi died on 8 February 2017 in the United Arab Emirates, aged 79.

[[Windsor Davies]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, Actors from Essex, British movie actors, British television actors, British voice actors

Windsor Davies (28 August 1930 – 17 January 2019) was a British actor. He was best known for his roles as Battery Sergeant Major Williams in the sitcom It Ain't Half Hot Mum (1974–81). He was also known for his roles in Never the Twain, Doctor Who and the Carry On movies. He retired from acting in 2004.

[[Brendan Rodgers]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Northern Irish football managers, British Protestants, Northern Irish Christians, Northern Irish footballers

Brendan Rodgers (born 26 January 1973) is a Northern Irish football manager and former player. He is the manager of Premier League club Leicester City. He managed Liverpool from 2012 to 2015, finishing second in the Premier League in 2014. He was sacked in October 2015. In 2016, he joined Scottish Premiership club Celtic. In his two-and-a-half seasons with Celtic, he won two domestic trebles. In 2019, he left Celtic to manage Leicester City. He has also managed Watford, Reading and Swansea City. In his playing days, he played for Ballymena United and Reading before retiring at the age of 20 due to injury.

Rodgers was born in Carnlough. His son, Anton (born 1993), is a footballer.

[[States of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: States of Austria

The Republic of Austria (German: Republik Österreich) is a federal republic that consists of nine states (German: Bundesländer):

[[Power Rangers (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: English-language movies, Movies about autism, American superhero movies, 2010s superhero movies, Lionsgate movies

Power Rangers also called  Saban's ''Power Rangers'' is an American superhero movie. It was directed by Dean Israelite. It was written by John Gatins, Kieran Mulroney, Michele Mulroney, Matt Sazama and Burk Sharpless. The movie is based on the Power Rangers media franchise. Actors in the movie are Dacre Montgomery, Naomi Scott, RJ Cyler, Becky G, Ludi Lin, Bill Hader, Bryan Cranston and Elizabeth Banks.

This was the first Power Ranger movie since 1997. The movie has many of the characters from the TV show Mighty Morphin Power Rangers but with new actors. The maker of the TV show, Haim Saban, helped to make the movie. The movie was released in the United States on March 24, 2017.

[[Arrondissements of the Vaucluse department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

There are 3 arrondissements in the Vaucluse department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture. Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Vaucluse are:

[[Luxembourg (region)]]

CATEGORIES: Divided regions, Regions of Europe

The region of Luxembourg consists of the country of Luxembourg and the Belgian province of Luxembourg. It makes part of the Low Countries.

Till 1839 both parts were a unity.

[[Koila Moila]]

Koila Moila is a village in the Chirang district of Assam state in India.

[[Arrondissement of Apt]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The arrondissement of Apt is an arrondissement of France, in the Vaucluse department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Apt.

[[Lumberton High School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools

Lumberton High School is a high school located in Lumberton, North Carolina for grades 9-12 (freshman-senior). It is run by the Public Schools of Robeson County, as it is in Robeson County, North Carolina. It offers the following courses:

[[Convoy]]

CATEGORIES: War, Transport

A convoy is a group of vehicles, typically motor vehicles or ships, traveling together for mutual support and protection. Often, a convoy is organized with armed defensive support. Civilian convoys may be organized, for example when driving through remote areas. A convoy also allows an organized group to arrive together with their equipment. They can start working together immediately, for example at an emergency. A convoy on land is sometimes called a caravan.

Convoys at sea came into widespread use when warships were made as a different kind of ship. They endangered enemy merchant ships that were not protected by friendly warships.

[[Luther Strange]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, United States senators from Alabama, Politicians from Birmingham, Alabama, US Republican Party politicians

Luther "Big Luther" Johnson Strange III (born March 1, 1953) was the junior United States Senator from Alabama. He served as the 49th Attorney General of the U.S. state of Alabama from 2011 through 2017.  Strange was a candidate for public office in both 2006 and 2010.

[[Dana Boente]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, United States Attorneys General, American lawyers, Politicians from Illinois, Politicians from Virginia

Dana James Boente (', BEN; born February 7, 1954) is an American lawyer and politician. He was the Acting Attorney General of the United States from January 30, 2017 until February 9, 2017. He served as the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia from September 2013 to January 2018.

[[Rod J. Rosenstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, American lawyers, Harvard University alumni, Jewish American politicians, Jewish lawyers, Politicians from Maryland, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians, United States Deputy Attorneys General

Rod J. Rosenstein (born January 13, 1965) is an American lawyer and politician of Jewish descent. He is the 37th United States Deputy Attorney General serving from April 26, 2017 through May 11, 2019. He was the United States Attorney for the United States District Court for the District of Maryland and a former nominee to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

Then President-Elect Donald Trump nominated Rosenstein to serve as United States Deputy Attorney General for the United States Department of Justice on January 13, 2017. He was confirmed by the Senate on April 25, 2017 by a vote of 94-6.

Rosenstein submitted his official resignation as Deputy Attorney General on April 29, 2019, taking effect on May 11, 2019.

[[Serge Baguet]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2017 deaths, Belgian cyclists, Cancer deaths in Belgium, Deaths from colorectal cancer, People from East Flanders

Serge Baguet (18 August 1969 – 9 February 2017) was a Belgian professional road bicycle racer. He started his professional cycling career in 1991. He worked for Lotto for five years and one year for Vlaanderen 2002. He was born in Brakel.

Baguet was diagnosed with colon cancer in 2014. He died on 9 February 2017 in Sint-Lievens-Houtem, at the age of 47.

[[Brendan McGahon]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Irish politicians, Conservatives

Brendan McGahon (22 November 1936 – 8 February 2017) was an Irish politician. He was a Fine Gael politician. 

He was a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Louth constituency. He was called a 'colourful' figure and with a reputation as a social conservative. McGahon was first elected to Dáil Éireann at the November 1982 general election and retained his seat until retiring at the 2002 general election. He was known for being against gay rights.

[[Packy (elephant)]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths by euthanasia, Elephants, Individual animals, Portland, Oregon

Packy (April 14, 1962 – February 9, 2017) was an Asian elephant at the Oregon Zoo in Portland, Oregon, United States. He was famous for having been the first elephant born in the Western Hemisphere in 44 years.

Packy was euthanized after suffering from tuberculosis at the Oregon Zoo on February 9, 2017, at the age of 54.

[[Arrondissement of Avignon]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The arrondissement of Avignon is an arrondissement of France, in the Vaucluse department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Avignon.

[[Arrondissement of Carpentras]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The arrondissement of Carpentras is an arrondissement of France, in the Vaucluse department, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its capital is the city of Carpentras.

[[John Cullum]]

CATEGORIES: Drama Desk Award winners, Tony Award winning actors, 1930 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Tennessee, Singers from Tennessee, People from Knoxville, Tennessee

John Cullum (born March 2, 1930) is an American actor and singer. 

[[John Salt (bishop)]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Anglican bishops, Anglican priests, English Anglicans, English priests, People from Stoke-on-Trent

John William Salt OGS (30 October 1941 – 7 February 2017) was an English Anglican bishop. He was born in Stoke-on-Trent  and became a deacon in 1966 and a priest in 1967. He was the Bishop of St Helena from 1999 to 2011. During his time as bishop, he lived on the island of Saint Helena, which is in the South Atlantic Ocean.

Salt returned to the United Kingdom after he retired. He died on 7 February 2017 in Walsingham, Norfolk, at the age of 75.

[[Sudan Liberation Movement]]

CATEGORIES: Sudan, Darfur conflict

The  Sudan Liberation  Movement or Sudan Liberation  Army is one of the rebel groups active in the Darfur conflict. As of 2017, it is split into several smaller fractions.

[[John Whetton]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, British male athletes, Sportspeople from Nottinghamshire

John H. Whetton (born 6 September 1941) is a retired British middle-distance runner. He is best known for winning gold in the 1500 metres at the 1969 European Athletics Championships. He also reached the 1500 metre final in both the 1964 and 1968 Summer Olympics.

Whetton was born in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire.

[[Mario Fasino]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2017 deaths, Italian politicians, People from Apulia, People from Sicily

Mario Fasino (26 July 1920 – 17 January 2017) was an Italian politician. He was a member of the Christian Democracy party. He served as the President of the region of Sicily from 20 September 1969 until 22 December 1972. He was born in San Severo, Apulia.

Fasino died on 17 January 2017 in Palermo, Sicily, at the age of 96.

[[Ugo Crescenzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Abruzzo, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in Italy, Italian politicians, Marche

Ugo Crescenzi (25 April 1930 – 9 January 2017) was an Italian politician. He was a member of the Christian Democracy party. He served as the President of the region of Abruzzo twice—from 3 September 1970 until 23 March 1972 and 16 July 1973 until 31 May 1974. He was born in San Benedetto del Tronto, Marche.

Crescenzi died from kidney failure on 9 January 2017 in Chieti, Abruzzo, at the age of 86.

[[Malcolm Shabazz]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2013 deaths, American criminals, American Muslims, arsonists

Malcolm Shabazz was killed in Mexico City, Mexico on the 9th of May, 2013. He was murdered by an unknown person while on a trip for more rights for Mexican construction workers relocating to the USA. 

In 1997, when he was 12 years old, Shabazz set fire to the apartment of his grandmother, Betty Shabazz, causing her death. She suffered burns over 80 percent of her body. The police found Malcolm wandering the streets, barefoot and smelling of gasoline.

[[Obed Dlamini]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in South Africa, Prime Ministers of Swaziland

Obed Mfanyana Dlamini (4 April 1937 – 18 January 2017) was a Swazi politician. He served as Prime Minister of Swaziland from 12 July 1989 to 25 October 1993. He was born in Mhlosheni.

Dlamini died from an illness on 18 January 2017 in Johannesburg, South Africa. He was 79.

[[Thomas Barlow (Kentucky)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Politicians from Washington, D.C., United States representatives from Kentucky, US Democratic Party politicians

Thomas Jefferson "Tom" Barlow III (August 7, 1940 – January 31, 2017) was an American politician. Born in Washington, D.C., he was a Democrat. He represented Kentucky in the United States House of Representatives from 1993 to 1995.

Barlow died on January 31, 2017 in Paducah, Kentucky, at the age of 76.

[[Lev Navrozov]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in New York City, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Russian translators, Writers from Moscow

Lev Navrozov (Лев Наврозов; 26 November 1928 – 22 January 2017) was a Russian writer, historian and polemicist. He was a leading translator of Russian texts into English under the Soviet regime. He moved to the United States in 1972. He later published a best-selling memoir, The Education of Lev Navrozov. He became a Soviet dissident.

Navrozov born in Moscow. He was the father of poet Andrei Navrozov

Navrozov had Parkinson's disease. He died on 22 January 2017 in Brooklyn, New York, at the age of 88.

[[Utrecht University]]

CATEGORIES: 1636 establishments, Colleges and universities in the Netherlands, Utrecht (city), 17th century establishments in the Netherlands, 1630s establishments in Europe

Utrecht University (Dutch: Universiteit Utrecht), shortened to UU, is a public university in Utrecht, a city in the province of Utrecht, the Netherlands.

Utrecht University was established in 1636 (its predecessor in 1634).

It has about 30,000 students.

Its focus is on all sorts of sciences.

[[Erasmus University Rotterdam]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 establishments in Europe, Colleges and universities in the Netherlands, Rotterdam, 1970s establishments in the Netherlands

Erasmus University Rotterdam (Dutch: Erasmus Universiteit Rotterdam), shortened to EUR, is a public university in Rotterdam, a city in the province of South Holland, the Netherlands.

Erasmus University Rotterdam was established in 1973 (its predecessor in 1913).

It has about 26,000 students.

Its focus is on medicine and social sciences.

[[Neural network]]

Neural network can be:

[[Maastricht University]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in Europe, Colleges and universities in the Netherlands, Maastricht, 1970s establishments in the Netherlands

Maastricht University (Dutch: Universiteit Maastricht), shortened to UM, is a public university in Maastricht, a city in the province of Limburg, the Netherlands.

Maastricht University was established in 1976.

It has about 16,000 students.

Its focus is on medicine, neuroscience and social sciences.

[[Tilburg University]]

CATEGORIES: Christian colleges and universities, Colleges and universities in the Netherlands, Roman Catholicism in the Netherlands, 1980s establishments in the Netherlands, 1986 establishments in Europe, Tilburg

Tilburg University (Dutch: Universiteit van Tilburg, not used anymore), shortened to TiU, is a Roman Catholic public university in Tilburg, a city in the province of North Brabant, the Netherlands.

Tilburg University was established in 1986 (its predecessor in 1927).

It has about 17,000 students.

Its focus is on social sciences.

[[Gopal Vasudev Menon]]

CATEGORIES: Indian musicians

Gopal Vasudev Menon is an Indian music composer, lyricist, singer, and director. He is best known for his works in the cinema of South India, especially in Tamil cinema. He has won seven Filmfare Awards, six are Filmfare Best Music Director South Awards and one Special Jury Award, five CineMAA Awards - Best Music Director. Gopal is best known for his musical work on Tamil film Enai Noki Paayum Thota,

[[Deputy Prime Minister of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Deputy Prime Ministers of the United Kingdom, Politics of the United Kingdom, United Kingdom-related lists

The Deputy Prime Minister (or DPM) is the second highest ranking executive officer of the government of the United Kingdom and the deputy chief of the Cabinet. The Deputy Prime Minister is normally a post held by the deputy leader of the majority party, the leader of the junior party in a coalition, or is held by a high ranking member of the government including offices such as First Secretary of State or Chancellor of the Exchequer.

Unlike other countries, the position of Deputy Prime Minister is not always needed. Because of this there is not always a sitting Deputy Prime Minister. This means that it is up to the Prime Minister to choose whether or not he/she wants to have a deputy. The position was created in 1942 and Clement Attlee was the first Deputy Prime Minister. There has been no Deputy Prime Minister since 2015. The last person to hold this post was Nick Clegg.

[[Tromelin Island]]

CATEGORIES: Territorial disputes

Tromelin Island is an island in the Indian Ocean. It is located off the shore of Madagascar and not far from Réunion.

The island is an overseas territory of France, but Mauritius claims that the island is theirs.

[[John M. Hayes]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary fibrosis, American educators, American chemists, Scientists from Seattle, Washington, Scientists from Berkeley, California

John Michael Hayes (6 September 1940 – 3 February 2017) ForMemRS was an American scientist. He was a professor emeritus at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Woods Hole, Massachusetts. He was born in Seattle, Washington.

Hayes died on 3 February 2017 from pulmonary fibrosis in Berkeley, California, aged 76.

[[Yuriy Poyarkov]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Ukrainian volleyball players

Yuriy Mikhaylovich Poyarkov (Юрій Михайлович Поярков, 10 February 1937 – 10 February 2017) was a Ukrainian volleyball player. He competed for the Soviet Union in the 1964 Summer Olympics, in the 1968 Summer Olympics, and in the 1972 Summer Olympics.

Poyarkov died on his 80th birthday on 10 February 2017 in Kharkiv, Ukraine.

[[Raymond Smullyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, American mathematicians, American pianists, American philosophers, American educators, American magicians, Scientists from New York, Writers from New York, Musicians from New York, Entertainers from New York

Raymond Merrill Smullyan (ˈ; May 25, 1919 – February 6, 2017) was an American mathematician, concert pianist, logician, Taoist philosopher, and magician.

Smullyan was born in Far Rockaway, New York. His first career was stage magic. He then earned a BSc from the University of Chicago in 1955 and his Ph.D. from Princeton University in 1959. He was one of many logicians to have studied under Alonzo Church.

Smullyan died on February 6, 2017 in Hudson, New York at the age of 97.

[[Tom Raworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Cancer deaths in London, British poets, British artists, Writers from London

Thomas Moore Raworth (July 19, 1938 – February 8, 2017) known as Tom Raworth, was a British poet and visual artist. He published over forty books of poetry and prose during his life. His work has been translated and published in many countries. Raworth was a key figure in the British Poetry Revival.

Raworth died at his home in London, England on February 8, 2017 from prostate cancer-related complications, aged 78.

[[Valeriu Bularca]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Romanian sportspeople, Wrestlers

Valeriu Bularca (14 February 1931 – 7 February 2017) was a retired Romanian wrestler. He competed at the 1960 and 1964 Olympics and won a silver medal in 1964. In 1961 he became the first Romanian wrestler to win a world title. He collected six national titles between 1957 and 1964. 

After retiring from competitions he worked as a wrestling coach at CS Steagu Roșu in Brașov.

Bularca died in Brașov on 7 February 2017, aged 85.

[[Mike Ilitch]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Businesspeople from Detroit, Michigan, Disease-related deaths in Michigan

Michael Ilitch Sr. (July 20, 1929 – February 10, 2017) was an American entrepreneur. He was the founder and owner of the international fast food franchise Little Caesars. He also owned the sports teams Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League (NHL) and Detroit Tigers of Major League Baseball (MLB).

From 1994 until her death in 2005, Ilitch paid Rosa Parks' rent to help her live in a safer part of Detroit.

Ilitch was born in Detroit, Michigan. His parents were Macedonian. He was married to Marian Ilitch from 1955 until his death. The couple had seven children.

Ilitch died on February 10, 2017, at a hospital in Detroit. He was 87.

[[André Salvat]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2017 deaths, Colonels, French military people, Legion of Honour, Military personnel of World War II, People from Occitanie

André Salvat (16 May 1920 – 9 February 2017) was a French colonel. He was a veteran of World War II, the First Indochina War and the Algerian War. He was made a Companion of the Liberation for his World War II service. He was also a Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour. He retired in April 1973. He was born in Prades, Pyrénées-Orientales.

Salvat died on 9 February 2017 in Perpignan, at the age of 96.

[[Angry Grandpa]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, American YouTubers, Deaths from cirrhosis, Disease-related deaths in South Carolina, Firefighters, Internet celebrities, Pen names, People from Charleston, South Carolina, People with bipolar disorder, People with cancer

Charles Marvin Green Jr. (October 16, 1950 - December 10, 2017), better known as Angry Grandpa or simply AGP, was an American Internet personality. He was a former fireman. With his son, Michael, he had a YouTube channel, "TheAngryGrandpaShow", that has over four million subscribers.

Green was born in Chatham County, Georgia. He had bipolar disorder and suffered from skin cancer.

In October 2017, Green was hospitalized for cirrhosis, kidney stones and pneumonia. His health began to get worse when he suffered from high ammonia levels. He died at his home in Summerville, South Carolina on December 10, 2017 of problems caused by cirrhosis. He was 67.

[[Morgan Spurlock]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American activists, American agnostics, American movie directors, American screenwriters, American television producers, Writers from West Virginia

Morgan Valentine Spurlock (born November 7, 1970) is an American documentary filmmaker, humorist, television producer, screenwriter and political activist. He is best known for the directing and starring in the documentary Super Size Me (2004). 

The movie earned him an Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature nomination. He also directed Where in the World Is Osama bin Laden? (2008), The Simpsons 20th Anniversary Special – In 3-D! On Ice! (2010), POM Wonderful Presents: The Greatest Movie Ever Sold (2011), Comic-Con Episode IV: A Fan's Hope (2011) and One Direction: This Is Us (2013).

Spurlock was born in Parkersburg, West Virginia. He grew up in Beckley, West Virginia. He has been married twice and has two sons. He is an agnostic.

[[University of Groningen]]

CATEGORIES: 1614 establishments, 1610s establishments in Europe, Colleges and universities in the Netherlands, Groningen (city), 17th century establishments in the Netherlands

The University of Groningen (Dutch: Rijksuniversiteit Groningen), shortened to UG, is a public university in Groningen, a city in the province of Groningen, the Netherlands.

The University of Groningen was established in 1614.

It has about 30,000 students.

Its focus is on all sorts of sciences.

[[Radboud University Nijmegen]]

CATEGORIES: Christian colleges and universities, Colleges and universities in the Netherlands, Roman Catholicism in the Netherlands, 20th century establishments in the Netherlands, 1923 establishments in Europe, Nijmegen

Radboud University Nijmegen (Dutch: Radboud Universiteit Nijmegen), shortened to RU, is a public university (until 2020 Roman Catholic) in Nijmegen, a city in the province of Gelderland, the Netherlands.

Radboud University Nijmegen was established in 1923.

It has about 20,000 students.

Its focus is on all sorts of sciences.

[[Chidambaram]]

CATEGORIES: Cuddalore district

Chidambaram is a town and municipality in Cuddalore district, Tamil Nadu. It is the headquarters of the Chidambaram taluk. 

[[Piet Keizer]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in the Netherlands, Deaths from lung cancer, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Petrus Johannes "Piet" Keizer (14 June 1943 – 10 February 2017) was a Dutch footballer. He played as a left winger. He played for Ajax his whole career from 1961 to 1974. He made 365 league appearances for Ajax. He also played 34 games for the Netherlands national football team, scoring eleven goals. He retired in 1974 after an argument with Hans Kraay Sr., then-manager of Ajax.

Kiezer was born in Amsterdam, North Holland. He married Jenny Hoorman in 1967. They had a son.

Keizer died from lung cancer on 10 February 2017, at the age of 73.

[[Filmfare Award for Best Actor-Tamil]]

CATEGORIES: Indian awards, Movie awards

Filmfare Award for Best Actor is given by the filmfare as part of its annual Filmfare Awards South for Tamil film lead actors. The Filmfare Awards South Awards were extended to "Best Actor" in 1972.The year indicates the year of release of the film.

[[Hans Kraay Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Dutch journalists, Sportspeople from Utrecht (city), Writers from Utrecht (city)

Hans Kraay Sr. (born Johan Hendrik Kraay; 14 October 1936 – 27 October 2017) was a Dutch footballer, manager and sports journalist. He played as a defender. He played for DOS, Feyenoord and the Netherlands national football team. He also managed Ajax, AZ Alkmaar, Sparta Rotterdam and Feyenoord.

Kraay was born in Utrecht. His son, Hans Kraay Jr. (born 1959), was also a footballer and manager. He died in Tiel at the age of 81.

[[Hans Kraay Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Dutch television presenters, Sportspeople from Utrecht (city)

Hans Kraay Jr. (born 22 December 1959) is a Dutch former footballer, football manager and television presenter. He played as a defender. He played for AZ, SBV Excelsior, HFC Haarlem, NAC Breda, RKC Waalwijk, Helmond Sport, FC Eindhoven, De Graafschap, FC Dordrecht, Telstar and FC Den Bosch. He has also managed lower league teams since 1999.

Kraay was born in Utrecht. His father, Hans Kraay Sr. (1936–2017), was also a footballer and manager.

[[Edward Bryant]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, American science fiction writers, Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in Colorado, Writers from Wyoming, Writers from New York

Edward Winslow Bryant Jr. (August 27, 1945 – February 10, 2017) was an American science fiction and horror writer. He was best known for winning two Nebula Awards in 1978 and 1979. He was born in White Plains, New York. He grew up in Wyoming.

Bryant had type 1 diabetes. He died from an illness on February 10, 2017 in Denver, Colorado. He was 71.

[[Hiag Akmakjian]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, American painters, American photographers, Cancer deaths in the United Kingdom, Deaths from lung cancer, People from Jersey City, New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey

Hiag Akmakjian (July 17, 1926 – January 10, 2017) was an American writer, painter and photographer. He wrote several books including Snow Falling from a Bamboo Leaf: The Art of Haiku (1979), 30,000 Mornings (1999) and Cleo (2016).

Akmakjian was born in Jersey City, New Jersey. His parents were refugees of the Armenian Genocide. He was married to Margaret Akmakjian. They had a son, Nicolas.

Akmakjian died from lung cancer in Wales, at the age of 90.

[[Arabesque]]

CATEGORIES: Art, Design

Arabesque is an artistic decoration. It uses "surface decorations based on... interlacing foliage, tendrils" or plain lines.  Another definition is "Foliate ornament, used in the Islamic world, typically using leaves... combined with spiralling stems".

Arabesques are usually of a single design which can be 'tiled' or repeated as many times as desired.

The term "arabesque" is used as a technical term by art historians for decoration in Islamic art from about the 9th century onwards, and European decorative art from the Renaissance onwards. Note that Islamic geometric patterns are a different style from arabesques.

[[Arabesque (disambiguation)]]

Arabesques are an important design for surface decoration. The word is also used for:

[[Arabesque (ballet)]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet terminology

The arabesque is a basic ballet positions. It has been used since the 18th century. The dancer stands on one leg (the supporting leg) with the other leg (the working leg) turned out and extended behind the body. There are many variations on this figure which are described in the standard ballet technique books.

[[Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in India, Political parties in Tamil Nadu, 1972 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in India

All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam is an Indian political party in the state of Tamil Nadu and union territory of Puducherry. It is currently in power in Tamil Nadu and is the third largest party in the Indian Parliament. It is a Dravidian party and was founded by M.G.Ramachandran on 17 October 1972 as a breakaway faction of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). From 1989 to 2016, AIADMK was led by J. Jayalalithaa, who was the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu many times. The party headquarters is in Royapettah, Chennai, Tamil Nadu. The headquarters was donated to the party in 1986 by Janaki Ramachandran, Ramachandran's wife.

[[Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in India, Political parties in Tamil Nadu, 1949 establishments in Asia, 1940s establishments in India

Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam is a state political party in the Indian states of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. It is a Dravidian party founded by C.N.Annadurai in 1949 as a break away faction from the Dravidar Kazhagam (known as Justice Party until 1944) headed by Periyar E. V. Ramasamy. Since 1969, DMK has been headed by Karunanidhi, who has served as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu several times. DMK holds the distinction of being the first party other than the National Congress to win state-level elections with a clear majority on its own in any state in India. Present Executive Leader of DMK Party is M.K.Stalin.

[[Monstera deliciosa]]

CATEGORIES: Araceae, Vines

Monstera deliciosa is a  species of the genus Monstera, which is commonly found in tropical Central America. The term deliciosa in the species name means delicious, and refers to the edible fruit of the plant. The plant is a vine (a climbing plant).  Originally, the plant was found the Mexican states of Oaxaca, Veracruz, and Chiapas. It also grows in Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Panama.

It is also commonly grown as a houseplant. Wild plants can now also be found in the Southern United States (mainly Florida), Malaysia, India, Australia and the western part of the Mediterranean basin (Portugal, Morocco, and Madeira).

[[Buffalo Niagara International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in New York

Buffalo Niagara International Airport is an airport serving the Buffalo area in New York State. It serves the Buffalo area and nearby areas in Southern Ontario.

[[Icelandair]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Europe, Transport in Iceland

Icelandair is the national flag carrier of Iceland. They currently fly to 37 North American and European destinations with Boeing 757 or Boeing 767 aircraft.

Their main hub is at Keflavik International Airport in Reykjavik.

[[Jiro Taniguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Japanese manga artists, Japanese writers

Jiro Taniguchi was a Japanese manga writer and artist. He was best known for manga series A Distant Neighborhood (1998–1999), The Summit of the Gods (2000–2003) and A Zoo in Winter (2005–2007). He was born in Tottori, Tottori Prefecture.

Taniguchi died on 11 February 2017 in Tokyo, at the age of 69.

[[MVG Class C]]

CATEGORIES: Rolling stock, Munich, 2002 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Germany

The MVG Class C is a type of train used on the Munich U-Bahn. They are used on every line.

The MVG Class C began service in 2002.

There are 18 trains with six cars each.

[[Sione Lauaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2017 deaths, New Zealand rugby union players, Sportspeople from Auckland

Sione Tuitupu Lauaki (22 June 1981 – 12 February 2017) was a New Zealand rugby union player. He played for the All Blacks between 2005 and 2008. At a club level, he played for the Chiefs, Bayonne and Clermont. He was born in Haʻapai, Tonga. He grew up in Auckland.

Lauaki was diagnosed with heart and kidney problems while playing for Bayonne. He died on 12 February 2017, at the age of 35.

[[Fab Melo]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2017 deaths, Basketball players, Brazilian sportspeople, Minas Gerais

Fabricio "Fab" Paulino de Melo (20 June 1990 – 11 February 2017) was a Brazilian professional basketball player. He played as a center. In the United States, he played for the Boston Celtics of the National Basketball Association (NBA) and Syracuse Orange. In Brazil, he played for LSB and Brasília of the Novo Basquete Brasil (NBB).

Melo was born in Juiz de Fora, Minas Gerais. He moved to the U.S. and graduated from high school in 2010.

Melo died from an apparent heart attack on 11 February 2017 in Juiz de Fora. He was 26.

[[John Barnes (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, 1986 FIFA World Cup players, 1990 FIFA World Cup players, Black British sportspeople, British rap musicians, English footballers, English football managers, Liverpool F.C. players, Members of the Order of the British Empire, Musicians from London, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, People from Kingston, Jamaica, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

John Charles Bryan Barnes MBE (born 7 November 1963) is a Jamacian-born English former footballer, rapper, manager and now commentator. He played as a left winger. He was best known for playing for Liverpool between 1987 and 1997. He won three league titles, an FA Cup and a League Cup during his time playing at Liverpool. He also played for Watford, Newcastle United, Charlton Athletic and the England national team. He also managed Celtic, the Jamaica national team and Tranmere Rovers.

Barnes was born in Kingston, Jamaica. He moved to London at the age of 12. He was married to Suzy until their divorce. They had four children. With his second wife, Andrea, he has three children. He lives on the Wirral.

[[Tom Pryce]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 1977 deaths, British racecar drivers, Deaths in sport, Formula One drivers, Welsh sportspeople

Thomas Maldwyn "Tom" Pryce (11 June 1949 – 5 March 1977) was a British racing driver. 

[[Paragahadeniya]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Asia

Paragahadeniya is a small town in the North Western Province of Sri Lanka.

[[Bob Paisley]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1996 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in England, English footballers, English football managers, Liverpool F.C. players, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, Sportspeople from County Durham

Robert "Bob" Paisley OBE (23 January 1919 – 14 February 1996) was an English footballer and manager. He played for Liverpool as a left half between 1939 and 1954. He later managed Liverpool between 1974 and 1983. Paisley and Carlo Ancelotti are the only managers to have won the European Cups three times. He won 20 major honours with Liverpool as a manager.

Paisley was born in Hetton-le-Hole, County Durham. He married Jessie in 1946. The couple had two sons and a daughter, Robert, Graham and Christine.

Paisley was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in 1992. He died on 14 February 1996 in Liverpool, at the age of 77.

[[2017 United Kingdom general election]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in the United Kingdom, June 2017 events, United Kingdom general elections

A general election was held on the 8 June 2017 to elect all 650 members of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. It ended in a hung parliament, with the Conservative Party winning the most seats. They had a confidence-and-supply agreement with the Democratic Unionist Party so they would pass a vote of no confidence. Theresa May stayed as prime minister.

Labour won a lot of seats from the Conservatives. This was the first time Labour had gained seats since 1997. The election happened because Parliament voted for a snap election after the 2016 Brexit referendum.

[[J. D. Tippit]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1963 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, Deaths by firearm in Texas

J.D. Tippit was a police officer in Dallas, Texas, murdered on the 22nd of November, 1963, by Lee Harvey Oswald. This was the same day that John F. Kennedy was assassinated.

[[El amor brujo]]

CATEGORIES: Classical music

El amor brujo (Translation "Love, the Magician") is a ballet in one act and two scenes of Manuel de Falla music. Choreography: Pastora Imperio. Libretto by Gregorio Martínez Sierra. First performance in Madrid, Spain, at the Teatro Lara April 15, 1915.

It was written after the famous dancer Pastora Imperio expressed to him the desire to expand his repertoire with a new song and a dance.

[[Live at Leeds]]

CATEGORIES: Rock albums

Live at Leeds is a live album by The Who.  It was recorded at Leeds University on 14 February 1970.  At the time of the recording The Who were in the prime of their career and were widely hailed as the greatest live band that had ever played.  They were said to be quite tight that night.  The original album consisted of six songs.  In 1995, an extended 14-track remaster and re-mix of the original master was made, occupying nearly all of the storage capacity offered by a compact disc (app. 80 minutes), and later a deluxe edition and a 4-CD set.  Live at Leeds consistently holds the top spot on critics' lists of the greatest live albums of all time.

[[Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Tamil Nadu, 2005 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in India

Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam is a regional political party formed by Tamil film actor Vijayakanth in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu, along the lines of the regional Dravidian political parties. He announced the party's formation on 14 September 2005 at Madurai. The party head office is in Koyambedu, Chennai.This party contested in all 234 seats in the Tamil Nadu state assembly election in May 2006 with Vijayakanth contesting in Vridhachalam constituency. The party polled almost 30 lakh votes . All the candidates of the DMDK, with exception of Vijayakanth, lost the elections in 2006. The party won 29 seats in the 2011 Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly election and became the opposition party with Vijayakanth as the Leader of the Opposition.

[[Naam Tamilar Katchi]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Tamil Nadu

Naam Tamilar Katchi is a Tamil nationalist party in the state of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, India. This party's main idol or symbol is Velupillai Prabhakaran. Naam Tamilar Katchi promote Tamil Nationalism and oppose Dravidian politics in Tamil Nadu. Naam Tamilar Katchi supports regional politics and opposes Indian national parties.In 1958, Adithanar  founded the We Tamils party with the platform of forming a sovereign Tamil state. During the Civil War in Sri Lanka, this party was made an organisation supporting Tamil Eelam people. On 18 May 2010, it was formed as a party once again by the chief coordinator Seeman. During the formation of the party, Seeman added that "we are not founding the Naam Tamilar party, we are continuing with what S. P. Adithanar  founded.

[[Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Tamil Nadu, 1994 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in India

Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam is a political party active in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry. It was established by Vaiko in 1994. Vaiko was a member of Rajyasabha and a party activist of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. In 1994, he was forced out of the parent body as he was seen as a threat to DMK chief Karunanidhi's son M.K. Stalin. Vaiko along with some district secretaries announced the decision to start rival DMK ultimately leading to naming of the part as MDMK.

[[Pattali Makkal Katchi]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Tamil Nadu

More citations needed

Pattali Makkal Katchi is a socio-democratic political party currently active and 3 rd largest party in Tamil Nadu, India. It is known for its fights against any kind of social injustice. Pattali Makkal Katchi was founded by Dr S Ramadoss an activist on 16 July 1989.PMK contested in the 2014 Lok Sabha election in an alliance with Bharatiya Janata Party led National Democratic Alliance and its candidate Anbumani Ramadoss won from Dharmapuri Lok Sabha constituency, where he is one of two non-AIADMK MPs from Tamil Nadu the other being from its alliance party BJP.

[[Carbon sink]]

CATEGORIES: Carbon, Geochemistry

A carbon sink is a natural or artificial reservoir that stores carbon-containing chemical compounds for a long period. Carbon sinks absorb more carbon than they release. 

A forest, ocean, or other natural environments produce surplus carbon. Carbon sinks are very important in our environment. They can be natural or man-made. Soil, ocean, forest and the atmosphere all store carbon and this carbon moves in a continuous cycle. The largest carbon sinks become swamps, bogs, and eventually coal measures.

In the regular carbon cycle, CO2 comes from the atmosphere and then is taken by plants and uses it in the process of photosynthesis.

[[Tim Raines]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, African-American baseball players, Baltimore Orioles players, Chicago White Sox players, Florida Marlins players, Living people, Montreal Expos players, National League All-Stars, New York Yankees players, Oakland Athletics players

Tim Raines (born September 16, 1959) is a professional baseball coach and former player.  He was a seven-time All-Star with the Montreal Expos.  His 808 stolen bases rank 5th in Major League Baseball (MLB) history.

In 2017, he was inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame.

[[Laura Innes]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, People from Pontiac, Michigan, Actors from Michigan, 1957 births, Living people

Laura Innes (born August 16, 1957) is an American actress and television director. She played the Dr. Kerry Weaver in the NBC medical drama series ER. She also played Bunny Mather in the TV sitcom Wings.

Innes is also a stage actress.

Innes was born in Pontiac, Michigan.

[[Tactopoda]]

CATEGORIES: Groups of phyla

Tactopods are members of a proposed clade of ecdysozoans called Tactopoda. Various studies support the tactopods.

[[Ethiopian Airlines Flight 961]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s in Africa, Aviation disasters in the 1990s, Comoros, History of Ethiopia, Mass murder in 1996, November events, Terrorist incidents in the 1990s

Ethiopian Airlines Flight 961 was a domestic passenger flight from Addis Ababa to Nairobi, with stopovers at Brazzaville, Lagos, and Abidjan. On November 23, 1996 the Boeing 767 was hijacked by three Ethiopians that were seeking asylum in Australia. However the plane ran out of fuel, and crash-landed in the Indian Ocean near the Comoros Islands. Of the 175 occupants on-board 125 people including the hijackers were killed, and 50 people survived.

[[Al Jarreau]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, African-American singers, American jazz singers, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, Grammy Award winners, Singers from Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Alwin Lopez "Al" Jarreau (March 12, 1940 – February 12, 2017) was an American jazz singer. He won seven Grammy Awards and was nominated for over a dozen more. He was best known for his album Breakin' Away (1981) and singing the theme song of the late-1980s television series Moonlighting. He was also a performer in the charity song "We Are the World" (1985). He was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Jarreau had been treated for exhaustion the week before his death. He died from respiratory failure on February 12, 2017 in Los Angeles, California. He was 76.

[[Quentin Moses]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from fire, Accidental deaths in the United States, Arizona Cardinals players, American football defensive ends, American football linebackers, Miami Dolphins players, Oakland Raiders players, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state)

Quentin Moses (November 18, 1983 – February 12, 2017) was an American football player. He played as a linebacker. He played for the Oakland Raiders, Arizona Cardinals and Miami Dolphins in the National Football League from 2007 to 2010. He was born in Athens, Georgia.

Moses was one of three people who died in a house fire on February 12, 2017 in Monroe, Georgia. He was 33.

[[Dave Adolph]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, American football coaches, American football linebackers, Sportspeople from Akron, Ohio

Dave Adolph (June 6, 1937 – February 12, 2017) was an American football coach. He held coaching positions at National Football League teams including the Cleveland Browns, Oakland Raiders, Kansas City Chiefs and San Diego Chargers. He was born in Akron, Ohio.

Adolph died on February 12, 2017, at the age of 79.

[[Krystyna Sienkiewicz]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Polish movie actors, Polish painters, Polish singers

Krystyna Waleria Sienkiewicz (14 February 1935 – 12 February 2017) was a Polish actress and singer. She was born in Ostrów Mazowiecka. Her career began in 1955. In 1958, Sienkiewicz was in her first movie, Farewells by Wojciech Has. From that moment she appeared in more than 20 movies, including Jutro premiera (1962), Lekarstwo na miłość (1967) and Rzeczpospolita Babska (1969). 

In 2007 she received the Medal for Merit to Culture – Gloria Artis. In 2007 she received the Medal for Merit to Culture – Gloria Artis.

Sienkiewicz died in Warsaw, Poland on 12 February 2017, aged 81.

[[Jarmila Šuláková]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Czech people, Folk singers

Jarmila Šuláková (27 June 1929 – 11 February 2017) was a Czech folk singer. She was an important figure of Moravian traditional music. She was sometimes called the "queen of the folk song". She was born in Vsetín, Czech Republic. From 1994 to 2011 she regularly performed with the folk-rock group Fleret.

Šuláková died on 11 February 2017 in Vsetín at the age of 87.

[[Chavo Guerrero Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Cancer deaths in Texas, American wrestlers, Sportspeople from El Paso, Texas

Salvador Guerrero III (January 7, 1949 – February 11, 2017) better known as Chavo Guerrero or Chavo Guerrero Sr., and also known during the 21st century as "Chavo Classic", was a professional wrestler. He was born in El Paso, Texas.

He was best known for his work in Universal Wrestling Federation (UWF), American Wrestling Association (AWA) and World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and for being the father of third generation wrestler Chavo Guerrero Jr.. He was the oldest son of Salvador "Gory" Guerrero, and part of the Guerrero wrestling family. 

He was the oldest WWE Cruiserweight Champion. On June 15, 2004, he was fired by WWE for no-showing multiple SmackDown! house shows. 

On February 11, 2017, Guerrero died of liver cancer in El Paso at the age of 68.

[[John Howes]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, American educators, Writers from Chicago

John Forman Howes ORS (June 19, 1924 – February 4, 2017) was an American educator. He was the Professor of Asian Studies at the University of British Columbia (UBC) for over 30 years. He was born in Chicago, Illinois. In 2003, Howes was awarded the Order of the Rising Sun by the Emperor of Japan for his outstanding contributions to the Canada-Japan community. After retirement from UBC, he taught at Obirin University, near Tokyo.

Howes died on February 4, 2017 in Vancouver, British Columbia, aged 92.

[[Arrondissements of the French Guiana department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, French Guiana

There are 2 arrondissements in the French Guiana department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of French Guiana are:

[[Arrondissement of Cayenne]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, French Guiana

The arrondissement of Cayenne is an arrondissement of France, in the French Guiana department. Its capital, and the prefecture of the department, is the city of Cayenne.

[[Arrondissement of Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, French Guiana

The arrondissement of Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni is an arrondissement of France, in the French Guiana department. Its capital, and subprefecture of the department, is the city of Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni.

[[Melanne Verveer]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, American diplomats, American writers, People from Pennsylvania, Women diplomats

Melanne Verveer is the Executive Director of the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security.  She served as the U.S. Representative to the UN Commission on the Status of Women.  She also served as the first U.S. Ambassador for Global Women’s Issues. She co-wrote the book Fast Forward: How Women Can Achieve Power and Purpose.  She has received many awards, including the U.S. Secretary of State’s Award for Distinguished Service.

== References == 

[[Yitzhak Livni]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Israeli journalists, Jewish Israeli writers, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Łódź, People from Tel Aviv, Polish Jews

Yitzhak Livni (17 October 1934 – 12 February 2017) was an Israeli media personality and journalist. He served as editor of the magazines Bamahane Nahal (1956–1961) and Bamahane (1961–1971). He was the head of IDF's radio station Galatz (1968–1974). He was also the CEO of the Israel Broadcasting Authority (1974–1979).

Livni was born in Łódź, Poland. He moved to Tel Aviv as a child. He was married to poet Dahlia Ravikovitch in the 1960s. He was later married to Knesset member Eti Livni. They had three children.

Livni died on 12 February 2017, at the age of 82.

[[James Hunt]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 1993 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in London, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English racecar drivers, Formula One drivers, Sportspeople from Surrey

James Simon Wallis Hunt (29 August 1947 – 15 June 1993) was a British racing driver. He was best known for winning the Formula One World Championship in 1976. He later became a commentator after retiring from racing in 1979. 

[[Ring toss]]

CATEGORIES: Games

Ring toss is a common game where rings are tossed around a peg, or bottle. It is mostly played in carnivals.

[[Wiesław Adamski]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Polish sculptors

Wiesław Adamski (26 July 1947 – 10 February 2017) was a Polish sculptor. He was best known for his work on small sculptures, medals, portraits and blacksmithing. His works had been shown in Helsinki, Poltava, Berlin, Madrid, Washington, Warsaw, Rotterdam and Paris. One famous work by him is a potato monument in Biesiekierz. He was born in Szczecinek County.

Adamski died on 10 February 2017 in Wałcz, at the age of 69.hhhh

[[Evionnaz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Evionnaz is a municipality of the district of Saint-Maurice in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Finhaut]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Finhaut is a municipality of the district Saint-Maurice in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Massongex]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Massongex is a municipality in the district of Saint-Maurice in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Keat Chhon]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Asian politicians, Cambodian people

Keat Chhon  (គាត ឈន់; born 11 August 1934) is a Cambodian politician. He is a member of the Cambodian People's Party. He represented Phnom Penh in the National Assembly of Cambodia in 2003. He was the Minister for Economy and Finance from 1994 to 2013. He was also the Deputy Prime Minister of Cambodia from 2008 to 2016.

Keat was born in Kratié Province. He is married to Lay Neari and has two children.

[[Mex, Valais]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Valais

Mex was a municipality in Saint-Maurice in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 Mex became part of the municipality Saint-Maurice.

[[Salvan, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Salvan is a municipality in the district of Saint-Maurice in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Goms, Valais]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais, 2017 establishments in Switzerland

Goms is a municipality of the district of Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2017 the former municipalities of Blitzingen, Grafschaft, Münster-Geschinen, Niederwald and Reckingen-Gluringen merged into the new municipality of Goms.

[[Kongunadu Makkal Desia Katchi]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Tamil Nadu

Kongunadu Makkal Desia Katchi  is a political party in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The party's vote base is mainly concentrated in the Kongu Nadu region of Tamil Nadu. It was a splinter party of Kongunadu Munnetra Kazhagam.On 21 March 2013, E. R. Eswaran launched new Party Kongunadu Makkal Desia Katchi, he also became the General Secretary of new party. He contested the May 2009 Loksabha elections as a Kongunadu Munnetra Kazhagam candidate in the Coimbatore constituency and came third, securing more than one lakh votes. He also came third in the 2009 by election for Thondamuthur Assembly Constituency.

[[People's Welfare Front]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Tamil Nadu, 2015 establishments in India

The People's Welfare Front is a Tamil Nadu political alliance formed in October 2015. It consists of four political parties: Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist),  Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, and Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. The alliance is expected to contest Tamil Nadu and 2016 Puducherry Legislative Assembly elections as one unit. Later it made an electoral alliance with Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam and Tamil Maanila Congress.

[[Eilat Airport]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 establishments, Airports in Israel, Eilat, 1940s establishments in Israel

Eilat Airport (שְׂדֵה הַתְּעוּפָה אֵילַת, Namal HaTe'ufa Eilat; مطار إيلات), or Hozman Airport, is an airport in Israel. It is in the coastal city of Eilat, in the very south of the country.

Eilat Airport is a public airport, mainly for internal flights. It was established in 1949.

[[Lactate dehydrogenase]]

CATEGORIES: Enzymes

Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH or LD) is an enzyme found in nearly all living cells (animals, plants, and prokaryotes). It catalyzes the conversion of lactate to pyruvic acid and back

This is an important function because lactic acid builds up in muscle tissue. LDH works to prevent muscle fatigue and failure in various ways. 

Each LDH molecule is made of four subunits. There are somewhat different types of LDH in different tissues. The main type in the lungs has two M subunits and two H subunits (2H2M). The M and H subunits are coded by two different genes. The M subunit is coded by LDHA on human chromosome 11, and the H subunit is coded by LDHB on chromosome 12.

[[Million Reasons]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 songs, Lady Gaga songs, Pop ballads, 2010s ballads

"Million Reasons" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Lady Gaga.  It is the seventh track on her fifth studio album, Joanne.  The song became the second single from the album on October 28, 2016, after "Perfect Illusion".

The song first reached number 52 on the Billboard Hot 100.  Gaga performed the song as the second-to-last song from her Super Bowl 51 halftime show, before "Bad Romance".  After her show, "Million Reasons" reentered at number four on the Hot 100. It became her 10th top-five and 14th top-ten song in the US. She performed it as the encore song on the piano on the Joanne World Tour.

The Recording Industry Association of America certified the song Platinum for sales and streams of over one million copies in the US alone.

[[Barbara Carroll]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, American jazz musicians, American pianists, People from Worcester, Massachusetts, Singers from Massachusetts

Barbara Carroll (born Barbara Carole Coppersmith; January 25, 1925 – February 11, 2017) was an American jazz pianist and singer. Her career began in 1947. She was best known for her jazz trio, which had Benny Goodman in the line up. She also performed piano on Broadway plays. She was born in Worcester, Massachusetts

Carroll died on February 11, 2017, at the age of 92.

[[Damian (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in England, English pop singers, Musicians from Manchester

Damian Davey (born Damian Baker; 30 September 1964 – 12 February 2017), better known as simply Damian, was an English pop musician. He was best known for his 1989 song "The Time Warp", a cover version of the original track from The Rocky Horror Show. He also did a cover of the song "Wig-Wam Bam" by the Sweet. He was born in Manchester.

Damian died from cancer on 12 February 2017, at the age of 52.

[[Aidan Harrington]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Actors from London, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors

Aidan Harrington (March 13, 1928 - February 4, 2017) was an English character actor of stage, screen, and television.

[[Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in French Guiana, Subprefectures in France

Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni is a commune and subprefecture of the French Guiana, an overseas region and department of France that is in northern South America.

Saint-Laurent-du-Maroni is a border town in northwest French Guiana. It is the second most populous city of French Guiana, after Cayenne.

[[Jan Grabowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Coaches, Polish sportspeople, Speedway riders

Jan Grabowski (27 May 1950 – 13 February 2017) was a Polish speedway rider. From 1970 to 1980, he represented Falubaz Zielona Góra. He won two bronze medals at the Team Speedway Polish Championship, in 1973 and 1979, with the team. He later became a speedway coach. He was born in Myślibórz.

Grabowski died on 13 February 2017 in Zielona Góra, at the age of 66.

[[Keith Kellogg]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, United States National Security Advisors, American military people, Politicians from Dayton, Ohio

Joseph Keith Kellogg Jr. (born May 12, 1944), known as Keith Kellogg, is a retired general officer in the United States Army. President Donald Trump put Kellogg in charge of the  presidential transition agency action team for defense. He was named a foreign policy advisor to then presidential candidate Trump in March 2016. 

He was named Acting United States National Security Advisor on February 13, 2017 following the resignation of Michael T. Flynn.

[[Clint Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from COPD, Disease-related deaths in the United States, United States representatives from South Dakota, US Republican Party politicians

Clint Ronald Roberts (January 30, 1935 – February 13, 2017) was an American politician. He was a member of the Republican Party. He was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives for South Dakota from 1981 to 1983. He was born in Presho, South Dakota.

Roberts died from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on February 13, 2017 in Pierre, South Dakota, at the age of 82.

[[Loukianos Kilaidonis]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Composers, Greek writers, Greek singers, Songwriters, People from Athens

Loukianos Kilaidonis (Λουκιανός Κηλαηδόνης; 15 July 1943 – 7 February 2017) was a Greek composer, songwriter and singer.

Kilaidonis was born in Athens. He studied at the Leonine Lycium of Patissia. afterwards he went to Thessaloniki where he studied architecture at Aristotle University of Thessaloniki for two years, where he finished his studies at the National Metsovo Polytechnic. 

Kilaidonis never did work in architecture because he started a career in music. His first work was the album Our city in 1970. Two years later he made the album Red Thread with Nikos Gatsos and the singers Manolis Mitsias and Dimitra Galani. 

Kilaidonis died in Marousi, Greece on 7 February 2017 from a respiratory infection, aged 73.

[[Ren Xinmin]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2017 deaths, Chinese scientists, Chinese educators, Centenarians, People from Beijing

Ren Xinmin (c=; December 5, 1915 – February 12, 2017) was a Chinese rocket scientist. He was a specialist in astronautics and liquid rocket engine technology. He worked at the University at Buffalo.

[[Harvey Lichtenstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American educators, American artists, People from Brooklyn

Harvey Lichtenstein (April 9, 1929 – February 11, 2017)  was an American arts administrator.

He was best known for his 32-year tenure (1967–99) as president and executive producer of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, or BAM. He led the institution to a renaissance, championing contemporary performance, establishing the Next Wave Festival, and providing a vital venue for dance, theater, music, and collaborations that bridged disciplines. When Lichtenstein retired, the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation made the decision to honor his considerable accomplishments by foregoing its own naming rights and dedicating the BAM Harvey Theater in his honor.

Lichtenstein was born in Brooklyn, New York. He studied at Brooklyn College and at Black Mountain College. Lichtenstein died in Manhattan, New York on February 11, 2017 from complications of a stroke, aged 87.

[[Lucky Pulpit]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Thoroughbred racehorses

Lucky Pulpit (foaled February 10, 2001 – February 13, 2017) was an American Thoroughbred stallion. He stood at Harris Farms in Coalinga, California. 

Lucky Pulpit was a son of the Blue Grass Stakes winner Pulpit, who in turn is a son of 1992 United States Horse of the Year A.P. Indy. Lucky Pulpit was the sire of the 2014 Kentucky Derby and 2014 Preakness Stakes winner and subsequent 2014 Horse of the Year, California Chrome.

Lucky Pulpit died of a heart attack in Arcadia, California on February 13, 2017, aged 16.

[[Åsleik Engmark]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Oslo, Disease-related deaths in Belgium, Musicians from Oslo, Norwegian comedians, Norwegian movie actors, Norwegian singers, Norwegian stage actors, Norwegian television actors, Norwegian voice actors, Writers from Oslo

Åsleik Engmark (27 December 1965 – 12 February 2017) was a Norwegian comedian, actor, singer and writer. He was best known for his work as one of the co-founders of the Norwegian cabaret group Lompelandslaget. In Norwegian dubbing, he was well known for voicing Timon in the The Lion King series, Mike Wazowski in the Monsters, Inc. and Woody in the Toy Story series. He was born in Oslo.

Engmark died of an illness on 12 February 2017 in Brussels, Belgium, at the age of 51.

[[Tsuyoshi Yamanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Japan, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Japanese swimmers, Medalists at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1960 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1956 Summer Olympics, People from Ishikawa Prefecture

Tsuyoshi Yamanaka was a Japanese freestyle swimmer. He won a total of five Olympic medals, four silvers and a bronze. He won medals at the 1956 (Melbourne), 1960 (Rome) and 1964 Summer Olympics (Tokyo). He was born in Wajima, Ishikawa Prefecture.

Yamanaka died from pneumonia on 10 February 2017 in Tokyo, at the age of 78.

[[Bobby Murdoch (footballer, born 1936)]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, English footballers, English football managers, Liverpool F.C. players, Sportspeople from Liverpool

Bobby Murdoch (25 January 1936 – 12 February 2017) was an English footballer. He played as a striker. He played for Liverpool, Bolton Wanderers, Barrow, Stockport County, Carlisle United, Southport and Wigan Athletic. He was also a player-manager for the amateur club South Liverpool. He was born in Garston, Liverpool.

Murdoch died on 12 February 2017, at the age of 81.

[[Sara Coward]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from London, English radio actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from breast cancer

Sara Coward (30 January 1948 – 12 February 2017) was a British actress. She was born in Eltham, London. She was known for her role as Caroline Sterling in the BBC radio soap opera The Archers. She first appeared in the series in 1977. She had the role as a regular from 1979 until September 2016. She also appeared in the TV series Inspector Morse, Hetty Wainthropp Investigates and Rumpole of the Bailey.

Coward was told she had breast cancer in 2013. She died on 12 February 2017 in Warwickshire, at the age of 69.

[[Communist Party of India (Marxist)]]

CATEGORIES: Communist parties, 1964 establishments in Asia, 1960s establishments in India, Political parties in India

The Communist Party of India (Marxist) is a Communist party in India. The party emerged from a split from the Communist Party of India in 1964. The CPI(M) was formed at the Seventh Congress of the Communist Party of India held in Calcutta from 31 October to 7 November 1964. The power of CPI(M) is concentrated in the states of Kerala, West Bengal and Tripura. At present in 2016, CPI(M) is leading the state governments in Tripura and Kerala. It also leads the Left Front in West Bengal.

[[Beam balance]]

CATEGORIES: Machines, Measuring tools

A beam balance is a device used to measure mass. An object is put into a disk on one side that hangs from one end of a bar. It is balanced with weights at the other end. It has a lever with two equal arms and a pan suspended from each arm.

[[M. K. Stalin]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil Nadu politicians, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam politicians

Muthuvel Karunanidhi Stalin better known as M. K. Stalin is an Indian politician,present Executive Leader of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party as his father Karunanidhi was ailing illness. He became the 1st Deputy Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu from 2009 to 2011.Stalin is the third son of famous Tamil Nadu politician Karunanidhi, and was born to his second wife, Dayalu Ammal. Stalin became the Minister for Rural Development and Local Administration in the Government of Tamil Nadu after the 2006 Assembly elections. On 29 May 2009, Stalin was nominated as Deputy Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu by Governor Surjit Singh Barnala. Stalin serves as the Treasurer and the Youth Wing President of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. On 3 January 2013, M. Karunanidhi named him as his heir apparent, ending a long time confusion about who would take over the party reins after Karunanidhi's death. He was the Mayor of Chennai from 1996 to 2002.

[[Goyescas]]

CATEGORIES: 1910s operas, Operas set in Spain, 1916 works

Goyescas is a Spanish opera with music by Enrique Granados and libretto by Fernando Periquet y Zuaznabar. It is based on the piano work by Granados which is also called Goyescas. As the melodies had already been created for the piano work, the words of the opera had to be chosen to fit them.

The opera was first performed in New York, on January 28, 1916.  It is not performed as often as the piano version.

[[Sarah Knauss]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 births, 1999 deaths, American supercentenarians, People from Pennsylvania

Sarah DeRemer Knauss (née Clark; September 24, 1880 – December 30, 1999) was an American supercentenarian, and the world's oldest living person between the death of Canadian woman Marie-Louise Meilleur on April 16, 1998, and her own death from natural causes at age 119 years, 97 days, and also along with Danish-born Americanman Christian Mortensen, who was almost two years younger and died just nine days after Meilleur, the last two living people born before 1884. During the last 40 days of her life, she was also the last living person born before 1885.

Knauss is the second-oldest person in history, after the possibly disputed 122-year-old Frenchwoman Jeanne Calment.

[[Bilice (Kotor Varoš)]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Bilice is a populated place in the Kotor Varoš Municipality of Central Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina.

[[Baština (Kotor Varoš)]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Baština is a populated place in the Kotor Varoš Municipality of Central Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

[[Jonathan Russell]]

CATEGORIES: Democratic Republican party (US) politicians, American diplomats, United States representatives from Massachusetts, 19th-century American politicians

Jonathan Russell (February 27, 1771 - February 17, 1832) was a United States Representative from Massachusetts (March 4, 1821 - March 3, 1823). He graduated from Brown University (then Rhode Island College) in 1791. He was also appointed by James Madison to the Diplomatic Service in France in 1811. Russell was one of the five commissioners who negotiated the Treaty of Ghent with Great Britain in 1814, ending the War of 1812. Jonathan Russell died in Milton, Massachusetts on February 17, 1832 (aged 60). His final resting place is in the Russell Family Cemetery (Milton, Massachusetts).

[[Inferior temporal gyrus]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the brain

The inferior temporal gyrus is the part of the brain that helps you process shades

[[Ta Phong Tan]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Living people, Vietnamese people, Bloggers

Ta Phong Tan is a Vietnamese blogger.  She was a member of the Vietnamese Communist Party and an  officer in the Vietnamese security forces. In 2013 she received an International Women of Courage Award.

In 2006, she started a blog “Truth and Justice.”  She wrote about news and politics.  In 2011, she went to prison.  She was convicted of propaganda against the state. 

She was freed from prison on September 19, 2015. She went to live in the United States. 

== Awards == 

== References == 

[[Stefán Karl Stefánsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from cholangiocarcinoma

Stefán Karl Stefánsson (ˈ; ˈstɛːfaun ˈkʰartl̥ ˈstɛːfaunsɔn; 10 July 1975 – 21 August 2018) was an Icelandic actor and singer. He was best known for playing antagonist Robbie Rotten on the children's television series LazyTown.

[[Pusheen]]

CATEGORIES: Internet celebrities, Fictional cats, Individual animals

Pusheen is a cartoon cat and an internet meme. She is seen in comic strips and sticker sets on Facebook. Some of the stickers are animated.  Pusheen was created in 2010 by Hilary Duff a comic strip on her website, Everyday Cute. 

The original comic strip series used characters modeled after her owners, Belton and Duff. Also included was their dog named Care, and Pusheen, a female chubby gray tabby cat based on Belton's cat that now lives with her parents in Oregon. Pusheen's name comes from the word puisín, which means kitten in Irish.

[[Mary Akrami]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s births, Living people, BBC 100 Women

Mary Akrami is an activist from Afghanistan.  She started the Afghan Women Skills Development Center, a women's shelter in Kabul.  In 2007 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Hans Trass]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Botanists, Ecologists, People from Tallinn, Estonian scientists

Hans-Voldemar Trass  (2 May 1928 – 14 February 2017) was an Estonian ecologist and botanist. He was a member of the Estonian Academy of Sciences from 1975 until his death. He was the president of the Estonian Naturalists' Society from 1964 to 1973 and 1985 to 1991. He was awarded the Acharius Medal by the International Association for Lichenology in 1992.

Trass was born in Tallinn. He was married to Estonian Raine Loo. The couple had a son, composer and organist Toomas Trass.

Trass died on 14 February 2017, at the age of 88.

[[Ricardo Arias Calderón]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, People from Panama City, Politicians, Vice presidents

Ricardo Arias Calderón (4 May 1933 – 13 February 2017) was a Panamanian politician. He was a member of the Christian Democratic Party. He served as the first Vice President of Panama from 1989 to 1992.

Arias was born in Panama City. He studied at Yale and the Sorbonne. He was a Roman Catholic. He was married to Theresa and had four children.

Arias died on 13 February 2017 in Panama City, at the age of 83.

[[The Proclaimers]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Musical groups established in 1983, People from Edinburgh, Scottish musical groups, Scottish singers, Sibling musical duos, Twin people from the United Kingdom

The Proclaimers are a Scottish folk rock band. The members are twin brothers, Charlie and Craig Reid (born 5 March 1962). They are best known for the songs "I'm Gonna Be (500 Miles)", "Sunshine on Leith", "I'm on My Way" and "Letter from America". They are also known for singing with a Scottish accent.

The Reid brothers were born in Leith. They are fans of Hibernian and support Scottish independence.

[[Jared Kushner]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Businesspeople from New Jersey, Harvard University alumni, Jewish businesspeople, New York University alumni, Real estate developers, Trump family, People from Livingston, New Jersey

Jared Corey Kushner (born January 10, 1981) is an American real estate investor and developer and newspaper publisher. He was the senior advisor to his father-in-law, President Donald Trump.

[[Woody Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from New Jersey, Businesspeople from New York City, Ambassadors of the United States to the United Kingdom, Politicians from New Jersey, Politicians from New York City, US Republican Party politicians

Robert Wood "Woody" Johnson IV (born April 12, 1947) is an American businessman and philanthropist. He is the United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom since August 29, 2017. He is a great-grandson of Robert Wood Johnson I (co-founder of Johnson & Johnson), and the owner of the New York Jets of the National Football League.

Johnson was nominated to be the United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom by then President-elect Donald Trump on January 19, 2017.

[[Israel Kamakawiwoʻole]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 1997 deaths, American activists, American singer-songwriters, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Musicians from Hawaii, People from Honolulu, Singers from Hawaii, Native Hawaiians

Israel Kaʻanoʻi Kamakawiwoʻole (May 20, 1959 – June 26, 1997) was an American singer and musician. He was also known as Bruddah Iz. He is best known for his versions of the songs "Somewhere over the Rainbow" and "What a Wonderful World", recorded in 1988 and released in 1993. He also played the ukulele to his songs. He was a Native Hawaiian and supported independence of the U.S. state to become a sovereignty.

Kamakawiwoʻole was born in Honolulu. He was married to Marlene. The couple had a daughter, Ceslieanne (born 1983).

Kamakawiwoʻole had health issues because of his obesity. He died on June 26, 1997, in Honolulu, at the age of 38.

[[Elisabeth Rehn]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Breast cancer survivors, Finnish politicians, People from Helsinki

Märta Elisabeth Rehn (née Carlberg; born 6 April 1935) is a Finnish politician. She is a Swedish-speaking Finn, and was a member of the Swedish People's Party. She was the Minister of Defence from 1990 to 1995. She was also an Undersecretary General of the United Nations from 1995 to 1999.

Rehn was born in Helsinki. She was married to Ove Rehn from 1955 until his death in 2004. They had four children. She has survived cancer twice.

[[Talking Body]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 2014 songs

"Talking Body" is a 2014 electropop song from singer and songwriter Tove Lo. The song was released to American contemporary hit radio on January 13, 2015 by Republic Records. The song comes from her studio album Queen of the Clouds (2014).

The song is about trying to seduce someone into sex.

"Talking Body" hit #12 on Billboard Hot 100.

[[Bang Bang (Jessie J, Ariana Grande and Nicki Minaj song)]]

CATEGORIES: Pop ballads, 2014 songs, Ariana Grande songs

"Bang Bang" is a pop-soul ballad from Jessie J, Ariana Grande and Nicki Minaj. The song is about female empowerment, sex and feminism.

The song was released on July 29, 2014 as the lead single from Jessie J's studio album Sweet Talker (2014). The song is also off Grande's album My Everything (2014).

"Bang Bang" began at #1 in the United Kingdom. It hit the Top Ten in several countries, like Australia, Canada and the United States.

It won Favorite Song of the Year at the 2015 Kids' Choice Awards on Nickelodeon.

[[Albion, Jackson County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin, Jackson County, Wisconsin

Albion is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 20,449.

[[Alma, Jackson County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Alma is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 1,044.

[[Province of South Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century in South Carolina, 1776 disestablishments, Former British colonies, 1712 establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 1770s disestablishments in the United States

The Province of South Carolina (also known as the South Carolina Colony) was originally part of the Province of Carolina in British America. In 1776 the province became the U.S. state of South Carolina.

The Carolinas were named for King Charles II of England. The colony was first named "Carolana". Charles II had given the land to a group of eight nobles called the Lords Proprietors. In 1712 the Carolina Province split into the Province of North Carolina and Province of South Carolina. Both provinces became British royal colonies in 1729.

Lord Charles Montagu (1741-1784) was Royal Governor of the Province of South Carolina from 1766 to 1773. 

[[Bear Bluff, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Bear Bluff is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 138.

[[Brockway, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Brockway is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 2,828.

[[Jayalalithaa]]

CATEGORIES: Tamil Nadu politicians

Jayaram Jayalalithaa (24 February 1948 – 5 December 2016) was an Indian actor who became a politician. She served five terms as the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, for over fourteen years between 1991 and 2016. From 1989 she was the general secretary of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam , a  Dravidian party. She was praised and popularly called by the party members as "Amma"(meaning: mother), "Thanga Tharagai" (meaning: Golden Maiden) and "Puratchi Thalaivi" (the woman revolutionary leader). 

Jayalalithaa first came into prominence as a leading film actor in the mid-1960s. She appeared in 140 films between 1961 and 1980 in the Tamil, Telugu and Kannada languages. She also earned the name of "Queen of Tamil Cinema."

In 1991 Jayalalithaa became Tamil Nadu's youngest chief minister. Despite a monthly salary of Rs.1, she made a grand marriage for her foster son Sudhakaran, lavishly spending. In the 1996 election, the AIADMK was nearly wiped out . Jayalalithaa herself lost her seat. The new DMK government filed several corruption cases against her, and she spend time in jail. Her fortunes revived in the 1998 general election, as the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam became a key component of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee government that her withdrawal of support thrown the BJP government without majority and further triggered to another general election just in a year in 1999. 

She died in 5 December 2016 due to cardiac arrest according to the reports of the Apollo Hospitals. However, there remain questions about her death

[[City Point, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

City Point is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 182.

[[Cleveland, Jackson County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Cleveland is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 481.

[[Curran, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Curran is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 343.

[[Franklin, Jackson County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Franklin is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 448.

[[Garden Valley, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Garden Valley is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 422.

[[Garfield, Jackson County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Garfield is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 638.

[[Hixton (town), Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin, Jackson County, Wisconsin

Hixton is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 652.

[[Irving, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Irving is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 751.

[[Knapp, Jackson County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Knapp is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 299.

[[Komensky, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Komensky is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 509.

[[Dinocephalosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Archosaurs

Dinocephalosaurus is a genus of long necked, aquatic Archosaurs which lived in the Triassic seas. Its fossils are found in 244 ± 1.3 million year old rocks.  

Didocephalosaurus means "terrible headed lizard". The first specimen found was just a skull, discovered near Xinmin in Guizhou Province, China in 2002. The second specimen found nearby, and was the head and much of the postcrainal skeleton, minus the tail. Dinocephalosaurus is the "first record of protorosaurid reptile (Order Protorosauria) from the Middle Triassic of China".

A new specimen found in Yunnan Province, southern China, showed evidence of live births (ovoviviparity). This is the earliest known example of this in the large group of tetrapods which includes dinosaurs, crocodiles, pterosaurs and birds.

[[Manchester, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Manchester is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 704.

[[Melrose, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Melrose is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 470.

[[Millston, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Millston is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 159.

[[North Bend, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

North Bend is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 488.

[[Northfield, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Northfield is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 639.

[[Springfield, Jackson County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Springfield is a town in Jackson County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 623.

[[Ashwaubenon, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wisconsin, Brown County, Wisconsin

Ashwaubenon is a village in Brown County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2014 the population was 17,111.

[[Auburndale, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wisconsin, Wood County, Wisconsin

Auburndale is a village in Wood County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2014 the population was 679.

[[Avoca, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wisconsin, Iowa County, Wisconsin

Avoca is a village in Iowa County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2014 the population was 627.

[[Bagley, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wisconsin, Grant County, Wisconsin

Bagley is a village in Grant County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2014 the population was 366.

[[Baldwin, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wisconsin

Baldwin is a village in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2014 the population was 3,960.

[[Cady, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Cady is a town in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 821.

[[Cylon, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Cylon is a town in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 683.

[[Eau Galle, St. Croix County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Eau Galle is a town in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 1,139.

[[Emerald, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Emerald is a town in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 853.

[[Erin Prairie, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Erin Prairie is a town in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 688.

[[Forest, St. Croix County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Forest is a town in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 1,080.

[[Glenwood, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Glenwood is a town in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of the 2010 census the population was 785.

[[Hammond, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Hammond is a town in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of 2014 the population was 1,910.

[[Kinnickinnic, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Kinnickinnic is a town in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of 2010 the population was 1,722.

[[Pleasant Valley, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Pleasant Valley is a town in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of 2014 the population was 523.

[[Rush River, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

Rush River is a town in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of 2010 the population was 560.

[[St. Joseph, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wisconsin

St. Joseph is a town in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, USA. As of 2010 the population was 4,095.

[[Manfred Kaiser]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, East German sportspeople, German footballers, Sportspeople from Saxony-Anhalt

Manfred "Manni" Kaiser (7 January 1929 – 15 February 2017) was a German footballer. He played as a a midfielder. He played for Wismut Gera, Wismut Aue and the East Germany national team. He was born in Zeitz.

Kaiser died on 15 February 2017 in Lindau, at the age of 88.

[[Helen Sharman]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, British chemists, Astronauts, People from Sheffield

Dr. Helen Patricia Sharman OBE FRSC (born 30 May 1963) is a British chemist. She became the first British astronaut and the first woman to visit the Mir space station in 1993.

She worked as a research and development technologist for GEC in London and later as a chemist for Mars Incorporated dealing with nice properties of chocolate.

Sharman was born in Grenoside, Sheffield.

[[Azerbaijan State Russian Drama Theatre]]

CATEGORIES: Theatres in Baku, 1937 establishments, 20th century establishments in Azerbaijan

Azerbaijan State Russian Samed Vurgun Drama Theatre (Səməd Vurğun adına Azərbaycan Dövlət Rus Drama Teatrı, Азербайджанский государственный русский драматический театр имени Самеда Вургуна), is a drama theatre in Baku, Azerbaijan performing plays in the Russian language. The plays of the theatre are mainly from Russian literature, and the rest are plays from Azerbaijani and European  writers. The theatre was founded in 1937 and in 1956 was renamed after the Azerbaijani poet Samed Vurgun. The theatre show plays not just for adults, but for children too.

[[Guiana Shield]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of South America, Guyana, Suriname, French Guiana

The Guiana Shield is a geographic region found in northeast South America. It is one of the three cratons of the South American Plate. It is a 1.7 billion-year-old Precambrian geological formation that forms part of the South American northern coast.

The higher elevations on the region are called the Guiana Highlands, which is where there are mesas or "table" mountains called tepuis.

[[Saudia Flight 163]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters in the 1980s, 1980, 20th century in Saudi Arabia, 1980s in Asia

Saudia Flight 163 was a scheduled passenger flight from Karachi to Jeddah, via Riyadh. On August 19, 1980 the Lockheed L-1011 TriStar with 287 passengers and 14 crew members on-board, caught fire seven minutes after take-off. Although the plane made an emergency landing at Riyadh International Airport, all 301 people on-board died of smoke inhalation, with the aircraft later destroyed by the fire.

[[Violet Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Jamaican people, Supercentenarians

Violet Brown (née Mosse; 10 March 1900 – 15 September 2017) was a Jamaican supercentenarian who at the time of her death, at the age of 1900, was the oldest verified living person in the world from the death of Emma Morano on 15 April 2017 until her death in September 2017.

She was also the first verified supercentenarian from Jamaica and the oldest verified Jamaican person ever.

Her date of birth was variously reported as 4 March 1900, 10 March 1900, and 15 March 1900. However, it was officially recognised as 10 March 1900 by the Guinness World Records.

Brown was born when Jamaica was a part of the British Empire and was the last living former subject of Queen Victoria.

Brown died on 15 September 2017 at a hospital in Montego Bay, Saint James Parish, Jamaica of heart failure caused by dehydration at the age of 117.

[[Prince William Sound]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Alaska, Bodies of water of the United States

Prince William Sound is a body of water in the Gulf of Alaska.  A sound is a small body of water that comes in from the ocean.  Prince William Sound is on the south side of the U.S. state of Alaska. It is on the east side of the Kenai Peninsula. Its biggest port is Valdez, at the south end of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System. Other towns on the sound include Cordova and Whittier.

James Cook went in Prince William Sound in 1778.  He named it Sandwich Sound, after the Earl of Sandwich. The Sound's name was changed in the same year.  It was then named after George III's third son Prince William Henry.  Prince William was then 13 years old.  He was in the Royal Navy.

Most of the land near Prince William Sound is part of the Chugach National Forest. Chugach is the second largest U.S. National Forest.  Prince William Sound is ringed by the Chugach Mountains.  These mountains are steep.  The coast is complex. It has many islands and fjords.  It also has some glaciers.

In 1964, a tsunami hit the sound.  It was caused by the Good Friday earthquake.  It killed many people in the town of Chenega.  It destroyed the town of Valdez.

In 1989, the oil tanker Exxon Valdez ran aground.  It caused a large oil spill, which damaged the environment. It killed around 250,000 seabirds, nearly 3,000 sea otters, 300 harbor seals, 250 bald eagles and up to 22 killer whales.

[[Infante Henrique, Duke of Coimbra]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2017 deaths, Portuguese royalty

D. Infante Henrique, Duke of Coimbra (6 November 1949 – 14 February 2017) was an Infante of Portugal. He was a member of the former Portuguese Royal Family as the youngest son of Duarte Nuno, Duke of Braganza, and Princess Maria Francisca of Orléans-Braganza. Infante Henrique was fifth in the line of succession to the former Portuguese throne. His elder brother, Duarte Pio, Duke of Braganza, is head of the House of Braganza, which ruled Portugal until 1910.

Henrique died on 14 February 2017 in Lisbon, aged 67.

[[Anthony Lake]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, American diplomats, Converts to Judaism, Harvard University alumni, Jewish American academics, Jewish American politicians, Jewish American writers, Politicians from New York City, Princeton University alumni, United Nations officials, United States National Security Advisors, US Democratic Party politicians, Writers from New York City, Recipients of the Order of the Rising Sun

William Anthony Kirsopp "Tony" Lake (born April 2, 1939) is an American politician, author, academic, and former American diplomat, Foreign Service Officer, and political advisor.

Lake is the Executive Director of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). He has been a foreign policy advisor to many Democratic U.S. presidents and presidential candidates. He served as National Security Advisor under U.S. President Bill Clinton from 1993 to 1997. Lake is known as being one of the individuals who developed the policy that led to the resolution of the Bosnian War.

He also held the chair of Distinguished Professor in the Practice of Diplomacy at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, in Washington, D.C.

Lake converted from Christianity to Judaism.

[[Stuart McLean]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from melanoma, Cancer deaths in Ontario, Canadian radio personalities, Canadian comedians, Writers from Quebec

Andrew Stuart McLean, OC (April 19, 1948 – February 15, 2017) was a Canadian radio broadcaster, humorist, monologist, and author. He was best known as the host of the CBC Radio program The Vinyl Cafe. 

He was often called as a "story-telling comic". He had written many serious stories. He was known for his voice and his ability to change his popular stories to make them different on every show.

McLean was diagnosed with melanoma in November 2015. He died on February 15, 2017 from the disease in Toronto, aged 68.

[[Peter Simonischek]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Austrian movie actors, Austrian stage actors

Peter Simonischek (born 6 August 1946) is an Austrian movie and stage actor. He has appeared in more than sixty movies since 1980.

Simonischek is known for his role as Winfried Conradi/Toni Erdmann in the 2016 movie Toni Erdmann. He won the European Film Award for Best Actor and was nominated for a London Critics Circle Film Awards for Best Actor and a Toronto Film Critics Association Awards for Best Actor.

[[Bruce Lansbury]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in California, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American screenwriters, American television producers, American television writers, English screenwriters, English television writers, English television producers, Writers from London

William Bruce Mageean Lansbury (12 January 1930 – 13 February 2017) was an English-American television producer. His career lasted over 30 years, starting from the 1960s to the 1990s. He was known for producing many famous television shows such as The Wild Wild West, Mission: Impossible, Knight Rider and Murder, She Wrote. 

[[Pete McCloskey]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, United States representatives from California, US Democratic Party politicians, 1972 United States presidential candidates

Paul Norton "Pete" McCloskey, Jr. (born September 29, 1927) is an American politician. He served in the U.S. House of Representatives representing California from 1967 to 1983. He ran on an anti-war platform for the Republican nomination for President in 1972 but was defeated by incumbent President Richard Nixon.

In April 2007, McCloskey switched his affiliation to the Democratic Party. He is a decorated United States Marine Corps veteran of combat during the Korean War, being awarded the Navy Cross, the Silver Star, and two awards of the Purple Heart.

[[Jenny Slate]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American comedians, American children's writers, Actors from Massachusetts, Writers from Massachusetts, People from Milton, Massachusetts

Jennifer Sarah "Jenny" Slate (born March 25, 1982) is an American, actress, voice actress and author. 

She is best known for her role as Donna Stern in Obvious Child, as well as being the co-creator of the Marcel the Shell with Shoes On short movies and children's book series. 

She is also known for her season as a cast member on Saturday Night Live from 2009 to 2010 and for her appearances in shows such as House of Lies, Married, Parks and Recreation, Bob's Burgers, Hello Ladies, Kroll Show, and Girls and Star vs. the forces of evil as Pony Head.

In 2017, she voiced Harley Quinn in The Lego Batman Movie.

Slate was born in Milton, Massachusetts. She studied at Milton Academy and Columbia University. In 2012, Slate married Dean Fleischer-Camp. They separated in 2016.

[[Grant Hackett]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Australian Olympic gold medalists, Australian Olympic silver medalists, Australian swimmers, Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Order of Australia, Sportspeople from Queensland

Grant George Hackett OAM (born 9 May 1980) is a former Australian swimmer. He is best known for winning the men's 1500 metres freestyle race at both the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney and the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. He retired after the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.

Hackett was born in Southport of the Gold Coast, Queensland. He was married to singer Candice Alley from 2007 to 2013. The couple have twin children, born in 2009.

[[Aoi festival]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals in Asia, Kyoto, May events, 7th century establishments in Japan

The Aoi Festival or Aoi Matsuri (葵祭)  is one of Kyoto's three most famous festivals (along with the Gion Festival and Jidai Matsuri) and takes place every May 15. The festival's main attraction is a large parade in Kyoto, in which over 500 people dressed in the aristocratic style of the Heian Period (794-1185) walk from the Imperial Palace to the Kamo Shrines. Aoi is Japanese for Hollyhock, and the festival is named after the Hollyhock leaves that are worn by the members of the procession.

Predating Kyoto's establishment as the national capital in 794, the Aoi Matsuri began in the 7th century, although its precise origins are uncertain. There were most likely natural disasters occurring that were believed to be caused by the deities of the Kamo Shrines. After the Emperor made offerings to the gods, the disasters subsided and a tradition was begun. The festival's official name remains Kamo Matsuri, because of its association with the shrines.

The festival grew in prominence so that during the Heian Period the word festival became synonymous with the Aoi Matsuri. Nowadays, the massive procession illustrates the high regard in which the festival would have been held. There are men on horseback, giant bouquets of flowers, ornately decorated ox drawn carts, and a large retinue of women in kimono accompanying the year's Saio.

Traditionally, the Saio was a young female member of the imperial family who was the high priestess of the Kamo Shrines. During festivals, the Saio performed rituals at the shrines. In the modern era, a different unmarried woman from Kyoto is selected each year to be Saio. She must go through purification ceremonies before the festival, and is taken through the procession on a palanquin.

[[Pointer aliasing (computer programming)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer programming, Computer science

Pointer aliasing is where two or more pointers reference the same memory location. It can cause issues with optimizing compilers.

[[Stećak]]

CATEGORIES: History of Bosnia and Herzegovina, World Heritage Sites in Europe

Stećak (Стећак, stetɕak; plural: Stećci, Стећци, stetɕtsi) are monumental tombstones made in medieval Bosnia and Herzegovina.

[[Alderman]]

CATEGORIES: Aldermen, Government occupations

An alderman is a politician in local government. Together with the mayor aldermen govern municipalities, they are the local executive power.

Aldermen are usually chosen by the people of a municipality or by the municipal council.

[[Deputy mayor]]

CATEGORIES: Deputy mayors, Government occupations

A deputy mayor is a politician who governs the local government, together with the mayor. They can be considered as the executive local power.

[[Vernayaz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Vernayaz is a municipality in the district Saint-Maurice in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Vérossaz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Valais

Vérossaz is a municipality in the district of Saint-Maurice in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

[[Šibovi (Kotor Varoš)]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Šibovi  (Шибови) is a settlement in the Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska entity, Kotor Varoš Municipality.

According the data on Census Year of 1991, in this poulated place leaved 671 cititens.

[[Hot stick]]

CATEGORIES: Safety

A Hot stick is a tool used by Utility Workers (known as Linemen or Linesmen) dealing with high voltage electricity.  It is an insulated pole made usually from Fiberglass, measuring anywhere from 5ft-10ft, up to about 40ft in length.  It can have different tools attached to the end of it, making it possible to do everything from tightening bolts and nuts, through to testing voltage or removing and replacing fuses.

Hot sticks are usually used when the installation being worked on is live, or "hot".  Most electrical work on High Voltage networks is done whilst the power is still active, making equipment like this a very important piece for safety purposes.  Working "hot" saves electricity users from being disconnected while routine maintenance is taking place.

[[Source region]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology

Source Region in meteorology is a region where air masses get their specific humidity and temperature. A source region could be land or water.  It is called maritime and continental air masses if the air masses sit over water and land, respectively.

[[Josef Augusta (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Ice hockey coaches, Czech ice hockey players, Czechoslovak ice hockey players, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Disease-related deaths in the Czech Republic, Olympic silver medalists

Josef Augusta (24 November 1946 – 16 February 2017) was a Czechoslovak ice hockey player and coach. He won a silver medal at the 1976 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck, Austria. He later was head coach of Czech national hockey team at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah, United States. He was the father of Patrik Augusta. He was born in Havlíčkův Brod.

Augusta died from pancreatic cancer on 16 February 2017 in Jihlava, at the age of 70.

[[Alexander Acosta]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Labor, American lawyers, American educators, Politicians from Miami, Florida, US Republican Party politicians

Rene Alexander "Alex" Acosta (born January 16, 1969) is an American attorney. Acosta was the 27th United States Secretary of Labor serving from April 28, 2017 until July 19, 2019. He was the dean of the Florida International University College of Law from 2009 through 2017. He is Republican. On February 16, 2017, he was announced as President Donald Trump's nominee for the United States Secretary of Labor.

On February 16, 2017, after the withdrawal of Andrew Puzder's nomination, President Donald Trump nominated Acosta to serve as United States Secretary of Labor. He resigned on July 19, 2019 due to his connections to the Jeffrey Epstein and his plea deal.

[[Cipriano Chemello]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Italian cyclists, Italian Olympians, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Veneto

Cipriano Chemello (19 July 1945 – 14 February 2017) was an Italian cyclist. he won the Olympic bronze medal at the 1968 Summer Olympics in team pursuit with Lorenzo Bosisio, Giorgio Morbiato and Luigi Roncaglia. He was born in Crespano del Grappa, Veneto.

Chemello died on 14 February 2017 in Bassano del Grappa, Veneto, at the age of 71.

[[Michael Cole (public relations)]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, English journalists, BBC newsreaders and journalists

Michael Cole is a former BBC journalist. He was their Royal Correspondent. After leaving the BBC, he worked as Director of Public affairs for Harrods. He was also spokesman for Harrod's owner Mohamed Al Fayed.

Cole began his career in newspapers. He then worked in television. He worked for the BBC from 1968 to 1988.

In 1973, the BBC sent him to Israel. His job there was to report on the Yom Kippur War.

After leaving the BBC he started to work for Harrods. He left Harrods in 1998. He left to take early retirement. He was then 55 years old. 

He is now chair of his own company. It is called Michael Cole & Company Limited. It is a public relations and broadcasting company.

He has also written for the East Anglian Daily Times newspaper. He has appeared as a panellist on Have I Got News for You.

[[Antisuppressor]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics

Antisuppressor is a mutation with the response against suppression effects of nonsense suppression or suppression chemicals.

In 1976, Rieger, Michaelis, and Green have been stated:

[[Gelek Rimpoche]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from surgical complications, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Tibetan Buddhist lamas, American Buddhists, People from Ann Arbor, Michigan

Kyabje Gelek Rimpoche (26 October 1939 – 14 February 2017) was a Tibetan-American Buddhist lama. He was born in Lhasa, China. Gelek was a nephew of the 13th Dalai Lama, Thubten Gyatso. He was tutored by many of the same masters who tutored the current (14th) Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso.

He was the founder and president of Jewel Heart, "a spiritual, cultural, and humanitarian organization that translates the ancient wisdom of Tibetan Buddhism into contemporary life".

Rinpoche died in Ann Arbor, Michigan on 14 February 2017 from heart failure caused by open-heart surgery, aged 77.

[[J. G. Hertzler]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), Actors from Missouri, Actors from New York, American animal rights activists, American environmentalists, American movie actors, American political activists, American screenwriters, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from El Paso, Texas, People from Savannah, Georgia, Politicians from Georgia (U.S. state), Politicians from Missouri, Politicians from New York, Politicians from Texas, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Ithaca, New York, Writers from Georgia (U.S. state), Writers from Missouri, Writers from New York, Writers from Texas

John Garman "J. G." Hertzler Jr. (born March 18, 1950) is an American actor, author, screenwriter, politician and activist. He is best known in the Star Trek community for his role on Star Trek: Deep Space Nine (DS9) as the Klingon General (and later Chancellor) Martok.

Hertzler was born in Savannah, Georgia. He was raised in St. Joe, Missouri and in El Paso, Texas. Hertzler studied at Bucknell University, at the University of Maryland, and at American University. He is a Democrat. He has one child.

In November 2013, Hertzler was elected as a board member of the Ulysses, New York town council. He was elected as an official council member in 2016. He supported Bernie Sanders in the 2016 presidential election.

On June 8, 2017, Hertzler announced his candidacy as a U.S. House Representative for New York's 23rd congressional district in the 2018 elections. As part of his campaign appearances, he plans to act "in the persona of Mark Twain", to present his ideas "through the brilliant humorist for all ages".  He stated that this was a tribute both to Twain, who resided once in Elmira, and to actor Hal Holbrook, who had portrayed Twain on stage for more than six decades.

[[Nicole Bass]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Queens, American movie actors, American professional wrestlers, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deaths from stroke, Bodybuilders, Sportspeople from Queens

Nicole Bass-Fuchs (August 10, 1964 – February 17, 2017) was an American bodybuilder, actress, professional wrestler and manager. She worked for companies such as Extreme Championship Wrestling, World Wrestling Federation, Xtreme Pro Wrestling and the National Wrestling Alliance. She made many appearances as a guest on The Howard Stern Show. She was a member of Stern's Wack Pack.

Bass was born in Queens, New York. She married Richard "Bob" Fuchs in 1985. Fuchs died in 2013.

Bass was taken to the hospital in New York City after having a stroke in February 2017. She was said to be brain dead on February 16, 2017 after having a heart attack. Her life support was removed on February 17, dying at the age of 52.

[[Loren Wiseman]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Illinois, American editors, Video game designers, People from Bloomington, Illinois

Loren Wiseman (1951 – February 15, 2017) was an American wargame and role-playing game designer, game developer and editor. He was born in Bloomington, Illinois. Wiseman co-founded Game Designers' Workshop with Frank Chadwick, Rich Banner, and Marc Miller on June 22, 1973. 

Wiseman received the Origins Award for Best Role-Playing Adventure for Twilight: 2000 Going Home. He was inducted into the Origins Hall of Fame in 2003. He was honored as a "famous game designer" by being featured as the king of clubs in Flying Buffalo's 2010 Famous Game Designers Playing Card Deck.

Wiseman died on February 15, 2017 in Normal, Illinois from heart failure at the age of 65.

[[Yellowjacket]]

CATEGORIES: Wasps

The yellowjacket (or yellow jacket) is a wasp from the genera Vespula and Dolichovespula. In some English-speaking countries, they are called wasps. Most are black and yellow. Some are black and white.

Yellowjackets are sometimes confused with bees because they have rather similar colouring. Yellowjackets have a stinger with a small barb. They may sting repeatedly.

The diet of an adult yellowjacket is usually sugars and carbohydrates. They are important predators of other insects because they feed their larvae (grubs) with chewed-up insects.

They are native to North America and parts of Canada, Australia and New Zealand.

[[Jannis Kounellis]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Greek people, Italian sculptors, Italian painters

Jannis Kounellis (Γιάννης Κουνέλλης; 24 March 1937 – 16 February 2017) was a Greek-Italian contemporary artist. He was a painter and sculptor. He moved to Rome in 1956. He was best known for his work during the Arte Povera movement in the 1960s. He had art exhibitions in cities including Rome, London, New York City, Athens, Herning and Berlin. He was born in Piraeus.

Kounellis died on 16 February 2017 in Rome, at the age of 80.

[[Public utility]]

CATEGORIES: Business, Economics, Public services

A Public utility (often called a "utility") is an organization which manages and looks after the equipment and facilities used to provide a service. Often, they also use that equipment and facilities to provide the same service. Public utilities can be small groups based in a local community or large businesses owned by a government.

The word "utilities" can also mean the services provided by these companies. Examples are things like Gas, Water, Sewerage, Electricity, Television, and Telephone services.  Cellphone and Internet services are also being included more often in this definition.

[[Siegfried Herrmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Coaches, German Olympians, German sportspeople, Male athletes, Sportspeople from Thuringia

Siegfried Herrmann (7 November 1932 – 14 February 2017) was a German long-distance runner. He competed at the 1956 Summer Olympics (Melbourne) and the 1964 Summer Olympics (Tokyo). He was the men's 3000 m world record holder from 5 August to 27 August 1965. He was an athletics coach from 1976 until 2000. He was born in Unterschönau, Thuringia.

Herrmann died on 14 February 2017 in Erfurt, Thuringia, at the age of 84.

[[Ban Bong River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Thailand

Khlong Ban Bong is a river in the middle of Thailand. It empties into the Pa Sak River.

[[Unreachable code]]

CATEGORIES: Computer programming

Unreachable code is a section of code in a program that can never be executed. 

Having unreachable code is bad because it wastes space on the disk, memory, and CPU cache.

Luckily, many modern compilers alert the programmer with a warning or error whenever it detects unreachable code.

[[The Guianas]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of South America, Guyana, Suriname, French Guiana

The Guianas (Guyanes; Guyana's; Guayanas) are a region in northeastern South America along the Atlantic coast, divided in several territories and independent countries.

[[Vijayakanth]]

CATEGORIES: Indian politicians

Vijayakanth is a Tamil actor and politician. (born 25 August 1952)  He was the Leader of the Opposition of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 2011 to 2016. Before becoming a politician, he was a film actor in Tamil cinema from 1979 to 2010. He is the founder of  Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam and served as a Member of Legislative Assembly representing the constituency of Rishivandiyam.

[[Pan Am Flight 759]]

Pan Am Flight 759 was a domestic flight from Miami to San Diego with stopovers at New Orleans and Las Vegas, the plane was operated by a Boeing 727 with 145 people on-board. On July 9, 1982 the plane as forced down by a microburst shortly after takeoff, and crashed into a suburb of Kenner. All 145 peole on-board the plane along with eight more on the ground died in the crash.

[[Microburst]]

CATEGORIES: Natural events

A microburst is a downdraft that moves in a way opposite to a tornado. It is found in thunder storms. And it can be dangerous to an aircraft.

[[Michael Novak]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, American diplomats, American journalists, American political writers, American philosophers, American Roman Catholics, American theologians, Cancer deaths in Washington, D.C., Deaths from colorectal cancer, Writers from Pennsylvania, Politicians from Pennsylvania, People from Johnstown, Pennsylvania

Michael Novak (September 9, 1933 – February 17, 2017) was an American Catholic philosopher, journalist, novelist and diplomat. He wrote more than forty books on the philosophy and theology of culture. He was known for his book The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism (1982). In 1994, he was awarded the Templeton Prize for  Progress in Religion. He mostly wrote books and articles about capitalism, religion, and the politics of democratization. 

Novak was born in Johnstown, Pennsylvania. He was married to Karen Laub-Novak. He had three children.

Novak died from complications of colon cancer on February 17, 2017 in Washington, D.C., at the age of 83.

[[Dick Bruna]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch children's writers, Illustrators, Writers from Utrecht (city)

Hendrik Magdalenus "Dick" Bruna (23 August 1927 – 16 February 2017) was a Dutch writer, illustrator and graphic designer. He wrote and illustrated over 200 children's books. He was best known for his creating the character Miffy (nijntje). His last book, Queen Miffy, was published in 2007. He was born in Utrecht.

Bruna died on 16 February 2017 in Utrecht, at the age of 89.

[[European hornet]]

CATEGORIES: Wasps

The European hornet (Vespa crabro) is a large eusocial wasp in Europe. It is the only true hornet in North America. European hornets are usually known as pests by humans who come in contact with them.

They are known for making nests out of plant material and other fibers to create paper nests.

This species stings in response to being stepped on or grabbed. However, they usually avoid conflict. They are also defensive of their hive. They are sometimes aggressive around food sources.

European hornets eat large insects, mostly wasps and large bees.

Care should be taken, because the hornets may sting without warning. The pain from the sting may persist for a few days with swelling.

[[Börge Hellström]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Sweden, Criminals, Swedish writers

Börge Lennart Hellström (25 September 1957 – 17 February 2017) was a Swedish writer. He was an ex-criminal. He was best known as a founding member of the organisation Kriminellas revansch i samhället (KRIS). The organisation aims to fight crime and give support to former criminals. He was also one half of the writing duo Roslund & Hellström. With journalist Anders Roslund, he published seven books between 2004 and 2016.

Hellström lived in Värmdö Municipality. He died from cancer on 17 February 2017, at the age of 59.

[[Kiss It Better (Rihanna song)]]

"Kiss It Better" is a song by Barbadian singer Rihanna.  It was released on March 31, 2016, as the third single from her eighth studio album, Anti.  The song is a pop rock and R&B power ballad about wanting to make up with a lover.

The song managed to reach number 62 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and number 46 on the UK Singles Chart.  Even though the song charted lowly in the US, it was still certified Platinum by the RIAA for sales and streams of over one million copies there.  It was also nominated for a Grammy Award for Best R&B Song at the 59th Annual award ceremony in 2017.

[[Ep Wieldraaijer]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Aldermen of the Netherlands, Dutch councillors, Dutch mayors, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Former MEPs, Labour Party (Netherlands) politicians, MEPs for the Netherlands, Politicians from Overijssel

Egbert Roelof "Ep" Wieldraaijer (31 March 1927 – 16 February 2017) was a Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA).

Wieldraaijer served in the House of Representatives from 1963 to 1974. Subsequently he served in the European Parliament from 1973 to 1974.

After being an alderman of Almelo from 1974 to 1978, he served a ten-year term as mayor of Avereest (Overijssel).

Wieldraaijer was born in Borne (Overijssel) and died in Enschede (same province), aged 89.

[[Joop Gouweleeuw]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Judoka, People from Delft, Sportspeople from South Holland

Job Johannes "Joop" Gouweleeuw (5 September 1940 – 29 January 2017) was a Dutch judoka. He competed in 93 kg event at the 1965 and 1966 European Judo Championships. He won a silver medal in 1965 and gold medal in 1966. He also competed at the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo. He was born in Delft, South Holland.

Gouweleeuw died on 29 January 2017 in Delft, at the age of 76.

[[Djelloul Khatib]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Activists, Algerian politicians, African diplomats, People from Algiers

Djelloul Khatib (8 October 1936 – 6 February 2017) was an Algerian independence activist and politician. During the Algerian War, he tried to make the National Liberation Army more professional. After the ending of the war, he became involved in politics. He served as the governor of Batna, Constantine and Oran. He was also the Algerian Ambassador to Spain and Argentina. He was born in Algiers.

Khatib died on 6 February 2017, at the age of 80.

[[Veyrier]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Geneva, Cities in Switzerland

Veyrier is a municipality of the Canton of Geneva, Switzerland. It borders France. About 11,000 people were living in Veyrier in 2015.

The municipality includes the localities of Pinchat, Vessy and Sierne.

[[Krinau]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of St. Gallen

Krinau was a municipality in the canton of St. Gallen, Switzerland.

In 2013 Krinau became a part of the municipality of Wattwil.

[[NASCAR on Sky]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR, 2007 television series debuts, 2012 television series endings

IndyCar on Sky was the branding used for telecasts of IndyCar races produced by Sky Sports, and televised on Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports Xtra (later renamed as Sky Sports 4) in the United Kingdom.

[[Lineman (technician)]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A lineman (American English) or linesman (British English, not to be confused with linesman (soccer)), is a trained tradesman who builds and maintains power distribution and telephone networks and their infrastructure, such as supporting poles and pylons.

The word lineman/linesman refers to those who work in generally outdoor installation and maintenance jobs. Those who install and maintain electrical wiring inside buildings are electricians.

[[Tom Regan]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, 20th century philosophers, 21st century philosophers, American academics, American animal rights activists, American philosophers, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in North Carolina, Writers from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Thomas "Tom" Regan (November 28, 1938 – February 17, 2017) was an American philosopher and writer. He was best known for his animal rights activism. He wrote the non-fiction book The Case for Animal Rights (1983). He also made the term "subjects-of-a-life" popular. He taught philosophy at North Carolina State University (NCSU) from 1967 to 2001.

Regan was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He was married to Nancy Tirk. He had two children, Bryan and Karen.

Regan died from pneumonia on February 17, 2017 in Rockingham, North Carolina, at the age of 78.

[[Erland Kops]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Badminton players, Danish sportspeople, People from Copenhagen

Erland Kops (14 January 2017 – 17 February 2017) was a Danish badminton player. He was one of the best players of the sport. He was best known for winning eleven titles at the All England Open Badminton Championships, between 1958 and 1969. He also played 44 national matches for Denmark from 1957 to 1972. He was added to the Badminton Hall of Fame in 1997. He was born in Copenhagen.

Kops died on 17 February 2017, at the age of 80.

[[Motte Aldeberg]]

The Motte Aldeberg ist a Motte. It is called often only Alde Berg. The location is in the Helpensteiner Bachtal between the town subdivisions Arsbeck and Rödgen of Wegberg in the Heinsberg Rural District in North Rhine-Westphalia.

Is the biggest and best preserved Motte in Europe and is located between the rivers Meuse and Rhine.

[[Linesman (soccer)]]

CATEGORIES: Association football

A Linesman in the game of Soccer, is a member of staff on the pitch who works with the Referee to ensure the smooth running of the game.  Usually there are 2 linesmen, one on either side of the pitch.  Their job is to indicate to the Referee that a ball has gone out of play, either over the sideline or through the corner of the side they're monitoring, or to indicate that a player is offside during the course of play.  In the event that for whatever reason, the referee is unable to continue controlling the game, either through illness or injury, one of the linesmen may be called on to take charge as a substitute.

[[Panarthropoda]]

CATEGORIES: Groups of phyla

The Panarthropoda are a clade of ecdysozoans that consist of Dinocaridida, "Lobopodia", Onychophora, and Tactopoda. Most members of this group have claws and legs, and a segmented body.

[[Chembarambakkam Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Tamil Nadu, Chennai District

Chembarambakkam Lake is a lake located in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India. It is about 40km from Chennai. It is one of the two reservoirs from where water is taken to Chennai City for supply. The Adyar River starts at Chembarambakkam Lake. The lake can hold 3645 million cubic feet of water.

[[Puzhal Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Tamil Nadu, Chennai District

Puzhal Lake also known as Red Hills lake is located in  Red Hills, Thiruvallur district, Tamil Nadu. It is one of the two reservoirs from where the drinking water is drawn for Chennai city. The other reservoir is Chembarambakkam Lake. The full capacity of the lake is 3300 million cubic feet.

[[Cycloneuralia]]

CATEGORIES: Animals

Cycloneuralia is a group of ecdysozoan animals. "Cycloneuralia" means "brain around pharynx".

[[Kodaikanal Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Tamil Nadu

Kodaikanal Lake is a man-made lake in the city of Kodaikanal, Tamil Nadu. In 1863, Sir Vere Henry Levinge wanted to build the lake. This lake is a famous tourist spot in Kodaikanal.

[[Luke M. Griswold]]

CATEGORIES: 1837 births, 1892 deaths, United States Navy Medal of Honor recipients, Military personnel of the American Civil War, People from Massachusetts

Luke M. Griswold (1837 – 1892) was a sailor in the U.S Navy during the American Civil War. He received the Medal of Honor, the highest honor of the U.S. military.

[[Omar Abdel-Rahman]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Blind people, Deaths from coronary artery disease, Deaths from diabetes, Cardiovascular disease deaths in North Carolina, Egyptian Muslims, Muslim terrorists

Omar Abdel-Rahman (عمر عبد الرحمن, ‘Umar ‘Abdu r-Raḥman; 3 May 1938 – 18 February 2017) was an Egyptian Muslim leader. He was blind, and nicknamed "The Blind Sheikh". He served a life sentence at the Butner Medical Center, in Butner, North Carolina, United States. He was a resident of New York City. He and nine others were convicted of planning a terrorist attack. His arrest grew from the 1993 World Trade Center bombing investigations. 

Abdel-Rahman was born in al-Gamalia, Dakahlia Governorate. He lost his eyesight when he less than a year old. He had at least ten children.

Abdel-Rahman died on 18 February 2017 at Butner, at the age of 78. He died from problems caused by diabetes and coronary artery disease.

[[Ivan Koloff]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Canadian professional wrestlers, Cancer deaths in North Carolina, Deaths from liver cancer, Sportspeople from Montreal

Ivan Koloff (born Oreal Perras; August 25, 1942 – February 18, 2017) was a Canadian professional wrestler. He was also called "The Russian Bear". He was best known for once holding the WWWF World Heavyweight Championship. He wrestled between 1961 and 1994. He was born in Montreal, Quebec.

Koloff died from liver cancer on February 18, 2017 in Winterville, North Carolina. He was 74.

[[Lawrence F. Snowden]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, American generals, American military personnel of the Korean War, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, American military personnel of World War II, Military people from Virginia, United States Marine Corps personnel, People from Charlottesville, Virginia

Lawrence Fontaine Snowden (April 14, 1921 – February 18, 2017) was an American lieutenant general. He was in the United States Marine Corps. He began serving in 1942 and retired in 1979.  He was involved in World War II, the Vietnam War and the Korean War. Commands he held include Chief of Staff, United States Forces Japan (from 1972 to 1975) and Chief of Staff, Headquarters Marine Corps (from 1977 to 1979). He was born in Charlottesville, Virginia.

Snowden died on February 18, 2017 in Tallahassee, Florida. He was 95.

[[Pyruvic acid]]

CATEGORIES: Cellular respiration, Metabolism

Pyruvic acid is the simplest of the keto acids, with a carboxylic acid and a ketone functional group. Pyruvate, the conjugate base, is an important part of several metabolic chemical reactions.  Pyruvate is an important chemical compound in biochemistry.

Pyruvic acid can be made from glucose through glycolysis. One molecule of glucose breaks down into two molecules of pyruvate. These are then used to give more energy to living animals, plants and microorganisms. It is then changed back to carbohydrates (such as glucose) by a metabolic chemical reaction named gluconeogenesis, or to fatty acids through a similar reaction. It can also be used to make the amino acid alanine and can be converted into ethanol or lactic acid by fermentation.

Pyruvic acid gives energy to cells through the citric acid cycle, when oxygen is present (aerobic respiration), and also makes lactate when oxygen is lacking (fermentation). 

[[Pasquale Squitieri]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Italian movie directors, People from Naples

Pasquale Squitieri (27 November 1938 – 18 February 2017) was an Italian movie director and screenwriter. He was best known for his Spaghetti Western movies. He was also known as William Redfield. He was born in Naples.

Squitieri died on 18 February 2017 in Rome, at the age of 78.

[[Clyde Stubblefield]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, African American musicians, American funk musicians, American drummers, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in Wisconsin, Musicians from Wisconsin, People from Chattanooga, Tennessee, People from Madison, Wisconsin

Clyde Stubblefield (April 18, 1943 – February 18, 2017) was an American funk drummer. He began his career around the 1960s. He best known for his work with James Brown. His recordings with James Brown include the singles "Cold Sweat", "There Was a Time", "I Got The Feelin'", "Say It Loud – I'm Black and I'm Proud", "Ain't It Funky Now", "Mother Popcorn", "Get Up, Get Into It, Get Involved" and the album Sex Machine. He was born in Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Stubblefield died from kidney failure on February 18, 2017 in Madison, Wisconsin. He was 73.

[[Alan Aldridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Artists from London, British illustrators

Alan Aldridge (1 June 1943 – 17 February 2017) was a British artist, graphic designer and illustrator. He was well known for his art works for musicians and bands such as The Who, The Beatles and Elton John. He also drew the cover art for the science fiction novel Make Room! Make Room! (1966) by Harry Harrison. 

Aldridge was born in London. He had eight children, including Lily Aldridge.

Aldridge lived in Los Angeles, California, United States. He died on 17 February 2017, at the age of 73.

[[Theodore J. Lowi]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, American academics, American political scientists, Scientists from Alabama

Theodore J. "Ted" Lowi (July 9, 1931 – February 17, 2017) was an American political scientist. He was the John L. Senior Professor of American Institutions teaching in the Government Department at Cornell University. His area of research was the American government and public policy. He was the president of the International Political Science Association from 1997 to 2000.

Lowi was born in Gadsden, Alabama. He was married to Angele until her death in 2015. They had two children, Anna and Jason.

Lowi died on February 17, 2017 in Ithaca, New York, at the age of 85.

[[Williams Street]]

CATEGORIES: American animation studios, Adult Swim, 1994 establishments in the United States

Williams Street Studios is an animation company. It is owned by Cartoon Network and  Turner Broadcasting System. They create television programmes for Adult Swim. 

From 1994 to 1998 the company was called Ghost Planet Industries. Ghost Planet is the home of Space Ghost, who is a fictional character in an Adult Swim programme.

Williams Street Studios is located in Atlanta, Georgia.

[[Dan Vickerman]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2017 deaths, Australian rugby union players, People from Cape Town, Suicides in Australia

Daniel Joseph "Dan" Vickerman (4 June 1979 – 18 February 2017) was an Australian professional rugby union player. He played 63 times for the national team, the Wallabies, between 2002 and 2011. He also played for the New South Wales Waratahs and the Brumbies. He retired in 2012.

Vickerman was born in Cape Town, South Africa. He moved to Australia in the 1990s. He was married and had two children.

Vickerman died on the night of 18 February 2017 in Sydney, at the age of 37. His death was said to be a suicide.

[[Michael Ogio]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George, Governors-General of Papua New Guinea

Sir Michael Ogio GCMG CBE (7 July 1942 – 18 February 2017) was a Papua New Guinean politician. He served as the ninth Governor-General of Papua New Guinea from 20 December 2010 until his death. He was leader of the People's Democratic Movement party.

Ogio died on 18 February 2017 in Port Moresby, at the age 74.

[[Luigi Canepa]]

CATEGORIES: 1849 births, 1914 deaths, Italian composers

Luigi Canepa (January 15, 1849 – May 12, 1914) was an Italian opera composer. He is best known for his 1879 opera, Riccardo III. He was born and died in Sassari, Sardinia.

[[Ready Set Learn]]

CATEGORIES: American children's television series

Ready Set Learn was a preschool block that aired on TLC from December 26, 1992, and Discovery Kids from December 26, 1992.

[[Letter from Birmingham Jail]]

CATEGORIES: Martin Luther King Jr., American civil rights, Letters

From the Birmingham, Alabama jail (also known as the Jefferson County jail), where he was imprisioned as a participant in nonviolent demonstrations against racial segregation, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. wrote in longhand the copyrighted letter which was reproduced at this link. It was his response to a public statement of concern and caution issued by eight white religious leaders of the South. Dr. King, who was born in 1929: did his undergraduate work at Morehouse College; attended the racially integrated Cromer Theological Seminary in Chester, Pennsylvania, one of six black pupils among a hundred students and the president of his class; and won a fellowship to Boston University for his Ph.D.

[[Sabha, Libya]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Libya

Sabha is a city in Libya. In 2010, about 95.000 people lived there. It is the political and economic center of the Fezzan region. It is about 640 south of Tripoli.

[[Nintendo Switch]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments, Nintendo video game consoles

The Nintendo Switch (originally called NX in development and also called Switch, N. Switch or just NS) is a video game console created by Nintendo. It is the successor of the Wii U and was first released on March 3, 2017. 

The Switch is a hybrid console, which means that the player can either connect it to a television or use it by itself as a handheld gaming device. It uses controllers called Joy-Con, which attach to both sides of the console when it is in handheld mode. They are attached to a grip when in television mode. The user plays the games by using the Joy-Con. The Joy-Con also have a form of rumble, which is called HD Rumble. There is an infrared sensor on the bottom of the right Joy-Con that acts like the sensors in the Nintendo Wii. The Nintendo Switch received critical acclaim.

There are more than 1000 games that work on the Nintendo Switch, including The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, Just Dance 2017, Super Mario Odyssey, Kirby Star Allies, and Pokémon Sword and Shield.

[[Nephrozoa]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy

The Nephrozoa (Eubilateria) are a major taxon of bilaterian animals consisting of the deuterostomes and protostomes. It is the living sister clade of the xenacoelomorphs.

[[Paul Nguyên Van Hòa]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Roman Catholic bishops, Vietnamese people

Paul Nguyěn Van Hoá (20 July 1931 – 14 February 2017) was a Vietnamese Roman Catholic bishop.

Nguyên Van Hòa became a priest in 1959. He served as of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Nha Trang from 1975 to 2009.

[[Four sons of Horus]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

The four son of Horus are a group of gods who protects the dead soul. There appear as canopic jars with each a different head. The first god is Imsety, he appears with a human head, the second god is Duamutef, he appears with a jackal head, the third god is Hapi, he appears with a baboon head, the final god is Qebehsenuef, he appears with a falcon head. They are used as canopic jars.

[[Rem (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Rem was an Egyptian fish god who fertilized the land with his tears.

[[Norma McCorvey]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American activists, American Roman Catholics, Writers from Louisiana, Writers from Texas

Norma Leah McCorvey (née Nelson; September 22, 1947 – February 18, 2017), better known by the legal pseudonym "Jane Roe", was an American activist. She was the plaintiff in the landmark American lawsuit Roe v. Wade in 1973.

The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that individual state laws banning abortion are unconstitutional. Later, McCorvey's views on abortion changed greatly because she became a Roman Catholic activist in the pro-life movement.

[[José Solé]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Mexican stage actors, Mexican movie directors

José Solé (July 28, 1929 – February 15, 2017) was a Mexican stage actor, movie director, set design, and theater director. 

His career extended over 60 years. He worked to promote theater in Mexico, which did not have governmental support that the other arts did after the Mexican Revolution. He performed in and directed many plays, as well as directing theaters and even the theatrical division of the Instituto Nacional de Bellas Artes (National Institute of Fine Arts).  

He received recognition for both acting and directing early in his career, but major awards such as Premio Nacional de Ciencias y Artes (National Prize for Arts and Sciences) in the 2000s.

[[Peter Skellern]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Anglican priests, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from brain cancer, English Anglicans, English pianists, English pop musicians, English pop singers, English priests, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Lancashire, Singers from Lancashire, Writers from Lancashire

Peter Skellern (14 March 1947 – 17 February 2017) was an English singer-songwriter and pianist. He was born in Bury, Lancashire. Skellern's first song to become a hit was "You're a Lady" in 1972. The record featured a choral group called the Congregation, who had already had a top ten hit with the song "Softly Whispering I Love You". and number 50 in the United States Billboard Hot 100. 

Although he only had two more hit singles in the next six years, Peter Skellern had a successful musical career, recording many albums and writing music and songs for television and films. These included theme songs for TV series such as Billy Liar (1973),  Me and My Girl (1984) and Flying Lady (1987). He later began a double act with another pianist and singer, Richard Stilgoe, and they toured the country and made three albums before Skellern retired from performing in 2001.

In October 2016, when it was known that he was going to die, he was ordained as a priest of the Church of England. He had been given special permission by the Archbishop of Canterbury because it was something he had always wanted to do. Skellern died on 17 February 2017 from a brain tumour, aged 69.

[[Warren Frost]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from Massachusetts, Actors from Vermont

Warren Frost (June 5, 1925 – February 17, 2017) was an American actor.

His work was mainly in the theatre, but he worked in movies and television since his career began in 1958. He was known for television roles on Matlock, The Larry Sanders Show, and Seinfeld. He was mainly known for his role as Doctor Hayward on Twin Peaks, a series co-created by his son Mark Frost.

He has also appeared in TV movies, such as Psycho IV: The Beginning (1990) and The Stand (1994).

Frost died at his home in Middlebury, Vermont, on February 17, 2017, following a long illness at the age of 91.

[[Jørgen Kieler]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Danish writers, Physicians

Jørgen Kieler (23 August 1919 – 19 February 2017) was a Danish physician. He was known for his participation in resistance activities under the Nazi German occupation of Denmark in the early 1940s during World War II. 

Together with his sister, Elsebet Kieler, he published Frit Denmark (Free Denmark), an illegal newspaper. 

As a member of the Holger Danske resistance group, he helped hundreds of Danish Jews to escape to Sweden and avoid extermination.

[[Altamas Kabir]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from kidney disease, Indian lawyers, Chief Justices of India

Altamas Kabir (19 July 1948 – 19 February 2017) was an Indian lawyer and judge. He served as the 39th Chief Justice to the Supreme Court of India from 29 September 2012 through 18 July 2013. He was born and raised in Kolkata, West Bengal.

Kabir died of kidney disease in Kolkata on 19 February 2017, aged 68.

[[Roger Hynd]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Scottish footballers, Crystal Palace F.C. players

John Roger Shankly Hynd (2 February 1942 – 18 February 2017) was a Scottish professional footballer. He played as a centre half. 

He started his playing career at Rangers, for whom he played in the 1967 European Cup Winners' Cup Final, before moving to the Football League. 

He played nearly 300 League games for Crystal Palace, Birmingham City. For a short time, he served as manager of Motherwell before leaving professional football to work as a PE teacher. He was the nephew of Bill Shankly.

In 2012, Hynd was one of seven former players elected to Birmingham City's Hall of Fame. Hynd died in February 2017, aged 75.

[[Richard Schickel]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American historians, American movie critics, American educators, American journalists, American screenwriters, Writers from Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Richard Warren Schickel (February 10, 1933 – February 18, 2017) was an American historian, journalist, author, educator, filmmaker, screenwriter, documentarian, and movie critic. He was a critic for Time magazine from 1965–2010. He has also written for Life magazine and the Los Angeles Times Book Review. He worked for Truthdig until his death in 2017.

Schickel was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He has also taught at Yale University and University of Southern California's School of Film and Television. Schickel died on February 18, 2017 in Los Angeles, California from complication of a stroke, aged 84.

[[Andrew Schneider]]

CATEGORIES: Pulitzer Prize winners, 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American journalists, Writers from New York City

Andrew Jay Schneider (November 13, 1942 – February 17, 2017) was an American journalist and investigative reporter. He worked for the Pittsburgh Press and Seattle Post-Intelligencer as a public-health reporter. He was born in The Bronx, New York.

He received two Pulitzer Prizes while working for the Press: one for Specialized Reporting in 1986 with Mary Pat Flaherty and another for Public Service with Matthew Brelis and the Press.

Schneider died in Salt Lake City, Utah from heart failure on February 17, 2017, aged 74.

[[Lavell Crawford]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American comedians, Actors from St. Louis, Missouri

Lavell Maurice Crawford (born November 11, 1968) is an American stand-up comedian and actor. He is best known for playing Huell Babineaux, the bodyguard, assistant, and pickpocket for Saul Goodman in Breaking Bad. 

Lavell also played the role of Gus Patch in the Netflix original movie The Ridiculous 6.

[[Magnus Wenninger]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, American mathematicians, Benedictines, People from Wisconsin

Magnus J. Wenninger OSB (October 31, 1919 – February 17, 2017) was an American mathematician. He worked on constructing polyhedron models. He also wrote the first book on their construction. He was also a Benedictine monk. He was born in Park Falls, Wisconsin. His parents were German.

Wenninger died on February 17, 2017 at Saint John's Abbey in Collegeville, Minnesota. He was 97.

[[Martin Schulz]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Former MEPs, MEPs for Germany, People from Eschweiler, Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany, Presidents of the European Parliament

Martin Schulz (born 20 December 1955) is a German Social Democratic (SPD) politician. He was the President of the European Parliament from 2012 to 2017. From March 2017 to February 2018, he served as the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party.

[[Alejandro Atchugarry]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from aneurysm, Uruguayan politicians, Uruguayan lawyers, People from Montevideo

Alejandro Víctor Washington Atchugarry Bonomi (31 July 1952 – 19 February 2017) was an Uruguayan lawyer and politician.

He served as Minister of Economics and Finance during the 2002 Uruguay banking crisis. It was a widely acknowledged role in the solution of Uruguay's worst economic moment in a century.

Atchugarry died of an aneurysm in Montevideo on 19 February 2017, aged 64.

[[Marty Schottenheimer]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, American football coaches, Buffalo Bills players, New England Patriots players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Martin Edward "Marty" Schottenheimer (ˈ; September 23, 1943 – February 8, 2021) was an American retired-professional American football player and coach. He served as head coach of the Cleveland Browns, Kansas City Chiefs, Washington Redskins, and San Diego Chargers.  He had the most wins of any NFL coach to never coach a team in a Super Bowl. 

[[Kaci Kullmann Five]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from breast cancer, Cancer deaths in Norway, Norwegian politicians, Norwegian Nobel Committee

Karin Cecilie "Kaci" Kullmann Five (13 April 1951 – 19 February 2017) was a Norwegian businessperson and politician. She was a member of the Conservative Party. She served as Chairwoman of the Norwegian Nobel Committee from 2015 to her death in 2017.

Five was born in Bærum, Norway. She studied at the University of Oslo. She was married to Carsten O. Five until her death in 2017. They had two children.

She served as Minister of Trade and Shipping from 1989 to 1990 and as a Member of Parliament from 1981 to 1997, and was leader of the Conservative Party from 1991 to 1994. She was a member of the Norwegian Nobel Committee since 2003. She was also a board member of the Nobel Foundation.

Five died on 19 February 2017 from breast cancer in Oslo, Norway, aged 65.

[[Per Kleppe]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, Norwegian economists, Politicians from Oslo

Per Andreas Hildte Kleppe (13 April 1923 – 10 March 2021) was a Norwegian economist and politician. He was a member of the Labour Party. He served in the position of deputy representative to the Norwegian Parliament from Oslo from 1954–1957. He was a deputy member of Oslo city council from 1951 to 1955.

Kleppe was born in Oslo. He graduated from the University of Oslo in 1956. 

He was appointed State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance from 1957 to 1962. He was the Minister of Trade and Shipping from 1971–1972. He later served as Minister of Finance from 1973 to 1979. In 1979, he was replaced by Ulf Sand, but Kleppe returned in 1981 to head the Secretariat for Long-Term Planning (until 1981).

In 1981 he took over as general secretary of the European Free Trade Association, a position he held until 1988.

Kleppe died on 10 March 2021 in Oslo, aged 97.

[[Jan Balstad]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Politicians from Oslo

Jan Balstad (born 16 November 1937 in Oslo) is a Norwegian politician. He served as the labour leader for the Norwegian Confederation of Trade Unions. He was Minister of trade and shipping affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 1988 to 1989.

[[Non-separable wavelets]]

CATEGORIES: Digital signal processing

Non-separable wavelets are multi-dimensional wavelets that are not implemented using one-dimensional operations.

They are studied since 1992.

In contrast to separable wavelets, the non-separable wavelets have several advantages.

For example, the non-separable filters imply more parameters in design. This consequently leads to better filters.

[[Sclera]]

CATEGORIES: Eye anatomy

The sclera is the white part of the eye. Unlike most animals’ eyes, the human eye’s sclera is pale. This makes it easier for us to see where other people are looking.

[[Blister beetle]]

CATEGORIES: Polyphaga

The blister beetle is a beetle of the family Meloidae. They secrete cantharidin, a chemical that causes blisters. About 7,500 species are known worldwide. They are poisonous to predators.

Blister beetles go through several larval stages. The larvae mainly attack bees. They also eat grasshopper eggs.

Blister beetles are attracted to alfalfa and weeds during bloom.

[[Oil beetle]]

CATEGORIES: Polyphaga

The oil beetle (or Meloe) is a blister beetle genus. They are called "oil beetles" because they release oily droplets of hemolymph when disturbed.

The liquid is a poisonous chemical that causes skin blistering and painful swelling.

Members of this genus do not have wings. They have shortened elytra.

[[Brachiozoa]]

CATEGORIES: Animals

Brachiozoa is a group of lophotrochozoan animals consisting of Phoronida and Brachiopoda.

[[Peterlee]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in County Durham

Peterlee is a small town in County Durham, England. It was built under the New Towns Act of 1946. It was founded in 1948. It originally mostly housed coal miners and their families.

Peterlee is named after trade unionist Peter Lee. He worked to improve the working conditions and salaries of the thousands of local pit workers who were based in the area.

[[Cow killer]]

CATEGORIES: Wasps

Cow killers, or Mutillidae, are a family of wasps. The wingless females of this species look like hairy ants. They are called velvet ants because of their dense pile of hair. The hair is usually bright red or orange.

They are known for their very painful stings. Because of the stings, they are called "cow killer" or "cow ant".

Mutillidae live all over the world. There are over 8,000 species.

[[Regal Entertainment Group]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States

Regal Entertainment Group is a movie theater chain in the United States. It is based in Knoxville, Tennessee.

The movie theater chains operated by Regal are Regal Cinemas,

Edwards Theatres, United Artists Theatres.

[[Vitaly Churkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2017 deaths, Ambassadors of Russia, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, Child actors, Russian movie actors, Russian politicians

Vitaly Ivanovich Churkin (Виталий Иванович Чуркин; 21 February 1952 – 20 February 2017) was a Russian diplomat and former child actor. He was the Ambassador of Russia to the United Nations from 1 May 2006 until his death. He was also the Ambassador of Russia to Belgium from 1994 to 1998.

Churkin was born in Moscow. He acted in movies as a child with his famous role being as Fedka the peasant boy in A Mother's Heart (1967). He spoke Russian, Mongolian, French and English.

Churkin died on 20 February 2017 in New York City, United States. He died one day before his 65th birthday. The cause was heart failure, according to Russian diplomat Sergei Ordzhonikidze.

[[Larry Coryell]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, American jazz musicians, American guitarists, Musicians from Texas, Musicians from Washington, Musicians from New York City, People from Galveston, Texas

Larry Coryell (April 2, 1943 – February 19, 2017) was an American jazz guitarist. He was known as the "Godfather of Fusion". His career began in 1965. 

In the early 1970s, he led a group called Foreplay with Mike Mandel although the albums of this period—Barefoot Boy, Offering, and The Real Great Escape—were credited only to "Larry Coryell." He formed the group The Eleventh House in 1973. 

Coryell was born in Galveston, Texas. He was raised in Richland, Washington. He studied at the University of Washington. Coryell died on February 19, 2017 in his hotel room in New York City from cardiac arrest, aged 73.

[[Sofía Ímber]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Jewish philanthropists, Jewish writers, Romanian journalists, Moldovan people, Romanian Jews, South American Jews, Venezuelan people

Sofía Ímber (May 8, 1924 – February 20, 2017) was a Romanian-born Venezuelan journalist and philanthropist. She was known for being a supporter of the arts and for promoting contemporary art in Venezuela. She was the founder of the Contemporary Art Museum of Caracas.

Ímber was born in Soroca, Kingdom of Romania, now Moldova to Jewish parents. Imber moved to Venezuela with her family when she was four years old, in 1930. Ímberr married Venezuelan journalist and diplomat Guillermo Meneses.

Ímber died in Caracas, Venezuela on February 20, 2017 from congestive heart failure, aged 92.

[[H. R. McMaster]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, United States National Security Advisors, American military people, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Herbert Raymond "H. R." McMaster (born July 24, 1962) is an American Lieutenant General in the United States Army and author. He was the 26th United States National Security Advisor from February 20, 2017 to April 9, 2018.  He was commander of the Maneuver Center of Excellence at Ft. Benning, Georgia. 

McMaster served as Director of Combined Joint Interagency Task Force-Shafafiyat (CJIATF-Shafafiyat) (Transparency) at ISAF (International Security Assistance Force) Headquarters in Kabul, Afghanistan.  He is known for his roles in the Gulf War, Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom.

McMaster resigned as National Security Advisor on March 22, 2018, which became effective on April 9, 2018. He was replaced by John R. Bolton.

[[Eric Jacobson]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1970 births

Eric Jacobson (born July 25, 1970) is an American puppeteer who has been working with Sesame Street since 1994. He is the current performer of Grover since 1998 and Bert since 1997, he's also the current performer of Miss Piggy and Fozzie Bear in The Muppets Franchise, replacing Frank Oz. He is married to Mary Jacobson.

[[Roman Zhuravskyi]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Ukrainian footballers

Roman Zhuravskyi (Роман Петрович Журавський; 3 June 1948 – 19 February 2017) was a Ukrainian professional football player who played as defender. He was born in Lviv, Ukraine. Zhuravskyi made his professional career in the different football teams of the Ukrainian SSR.

Zhuravskyi died on 19 February 2017 in Lviv, Ukraine from pancreatic cancer at the age of 68.

[[Yury Solomin]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Russian movie actors, Russian stage actors, Russian politicians

Yury Mefodievich Solomin (Ю́рий Мефо́диевич Соло́мин; born 18 June 1935 in Chita) is a Soviet/Russian actor, director and politician. He has been art director of the Maly Theatre in Moscow since 1988. He served as Minister of Culture of the RSFSR in 1990-1991.

Solomin was known for his roles as Khlestakov in Igor Ilyinsky's production of The Government Inspector (1966), Tsar Feodor in Tsar Feodor Ioannovich (1976), Slavin in TASS Is Authorized to Declare... TV series (1984), Nicholas II in Az Vosdam... (1990), and Famusov in his own production of Wit Works Woe (2000).

[[Aleksandr Yakovlevich Mikhailov]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Russian movie actors

Aleksandr Yakovlevich Mikhailov (Александр Яковлевич Михайлов; born 4 October 1944) is a Soviet and Russian actor. He has appeared in 42 movies since 1973. He starred in the 1981 movie Muzhiki! which was in the 32nd Berlin International Film Festival.

He became a People's Artist of the RSFSR (1992). and People's Artist of the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic (2014).  

Mikhailov was born in Olovyannaya, Russia. He studied at the Maly Theater.

[[Kamran Mirza]]

CATEGORIES: 1509 births, 1557 deaths, People from Kabul

Kamran Mirza, sometimes known simply as Kamran, (1509 – 5 (or 6) October 1557) was the second son of Babur, the founder of the Mughal Empire and the first Mughal Emperor. Kamran Mirza was born in Kabul to Babur's wife Gulrukh Begum.

[[E-dubble]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2017 deaths, American hip hop musicians, American rap musicians from Pennsylvania, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, Musicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Musicians from Baltimore, Maryland, American rap musicians from Maryland

Evan Sewell Wallace (November 1, 1982 – February 13, 2017), better known by his stage name e-dubble, was an American rapper. He was best known for his Freestyle Friday series in which he released a new song each Friday. He did this from 2010 to 2012. He was also a member of the hip hop group Young English. He was also the founder of Black Paisley Records. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania or Baltimore, Maryland.

Wallace died from a blood infection on February 13, 2017, at the age of 34.

[[New Synagogue, Berlin]]

CATEGORIES: Synagogues, Judaism in Germany

The Neue Synagoge ("New Synagogue") is a synagogue in Bezirk Mitte, Berlin, Germany. The building lies on the Oranienburger Straße and was constructed from 1859 to 1866.

The Neue Synagogue is of Moorish architecture.

Conservative Judaism services are being held in the synagogue.

[[Youssef Lemrini]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Football managers, Moroccan footballers

Youssef Lemrini (born January 1, 1960 in Salé) is a Moroccan former football player and current football manager.

Lemrini played at Mouloudia Club Lakouablia, and managed COD Meknès and Olympic Club de Safi. Since 2013 he has been managing Renaissance Sportive de Berkane.

[[Maha Haddioui]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Golfers, Moroccan sportspeople, People from Casablanca

Maha Haddioui, Arabic: ماها الحديوي , (born May 15, 1988 in Casablanca) is a Moroccan female golfer. She has been a professional since 2011.

Haddioui plays on the Ladies European Tour and obtained second last place at the 2016 Summer Olympics.

[[B chromosome]]

CATEGORIES: Chromosomes

B chromosomes are chromosomes which are not needed for the life of a species. They are also called 'supernumerary' or 'accessory chromosomes'.

In addition to normal chromosomes (the karyotype), many species have B chromosomes. Wild populations of many animal, plant, and fungi species have B chromosomes. These chromosomes are not essential for their life, and are lacking in many individuals. So a population might have individuals with 0, 1, 2, 3 (etc.) supernumeraries.

Most B chromosomes are mainly or entirely heterochromatic, and so do not code for anything. Some, such as the B chromosomes of maize, contain sizeable euchromatic segments, and therefore do code for some products.

It seems unlikely that supernumeraries would survive in a species unless there was some positive advantage. In a few cases this has been identified. For instance, the British grasshopper Myrmeleotettix maculatus has B chromosomes with a satellite DNA. They occur in warm, dry environments, and are scarce or absent in humid, cooler places.

It is thought that B chromosomes are parasitic elements like selfish DNA. Various scenarios have been suggested as to how they arose.

[[Northeast Region of Brazil]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Brazil

The Northeast Region of Brazil (Região Nordeste do Brasil) is one of the five geographical regions of Brazil defined by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics in 1969. It is the third largest region, corresponding to 18% of the national territory, and the second in population.

[[Henri Cohen]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, 1930 deaths, Belgian Jews, Belgian sportspeople, Jewish sportspeople, Olympic silver medalists, Water polo players

Henri Cohen (born ? - died 1930) was a Belgian water polo player. He was of Jewish descent.

Cohen was swimming for the Brussels Swimming and Water Polo Club.

He obtained a silver medal with his team at the 1900 Summer Olympics in Paris.

[[Yigal Amir]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Israeli prisoners, Jewish Israeli criminals, Murderers, Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment

Yigal Amir, Hebrew: יגאל עמיר‎‎ , (born May 23, 1970 in Herzliya) is an Israeli murderer. 

Amir is serving a life sentence in prison for assassinating Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin on November 4, 1995.

His motivation was political. He was strongly against the Oslo Accords and targeted Rabin because of his peace efforts with the Palestinians, which he saw as against the interests of Israeli Jews. 

Amir is an Orthodox Jew from a Yemenite Jewish background. At the time of the murder he was studying law and computer science at Bar-Ilan University and also Jewish law.

Because he murdered the country's head of government, this made Amir an assassin. He was found guilty and sent to prison, where he still is. Israel does not have the death penalty.

[[Mildred Dresselhaus]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, American physicists, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Scientists from Brooklyn

Mildred Dresselhaus (born Mildred Spiewak; November 11, 1930 – February 20, 2017), also known as the "queen of carbon science", was an American nanotechnologist. She was the first female Institute Professor and professor emerita of physics and electrical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She also won many awards including the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the National Medal of Science, the Enrico Fermi Award and the Vannevar Bush Award.

Dresselhaus was born in Brooklyn, New York. She was married to Gene Dresselhaus and had four children. She was of Jewish descent.

Dresselhaus died on February 20, 2017 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at the age of 86.

[[Max Lüscher]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Swiss writers, Swiss scientists, Swiss psychologists

Max Lüscher (September 9, 1923 – February 2, 2017) was a Swiss psychotherapist. He was known for inventing the Lüscher color test. This was a tool for measuring an individual's psycho-physical state based on his or her color preferences. Lüscher worked for international companies, among other things giving color advice. His book The Lüscher Test has been translated into more than 30 languages.

Lüscher died in Lucerne, Switzerland on February 2, 2017, aged 93.

[[Lüscher color test]]

CATEGORIES: Tests

The Lüscher color test is a psychological test invented by Dr. Max Lüscher in Basel, Switzerland. Lüscher believed that sensory perception of color is "all shared by all", but that color preferences are not. This difference allows subjective states to be objectively measured by using test colors.

Lüscher believed that because the color selections are guided in a specific manner, they reveal the person as they really are, not as they perceive themselves or would like to be perceived.

[[Little Sammy Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York, American blues musicians, American guitarists, American songwriters, African American musicians, People from Winona, Mississippi, Musicians from Mississippi, Writers from Mississippi, Writers from New York, Musicians from New York

Little Sammy Davis (November 28, 1928 – February 16, 2018) was an American blues guitarist, harmonica player and songwriter. He was based in Hudson Valley, New York. Although his musical career began in the 1940s, he was not widely known until the mid-1990s when he began working in radio, singing, playing live on tour, and recording studio albums. He recorded songs with Muddy Waters, Earl Hooker, Albert King, and the Levon Helm Band.

Davis was born in Winona, Mississippi. He died in Middletown, New York of heart failure on February 16, 2018 at the age of 89.

[[Madame de Montesson]]

CATEGORIES: 1738 births, 1806 deaths, People from Paris, House of Orléans

Charlotte Jeanne Béraud de La Haye de Riou (4 October 1738– 6 February 1806) was a mistress of Louis Philippe d'Orléans, Duke of Orléans, and later his wife. However, Louis XV would not allow her to become the Duchess. She is known simply as Madame de Montesson. For her husband's fun and her own, she set up a small theatre and wrote many plays, in which she acted. She was a friend of Joséphine de Beauharnais. She married twice but had no children. In 1770, a small home was built in Paris for her use. The building was called the Hôtel de Montesson. It was destroyed by fire in 1810.

[[Lavelle White]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, American blues musicians, American soul musicians, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Louisiana, Writers from Louisiana, Singers from Houston, Texas, Writers from Texas

Lavelle White (born July 3, 1929) is an American blues and soul singer-songwriter. After performing most during her adulthood, White released three albums, the first of which was issued in 1994 when she was aged 65.

She has been nominated several times for a Blues Music Award, and in 2006 was inducted into the Texas Music Hall of Fame. The same year her ensemble was voted the Best Blues Band in The Austin Chronicle Music Awards.

[[Downe]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Bromley, Villages in England

Downe is a village in the London Borough of Bromley. Charles Darwin lived there with his family after the HMS Beagle trip.

[[Stanisław Skrowaczewski]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Polish composers, American composers, American conductors, Writers from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Musicians from Minneapolis, Minnesota

Stanisław Paweł Stefan Jan Sebastian Skrowaczewski (staˌɲiswaf skrɔvaˈt͡ʂɛfskʲi; October 3, 1923 – February 21, 2017) was a Polish-American classical conductor and composer.

Skrowaczewski was born in Lwów (then in Poland, now in Ukraine). Between 1983 and 1992 he was principal conductor of the Hallé Orchestra in Manchester. Between 1995 and 1997, Skrowaczewski served as artistic advisor to the Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra. He received the Commander Order of the White Eagle.

Skrowaczewski died in Minneapolis, Minnesota on February 21, 2017, aged 93.

[[Joseph Blatchford]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, American philanthropists, Civil servants, People from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, People from Beverly Hills, California

Joseph Blatchford (born June 7, 1934) was the third Director of the United States Peace Corps. Blatchford was appointed Peace Corps Director in 1969 by President Richard Nixon. He retired 1971.

Blatchford was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He was raised in Beverly Hills, California.

[[Steve Hewlett (journalist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2017 deaths, British academics, British journalists, Cancer deaths in London, Deaths from esophageal cancer, Writers from London

Steve Hewlett (8 August 1958 – 20 February 2017) was a British print and radio journalist. He served as visiting professor of Journalism and Broadcast Policy at the University of Salford. He worked for the BBC and The Guardian and for programs such as Nationwide and Watchdog.

Hewlett died in London from oesophageal cancer on 20 February 2017, aged 58.

[[Desmond Connell]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, People from Dublin, Roman Catholic archbishops

Desmond Connell (24 March 1926 – 21 February 2017) was an Irish cardinal in the Roman Catholic Church. He was an Archbishop of Dublin and Primate of Ireland. 

Cardinal Connell was one of a number of senior clergy to have been heavily criticized for inaction and for making misleading statements in connection with clerical sex abuse in Dublin.

[[Anthony Downs]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, American economists, American educators, Writers from Illinois, People from Evanston, Illinois

Anthony Downs (d; born November 21, 1930) is an American economist. He specialized in public policy and public administration. He has been a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, D.C., since 1977.

Before 1977, Downs served for 18 years a member and then Chairman of Real Estate Research Corporation. He also served as a Senior Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a professor at the University of Chicago.

[[Reinhard Selten]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, German academics, German economists, People from former German territories, People from Wrocław, German Nobel Prize winners

EconomicsReinhard Justus Reginald Selten  (5 October 1930 – 23 August 2016) was a German economist. He won the 1994 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences (shared with John Harsanyi and John Nash). He is also well known for his work in bounded rationality and can be thought as one of the founding fathers of experimental economics. Selten was professor emeritus at the University of Bonn, Germany.

Selten, who was partly Jewish, died on 23 August 2016 in Poznań, Poland, aged 85.

[[Sex industry]]

CATEGORIES: Sex industry

Sex industry, other names: adult industry or porn industry, is a (business) activity that is dealing with sexual entertainment, like pornography, prostitution etc.

[[Keisha Castle-Hughes]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Child actors, Entertainers from North Island, New Zealand Māori people, New Zealand movie actors, New Zealand television actors, People from Auckland, People with bipolar disorder

Keisha Castle-Hughes (born 24 March 1990) is an Australian-born New Zealand actress. She started her career in 2001.

[[Taulupe Faletau]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Oceanic sportspeople, Tonga, Welsh rugby union players

Tangaki Taulupe "Toby" Faletau (born 12 November 1990) is a Welsh rugby union player. He plays as a back row forward. He has played over sixty times for Wales since 2011. For club, he played for Cross Keys RFC and Newport RFC before joining the Newport Gwent Dragons. He has played for Bath Rugby since 2016.

Faletau was born in Tofoa, Tonga. His father is Tongan international Kuli Faletau. He grew up in Pontypool, Wales.

[[Dana International]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Eurovision Song Contest winners, Israeli LGBT people, Israeli pop singers, Jewish Israeli musicians, LGBT singers, People from Tel Aviv, Transgender and transsexual Jews, Israeli singers

Dana International, Hebrew: דנה אינטרנשיונל , stage name of Sharon Cohen, Hebrew: שרון כהן , (born as Yaron Cohen on February 2, 1972 in Tel Aviv) is an Israeli pop singer and transsexual.

Dana International won the  Eurovision Song Contest 1998 with the song Diva.

[[Steve Gleason]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional Gold Medal recipients, 1977 births, Living people, American football linebackers, American football safeties, Indianapolis Colts players, New Orleans Saints players, People from Spokane, Washington, Sportspeople from Washington

Stephen Michael Gleason (born March 19, 1977) is a former American football player. He played mainly as a safety. He played for the Indianapolis Colts and the New Orleans Saints of the National Football League (NFL) between 2000 and 2007. He was best known for blocking a punt in 2006, which became a symbol of recovery for New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.

In 2019, Gleason was honored with the Congressional Gold Medal.

Gleason was born in Spokane, Washington. He is married to Michel Rae Varisco. Their son, Rivers, was born in October 2011. He has amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also known as Lou Gehrig's disease.

[[Francis Pollet]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, French aviators, French generals

Francis Pollet (born at Roubaix, 5 May 1964) is a French General officer. From March 2017, he is the director-general of the Institut Polytechnique des Sciences Avancées (French private aerospace university).

Pollet graduated from the École de l'Air in 1985. He started his career as fighter pilot and corporate pilot for Prime Minister Lionel Jospin and President Jacques Chirac. He worked in human resources and operational activities. In 2003, he joined higher education as head of École de l'Air at Salon-de-Provence. In March 2017, he became head of the Institut Polytechnique des Sciences Avancées.

[[Chifley Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Sydney, Skyscrapers in Australia, 1992 establishments in Australia

The Chifley Tower is a skyscraper in Sydney, Australia. It is one of the tallest buildings in the city and the 11th tallest building in Australia.

[[Florac Trois Rivières]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France, Subprefectures in France, Communes in Lozère

Florac Trois Rivières is a French commune, a subprefecture of the Lozère department, in the Occitanie region. It is also the capital of the arrondissement of Florac.

The municipality was established on 1 January 2016 when the former communes of Florac and La Salle-Prunet were combined to form the new commune.

[[Maccabi Ahi Nazareth F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 establishments in Israel, Israeli football clubs, Nazareth

Maccabi Ahi Nazareth Football Club, Hebrew: מכבי אחי נצרת - Mo'adon Kaduregel Maccabi Aḥi Natzrat, Arabic: نادي كرة القدم اخاء الناصرة  - Nade Korat Alqadam Maccabi Ekhaa Al-Nasera) is an Israeli football club in Nazareth.

The club was established in 1968 and plays in the Liga Leumit.

[[Executive Order 13769]]

CATEGORIES: United States law, Immigration, 2017 in the United States

Executive Order 13769, also called Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States, is an executive order signed by United States President Donald Trump on January 27, 2017. It limits travel to the United States from some countries and by all refugees.

The order said that no more than 50,000 refugees could be be let into the United States. It stopped the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) for 120 days (about four months). After that 120 days, the program would start again for individual countries. The order also stopped the entry of refugees from Syria. The order tells some Cabinet secretaries to stop entry of nationals from countries that do not meet adjudication standards under the Immigration and Nationality Act. The United States Department of Homeland Security lists these countries as Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. 

The Department of Homeland Security later allowed green card holders and dual nationals of other countries to enter the United States. However, they had to have a passport or nationality of a non-listed country.

There were many lawsuits that tried to stop the order. One was State of Washington v. Trump, which resulted in a temporary restraining order (TRO). The TRO was issued on February 3, 2017. It stopped much of the executive order. The issue is about whether the order is legal and whether it is against the United States Constitution.

More than 100 travelers were held. They were held for hours without family or legal assistance. Up to 60,000 visas were taken away.

Protests against the order took place in airports and cities.

The order was criticized by Democratic and Republican members of U.S. Congress, Catholic bishops, business leaders and universities.

