[[List of Billboard number-one singles of the 1940s (U.S.)]]

CATEGORIES: Billboard charts, Lists of songs, 1940s songs

This article is about the US number-one songs chart held during the 1940s.

Billboard number-one singles chart (which preceded the Billboard Hot 100 chart), which was updated weekly by the Billboard magazine, was the main singles chart of the American music industry since 1940 and until the Billboard Hot 100 chart was established in 1958.

Before the Billboard Hot 100 chart was established (in August 1958), which would solely be based on the sales data and airplay on American radio stations, the Billboard magazine used to published several weekly charts every time. Throughout most of the 1950s the magazine published the following three charts:

The list below includes the Best Sellers in Stores singles chart only (for the expanded detailed lists of the three charts, see articles of individual years in the Billboard charts).

[[M110 howitzer]]

CATEGORIES: Howitzers, Military of the United States

The M110 howitzer was the largest available self-propelled howitzer in the United States Army's inventory. 

[[Flyball]]

CATEGORIES: Sports involving animals, Dogs

Flyball is a relay race between two teams of dogs. Each team is made up of four dogs and handlers and a ball loader. There are also two reserve dogs and handlers who can be swapped between legs. Each race consists of three legs.

[[Eishō (Heian period)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Eishō was a Japanese era name after Kantoku and before Tengi.  This period started in April 1046 and ended in January 1053.  The reigning emperor was Go-Reizei-tennō.

[[Tengi]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Tengi was a Japanese era after Eishō and before Kōhei.  This period started in January 1053 and ended in August 1058. The reigning emperor was Go-Reizei-tennō.

[[Kōhei]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Kōhei was a Japanese era after Tengi and before Jiryaku.  This period started in August 1058 and ended in August 1065. The reigning emperor was Go-Reizei-tennō.

[[Sengoku period]]

CATEGORIES: Periods in Japanese history, Samurai

Sengoku period or "Warring States period" in Japanese history was a time in which there was little social or political stability. There was nearly constant military conflict which started in the middle of the 15th century and ended at the end of the 16th century. 

The name "Sengoku" was adopted by Japanese historians.  The Sengoku period in Japan mirrors the Warring States period in Chinese history.

The Sengoku period would precede a process of unification and the end of Japan's medieval period.

[[École des Ponts ParisTech]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Paris, Colleges and universities in France, 1747 establishments, 18th century establishments in France, 1740s establishments in Europe

Founded in 1747, the École des Ponts ParisTech (officially École nationale des ponts et chaussées, literally "National school of Bridges and Roads") was founded in 1747.  It is one of the oldest engineering schools in France.

The school has different programs including an executive Master of Business Administration in aviation management In Morocco ( in partnership with the Académie internationale Mohammed VI de l'aviation civile and the French Civil Aviation University) and China (in partnership with Tsinghua University and ENAC).

The school trains the Corps of Bridges and Roads.

[[Mitochondrial DNA]]

CATEGORIES: DNA, Organelles

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA or mDNA) is the DNA in mitochondria. It is inherited only from mothers, though there are a few rare exceptions.

Mitochondria are cellular organelles in eukaryotic cells. They convert chemical energy from food into a form that cells can use, adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Mitochondrial DNA is only a small part of the DNA in a eukaryotic cell. Most of the DNA is in the cell nucleus on chromosomes. In plants, the chloroplasts have DNA as well.

In humans, mitochondrial DNA codes for 37 genes and with about 16,600 base pairs in a circle. Human mitochondrial DNA was the first significant part of the human genome to be sequenced. The mtDNA in plants is much larger: Arabidopsis has 367 kilobytes.

[[MDNA]]

MDNA may refer to:

[[MDNA (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Madonna albums, 2012 albums

MDNA is the name of an album by the recording artist and actress Madonna. The album was her debut release from her 360-degree record deal from Live Nation Entertainment, in partnership with Interscope Records. The album was released on March 23, 2012 and featured production from Madonna herself, Benny Benassi, William Orbit, Benny's brother Alle Benassi and Martin Solveig. The lead single from the album, "Give Me All Your Luvin'" was released on February 3, 2012 and features M.I.A. and Nicki Minaj. The second single, "Girl Gone Wild", had its lyric video premiere on February 27, 2012 and was available as a single on March 2, 2012. The album was also her first release not to be associated with Warner Bros.

[[Pinkie]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century paintings, British paintings, San Marino, California

Pinkie (1794) is a painting by Thomas Lawrence.  It depicts Sarah Barrett Moulton. She was born in 1783 in Jamaica. Her father was a rich plantation owner. The painting was commissioned at the time Sarah left Jamaica to complete her education in England. Sarah's nickname was "Pinkie". She died in 1795, one year after the painting was completed. The painting is in the Huntington Library at San Marino, California. It hangs near The Blue Boy by Thomas Gainsborough. Pinkie and The Blue Boy are used as set decorations for many episodes of the television show, Leave It to Beaver.  

[[Girl Gone Wild]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 songs, Madonna songs

"Girl Gone Wild" is the name of the second single, which is coming out in 2012 from Madonna's album MDNA. Jenson Vaughan, Madonna, and her producers wrote the song together. Benny Benassi and Alle Benassi produced the song with Madonna. The song was released for digital download on March 2, 2012.

[[Thomas Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: 1769 births, 1830 deaths, English painters

Thomas Lawrence (13 April 1769 – 7 January 1830) was an English portrait painter. He was born in Bristol. He was a child prodigy. His father was an innkeeper. When Lawrence was 10 years old he was supporting his family with his pastel portraits. He went to London when he was 18. He soon was well known as a portrait painter in oils. His first royal commission was a portrait of Queen Charlotte in 1790. He became an associate of the Royal Academy in 1791, a full member in 1794, and president in 1820. In 1810 he received the patronage of the Prince Regent. He died at age 60 in 1830. At his death, Lawrence was the most fashionable portrait painter in Europe. He is remembered today as the Romanticism portraitist of the British Regency.

[[Jiryaku]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Jiryaku was a Japanese era name after Kōhei and before Enkyū.  This period started in August 1065 and ended in April 1069.  The reigning emperors were Go-Reizei-tennō and Go-Sanjō-tennō.

[[Enkyū]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Enkyū was a Japanese era name after Jiryaku and before Jōhō.  This period started in April 1069 and ended in August 1074.  The reigning emperors were Go-Sanjō-tennō and Shirakawa-tennō.

[[Jōhō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Jōhō was a Japanese era name (年号, nengō, lit. year name) after Enkyū and before Jōryaku.  This period started in August 1074 and ended in November 1077. The reigning emperor was Emperor Shirakawa-tennō.

[[Leave It to Beaver]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 establishments in the United States, 1963 disestablishments in the United States, 1950s American television series, 1960s American television series, American sitcoms, Black and white television series, CBS network shows, ABC network shows, English-language television programs

Leave It to Beaver is an American television sitcom series. It first aired from October 7, 1957 to June 20, 1963.  The series stars Jerry Mathers as "Beaver"; Tony Dow as his older brother Wally; Barbara Billingsley as his mother June Cleaver; and Hugh Beaumont as his father Ward Cleaver.

Semi-regulars include Ken Osmond as Wally's friend Eddie Haskell; Frank Bank as Wally's other friend Lumpy; Burt Mustin as Gus the fireman; Sue Randall as Beaver's teacher Miss Landers; Rusty Stevens as Beaver's friend Larry Mondello; and Jerry Weil as Beaver's mean little schoolmate Judy Hensler.

The series is about Beaver's adventures at home, in school, and around his neighborhood. Writers Bob Mosher and Joe Connelly based Beaver's adventures on the exploits of their own children.  In most episodes, Beaver would get into trouble. His parents would speak to him and explain what he had done wrong. They would hope that he had learned a lesson.

Critics and television viewers liked the series. In 1997, a movie based on Leave It to Beaver opened in theaters. In 2007, TV Land observed the show's 50th anniversary with a marathon (running many episodes in a row).  In October 1957 the first toilet was seen on American television in "Captain Jack", the second episode of the series. The boys buy a baby alligator and keep it in the toilet tank of their bathroom.

Production Company: DHX Media Studio B Productions (in cartoon) Wildbrain (in The New Leave it to Beaver) Perez-Minton Productions, Inc. MGA Entertainment DLHG Productions Moonscoop CJ Entertainment Magnet Productions Dolman Entertainment

[[Plan 9 from Outer Space]]

CATEGORIES: American science fiction movies, English-language movies, 1959 movies, B-movies, Movies directed by Ed Wood, American independent movies, Movies set in California

Plan 9 from Outer Space (1959) is a science fiction movie. It was written and directed by Ed Wood It stars Gregory Walcott, Mona McKinnon, Lyle Talbot, Tor Johnson, Maila Nurmi (Vampira), and Criswell.  Some footage of Bela Lugosi as the "Old Man" was edited into the movie after Lugosi's death.

The movie is about aliens who want to stop humans from creating a weapon that will destroy the universe. To do this, the aliens put their "Plan 9" in operation. This is a scheme to bring Earth's dead back to life. This plan will get Earth's attention and chaos will follow.

For years, the movie was aired on television without much notice. In 1980 authors Michael Medved and Harry Medved called Plan 9 from Outer Space the "worst movie ever made". They posthumously awarded their Golden Turkey Award to Wood as the worst director ever.

[[Alannah Myles]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1958 births, Singers from Toronto

Alannah Myles (b. December 25, 1958, Toronto) is a Canadian singer, songwriter and producer. She began her career as an actress. Myles began singing professionally around 1979 but was rejected by all record labels in Canada. After recording 3 masters and a video of "Just One Kiss" with Christopher Ward and David Tyson for her first album, she was immediately signed to an 8 album international contract by the head of A&R, Tunc Erim. Her first album was released on April 6, 1989. The first two singles released at the same time in Canada. They were "Love Is" and "Black Velvet". "Love is was released in the mainly English speaking west. It went to #1. "Black Velvet" was released in Quebec and went to #1 on French Canadian radio. "Black Velvet" was released internationally in 1990. It reached number one in many places. It stayed at #1 for two weeks in the United Kingdom. "Black Velvet" was a hit song released in the United States on Jan 9, 1990 as a single. This made Myles eligible for a Grammy Award. She won the award in 1991 for "Best Rock Vocal Performance-Female".

[[Henry IV, Pt. 1]]

CATEGORIES: Plays by William Shakespeare, Plays based on British history

Henry IV, Part 1 is a play by William Shakespeare. It was likely written no later than 1597. Shakespeare probably read Holinshed's Chronicles for background. The play was first printed in quarto in 1598 by Andrew Wise. The play was Shakespeare's most popular printed text. It is the second of Shakespeare's three plays about the reigns of Richard II, Henry IV (two plays), and Henry V. It has always been a popular play with audiences and with critics. Sir John Falstaff is one of Shakespeare's greatest and most popular characters.

[[Portland Winterhawks]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in the United States, Canadian Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Western Hockey League, Oregon, Portland, Oregon, 1970s establishments in Canada, 1970s establishments in Oregon

The Portland Winterhawks are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1976. They currently play in the Western Hockey League. They play their home games in Portland, Oregon at both the Memorial Coliseum and Rose Garden arenas. They have won 2 Memorial Cups in 1982 and 1997. They have also won 2 President's Cups in 1981 and 1997. They were originally known as the Portland Winter Hawks until May 2009 when they took out the space.

[[Bal du moulin de la Galette]]

CATEGORIES: 1870s paintings, Paintings in the Musée d'Orsay, Paris, French paintings, Impressionism

Bal du moulin de la Galette (Dance at Le moulin de la Galette) (1876) is a painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris. The painting depicts a typical Sunday afternoon at Moulin de la Galette in the district of Montmartre. In the late 19th century, working class Parisians would dress up and spend time there dancing, drinking, and eating galettes into the evening. Bal du moulin de la Galette is a typical Impressionist snapshot of real life. It shows a richness of form, a fluidity of brush stroke, and a flickering light. The French painter Gustave Caillebotte owned the painting for about 20 years. When he died it became the property of the French Republic. From 1896 to 1929 the painting hung in the Musée du Luxembourg. From 1929 it hung in the Musée du Louvre. It was sent to the Musée d'Orsay in 1986. Renoir painted a smaller version of the picture with the same title. This painting is in a private collection. For many years it was owned by John Hay Whitney. On May 17, 1990, his widow sold it for US$78 million at Sotheby's in New York City. It was one of the most expensive artworks ever sold.

[[Federal University of Rio de Janeiro]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Brazil, 1920 establishments in South America, Rio de Janeiro, 1920s establishments in Brazil

The Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, UFRJ) is the largest federal universities of Brazil. It has a central campus in the city of Rio de Janeiro and two smaller ones. It was established in 1792 as a military college, and became a university in 1920. It is one the country's most prestigious universities.

The Federal University owns several hospitals and several museums including the National Museum of Brazil.

[[Bride of Frankenstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 movies, 1930s horror movies, American horror movies, American LGBT movies, American science fiction movies, Black-and-white movies, English-language movies, Frankenstein movies, Monster movies, Sequel movies, United States National Film Registry movies, Universal Pictures movies, Mad scientist movies

Bride of Frankenstein (sometimes The Bride of Frankenstein) is a 1935 Universal Pictures science fiction horror movie. It is a sequel to Universal's Frankenstein (1931). Bride was directed by James Whale. It stars Boris Karloff, Elsa Lanchester, Colin Clive, and Ernest Thesiger.

The movie is based on a subplot in the book Frankenstein by Mary Shelley. It picks up where the movie Frankenstein leaves off.  In Bride, Henry Frankenstein drops his work in the laboratory. The Monster wants a mate. He forces Henry to create one.

Preparations for making Bride began shortly after Frankenstein opened in theaters.  Photography started in January 1935. Many of the actors and crew from Frankenstein returned for Bride. Critics and audiences loved the movie, but the censors found fault.

Today, the movie is considered Whale's masterpiece. The director and others involved in the production were homosexuals. Some viewers detect a gay sensibility in the movie. Some of Whale's associates have dismissed the idea.

[[The Wild One]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 movies, 1950s crime movies, 1953 drama movies, American crime drama movies, American teen drama movies, Gangster movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies set in California, Outlaw biker movies, Columbia Pictures movies, Movies directed by László Benedek

The Wild One (1953) is an outlaw biker movie. The movie was based on a short story that told of the damage done to a small California town in 1947 by thousands of rowdy outlaw bikers. The movie was directed by László Benedek. It stars Marlon Brando and Lee Marvin (in his movie debut) as rival biker gang leaders. It is the first outlaw biker movie. Critics and teenagers liked the movie. It inspired fads such as sideburns.

[[Matilda (1996 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 movies, 1990s family movies, 1990s fantasy movies, American fantasy movies, Movies based on books, English-language movies, Movies directed by Danny DeVito

Matilda is a fantasy movie. Danny DeVito directed the movie. The story is based on the novel called Matilda by Roald Dahl. TriStar Pictures released the movie on July 28, 1996. Mara Wilson, Danny DeVito, Rhea Perlman, Embeth Davidtz, and Pam Ferris are the stars of the movie. 6 1/2 (6 in a half)-7 year old kindergardener named Matilda (who lives with her abusive father who abuses her) got played by Mara Wilson.

[[Switching Channels]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 movies, 1988 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on plays, English-language movies, Movies directed by Ted Kotcheff

Switching Channels is a 1988 comedy starring Kathleen Turner, Burt Reynolds and Christopher Reeve. This movie got mixed reviews and was a commercial failure when it came out. This movie was like The Front Page, which was remade as His Girl Friday. This was released in March of 1988.

The movie got mixed reviews from the critics.

The movie was nominated for two Golden Raspberry Awards: Burt Reynolds for Worst Actor and Christopher Reeve for Worst Supporting Actor.

[[W.G. Grace]]

CATEGORIES: 1848 births, 1915 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English cricketers, British physicians, Sportspeople from Gloucestershire

W.G. Grace MRCS, LRCP (William Gilbert Grace, 18 July 1848 – 23 October 1915) was an English physician and cricketer.

Grace, always known as 'W.G.', was one of the greatest players, and was important in the development of the sport. He played first-class cricket for a record-equalling 44 seasons, from 1865 to 1908, during which he captained England, Gloucestershire County Cricket Club, the Gentlemen, MCC, the United South of England Eleven and several other teams. He came from a cricketing family. In 1880 W.G. with E.M. Grace, one of his elder brothers, and Fred Grace, his younger brother, was the first time three brothers played together in Test cricket. His father and a cousin were also good players.

Right-handed as both batsman and bowler, Grace dominated the sport during his career. His technical innovations and enormous influence had a lasting effect. An outstanding all-rounder, he excelled at batting, bowling and fielding. It is for his batting that he is most renowned. Usually opening the innings, he was admired for his mastery of all strokes: his level of expertise was said by contemporary reviewers to be unique. He generally captained the teams he played for at all levels because of his skill and tactical know-how, and his dominant personality.

Grace qualified as a medical practitioner in 1879. Because of his medical profession, he was nominally an amateur cricketer but he is said to have made more money from cricket than any professional. He was a very competitive player. Although he was one of the most famous men in England, he was also one of the most controversial on account of his gamesmanship and his financial skill.

He took part in other sports: as a young man he was a champion 440 yard hurdler, and also played football for the Wanderers.  In later life, he developed enthusiasm for golf, lawn bowls and curling.

Test cricket began in 1877, when Grace was already 28. He made his debut in 1880, scoring England's first-ever Test century against Australia. He played for England in 22 Tests through the 1880s and 1890s, all of them against Australia. He was an automatic selection for England at home, but his only Test-playing tour of Australia was that of 1891–92.

Grace's most significant Test was England v Australia in 1882 at The Oval. Thanks to Spofforth, the 'demon bowler', who took 14 wickets in the match, Australia won by 7 runs and the legend of The Ashes was born. Grace scored only 4 and 32, and he was held responsible for "firing up" Spofforth. This came about through a piece of gamesmanship by Grace when he made an unsporting, but legal, run out of one of the Australian batsmen.p137 Grace died of a heart attack.

[[Jōryaku]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Jōryaku was a Japanese era name (年号, nengō, lit. year name) after Jōhō and before Eihō.  This period started in November 1077 and ended in February 1081.  The reigning emperor was Emperor Shirakawa-tennō.

[[Eihō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Eihō was a Japanese era after Jōryaku and before Ōtoku.  This period started in February 1081 and ended in April 1084.  The reigning emperor was Emperor Shirakawa-tennō.

[[Ōtoku]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Ōtoku was a Japanese era name after Eihō and before Kanji.  This period spanned the years from February 1084 through April 1087.  The reigning emperor was Emperor Shirakawa-tennō.

[[Kanji (era)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Kanji was a Japanese era after Ōtoku and before Kahō.  This period started in April 1087 and ended in December 1094. The reigning emperor was Emperor Horikawa-tennō.

[[Terry Crews]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, African American actors, African American comedians, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from Michigan, San Diego Chargers players, Washington Redskins players, Actors from Michigan, Sportspeople from Michigan, People from Flint, Michigan

Terrence Alan Crews (born July 30, 1968) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, voice artist, and comedian. He is known for appearing in Everybody Hates Chris, The Expendables, White Chicks, The 6th Day, Norbit, Brooklyn Nine-Nine, and other movies and television series. He is a retired NFL player. Crews is from Flint, Michigan. Crews was the host of Who Wants To Be A Millionaire on September 2014 until May 2015 due to his busy schedule. He was replaced by Chris Harrison in September 2015.

[[Galette]]

CATEGORIES: French food, Cakes

A galette is a term used in French cuisine for various types of flat, round or freeform crusty cakes.

One notable type is the galette des Rois ('King cake') eaten on the day of Epiphany. In Quebec, the term galette is usually applied to pastries best described as large cookies.

Galette is also the name given in most French crêperies to savoury buckwheat flour pancakes. Those made from wheat flour, much smaller in size and mostly served with a sweet filling, are called crêpes.

[[Air Buddies]]

CATEGORIES: Disney movies, 2006 movies, Movies about animals, English-language movies

Air Buddies is the 6th movie in the Air Bud movie series. It is also the first movie in the Air Buddies movie series. It was released in 2006 by Walt Disney Home Entertainment. The movie was directed by Robert Vince.

[[List of bridges in Canada]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Canada, Lists of bridges

This list of bridges in Canada is organized by province and territory.

[[List of bridges in the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in the United Kingdom, Lists of bridges

List of main bridges in the United Kingdom is a work in progress. 

[[Kahō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Kahō was a Japanese era after Kanji and before Eichō.  This period started in December 1094 and ended in December 1096. The reigning emperor was Emperor Horikawa-tennō.

[[New Girl]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 American television series debuts, 2018 television series endings, 2010s American sitcoms, 2010s romance television series, Romantic comedy television series, Television series about friendship, Television series set in Los Angeles, California, English-language television programs

New Girl is an American television sitcom set in Los Angeles. It began on September 20, 2011 and is shown on Fox. It stars Zooey Deschanel as Jess Day, a teacher who moves in with three young men she meets on the Internet after separating from her partner with whom she lived.

[[Oppuurs]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Oppuurs is a small town in the Belgian province of Antwerp. It is a part of the municipality of Sint-Amands. Oppuurs has 2028 inhabitants 2006. Oppuurs has an area of 473.

[[List of languages by writing system]]

CATEGORIES: Language-related lists, Writing systems

This is a list of languages which uses writing system to sort.

[[Lucille Ball]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1989 deaths, Deaths from aortic aneurysm, Actors from New York, American movie actors, American radio actors, American television actors, American television producers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Emmy Award winners, Kennedy Center honorees, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients

Lucille Désirée Ball (August 6, 1911 – April 26, 1989) was an American comedian, model, movie and television actress and studio executive. She was the star of the sitcoms I Love Lucy, The Lucy–Desi Comedy Hour, The Lucy Show, Here's Lucy and Life With Lucy. Ball was one of the most popular and powerful actors in the United States during her lifetime. She also had one of Hollywood's longest careers.

Ball began acting in the 1930s. She became both a radio actress and B-movie star in the 1940s. Her television career began in  the 1950s. She was still making movies in the 1960s and 1970s. In 1962, Ball became the first woman to run a major television studio, Desilu. This studio made many successful and popular television series.

[[The Blob]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 movies, 1950s horror movies, 1950s science fiction movies, American science fiction horror movies, American monster movies, English-language movies, American independent movies

The Blob is a 1958 American science fiction horror movie. It was directed by Irvin Yeaworth. It was produced by Jack H. Harris.  Paramount Pictures released the movie. The movie is about a giant jellylike blob that terrorizes a small town. The Blob marked Steve McQueen's movie debut. The movie's theme song, "Beware of the Blob", was written by Burt Bacharach and Mack David. It was remade in 1988.

[[Akita, Akita]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Akita Prefecture

Akita is a Japanese city in Akita Prefecture on the island of Honshu.  It is the capital city of the prefecture.

[[Japanese clock]]

CATEGORIES: Clocks, Japanese culture

The Japanese clock is a device made to tell the time according to Japanese tradition.

These clocks were introduced to Japan via Jesuit missionaries in the 16th century.

In 1612, the clockmaker of Philip II of Spain created a working timepiece which became a gift for Tokugawa Ieyasu.

One of the major features of the Japanese clock is that it has a mechanism for measuring unequal temporal hours. Usual clock tells hours at same intervals, but in the Japanese traditional timekeeping practice, a day had six daytime units from sunrise to sunset and six night units from sunset to sunrise. Then the Japanese clock was designed to adapt to this practice.

[[Eichō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Eichō was a Japanese era after Kahō and before Jōtoku.  This period started in December 1096 and ended in November 1097.  The reigning emperor was Emperor Horikawa-tennō.

[[Polonaises Op. 40 (Chopin)]]

CATEGORIES: Solo piano pieces, Compositions by Frédéric Chopin

The Polonaise in A major, Op. 40, No. 1 (nicknamed the "Military" Polonaise) is a piece of music for solo piano. It was composed by Frédéric Chopin.  It was published in 1838, with the Polonaise in C minor, Op. 40, No. 2. Anton Rubinstein wrote that the Polonaise in A major is the symbol of Polish glory, while the Polonaise in C minor is the symbol of Polish tragedy.

The polonaise is a Polish dance in 3/4 time. It has a distinctive rhythmic pattern which this polonaise follows unflinchingly. The A major Polonaise is written in an A-B-A form, with the B section being a "Trio". The polonaise opens with an A major chord. It continues in a vigorously masculine manner. The tempo indication is Allegro con brio (Fast, with bravura). The trio section begins in D major. The short passage following the first section of the trio is distinguished with trills for both hands on low C-sharps an octave apart. These trills suggest drum rolls. 

Charles Rosen writes, "Polonaises had been written by many composers before, including Bach, Mozart, and Beethoven; Schubert, in fact, wrote lots of them. But nothing like the violence of Chopin’s military polonaises, ... The military polonaises were certainly understood as political statements of patriotism for his country, which was struggling to obtain its freedom ... these military polonaises have a decidedly popular character ..."

[[Kinderszenen]]

CATEGORIES: Solo piano pieces, Compositions by Robert Schumann

Kinderszenen (original spelling Kinderscenen, (Scenes from Childhood), Opus 15, is a set of 13 pieces for solo piano by Robert Schumann. It was published in 1838. Schumann was looking back on his childhood when composing these pieces. He had originally written 30 movements for Scenes from Childhood. He chose only 13 for the final set. The unused movements were published years later in Bunte Blätter, Opus 99, and Albumblätter (Album Leaves, Opus 124). 

Schumann originally titled the work Leichte Stücke (Easy Pieces). The titles for the individual pieces were only added after the music was complete. Schumann described the titles as "nothing more than delicate hints for execution and interpretation". Timothy Taylor has discussed Schumann's choice of titles for this work in the context of the changing situation of music in 19th century culture and economics. In 1974, Eric Sams noted that there is no known complete manuscript of Kinderszenen.

[[Giselle]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets choreographed by Jules Perrot, Ballets, 1841

Giselle; or, The Wilis is a romantic ballet in two acts. Jules-Henri Vernoy de Saint-Georges and Théophile Gautier wrote the story of the ballet. They based it on a short prose passage in Heinrich Heine's De l'Allemagne. They also used Victor Hugo's poem "Fantômes". Adolphe Adam wrote the music. Jean Coralli and Jules Perrot designed the dances. Carlotta Grisi danced the role of Giselle in the first production. The scenery was created by Pierre Cisceri. 

The story is set in Germany during the Renaissance. Giselle is a peasant girl. She falls in love with Albrecht. He is a nobleman pretending to be a peasant boy. Giselle is shocked to discover Albrecht is going to marry the princess Bathilde. Her heart breaks. She goes mad (insane, crazy) and dies. One night, she rises from her grave. She wants to protect Albrecht from the Wilis. The Wilis are the ghostly spirits of dead girls. They force men to dance to their deaths. 

The ballet was first performed in Paris on Monday 28 June 1841 at the Théâtre de l'Académie Royale de Musique. It was a great success. It was staged almost at once by other ballet companies in Europe, Russia, and the United States. Grisi was declared another Taglioni. Taglioni was the age's greatest ballerina. Ballet historian Grace Robert writes "Giselle ... is the archetype of the ballets of the romantic age".

[[IONIS School of Technology and Management]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in France, 2009 establishments in France

IONIS School of Technology and Management (IONIS STM) is a French private graduate school in information technology, computer science, energy, biotechnology and management.

It was made in 2009 and is in Le Kremlin-Bicêtre.

The school delivers 14 Master of Business Administration (MBA) recognized by French State, and can teach both technical and management aspects.

[[Jōtoku]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Jōtoku was a Japanese era name after Eichō and before Kōwa.  This period started in November 1097 and ended in August 1099.  The reigning emperor was Emperor Horikawa-tennō.

[[Kōwa (Heian period)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Kowa was a Japanese era name after Jōtoku and before Chōji.  This period started in August 1099 and ended in February 1104.  The reigning emperor was Horikawa-tennō.

[[Robert Vince]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian movie directors, Canadian writers, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Robert Vince is a Canadian movie director, producer, writer, and screenwriter. He is the director of the Air Buddies movies and the brother of William Vince. Vince is the CEO of PeyPix Productions.

[[Chōji]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Chōji was a Japanese era name after Kōwa and before Kashō.  This period started in February 1104 and ended in April 1106.  The reigning emperor was Emperor Horikawa-tennō.

[[Roux]]

CATEGORIES: French food, Sauces

Roux  is a cooking mixture of wheat flour and butter (or other fat). It is the basis of many types of French sauce for cooking.

Roux is the thickening agent of three of the mother sauces of classical French cuisine: sauce béchamel, sauce velouté and sauce espagnole.  Clarified butter, vegetable oils, or lard are commonly used fats. It thickens gravy, other sauces, soups and stews. It is made from equal parts of flour and fat by weight. 

When used in Italian cooking, roux is traditionally equal parts of butter and flour. In Cajun cuisine, roux is almost always made with oil instead of butter and is dark brown in colour. This lends much richness of flavour, but less thickening power. Hungarian cuisine uses rendered lard or vegetable oil instead of butter for the preparation of roux (called rántás in Hungarian).

[[Minute Waltz]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Frédéric Chopin, Solo piano pieces, Waltzes

The "Minute Waltz" is the nickname for the Waltz in D flat major, Op. 64, No. 1 by Frederic Chopin. It was written in 1847. It is a piece of music for the piano. It is sometimes called "The Waltz of the Little Dog" (Valse du petit chien). This is because Chopin was watching a little dog chase its tail when he wrote it.  The little dog was "Marquis". He belonged to Chopin's friend George Sand. Marquis had befriended Chopin. The composer mentioned Marquis in several of his letters. In one letter dated 25 November 1846, Chopin wrote: "Please thank Marquis for missing me and for sniffing at my door."  

The waltz was published by Breitkopf & Härtel. It was the first of three waltzes in a collection of waltzes called Trois Valses, Op. 64.  The publisher gave the waltz its popular nickname "Minute". The word here means small or little. The tempo marking is Molto vivace (Very fast, very lively), but Chopin did not intend the waltz to be played in one minute as some believe. A typical performance will last between one and a half to two and a half minutes. 

The time signature is 3/4. The waltz is 138 measures long with one fifteen-measure repeat. The waltz is written in ternary, or ABA form. The A section is characterized by a whirling line of eighth notes and triplets over the "om-pah-pah" rhythm of the waltz. The whirling line of the A section is abandoned in the B section. This section consists of a consistent half note and quarter note pattern from bar to bar. The B section breaks off and a long trill heralds the return of the A section, which is repeated in full. The waltz ends with a descending scale. 

In popular culture, Minute Waltz was used on Pretty Little Liars, The Girlfriend Experience, One Tree Hill, and Sex and the City. 

[[LGBT rights in Cyprus]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT rights by country, Cyprus

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons in Cyprus may face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Both male and female same-sex sexual activity are legal in Cyprus and civil unions became legal in November 2015.

In Cyprus, the socially conservative Eastern Orthodox Church has a significant influence over public opinion when it comes to LGBT-rights. However, ever since Cyprus sought membership in the European Union it has had to change its human rights legislation, including its laws regarding sexual orientation and gender identity.

[[Tennin (era)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Tennin was a Japanese era name after Kajō and before Ten'ei.  This period started in August 1108 ended in July 1110.  The reigning emperor was Toba-tennō.

[[LGBT rights in Turkey]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT rights by country, Turkey

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in Turkey may face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Homosexuality is legal in the Republic of Turkey, but the law does not include sexual orientation or gender identity in its civil rights laws and there is no legal recognition for same-sex couples. But sexual reassignment surgery is allowed and legal sex change has been possible since 1988. In 1858, the Ottoman Caliph decriminalised homosexuality. This affected many countries in the three continents of the Old World, respectively. When Turkey became a solo nation in 1920, it didn’t see a need to change this law. Omer Akpinar, who is with KAOS LG, which is one of the largest LGBT organizations in Turkish Republic, told Mashable that their organization was never censored.December 2018 Jack Scott, a British writer who moved to Turkey with his partner and who is the author of Perking the Pansies: Jack and Liam Move to Turkey, said his "obvious union with Liam has never attracted bad publicity from any Turk," talking to the real estate company Quest Turkey.

Turkey tends to be socially conservative when it comes to such issues as homosexuality.

[[Piano Sonata No. 16 (Mozart)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Solo piano pieces, Sonatas

The Sonata No. 16 in C major, K. 545, is a piece of music for solo piano. It was composed by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. On 26 June 1788, he added the piece to his catalogue as "a little Piano Sonata for beginners". He may have written the piece for a pupil. If he did, that pupil is not known. In the end, the story behind the sonata is a mystery.

On 2 August 1788 Mozart wrote a letter to his sister Nannerl. She was living in Salzburg. He had sent her some pieces for the piano. He wrote, "Indeed you have every reason to be vexed with me! But will you really be so, when you receive by this mail coach my very latest compositions for the keyboard? Surely not! This, I hope, will make everything all right again." This passage might refer to the Sonata in C. But it may refer to other keyboard compositions Mozart wrote the same year. 

The manuscript is lost. The piece was not published during Mozart's lifetime. It was first published in February 1805 by the Bureau des arts et d'Industrie in Vienna. It was titled "Sonate facile pour le pianoforte" (Easy Sonata for the piano). At least three more editions were published within a short time. Breitkopf & Härtel did not include it in their Oeuvres complettes. A typical performance lasts about 14 minutes.

[[Minuet in G (Beethoven)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven, Solo piano pieces

The Minuet in G, WoO 10, No. 2 is a piece of music for the piano. It was composed by Ludwig van Beethoven. The piece  was originally written for orchestra. This version was lost. Only an arrangement for piano exists. It is a very popular piece, especially among beginning pianists.

[[Ten'ei]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1110 establishments, 1110s establishments in Japan, 1113 disestablishments, 12th century disestablishments in Japan

Ten'ei was a Japanese era name after Tennin and before Eikyū.  This period started in July 1110 and ended in July 1113.  The reigning emperor was Emperor Toba-tennō.

[[Come On Over (Shania Twain album)]]

CATEGORIES: Shania Twain albums, 1997 albums

Come on Over is an album released by country music singer Shania Twain. 

It was released in 1997. 

It is the biggest selling album by a female country singer. 

All of the songs were written by Shania Twain and Mutt Lange. 

Singles released off of the album include the title track, "That Don't Impress Me Much", "Man! I Feel Like A Woman!", 

"Honey, I'm Home", "You're Still The One", "From This Moment On", "You've Got A Way", "Love Gets Me Every Time," "Don't Be Stupid!", "When", "Rock This Country!", and "I'm Holding On To Love (To Save My Life)".

[[Up! (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Shania Twain albums, 2002 albums

Up! is the fourth studio album released by country music artist Shania Twain. It was released in 2002. Shania Twain and Mutt Lange wrote all of the songs. Singles released off the album include the title track, "It Only Hurts When I'm Breathing", "Ka-Ching!", "I'm Gonna Getcha Good!", "Forever and For Always", "She's Not Just A Pretty Face", and "When You Kiss Me".

[[Newbery Medal]]

CATEGORIES: Literary awards, Children's literature, Lists of books

The John Newbery Medal is a literary award of the American Library Association (ALA).

The medal is given to writers of books for children.

[[Masuho, Yamanashi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Japan, Settlements in Yamanashi Prefecture

Masuho was a town in Minamikoma District, Yamanashi, Japan.

On March 8, 2010, two towns combined to become a new town. Masuho and Kajikazawa became Fujikawa.

[[Fujikawa, Yamanashi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Japan, Settlements in Yamanashi Prefecture

Fujikawa 富士川町 is a town in Minamikoma District, Yamanashi, Japan.

On March 8, 2010 the towns of Masuho and Kajikazawa combined to become the new town of "Fujikawa".

[[Muroran, Hokkaidō]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Hokkaido

Muroran 室蘭市 is a city and port in Iburi, Hokkaidō, Japan.  It is the capital city of Iburi Subprefecture.

[[Eikyū]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1113 establishments, 1110s establishments in Japan, 1118 disestablishments, 12th century disestablishments in Japan

Eikyū was a Japanese era name after Ten'ei and before Gen'ei.  This period started in July 1113 and ended in April 1118.  The reigning emperor was Emperor Toba-tennō.

[[Gen'ei]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1118 establishments, 1120 disestablishments, 1110s establishments in Japan, 1120s disestablishments in Japan

Gen'ei was a Japanese era name after Eikyū and before Hōan.  This period started in April 1118 and ended in April 1120.  The reigning emperor was Emperor Toba-tennō.

[[Hōan]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1120 establishments, 1120s establishments in Japan, 1124 disestablishments, 1120s disestablishments in Japan

Hōan was a Japanese era name after Gen'ei and before Tenji.  This period spanned the years from April 1120 through April 1124.  The reigning emperors were Toba-tennō and Sutoku-tennō.

[[Tenji (era)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1124 establishments, 1120s establishments in Japan, 1126 disestablishments, 1120s disestablishments in Japan

Tenji was a Japanese era name after Hōan and before Daiji.  This period spanned the years from April 1124 through January 1126. The reigning emperor was Sutoku-tennō.

[[Daiji (era)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1126 establishments, 1120s establishments in Japan, 1131 disestablishments, 1130s disestablishments in Japan

Daiji was a Japanese era name after Tenji and before Tenshō.  This period started in January 1126 and ended in January 1131.  The reigning emperor was Sutoku-tennō.

[[Tenshō (Heian period)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1131 establishments, 1130s establishments in Japan, 1132 disestablishments, 1130s disestablishments in Japan

Tenshō was a Japanese era name after Daiji and before Chōshō.  This period started in January 1131 and ended in August 1132. The reigning emperor was Sutoku-tennō.

[[Standing start]]

CATEGORIES: Motor sports

A standing start is a type of start in auto racing events where cars are standing still when the race begins. In a standing start, cars are completely still when a green signal is given to start the race. This often follows a set of lights that count down to the start of the race. Standing starts are common in many motorsports, including drag racing, most single-seat (Formula One and GP2 Series), Touring Cars (most notably British and World Touring Cars), V8 Supercars, and many types of short-course off-road races. The standing start often occurs following a parade lap.

The opposite of a standing start is a rolling start. Standing starts are often deemed safer in Formula sports because of high acceleration speeds, which could cause problems if a rolling start were used. A standing start can cause problems like stalled cars being hit by the driver who starts behind them on the grid. Motorsports using standing starts usually penalize drivers who "jump the start", or redlight, by moving before the green light is lit.

[[Communist Party of the Russian Federation]]

CATEGORIES: Communist parties, Political parties in Russia

The Communist Party of the Russian Federation (CPRF; Russian: Коммунистическая партия Российской Федерации) is a Communist and Marxist–Leninist political party in Russia. It is the second largest political party in Russia. The party is often viewed as the successor of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU).

The CPSU was banned in 1991 by then-Russian President Boris Yeltsin after a failed coup attempt. The youth organisation of the party is the Leninist Young Communist League. The party is led by a Central Committee.

The CPRF was founded on 14 February 1993. It is founded  as the successor of the Communist Party of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (CPRSFSR).

As of 2015, the party has 160,000 members. The party's goal is to establish a new, modernized form of socialism in Russia. The party wants to nationalize natural resources, agriculture and large industries.

[[Set Fire to the Rain]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 2011 songs, Adele songs

"Set Fire to the Rain" is the second hit song from Adele's second album 21. It was her third number-one single in the United States. It hit #1 on Billboard Hot 100, becoming her third song to do so. It reached number 12 on the year-end chart of 2012 in the US. It has also been certified quadruple-Platinum for shipments of over four million copies in the US.

[[Lippelo]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Antwerp

Lippelo is a small town in the Belgian province of Antwerp. It is a part of the municipality of Sint-Amands. Lippelo had 1173 people as of 01/01/2006.

[[Seattle Thunderbirds]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in the United States, Canadian Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Western Hockey League, Sports in Seattle, Washington, 1970s establishments in Canada

The Seattle Thunderbirds are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1977. They currently play in the Western Hockey League. They play their home games in Kent, Washington, south of Seattle, at the ShoWare Center. They were known as the Vancouver Nats from 1971 to 73, the Kamloops Chiefs from 1973 to 77, and the Seattle Breakers from 1977 to 85. 

[[Twelve Variations on "Ah vous dirai-je, Maman"]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Solo piano pieces, Variations (music)

Twelve Variations on "Ah vous dirai-je, Maman", K. 265/300e, is a piece of music for piano. It was composed by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in 1781 or 1782. The variations were first published in Vienna in 1785. The piece consists of twelve variations on the French folk song "Ah! vous dirai-je, Maman". The French melody first appeared in 1761. It has been used for many children's songs, such as "Twinkle Twinkle Little Star", "Baa, Baa, Black Sheep" and the "Alphabet Song". Only Variations XI and XII have tempo indications, Adagio and Allegro respectively.

It was once thought that this piece was composed in 1778 when Mozart was briefly living in Paris. It was assumed that he could only have picked up a French folk song while living in France. Based on this assumption, the piece was re-numbered from K. 265 to K. 300e in the chronological catalogue of Mozart's compositions.  Later analysis of Mozart's manuscript indicated 1781/1782 as the probable composition date.

[[Russian Communist Workers' Party – Revolutionary Party of Communists]]

CATEGORIES: Communist parties, Political parties in Russia

The Communist Workers Party of Russia - Revolutionary Party of Communists (RCWP-RPC) (Russian: Российская Коммунистическая Рабочая Партия – Революционная Партия Коммунистов)is a Communist political party in Russia. The party was created in October 2001, wanting to bring Communism and the Soviet Union back.

The RCWP-PRC is run by Viktor Tyulkin.

In the 1999 State Duma Election, the party got 1,481,890 votes overall. As of 2006, the party claims 55,000 members. The party also has no representatives in the State Duma or the Regional Parliaments.

[[Izhevsk]]

Izhevsk (Russian: Иже́вск) is the capital city of Udmurt Republic in Russia. The population is 628,116 people. From 1984 to 1987, the city's name was Ustinov (in honour of the  Minister of Defense of the USSR and the Marshal of the Soviet Union, Dmitry Ustinov).

[[List of Japan international footballers]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

This is a list of Japan international footballers – Japanese association football players who have played for the Japan national football team as recorded by the Japan Football Association.

[[François Pierre La Varenne]]

CATEGORIES: French chefs, 1615 births, 1678 deaths

François Pierre de la Varenne (Burgundy, 1615 – Dijon 1678) was the author of Le Cuisinier françois (1651), the founding text of modern French cuisine. 

La Varenne, in the 17th century, broke with the Italian traditions that had revolutionized mediaeval French cookery in the 16th century. La Varenne wrote for professional chefs, and codified French cuisine for the age of Louis XIV. 

The seventeenth century saw French cooking come into the modern era. The heavily spiced flavours of the Middle Ages were abandoned in favour of the natural flavours of French foods. Exotic spices (saffron, cinnamon, cumin, ginger, nutmeg, cardamom, nigella, seeds of paradise) were, with the exception of pepper, replaced by local herbs (parsley, thyme, bayleaf, chervil, sage, tarragon). New vegetables like cauliflower, asparagus, peas, cucumber and artichoke were introduced. Special care was given to the cooking of meat in order to conserve maximum flavour. Vegetables had to be fresh and tender. Fish, with the improvement of transportation, had to be impeccably fresh. Preparation had to respect the taste and visual look of the ingredients instead of masking them as had been done before.

La Varenne introduced the first bisque and Béchamel sauce. He replaced crumbled bread with roux as the base for sauces, and lard with butter. Here one finds the first use of the terms bouquet garni, fonds de cuisine (stocks) and reductions, and the use of egg-whites for clarification. It also has the earliest recipe in print for mille-feuille. The cooking of vegetables is discussed, a novelty. In a fragrant sauce for asparagus there is evidence of an early form of hollandaise sauce:

La Varenne had earlier (1650) written a book on confitures—jams,  jellies and preserves. That included recipes for syrups, compotes and a great variety of fruit drinks, as well as a section on salads.

La Varenne wrote a third book, Le Pâtissier françois (Paris 1653), which was the first comprehensive French work on pastry-making. In 1662 was the first of the combined editions that presented all three works together. All the early editions of La Varenne's works—Le Cuisinier françois ran through some thirty editions in seventy-five years—are extremely rare; like children's books, they too were worn to pieces, in the kitchen, and simply used up.

Pirated editions of Le Cuisinier françois were printed in Amsterdam (1653) and The Hague (1654-56). Soon there were imitators: Le cuisinier françois méthodique was published anonymously in Paris, 1660. The English translation, The French Cook (London 1653) was the first French cookbook translated into English. It introduced professional terms like à la mode, au bleu (very rare), and au naturel which are now standard culinary expressions. Its success can be gauged from the fact that over 250,000 copies were printed in about 250 editions and it remained in print until 1815. 

La Varenne had ten years' experience as chef de cuisine to the Marquis d'Uxelles, to whom he dedicated his publications and whom he immortalized in duxelles, finely-minced mushrooms seasoned with herbs and shallots, which is still a favourite flavouring for fish and vegetables. 

Le Cuisinier françois was reprinted in 1983, published by Editions Montalba with a comprehensive introductory essay.

[[École des technologies numériques appliquées]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in France, 2005 establishments in France

École des technologies numériques appliquées (ETNA) is a French private graduate school in information technology and computer science. It was made in 2005 and is in Ivry-sur-Seine.

The school has two courses, software development and computer network/security, and delivers a degree recognized by French State. It teaches with a dual education system.

[[Handel's Largo]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by George Frideric Handel, Arias, 1738, 1730s operas

"Handel's Largo" is the popular title for an aria composed by George Frideric Handel. He wrote it in 1738 for the opera Serse (Xerxes). The opera was a failure. It closed after only five performances. One hundred years later though the aria was resurrected. It became a big hit. It was performed at solemn occasions such as funerals and weddings. It was arranged for all sorts of instruments and voices. It is known by many people as "Ombra mai fu" because those words are the first words of the aria. The title is Italian and means "Never was a shade". The aria is sung by the main character, Xerxes I of Persia. He is admiring the shade of a tree. The original tempo is larghetto (a little slow and solemn). The aria is short. It is only 52 bars long. It lasts about four minutes. In the opera, a string section accompanies the singer. These strings are first and second violins, viola, and basses. The key signature is F major. The time signature is 3/4 time. 

[[Water Music (Handel)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by George Frideric Handel, Suites

The Water Music is a group of pieces for Baroque orchestra. The pieces were composed by George Frideric Handel. The Water Music is made up of three suites. These suites include minuets, hornpipes, bourrées, and other dances. In sum, there are three suites (F major, D major, G major), made up of 21 individual pieces. 

Legend says the three suites were first played on a trip taken by King George I of England up the Thames to Chelsea or Lambeth on 17 July 1717. The King had known Handel for a long time. For some reason though, he was angry with Handel.  The Water Music was Handel's way of appeasing the King. Fifty musicians floated alongside the King's barge playing the suites. The King was so pleased he ordered Water Music played three times.

Another Legend has it that He played it for a party King George I was having. It says he hired Handel to write a piece of music for him and his royal friends to listen to while sailing in the water; thus the name Water Music 

All the instruments in the Baroque orchestra were included in the composition, except the harpsichord and timpani. It would have been difficult to bring these  instruments aboard a barge. The instruments in a complete performance are a flute, two recorders, two oboes, one bassoon, two horns, two trumpets, strings, and continuo.

[[Yoshio Fujiwara]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Yoshio Fujiwara was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Naoemon Shimizu]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, 1945 deaths, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Naoemon Shimizu was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Ryuzo Shimizu]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Ryuzo Shimizu was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Fukusaburo Harada]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Fukusaburo Harada was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Usaburo Hidaka]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Usaburo Hidaka was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shizuo Miyama]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Shizuo Miyama was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Toshio Hirabayashi]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Toshio Hirabayashi was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Setsu Sawagata]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Setsu Sawagata was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kikuzo Kisaka]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Kikuzo Kisaka was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shumpei Inoue]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Shumpei Inoue was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shiro Azumi]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Shiro Azumi was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kiyoo Kanda]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, 1970 deaths, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Kiyoo Kanda was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Yanosuke Watanabe]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Yanosuke Watanabe was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Yoshimatsu Oyama]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Yoshimatsu Oyama was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Toshio Miyaji]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Toshio Miyaji was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Uichiro Hatta]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1989 deaths, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Uichiro Hatta was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Hifuyo Uchida]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Hifuyo Uchida was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Alcina]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by George Frideric Handel, 1730s operas, 1735

Alcina is an opera seria with music by George Frideric Handel. The libretto was written by Riccardo Broschi. The opera is based on an episode in Ludovico Ariosto's Orlando furioso, an epic poem set in the time of Charlemagne's wars against Islam. Handel composed several little ballets in the opera for the famous dancer Marie Sallé.

Alcina was first performed on 16 April 1735 at Covent Garden in London. It was revived in Germany in 1738. It was not performed again until 1928.

Joan Sutherland sang the role for her debut in Venice in 1960. She sang it again the same year in Dallas. She sang it at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, in 1962. Renée Fleming sang the role in Chicago in 1999.

[[Jiro Miyake]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, 1984 deaths, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Jiro Miyake was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Sachi Kagawa]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Sachi Kagawa was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Masao Takada]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Masao Takada was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Masuzo Madono]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Masuzo Madono was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Sakae Takahashi]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Sakae Takahashi was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kiyonosuke Marutani]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Kiyonosuke Marutani was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kinjiro Shimizu]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Kinjiro Shimizu was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shojiro Sugimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1975 deaths, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Shojiro Sugimura was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. He is sometimes known as Shojiro Nomura (野村 正二郎).

[[Junji Nishikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Junji Nishikawa was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Daigoro Kondo]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1991 deaths, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Deaths from intracranial hemorrhage

Daigoro Kondo was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Ko Takamoro]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1995 deaths, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Ko Takamoro was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Haruo Arima]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Haruo Arima was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Tamotsu Asakura]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Tamotsu Asakura was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shigeru Takahashi]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Shigeru Takahashi was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Michiyo Taki]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Michiyo Taki was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Tameo Ide]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1998 deaths, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Tameo Ide was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Nagayasu Honda]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Nagayasu Honda was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Yasuo Haruyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1987 deaths, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Yasuo Haruyama was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shiro Teshima]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1982 deaths, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Shiro Teshima was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Teruo Abe]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Teruo Abe was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shiro Misaki]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Shiro Misaki was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Hideo Sakai]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1996 deaths, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Hideo Sakai was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Klein-Brabant]]

CATEGORIES: Antwerp (province)

Klein-Brabant is a Flemish region in the Belgian province of Antwerp.

The region got a lot of attention during and after the broadcasting of the Eén series Stille Waters. Also the yearly Dodentocht and the Schelde Internationale Muziekstroom-route contribute to the image of the region.

The region includes the municipalities of Sint-Amands, Bornem and Puurs. There is also a police zone which is named Politiezone Klein-Brabant.

[[Takashi Kawanishi]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Takashi Kawanishi was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shunichi Kumai]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Shunichi Kumai was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Takeshi Natori]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Takeshi Natori was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Lee Yoo-hyung]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2003 deaths, Japanese footballers, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers, Japan international footballers

Lee Yoo-Hyung (January 21, 1911 - January 29, 2003) was a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Japanese national team in 1940.

[[Takashi Kasahara]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Takashi Kasahara was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Saburo Shinosaki]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Saburo Shinosaki was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kazu Naoki]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Kazu Naoki was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Yozo Aoki]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Yozo Aoki is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[South India]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of India

South India is often used to refer to the states and territories in the southern part of the Republic of India. In general, one of the following is meant:

[[Nara National Research Institute for Cultural Properties]]

CATEGORIES: Independent Administrative Institutions of Japan

The Nara National Research Institute for Cultural Properties, also known as the Nara Research Institute for Cultural Properties or as Nabunken, is a semi-governmental entity which focuses on the preservation of Japan's cultural heritage of objects, artworks and writings.

Nabunken is an Independent Administrative Institution (IAI).

[[Still Got It]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Drake songs

"Still Got It" is a song by Tyga featuring Drake, from Tyga's album Careless World: Rise of the Last King. The song debuted at number 89 on the Billboard Hot 100 on the week ending October 29, 2011.

[[Barkerville, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Ghost towns in Canada, Settlements in British Columbia

Barkerville is a ghost town in the Canadian province of British Columbia. The peak population of Barkerville was 5,000. Barkerville is classified as a historic town. The Chinese were also a major part in the history of Barkerville as they built most of the businesses, cabins and both provided social services and resolved disputes within the Chinese community without having to use BC courts.

The town was designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 1924.

[[Chōshō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1132 establishments, 1130s establishments in Japan, 1135 disestablishments, 1130s disestablishments in Japan

Chōshō was a Japanese era name after Tenshō and before Hōen.  This period started in August 1132 and ended in November 1135.  The reigning emperor was Sutoku-tennō.

[[Chōkan]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Chōkan was a Japanese era name after Ōhō and before Eiman.  This period started in March 1163 and ended in June 1165.  The reigning emperors were Nijō-tennō and Emperor Rokujō-tennō.

[[Sup'Internet]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in Paris, 2011 establishments in France

Sup'Internet  is a French private graduate school. It teaches things to do with the Internet. It was founded in 2011. It is in Paris.

The school has three courses, graphic design, internet management and web technologies and delivers a Bachelor's degree. It is one of the two schools in France (the other one is the École européenne des métiers de l'Internet) entirely meant for teaching things about the Internet.

[[Eiman]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Eiman was a Japanese era name after Chōkan and before Nin'an.  This period started in June 1165 and ended in August 1166. The reigning emperor was Emperor Rokujō-tennō.

[[Le Kremlin-Bicêtre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Val-de-Marne

Le Kremlin-Bicêtre is a town and commune in the southern suburb of Paris, France. It is in the Île-de-France region and the Val-de-Marne department. About 26,018 people lived there in 2006.

[[Nin'an]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Nin'an, also known as Ninnan, was a Japanese era name after Eiman and before Kaō.  This period started in August 1166 ended in April 1169. The reigning emperors were Rokujō-tennō and Takakura-tennō.

[[Villejuif]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Val-de-Marne

Villejuif is a town and commune in the southest suburb of Paris, France. It is in the Île-de-France region and the Val-de-Marne department. About 53,240 people lived there in 2008.

[[Kaō (era)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Kaō was a Japanese era name after Nin'an and before Jōan.  This period started in April 1169 ended in April 1171.  The reigning emperor was Takakura-tennō.

[[Exception handling]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

In computing, an exception is a special situation where the program cannot do things the way it usually would and is forced to do something else instead. One layer of the system uses an exception to give another layer information about special states the system is currently in. The different layers of software or hardware have contracts, that tell what can be expected; this is generally known as Programming by Contract. In the context of exception handling, a program is said to be exception-safe, if exceptions that occur will not produce side-effects (such as memory leaks), will not change stored data so that it becomes unreadable, or generate output that is invalid. There are different levels of exception safety:

Usually, a programmer will try to catch the exception early so that problems don't get worse over time.

[[Giulio Cesare]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by George Frideric Handel, 18th century operas

Giulio Cesare in Egitto (Julius Caesar in Egypt) is an opera in three acts with music by George Frideric Handel. The Italian  libretto was written by Nicola Francesco Haym. It was based on an earlier libretto written by Giacomo Francesco Bussani. The opera was written for the Royal Academy of Music. 

The opera was first performed in London on 20 February 1724. It was a success. It was performed again in 1725, 1730, and 1732. It was also performed in France and Germany. 

Giulio Cesare was not performed in the 19th century. Many people had forgotten all about it.  It was not until 1922 that the opera was performed again. Since then, it has been performed around the world. It is Handel's best opera. It is known simply as Giulio Cesare.

[[Microsoft InfoPath]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft Office

Microsoft InfoPath is a piece of software that Microsoft sells. InfoPath is used to create computer-ized versions of documents people have to fill out. 

InfoPath has two main parts: an 'editor' interface, used to make and design forms, and a 'form-filling' interface, used to fill out forms that have been made in InfoPath. For example, if someone had to fill out a timesheet on a regular basis, they could use InfoPath's editor to replicate the timesheet form. Every time they had to fill out the timesheet, they could open the form they made in InfoPath, fill it out using InfoPath's form-fill interface, and then save it as a file for archival and print it out if they ever needed to.

Forms that have been made in InfoPath can be put on SharePoint websites.  Forms can also be amended with XPath, Basic, or C# computer code to do mathematics or read from and write to databases.

[[Jōan (era)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Jōan was a Japanese era name after Kaō and before Angen.  This period started in April 1171 and ended in July 1175. The reigning emperor was Takakura-tennō.

[[Angen]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Angen was a Japanese era name after Jōan and before Jishō.  This period started in July 1175 and ended in August 1177.  The reigning emperor was Takakura-tennō.

[[Lana Clarkson]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2003 deaths, Actors from Long Beach, California, American movie actors, American murder victims, American television actors, Murdered actors, Murders by firearm in California, People from Long Beach, California, People murdered in California

Lana Clarkson (5 April 1963 - 3 February 2003) was an American actress. She starred in many movies dealing with fantasy, drama and adventure.

[[Tan (color)]]

Tan is a color that is a pale tone of brown or green tone of orange.

The first written use of tan as a color name in English was in the year 1590.

The name comes from tannum, (oak bark) used in the tanning of leather.

[[Hoax]]

CATEGORIES: Hoaxes

The word hoax refers to something that is not true and was created on purpose. For example, a person makes up false accusations about being victimized by other people, or an article may make things up that cause people to believe as though they are true when they are not.

Hoaxes come in all types of forms: for example, April Fools' Day tricks that are shown in a time related to April 1, then shown to be a hoax later.

[[Daigaku-ryō]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Japan, 7th century establishments in Japan, 19th century disestablishments in Japan

Daigaku-ryō was the Imperial university of Japan from the 7th century until the end of the 19th century. 

For five centuries, the Daigaku-ryō was near the Suzaku Mon at southern boundary of the Imperial enclosure.  

[[Parrotfish]]

CATEGORIES: Teleosts

Parrotfishes are a group of marine fishes that live in shallow tropical and subtropical oceans around the world.   Previously considered to form a separate family (Scaridae), these fish are now thought to belong to the large family of wrasses (Labridae). Their numbers are largest in the Indo-Pacific region where they are found in and around coral reefs and seagrass beds. They play an important part in bioerosion. There are about 95 species of parrotfish living today.

Parrotfish are very colourful. Their name comes from the parrot-like beak formed by their teeth. The buccal cavity (cheek) of the parrotfish secretes the 'sleeping sack' that the fish sleeps in overnight. It is a semi-translucent sack which completely surrounds the parrot fish. In the morning the sack is discarded. You can see these on the sea bed floor during the following day.

[[Jishō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Jishō was a Japanese era name after Angen and before Yōwa.  This period started in August 1177 and ended in July 1181.  The reigning emperors were Takakura-tennō and Antoku-tennō.

[[Ariodante]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by George Frideric Handel, 1730s operas, 1735

Ariodante is an opera seria in three acts with music by George Frideric Handel. The libretto was based on parts of Ludovico Ariosto's Orlando Furioso. Handel put some ballet music in the opera for the famous dancer Marie Sallé. 

The opera was first performed in the Covent Garden Theatre, London, on 8 January 1735. It opened Handel's first season at Covent Garden. It was a great success. It was performed 11 times during its premiere season. 

It eventually was forgotten. The score was published in the early 1960s. In the 1970s, the work was revived. It is thought to be one of Handel's best operas.

[[The Phantom of the Opera (1925 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: American horror movies, American silent movies, English-language movies, 1925 movies, 1920s horror movies, Universal Pictures movies, United States National Film Registry movies, Movies based on books

The Phantom of the Opera (1925) is a silent horror movie. It is based on a novel of the same name by Gaston Leroux. The movie was directed by Rupert Julian. It stars Lon Chaney as the Phantom and Mary Philbin as his love, Christine. The movie is famous for Chaney's horrific, self-applied make-up.

[[Hanwha Eagles]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball teams, Sport in South Korea

Hanwha Eagles (한화이글스) is one of nine Korean professional baseball teams. The Hanwha Eagles use Han bat stadium (한밭경기장) and Cheong Ju stadium (청주야구장) as their home stadia. The Hanwha Eagles won the Korean Series Champions title in 1999.

[[Gidget]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 drama movies, 1950s romance movies, American romantic drama movies, American teen drama movies, American teen romance movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in California, Movies directed by Paul Wendkos

Gidget is a 1959 American romantic comedy teen movie about living in California. It is about a teenage girl who goes surfing. She has a romance with a young surfer.

The movie stars Sandra Dee, Cliff Robertson, and pop singer James Darren. The movie was based on a novel by Frederick Kohner titled Gidget, the Little Girl with Big Ideas. The movie was directed by Paul Wendkos.

[[E-Artsup]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in France, 2001 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in France

E-Artsup is a French private graduate school. It teaches things to do with digital creativity and multimedia. It was founded in 2001.

The school has four courses, communication, concept, motion design, interaction design and game design, and delivers a degree recognized by French State.

[[Sekiji Sasano]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Sekiji Sasano was a Japanese football player.

[[Institut supérieur européen de formation par l'action]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in France, Brussels, 2000 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in France

Institut supérieur européen de formation par l'action (ISEFAC) is a French private business school. It was founded in 2000.

The school has two courses, communication and business/marketing., and delivers a degree recognized by French State.

[[Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach, Choral compositions

"Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring" is a popular piece of choral music. It was composed by Johann Sebastian Bach. It is the 10th movement of the cantata Herz und Mund und Tat und Leben. It was written during Bach's first year in Leipzig, Germany. Bach did not compose the melody. That was written by Johann Schop. Bach only harmonized and orchestrated Schop's melody. A transcription of "Jesu" was made by the English pianist Myra Hess (1890–1965), It was published in 1926 for piano solo. In 1934 the Hess version was adapted for piano duet. British organist Peter Hurford made a transcription of "Jesu" for organ. Today, Bach's piece is often performed at weddings and funerals. Bach wrote the piece for voices with trumpet, oboes, strings, and continuo.  "Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring" is one of Bach's most enduring pieces of music.

[[Puzzle Pirates]]

CATEGORIES: Online games

Yohoho! Puzzle Pirates is a Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game. It is developed by Three Rings Design. In this game, the player plays a role of a pirate. The player sails the ocean, plays different puzzles and earn PoE (Pieces of Eights).

Anyone over 13 years of age can play Puzzle Pirates. Pirates can join a crew, which in turn joins a flag. The flags forms alliances and blockade islands. 

The game encourages players to use pirate-themed words like "Ahoy", "Yarr!", "Shiver me Timbers", etc. As of December 2008, there are 4 million pirates registered to the game. On August 31, 2011, the game was made free-to-play on Steam.

[[Sonny Bono]]

CATEGORIES: Accidental deaths in the United States, Actors from Detroit, Michigan, Singer-songwriters from California, American television actors, Deaths in sport, Politicians from Michigan, Singers from Detroit, Michigan, United States representatives from California, 1935 births, 1998 deaths

Sonny Bono (February 16, 1935 - January 5, 1998) was a recording artist, a producer, singer-songwriter, actor and politician. He was married to Cher between 1964 and 1975, during which time they formed the duo Sonny & Cher. Together, they had numerous hit records and singles. They had several children, including Chastity Bono (who would later be renamed Chaz Bono). Sonny was killed in a skiing accident.

[[Ghatkopar]]

CATEGORIES: Mumbai

Ghatkopar is a suburb in Mumbai. It comes under the 'N-Ward' of Mumbai municipality.

[[Prime Minister of India]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of India, Prime Ministers of India

The Prime Minister of India, is the chief of government, chief advisor to the President of India, head of the Council of Ministers and the leader of the majority party in parliament. The Prime Minister leads the executive branch of the Government of India.

The Prime Minister appoints the Council of Ministers, distributes portfolios among them, acts as the link between the Council of Ministers and the President and is the chief spokesperson of India's foreign policy.

The current prime minister is Narendra Modi. He was sworn in on 26 May 2014.

[[Over the Rainbow]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 1930s songs, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songs, 1939

"Over the Rainbow" is a song from the movie The Wizard of Oz. It was composed by Harold Arlen and the lyrics were written by E.Y. Harburg. Judy Garland sang the song in the movie. Over time it would become her signature song. The song won an Academy Award. The song is also known as "Somewhere Over the Rainbow".

About five minutes into the movie, Judy Garland (as Dorothy Gale) sings "Over the Rainbow". She is trying to get her aunt and uncle to listen to her story about an incident involving her dog, Toto. Dorothy's Aunt Em tells her to "find yourself a place where you won't get into any trouble". Dorothy walks off with Toto. She says to the dog, "Someplace where there isn't any trouble. Do you suppose there is such a place, Toto? There must be. It's not a place you can get to by a boat, or a train. It's far, far away. Behind the moon, beyond the rain." She begins to sing the song.

MGM executives thought the song "slowed down the picture". They said it did not sound like a song a little girl would sing in a barnyard. They wanted to cut it from the movie. Other people wanted the song to be kept in the movie. The executives changed their minds and the song was kept.

"Over the Rainbow" was going to be sung again by Garland in the scene where she is locked in the witch's room and watches the hourglass. She weeps through the song, and ends with "I'm frightened, Auntie Em! I'm frightened!". The song was cut from the scene. The "I'm frightened" cry was kept in the movie.

The song is number one on the "Songs of the Century" list compiled by the Recording Industry Association of America and the National Endowment for the Arts. The American Film Institute has ranked "Over the Rainbow" as the greatest movie song of all time on the list of "AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs". American troops in Europe in World War II adopted the song as a symbol of the United States. Garland performed the song for American troops as part of a 1943 command performance.

Hawaiian singer Israel Kamakawiwoʻole (1959–1997) recorded a version of "Over the Rainbow" in 1988. It was released in 1993.

[[Runaway (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 movies, 1980s science fiction movies, English-language movies

Runaway is a science fiction and action movie released near Christmas 1984, starring Kirstie Alley and Tom Selleck. Alley plays former lover for a villain named Luther. Selleck plays a police officer whose son is eventually kidnapped by the villain. The movie tells of complex technology gone awry when permitted to dominate the lives of everybody. Also acting in the movie is Gene Simmons from KISS. The movie was planned as a major science fiction draw, although it was overshadowed by a low budget movie called The Terminator, which was directed by then-not well known James Cameron.

[[Orphans of the Storm]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 movies, 1920s drama movies, American silent movies, American drama movies, Historical movies, Women's movies, Movies directed by D. W. Griffith

Orphans of the Storm  is a 1921 silent movie. It was directed by D. W. Griffith. It stars sisters Dorothy and Lillian Gish. The movie is about two sisters (one blind) who are separated during the turmoil of the French Revolution. They are reunited after much tribulation.

Griffith used historical events to comment on contemporary events. In this case, he used the French Revolution to comment upon the rise of Bolshevism. The movie is about class conflict. It speaks for inter-class understanding and against destructive hatred. This was the last Griffith movie to star the Gish sisters. It is often thought to be Griffith's last big moneymaker.  The movie is a remake of the lost The Two Orphans (1915) starring Theda Bara.

[[The Terminator]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 action movies, 1980s science fiction movies, American action movies, American science fiction movies, Chase movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by James Cameron, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Robot movies, Science fiction action movies, Terminator (franchise), Time travel movies, Drone movies, Post-apocalyptic movies, Dystopian movies, American independent movies

The Terminator is an American action-science fiction movie. It is set in Los Angeles, California and stars Arnold Schwarzenegger, Michael Biehn, and Linda Hamilton. This movie was directed by James Cameron and was released on October 26, 1984 in the United States by Orion Pictures. Its budget was $6.4 million and it grossed $78.3 million at the box office.

It was followed by sequels Terminator 2: Judgment Day, Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines, Terminator Salvation, Terminator Genisys and Terminator: Dark Fate.

[[Little House in the Big Woods]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century American novels, English-language novels, 1932 books, Children's books

Little House in the Big Woods is a children's novel. It was written by Laura Ingalls Wilder. It was published in 1932. It is the first book in Wilder's Little House series. The book and the series are based on Wilder's memories of growing up near Pepin, Wisconsin in the 19th century. 

[[Kuroshio, Kōchi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Japan, Settlements in Kōchi Prefecture, 2006 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in Japan

Kuroshio is a Japanese town in Kōchi Prefecture on the Pacific coastline of the island of Shikoku.

[[Moutiers-au-Perche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Orne

Moutiers-au-Perche is a commune in the Orne département, lower Normandy. This is a village in the province of Perche. There are 525 people. The surface is 3600. The altitude is 159. 

It was a monastery created by Saint Laurent in the sixth century.

There is a Château de Guilbault built at the time of the Directoire. There is a park with an old bridge also.

There is a Roman style church of Notre-Dame-Du-Mont-Harou with a mural painting and a wooden statue.

[[Gacé]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Orne

Gacé is a commune. It is in the region of Normandy in the Orne department in the northwest of France. There are 2,192 people living there in 2012. It was at first, a Gallic city named *Vassiākon. The Castle of Gacé was built in the 11th century. The English captured the castle in 1417.

The city had important economic activity in the beginning of 19th century. It's a industrial and agricultural town.

There is the Museum of Lady of the Camellias.

[[Fontenai-Les-Louvets]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Orne

Fontenai-les-Louvets is a former commune of Orne in lower Normandy, France. There are 205 people living there. it covers 18.77. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune L'Orée-d'Écouves.

[[Mortrée]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Orne

Mortrée is a village in Normandy, in the Orne department. It covers 23.36. It is at 173 above sea level. There are 1042 people living there in 2012.

The famous Normand family named "d'O" lived here. It became famous in the first crusade. The Marquis d'O (died in 1594) was finance minister and he was the favourite of Henry III of France.

On 1 January 2019, the former commune Saint-Hilaire-la-Gérard was merged into Mortrée.

[[Carrouges]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Orne

Carrouges is a commune in the French departement of the Orne. There are 787 peoples living there in 2012.

The town is well-known because of its castle built in the 16th century, with red bricks. Many expositions and other activities are organized. There is a 19th-century church. Hunting and fishing are the favourite activities of the inhabitants.

[[Kavadikaranoor]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Tamil Nadu

Kavadikaranoor (காவடிகாரனூர்; also spelt as Kavadikaranur) is a village in Salem district  in the state of Tamil Nadu, India. It is the largest village in Thangayur panchayat. The village is spread over an area of 12.35 km2. The economy of the village revolves around agriculture, truck and heavy truck transports.

Kavadikaranoor has an average elevation of 298. It is at the east basin of the hill called Sooriya malai (Mountain of Sun). This mountain doesn't have any plants due to its rocky and unusual properties. The research done geologists shows it consists of rare radioactive minerals. A number of stone quarrying companies have been here for more than 30 years. A lake is located in the north-eastern part of the village and irrigation spreads to nearby areas.

Vishnu is the god worshipped most in the village. The main temple is Sri Paali Perumal. Main festival seasons are October and April. On the 4th Saturday of each month more than 20,000 thousand people worship here from various parts of the district.

The people are mostly Gounders. Other minority peoples are also present in small numbers. All the people are peacefully co-existing and living in harmony. It has a population of 1812 as of the 2001 India census. Males constitute 70% of the population and females 63% and an average literacy rate of 68%, higher than the national average of 59.5%.

[[Sport in Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Japan

Sports in Japan are a part of Japanese culture. Japan has many traditional sports such as sumo, judo, karate, and kendo.  Also, there are sports which were imported from the West such as baseball, soccer, golf and skiing.  Sports are popular with both participants and onlookers.

[[Spencer Fox]]

CATEGORIES: American voice actors, Comedians from New York City, Living people, American television actors, 1993 births, Actors from New York City

Spencer Fox (born May 10, 1993) is an American musician, singer and actor. He is best known as the voice of Dash Parr in The Incredibles and was the original voice of Mudbud in Air Buddies. He is also the guitarist and vocalist of the power pop band Charly Bliss.

[[Tucker Albrizzi]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 births, Living people, American child actors, Comedians from Florida, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Florida

Tucker Albrizzi (born February 25, 2000) is an American actor, voice artist and comedian. He is best known for his current role as Tyler on Big Time Rush and Jake on Good Luck Charlie. He is also the new voice of Budderball in the Air Buddies series.

[[Yōwa]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Yōwa was a Japanese era name after Jishō and before Juei.  This period started in July 1181 and ended in May 1182.  The reigning emperor was Antoku-tennō.

[[Siamese cat]]

CATEGORIES: Colorpoint cat breeds

The Siamese is a breed of cat from Thailand. It is a well-known cat, especially for its blue eyes and brown face, ears, tail and paws, although not all of them look like this. In Thailand, it is a native breed, and they are called Wichian Mat (วิเชียรมาศ), which means moon diamond. There are two different types of Siamese Cat, the Traditional or Thai Siamese, and the Modern Siamese.

[[Kanpyō (era)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 889 establishments, 9th century establishments in Japan, 898 disestablishments, 9th century disestablishments in Japan

Kanpyō, also romanized as Kampyō was a Japanese era name after Ninna and before Shōtai.  This period started in April 889 and ended in April 898.  The reigning emperors were Uda-tennō and Daigo-tennō.

[[Johann Wolfgang Döbereiner]]

CATEGORIES: 1780 births, 1849 deaths, German academics, German chemists, German inventors, People from Bavaria

Johann Wolfgang Döbereiner (13 December 1780 in Hof – 24 March 1849 in Jena) was a German chemist. He is best known for the development of the so-called Döbereiner's lamp. This is one of the first lighters.

Döbereiner was a professor for chemistry, pharmacy and technology at the university of Jena. He was a friend of the German writer Johann Wolfgang von Goethe.

[[Khabab]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Syria

Khabab (خبب, Syriac: ܟܚܐܒܐܒ, ar) is small town in Syria. It was so named because of its geographical location at the doorstep of Lajat terrain where horses can be passed only if it is in a "canter", and canter the stage of preparedness for when the horses ran, lies the town "khabab" to the north of City "shield" around / 60 / How many residents of the village people 6500,khabab. the old name of the town is abiba

Cathedral is the center of Roman Catholic Archdiocese for the southern provinces, in addition to two churches and one of them is an  old and the other is modern and Monastery Sisters of Charity (Albeznson).

[[The Birth of a Nation]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 movies, 1910s drama movies, American silent movies, American drama movies, Historical movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by D. W. Griffith

The Birth of a Nation is a 1915 silent drama movie. It was directed by D. W. Griffith. It was based on the book The Clansman by Thomas Dixon, Jr. It stars Lillian Gish.  

The movie is about two families during the American Civil War and the Reconstruction era. The Northern Stoneman family is pro-Union. The Southern Cameron family is pro-Confederacy. The assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by John Wilkes Booth is dramatized.

The movie was a great success. It was very controversial though. It showed African-American men (played by white actors in blackface) as stupid and sexually aggressive towards white women. It also showed the Ku Klux Klan as a heroic force. There were protests. The movie was banned in several cities. The outcry of racism was great. Screenings were often followed by riots and attacks.

The movie is also credited in part with the formation of the "second era" Ku Klux Klan the same year. The Birth of a Nation was used as a recruiting tool for the KKK.  In 1915, it was the first movie to be shown at the White House.

[[Micula (surname)]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames

Micula (מיקלה, Mîḵulāh) is a surname of Ashkenazi Jewish origin. It is most popular in Eastern Europe.

The name dates back to the 11th century, many Jews moved to East Europe to avoid persecution. In some countries the name is written as Mikula, because of the Slavic influence.

People with the surname Micula can be found in Poland, Russia, Romania, Slovakia, Israel, Slovenia, Czech Republic, Ukraine and Moldova.

[[Wayne Knight]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from New York City, Democrats (United States), Seinfeld

Wayne Eliot Knight (born August 7, 1955) is an American actor, voice actor, comedian. and former private investigator. He is known for his role as Newman in the television series Seinfeld. Knight is from New York City. Knight is a Democrat and  attended the 2012 Democratic National Convention in support of President Obama's re-election.

[[Lose Control (Let Me Down)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Nelly songs

"Lose Control (Let Me Down)" is a song by Keri Hilson and Nelly.  The song contains two parts: the first three minutes and thirty-three seconds being "Lose Control", featuring a rap from Nelly, and the last one minute and thirty-two seconds being "Let Me Down", a solo song by Hilson. "Lose Control" was produced by StarGate. The producer for "Let Me Down" is unknown. The song was only available as a radio single.

[[The Sheik (1921 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 movies, 1920s romance movies, American silent movies, American romance movies, Movies based on books

The Sheik is a 1921 silent movie. It was  directed by George Melford. It stars Rudolph Valentino. The movie was based on the book The Sheik by Edith Maude Hull. The movie is about a British lady who is captured by an Arab chieftain (a sheik). She is held in his camp, and grows to love him. The Sheik made Valentino a superstar. Reviews were mixed. Some critics liked the movie. Some did not. Women loved it. Most men did not like it. They either walked out or stayed away.

[[List of lakes of Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Australia, Lists of lakes, Australia-related lists

There are not many natural freshwater lakes in Australia. This is because there was not a lot of glacial or tectonic activity in Australia.

[[A Daughter of the Congo]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 movies, American silent movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Oscar Micheaux

A Daughter of the Congo is a 1930 silent movie. It is a race movie. It was completely produced by blacks and intended for a black audience. It was written, directed, and produced by Oscar Micheaux. The movie is based on Henry Francis Downing's novel The American Cavalryman (1917). A Daughter of the Congo is presumed to be a lost film.

The movie stars Katherine Noisette as Lupelta, a mixed race Congolese girl. She is abducted by Arab slave traders. She is rescued by an African American military battalion. She is taken to a mission school. She becomes acquainted with Western-style civilization. She never completely loses touch with the tribal customs and influences that shaped her early years.

A Daughter of the Congo was Micheaux's last silent movie. Silent movies were considered to have little money-making value in 1930. Micheaux released the movie as a “talking, singing, dancing picture”. It only contained a single short sound sequence that included a performance of the song “That Gets It”.

Theophilus Lewis of the Amsterdam News wrote a harsh review: "The scene is laid in a not so mythical republic in Africa. Half of the characters wear European clothes and are supposed to be civilized, while the other half wear their birthday suits and some feathers and are supposed to be savages. All the noble characters are high yellows; all the ignoble ones are black. It is based on a false assumption that has no connection with the realities of life."

[[Oscar Micheaux]]

CATEGORIES: Movie directors from Illinois, Movie producers from Illinois, Writers from Illinois, 1884 births, 1951 deaths, People from Metropolis, Illinois

Oscar Devereaux Micheaux (2 January 1884 – 25 March 1951) was an American writer, movie director and independent producer of more than 44 movies. He is regarded as the first major African-American moviemaker, and the most successful African-American moviemaker of the first half of the twentieth century. Micheaux was the most prominent producer of race movies. He produced both silent movies and "talkies".

[[The Blood of Jesus]]

CATEGORIES: American drama movies, United States National Film Registry movies, 1941 movies, English-language movies

The Blood of Jesus (1941) is a race movie.  It was written, directed, and starring Spencer Williams. It was also released as The Glory Road. The movie was produced in Texas. Its budget was US$5,000.  Scenes from a 1911 Italian movie called L'Inferno were used to show souls entering Heaven. The movie was screened in black theatres and black churches. It received good reviews. In 1991 The Blood of Jesus became the first race movie to be chosen for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.

[[Spokane Chiefs]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments in the United States, Canadian Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Western Hockey League, Sports in Washington (U.S. state), Spokane, Washington, 1980s establishments in Washington (state)

The Spokane Chiefs are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1985. They currently play in the Western Hockey League. They play their home games in Spokane, Washington at the Spokane Veterans Memorial Arena. The were known as the Kelowna Wings from 1982 to 1985 until they relocated to Spokane and became the Chiefs. The Chiefs were also the first team in WHL history to host an outdoor hockey game when they defeated the Kootenay Ice 11-2 on January 15, 2011.

[[Karuizawa, Nagano]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Japan, Settlements in Nagano Prefecture

Karuizawa is a Japanese town in the Kitasaku District of Nagano Prefecture.

[[Tri-City Americans]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 establishments in North America, Canadian Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in the United States, Western Hockey League, Sports in Washington (U.S. state)

The Tri-City Americans are an American professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1988. They currently play in the Western Hockey League. They play their home games in Kennewick, Washington at the Toyota Center. The team was originally known as the Calgary Buffalos and later changed their name to the Calgary Centennials. The Centennials were active from 67 to 77 and were later relocated to Billings, Montana and became the Billings Bighorns. They played in Billings from 1977 to 1998 before being relocated to Nanaimo, British Columbia and were named the Nanaimo Islanders. The Islanders played from 1982 to 1983 before they were moved to New Westminster, British Columbia and became the New Westminster Bruins. They moved to the Tri-Cities in 1988.

[[Doge's Palace, Venice]]

CATEGORIES: Venice, Palaces in Italy, 1924 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Italy

The Doge's Palace (Palazzo Ducale) is a gothic palace in Venice, northern Italy. The palace was the home of the Doge of Venice, the ruler of the Republic of Venice In 1923 the palace became a museum, one of 11 museums run by the Fondazione Musei Civici di Venezia. In 2010 it was visited by 1,358,186 people.

[[Craig Venter]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American geneticists, Businesspeople from Utah, Scientists from Utah, American atheists

John Craig Venter (born October 14, 1946) is an American biotechnologist and entrepreneur. He was one of the first to sequence the human genome, and led the team which made the first cell with a synthetic genome (2010).

Venter founded Celera Genomics, The Institute for Genomic Research and the J. Craig Venter Institute. He now works at his Institute to create synthetic (artificial) biological organisms, and to record genetic diversity in the world's oceans. He was listed on Time magazine's 2007 and 2008 Time 100 list of the most influential people in the world. In 2010, the British magazine New Statesman listed Craig Venter at 14th in the list of "The World's 50 Most Influential Figures 2010".

Venter himself recognized his own ADHD behavior in his adolescence, and later found ADHD-linked genes in his own DNA. In media interviews, Venter has several times said he is an atheist.

[[Leslie Orgel]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2007 deaths, English chemists, Fellows of the Royal Society, Jewish British academics, Jewish British scientists

Leslie Eleazer Orgel FRS (12 January 1927 – 27 October 2007) was a British chemist.

Born in London, Orgel received his B.A. and Ph.D in chemistry at Magdalen College, Oxford University.

He was one of the first people to see, in April 1953, Crick and Watson's model of DNA: at the time he worked at Oxford University's Chemistry Department.

In 1964 Orgel was appointed Senior Fellow and Research Professor at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies, where he directed the Chemical Evolution Laboratory. He was also an adjunct professor in the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry at the University of California, San Diego, and he was one of five principal investigators in the NASA-sponsored NSCORT program in exobiology. Orgel also participated in NASA's Viking Mars Lander Program as a member of the Molecular Analysis Team that designed the gas chromatography mass spectrometer instrument that robots took to the planet Mars.

Orgel’s lab came across an economical way to make cytarabine, a compound that is one of today’s most commonly used anti-cancer agents.

During the 1970s, Orgel suggested reconsidering the panspermia hypothesis, according to which the earliest forms of life on earth did not originate here, but arrived from outer space with meteorites.

Together with Stanley Miller, Orgel also suggested that peptide nucleic acids – rather than ribonucleic acids – constituted the first pre-biotic systems capable of self-replication on early Earth.

His name is popularly known because of Orgel's rules, credited to him, particularly Orgel's Second Rule: "Evolution is cleverer than you are".

In his book The Origins of Life, Orgel coined the concept of specified complexity, to describe the criterion by which living organisms are distinguished from non-living matter. He published over three hundred articles in his research areas.

Orgel died of cancer on 27 October 2007 at the San Diego Hospice & Palliative Care in San Diego, California.

[[LGBT rights in Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT rights by country, Politics of Azerbaijan

2000 saw the abolishment of the Azerbaijani law forbidding homosexual interactions (gay sex).  A special edition of Azerbaijan, the official newspaper of the Parliament, published on 28 May, reported that the Parliament had approved a new Criminal Code, and that the President had signed a decree bringing it into force in September. The text of the new Criminal Code was also published. From this it is clear that the old Article 113 (inherited from the Soviet era, and which punished anal sex between men with three years imprisonment) has been replaced with a new Article 150, which bans only forcible sexual acts.

[[LGBT rights in the Maldives]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT rights by country, Maldives

Homosexuality is illegal in the Maldives. In addition, the Maldives was one of the 67 signatory nations opposing the UN declaration on sexual orientation and gender identity, which failed to pass.

[[Chrissie Maher]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, British people, English language

Chrissie Maher, OBE (born 1938) is a British advocate for the use of plain English. She is a co-founder of the Plain English Campaign. This organisation promotes the clear use of English, especially by businesses and official bodies. Her campaign began in 1971 when she founded the United Kingdom's first community newspaper, the Tuebrook Bugle. That gave her the chance to write articles saying that organisations should start using plain English. In 1974, Maher went on to start The Liverpool News. It was the UK's first newspaper for adults with reading difficulties. She was also a member of the UK's National Consumer Council. Later, she founded the Plain English Campaign at a demonstration in London in 1979.

As an example of the language issues Maher found objectionable: in 1994, she pointed out that Britain's National Health Service published a definition of the term "bed" that used 229 words.

For her efforts, Maher was awarded the OBE in 1993. In 1995, she was awarded an honorary MA degree by Manchester University. In 1997 she received an honorary doctorate from the Open University. In 2000, Maher was named "Information Pioneer of the Century" by the UK's National Information Forum. In 2010, Maher received an Honorary Fellowship from Liverpool John Moores University for her services to communication. 

Also in 2010 Maher was selected Public Affairs Achiever of the Year and Outstanding Achiever of the Year for the ‘Women in Public Life’ awards.

Tom McArthur, editor of the Oxford Companion to the English Language said, "In all the history of the language, there has never been such a powerful grassroots movement to influence it as the Plain English Campaign."

[[Faust (1926 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 movies, 1920s horror movies, German silent movies, German horror movies, Fantasy movies, Movies directed by F. W. Murnau

Faust is a 1926 German silent movie. It was  directed by F. W. Murnau. It stars Gösta Ekman as Faust, Emil Jannings as Mephisto, and Camilla Horn as Gretchen. The story is about an old man who sells his soul to the devil. In return he becomes young again. The movie uses both traditional tales of Faust and Goethe's play. The movie was difficult and expensive to make. Faust was Murnau's last German movie. He moved to the United States to direct Sunrise. The "Bald Mountain" scene in the movie inspired the "Night on Bald Mountain" segment in Walt Disney's Fantasia.

[[Synapomorphy]]

CATEGORIES: Cladistics

A synapomorphy is a common character. It is a term in cladistics, meaning a trait which is present in two or more species by common descent. It is a type of homologous character or homology.

More precisely, it is shared by two or more taxa and their most recent common ancestor, whose own ancestor in turn does not possess the trait. Thus, it is not just an ancestral trait, but a recently evolved distinguishing trait. It helps to distinguish between two trees of descent which would otherwise be equally likely.

[[Jonathan Soriano]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Jonathan Soriano Casas (born 24 September 1985 in El Pont de Vilomara i Rocafort, Barcelona, Catalonia) is a Spanish footballer who plays with FC Red Bull Salzburg in Austria, as a forward.

[[Conquest of the Pole]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 movies, Silent movies, French movies, Science fiction movies, Fantasy movies, Movies based on books by Jules Verne

Conquest of the Pole (Conquête du pôle) is a 1912 silent movie. It was directed and produced by Georges Méliès. It was based on the book The Adventures of Captain Hatteras by Jules Verne. The movie is about a race to the north pole by different groups of balloonists. A complicated scene in the movie has a frost giant who tries to eat the crew.

[[View of Delft]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century paintings, Paintings by Johannes Vermeer, Dutch paintings, Delft

View of Delft (c.1660-1661) is an oil painting. It was painted by Johannes Vermeer. The painting shows Vermeer's hometown. It is one of his most popular pictures. It is one of three paintings of Delft by Vermeer. The others are The Little Street and the lost painting House Standing in Delft. In 2011, the painting was featured on gold and silver commemorative coins issued by the Royal Dutch Mint.

[[Philip Larkin]]

CATEGORIES: Alumni of the University of Oxford, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from esophageal cancer, English novelists, English poets, People from Coventry, 1922 births, 1985 deaths

Philip Arthur Larkin CH, CBE, FRSL (9 August 1922 – 2 December 1985) was a English poet and novelist.

Larkin was born and raised in Coventry, Warwickshire, where he attended primary and secondary school. He graduated from St John's College, Oxford with a double first in English language and literature.

Larkin spent the latter years of his life in Hull, where he was a librarian at the University of Hull. Larkin died in Hull, Humberside, of oesophageal cancer.

[[Drake]]

Drake may mean:

[[Skyler Gisondo]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, Actors from Florida, American voice actors, Comedians from Florida, American movie actors, American television actors, Living people, American child actors

Skyler Gisondo (born July 22, 1996) is an American actor. Gisondo is probably best known for his roles as Bryan Pearson on The Bill Engvall Show, Tommy Doyle in Rob Zombie's Halloween, and B-Dawg in the Air Buddies series. He has also been in TV shows such as ER, Everybody Loves Raymond, Cold Case, Criminal Minds, My Name Is Earl, House and CSI.

[[Lee Remick]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 1991 deaths, Actors from Massachusetts, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from kidney cancer, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Lee Ann Remick (December 14, 1935 - July 2, 1991) was an American actress. She was born in Quincy, Massachusetts. She played the female lead in Anatomy of a Murder, Days of Wine and Roses and The Omen.

Remick won a Golden Globe award in 1973. In 1975 she won a Golden Globe Award and a BAFTA award.

Remick died of kidney cancer in Los Angeles, California.

[[Miranda Lambert]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Country musicians, Singers from Texas

Miranda Leigh Lambert (born November 10, 1983) is an American country music artist who gained fame as a finalist on the 2003 season of Nashville Star, where she finished in third place and later signed to Epic Records.

She was married to country singer Blake Shelton whom divorced in 2015. She has five solo albums released as of 2011 and one with country supergroup Pistol Annies. Some of her most known songs are "Gunpowder and Lead", "Kerosene", "The House That Built Me", "White Liar", "Heart Like Mine", and "Baggage Claim".

[[Blake Shelton]]

CATEGORIES: Country musicians, American guitarists, Musicians from Oklahoma, Singers from Oklahoma, 1973 births, Living people

Blake Tollison Shelton (born June 18, 1976) is an American country singer and television personality. Shelton is signed to Warner Nashville. Some of his most known songs are "Ol' Red", "Some Beach", "Hillbilly Bone", "Kiss My Country Ass", "Honey Bee", "God Gave Me You", and "Drink on It". He has been a judge on The Voice since April 2011.

[[Battle of Balaclava]]

CATEGORIES: 1854, Battles involving France, Battles involving Russia, Battles involving the United Kingdom, Ottoman Empire

The Battle of Balaclava was a battle of the Crimean War. It was on 25 October 1854 by the Ottoman Empire, the French Empire, and the United Kingdom against the Russian Empire. The battle ended with a Russian victory. Two of the most important events of the Crimean 

War took place during the Battle of Balaclava.

[[HP]]

The shortcut HP can mean

[[Plano, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Plano, Texas

Plano is a city in the state of Texas in the United States. It is the ninth largest city in the state. Over 280,000 people live there. It has a humid subtropical climate (Cfa in the Koeppen climate classification).

Plano has the headquarters of many large businesses, including:

[[Fargo (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 crime movies, 1990s black comedy movies, 1996 comedy-drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, 1990s crime thriller movies, 1990s criminal comedy movies, 1990s drama thriller movies, Academy Award winning movies, American criminal comedy movies, American crime drama movies, American crime thriller movies, American comedy-drama movies, American drama thriller movies, English-language movies, Fargo, North Dakota, Film noir, Movies set in Minnesota, Movies set in 1987

Fargo is a 1996 American black comedy-drama crime thriller movie. The Coen brothers made this movie, which is set in 1987. Frances McDormand, Steve Buscemi and William H. Macy star in the movie as a detective, a criminal, and a car salesman, respectively. It is a dark comedy about the police investigation of some murders and bad business activities.

In 2006 it was put into the United States National Film Registry because the group thought it was culturally, historically, or aesthetically important enough to be recognized in their collection. It inspired a TV series of the same name

Part of the movie is set in Fargo, North Dakota. The majority is in Minneapolis, Minnesota. It shows the culture and accent of many of the people who live there.

[[Viktor Kozin]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Russian inventors, Russian engineers, 1953 births

Viktor Mikhailovich Kozin (Козин, Виктор Михайлович) (born February 22, 1953) is a Russian naval engineer, ship designer and inventor of a new method of icebreaking, called the resonance method of ice destruction. He received his Assistant Professorship in Technical Sciences (Ph.D.) for his work Mechanics of deformable solids in Vladivostok in 1994. He became a full Professor in 1996 and was awarded the title Honored Inventor of the Russian Federation in 2000. Since 2008 he is a member of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences (RANS).

Kozin was awarded a diploma from the President of the Russian Academy of Sciences (1999) and won grants from the Russian Ministry of Education (2006). He received multiple prizes for his academic and scientific achievements in the theory of watercraft statics and dynamics, design of vessels, hydraulics and hydromechanics, ship and submarine construction. He is the author of 2 textbooks in naval engineering and 12 works on the methods of education in the area of naval design.

[[The Gold Rush]]

CATEGORIES: American silent movies, 1925 movies, 1920s comedy movies, American comedy movies, United States National Film Registry movies, Gold, Movies directed by Charlie Chaplin

The Gold Rush is a 1925 silent movie. It was written, directed, and produced by Charlie Chaplin. He stars in the movie, too. The movie is set in the Yukon during the Klondike Gold Rush. Chaplin plays the Little Tramp. It was a character he created. The Little Tramp appeared in many Chaplin movies. In this movie, the Little Tramp has many adventures with other prospectors. He falls in love with a saloon girl. Critics liked the movie. One critic wrote, "Here is a comedy with streaks of poetry, pathos, tenderness, linked with brusqueness and boisterousness. It is the outstanding gem of all Chaplin's pictures, as it has more thought and originality than even such masterpieces of mirth as The Kid and Shoulder Arms."  In 1992 The Gold Rush was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry. Chaplin hoped that people would remember him for this movie.

[[The Thief of Bagdad]]

CATEGORIES: American silent movies, 1924 movies, American fantasy movies, Swashbuckler movies, Movies directed by Raoul Walsh

The Thief of Bagdad is a 1924 silent movie. It was directed by Raoul Walsh. It stars Douglas Fairbanks. The plot was adapted from One Thousand and One Nights. The movie is about a thief who falls in love with the daughter of the Caliph of Baghdad. Fairbanks was very athletic. This movie provided many moments for gymnastics.  The movie was Fairbanks's favorite among all his movies.

Thief gave Fairbanks a new direction. He was a comedy star, but after this movie he became a "swashbuckler". The movie had many special effects such as flying carpets and monsters and magical Djinn. The Arabian-style set was huge. The movie was remade twice: once in 1940 with Sabu and then in 1961 with Steve Reeves. The Fairbanks version was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry in 1996.

[[Sinbad the Sailor]]

CATEGORIES: Persian literature, Arabic literature, Fictional characters

Sinbad the Sailor is a fictional character in the One Thousand and One Nights (The Arabian Nights). He is a sailor. His stories take place in the days of Haroun al-Rashid. It is possible that Sinbad is of Persian origin. He has many adventures. He meets monsters such as The Old Man of the Sea and the Roc. There are seven stories about Sinbad's journeys. They are sometimes a part of the Scheherazade stories. The Sinbad stories have been made into movies and animated cartoons. 

[[Mount Vernon]]

CATEGORIES: George Washington, Presidential homes in the United States, 1757 establishments, 1750s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in Virginia

Mount Vernon was the plantation home of George Washington, the first President of the United States. It is located near Alexandria, Virginia. The house was designed by Washington and built of wood in 1757. It is in the neoclassical Georgian architectural style. Mount Vernon is on the banks of the Potomac River. It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1960. It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. It is owned and maintained in trust by The Mount Vernon Ladies' Association. It is open every day of the year. Mount Vernon is on the tentative list of World Heritage Sites in the United States.

The property was long called Little Hunting Creek Plantation but Lawrence Washington, George's older half-brother, renamed it for Edward Vernon, his commander in the Royal Navy. Laurence died in 1753 and George eventually inherited the estate.

[[Str8 off tha Streetz of Muthaphukkin Compton]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 albums, Eazy-E albums

Str8 off tha Streetz of Muthaphukkin Compton is the second album by American rapper, Eazy-E. The album was released on November 24, 1995. The producers of the album were DJ Yella, Naughty by Nature, Rhythm D, K Loc, Mike E. Clark. It was Eazy-E's last full length album before he died. It was released posthumously about eight months after his death. The song "Ole School Shit" was a diss track to Tha Dogg Pound, Dr. Dre, Tweedy Bird Loc and Snoop Doggy Dogg. The song "Wut Would You Do" was also a diss track to Snoop Doggy Dogg, Tha Dogg Pound, Suge Knight and Dr. Dre.

[[Rajesh Khanna]]

CATEGORIES: Indian movie actors, Indian movie producers, 1942 births, 2012 deaths, Punjabi people, Bollywood playback singers

Rajesh Khanna (29 December 1942  18 July 2012) was an Indian actor in movies. He became very famous in Bollywood after Shakti Samantha's movie Aradhana. Rajesh played both the father and son in that movie. Some of his well-known movies are Anand, Kati Patang, Safar, Sacha Jhuta, Raja Rani, Bawarchi and Amar Prem.

[[Megalomania]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses

Megalomania is a mental illness.  People with megalomania have delusional fantasies that they are more relevant (important) or powerful than they truly are.  They have inflated self esteem and overestimate their powers and beliefs. People with megalomania more than often showcase disposition towards humbleness. 

The word "megalomania" is no longer used in the mental health field, and is not mentioned in either the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) or the International Statistical Classification of Diseases (ICD).  Instead, this condition is now called narcissistic personality disorder.  The condition affects both men and women. 

The word "megalomania" comes from two Greek words: "μεγαλο" (megalo-), meaning large or great, and "μανία" (mania), meaning madness or frenzy.

[[The Great Train Robbery]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 movies, American silent movies, American western movies, United States National Film Registry movies

The Great Train Robbery is a 1903 western silent movie. It was written, directed, produced, and photographed by Edwin S. Porter. It is 12 minutes long. It is thought to be an important step in making movies. It expanded upon Porter's previous movie Life of an American Fireman. The movie used many new moviemaking techniques. These techniques included cross cutting, camera movement, and on-location shooting. Some prints of the movie were also hand colored in certain scenes. It was shot in Milltown, New Jersey. The movie has been chosen for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.

[[Les Patineurs]]

CATEGORIES: Waltzes

The Skaters Waltz (1882) is a waltz by Émile Waldteufel. It is known as Les Patineurs Valse in French, and Die Schlittschuhläufer-Walzer in German. It was inspired by the Cercle des Patineurs (skating rink) at the Bois de Boulogne in Paris. Glissando notes and bells suggest a winter's day.  The waltz was published by Hopwood & Crew. It was dedicated to Ernest Coquelin, the younger brother of two celebrated actor brothers of the Comédie Française. It has been used as background music for several movies.

[[Blue Danube Waltz]]

CATEGORIES: Waltzes, Compositions by Johann Strauss II

On the Beautiful Blue Danube, Op. 314 is a waltz composed by Johann Strauss II in 1867 for the Vienna Men's Singing Society.  It was written for four-part choir with orchestra or piano. The words were written by Josef Weyl. It was first performed on 15 February 1867 by the Vienna Men's Singing Society and the orchestra of the Forty-Second Infantry Regiment directed by Rudolph Weinwurm. It was performed without voices on March 4 and again on March 10 in the same format at a benefit for Strauss's brothers. It was a sensation when performed at the Paris Exposition the same year. This performance marked the beginning of Strauss's international reputation. The waltz was published in 1867 by Carl Anton Spina. 

The piece begins with a slow introduction in the dominant key of A major. This introduction is followed by five small waltzes of two sections each. Melodies with large leaps are contrasted with linear melodies composed within a narrow range. The coda touches on the various melodies and concludes with a lively finish. The waltz was first played in the United States in its instrumental version on 1 July 1867 in New YorkOctober 2020. It was first played in Great Britain on 21 September 1867 in London at the promenade concerts in Covent Garden. The instrumental version is usually performed today. On New Year's Eve in Vienna, the waltz is broadcast on television and radio stations at midnight. It is an encore piece at the Vienna New Year's Day Concert. 

[[Segmentation]]

CATEGORIES: Zoology

Segmentation in biology means the division of some animal and plant bodies into a series of repeat sections or parts. It is common in some of the most successful groups of animals, such as arthropods, vertebrates and annelid worms. 

Segmentation of the body allows different regions of the body to develop for different uses.

[[Waltz of the Flowers]]

CATEGORIES: Waltzes, Compositions by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky

The "Waltz of the Flowers" (1892) is a piece of orchestral music from the second act of The Nutcracker, a ballet composed by Tchaikovsky.  Tchaikovsky told his fellow musicians he was working on a "fantastic" ballet called The Nutcracker: "It's awfully fun to write a march for tin soldiers, a waltz of the flowers, etc." The waltz is also the last number in his Nutcracker Suite.  The "Waltz of the Flowers" is very popular. It has been arranged for various instruments and for various combinations of instruments. Percy Grainger arranged the waltz for piano solo as Paraphrase on Tchaikovsky’s Flower Waltz.  Walt Disney Studios animated the waltz for the movie Fantasia. 

[[Okazaki, Aichi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Aichi Prefecture

Okazaki is a Japanese city in Aichi Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

It has been recognized as a core city since 2003.

[[Apollo 7]]

CATEGORIES: Apollo program

Apollo 7 was a mission in the NASA's Apollo program. It was the first crewed mission in the Apollo program and the first crewed US space flight after Apollo 1 disaster. The mission was a C type mission. Apollo 7 was launched on October 11, 1968 and stayed in space for 10 days, 20 hours, 9 minutes and three seconds.76 It orbited the Earth. Apollo 7 was the first crewed launch of the Saturn IB launch vehicle and the first three-person US space mission. The crew were Commander Walter M. Schirra, with Command Module Pilot Donn Eisele and Lunar Module Pilot R. Walter Cunningham. The mission was designed to test the re-made Block II Apollo Command/Service Module. The crew orbited in Earth orbit so that they could check life-support, propulsion and control systems. The mission was a success. It gave NASA the confidence to launch Apollo 8 later. 

[[Arata Isozaki]]

CATEGORIES: Pritzker Prize winners, 1931 births, Living people, Japanese architects, People from Ōita Prefecture

Arata Isozaki is a Japanese architect.

[[Rumour Has It (Adele song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Adele songs

"Rumour Has It" is the fourth hit single from the Adele album 21. It was released in 5 November 2011; the song was given lots of positive reviews from critics in music. The song was written by Adele along with Ryan Tedder of OneRepublic, who also produced the song.  It reached number 16 on the charts in the US and Canada.  In the US, it was certified double-Platinum for shipments of over two million copies.

[[What Makes You Beautiful]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 2011 songs, One Direction

"What Makes You Beautiful" was the first single released by the British-Irish boyband One Direction. It is from their album Up All Night (2011). It was released by Syco Records on 11 September 2011. Written by Rami Yacoub, Carl Falk and Savan Kotecha and produced by Yacoub and Falk, "What Makes You Beautiful" is a teen pop song.

"What Makes You Beautiful" sold 153,965 copies in its first week. In the Unites States, the single became the highest Billboard Hot 100 debut for a U.K. act since 1998.

[[C-sharp]]

C-sharp (also written as Csharp or C#) could mean:

[[Kitakyushu Municipal Museum of Art]]

CATEGORIES: Art museums in Japan, Kitakyūshū, 1974 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Japan

Kitakyushu Municipal Museum of Art is an art museum in Japan. It is on a hill in Tobata ward of Kitakyushu in Fukuoka Prefecture.

The museum has 6,000 artworks.

The museum shows the work of Japanese artists, like Hokusai's woodblock print The Great Wave off Kanagawa by Hokusai.

The collection of Western art includes a portrait of Edouard Manet and his wife painted by Edgar Degas in 1869.

The current building was designed by Arata Isozaki.  It was built in 1974.

[[Xerophile]]

CATEGORIES: Extremophiles, Ecology

Xerophiles are extremophile organisms that can grow and reproduce in conditions with almost no water.

Many moulds and yeasts are xerophilic. Mould growth on bread is an example of food spoilt by a xerophilic fungus.

Examples:

[[John Gielgud]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Actors from London, BAFTA Award winning actors, British radio actors, Emmy Award winning actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English theatre directors, English LGBT people, Gay men, Golden Globe Award winning actors, LGBT actors, Movie directors from London, Tony Award winning actors, 1904 births, 2000 deaths, Alumni of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, Best Actor Academy Award winners, Best Supporting Actor Academy Award winners, Drama Desk Award winners, Grammy Award winners, Knights Bachelor, LGBT directors, Order of Merit, People educated at Westminster School, London, People from Kensington and Chelsea (London borough)

Sir Arthur John Gielgud OM CH (14 April 1904 - 21 May 2000) was a British actor and director. Gielgud was born in South Kensington, London and attended Westminster School. He acted in theatre, on radio, television and in movies.

Gielgud won many awards, including an Academy Award, two Emmy Awards, three Tony Awards, a Grammy Award and two Golden Globe Awards. In 1992 he received a BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award, a lifetime achievement award. The Globe Theatre in London was renamed the Gielgud Theatre in 1994 in his honour.

Gielgud was gay. He was in a long-term relationship until his partner died in 1998. Gielgud died in Wootton Underwood, Buckinghamshire.

[[Kaley Cuoco]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Actors from Ventura County, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Living people, People from Ventura County, California

Kaley Christine Cuoco (November 30, 1985) is an American actress. She was born in Camarillo, California. She played major roles in 8 Simple Rules and Charmed. She plays the main female character "Penny" in The Big Bang Theory.

Cuoco married tennis player Ryan Sweeting on December 31, 2013. The couple said in September 2015 that they are going to divorce.

[[Molly Ringwald]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from California, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, 1968 births, Living people

Molly Kathleen Ringwald (born February 18, 1968) is an American actress. She was born in Roseville, California. She is best known for her starring roles in John Hughes movies Sixteen Candles (1984), The Breakfast Club (1985), and Pretty in Pink (1986).

[[Ensemble]]

CATEGORIES: Music, Performing arts, Words

An ensemble is a group of people who work or perform together. By extension, it can mean a coordinated outfit of clothing, or anything where a group contributes to a coordinated whole.

The term is most used in music. A musical ensemble is a group of people who perform instrumental or vocal music. In classical music, trios or quartets often group together instruments from the same instrument family, such as string ensembles or wind ensembles. The term is also used in jazz, where the instruments typically include wind instruments.

An ensemble usually consists of three or four people with similar skill levels. The word originated in late middle English (as an adverb) meaning "at the same time". It is from French, based on the Latin insimul. The noun dates from the mid 18th century.

[[Dirty Dancing]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 drama movies, 1987 romance movies, 1980s coming-of-age movies, 1980s romantic drama movies, 1980s teen drama movies, 1980s teen romance movies, American coming-of-age movies, American romantic drama movies, American teen drama movies, American teen romance movies, Coming-of-age drama movies, Coming-of-age romance movies, Dance movies, English-language movies, Movies about vacationing, Movies set in New York, Movies set in the 1960s, Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award, American independent movies, Lionsgate movies

Dirty Dancing is a 1987 American romantic drama movie directed by Emile Ardolino. It is set in 1963 in the Catskill Mountains, New York. It stars Jennifer Grey as a 17 year old on vacation and Patrick Swayze as the resort's dance instructor. The movie did very well at the box office and it became a cult classic.

A remake was released in 2017.

[[New Japan Pro Wrestling roster]]

CATEGORIES: Professional wrestlers

The New Japan Pro Wrestling roster is a list of professional wrestlers who are featured by New Japan Pro Wrestling.

[[Cursive (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Emo bands, Post-hardcore bands, Musicians from Omaha, Nebraska

Cursive is an American indie rock band, from Omaha, Nebraska, formed in 1995. They are currently signed by Saddle Creek Records. The discography of Cursive, consists of six studio albums, one compilation album, nine slipts/EPs, six promo-singles, and eleven music videos.

[[Ternary form]]

CATEGORIES: Song forms, Musical forms

Ternary form is a musical form. It is also called song form or minuet and trio. These forms all have three distinct sections. The three sections are written in shorthand as ABA. The music in the A sections is the same, or very nearly the same. The music in the B section is different from the A sections. The B section usually provides some sort of musical contrast to the A sections. It may be composed in a different but related key, for example. The B section is often called the "trio", especially in minuets, scherzi, marches, polonaises, etc. The B section came to be called the "trio" because a Baroque composer consistently scored this section in his minuets for three instruments.

[[La Dispute]]

CATEGORIES: American punk bands, American rock bands, Post-hardcore bands, Emo bands, Blues bands, Musical groups from Michigan, Grand Rapids, Michigan, Musical groups established in 2004, 2004 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Michigan

La Dispute is an American post-hardcore band, formed in 2004 in Grand Rapids, Michigan. They have released two albums and seven EPs. The band consists of Jordan Dreyer (vocals), Brad Vander Lugt (drums), Chad Sterenberg and Kevin Whittemore (guitars) and Adam Vass (bass). La Dispute released two full-leght albums, three singles, one musical video, five EPs and two slipts.

[[Staffa]]

CATEGORIES: Inner and Outer Hebrides

Staffa is an island in the Inner Hebrides off the north-west of Scotland. It is famous for Fingal's Cave and other examples of basalt columns. No-one lives there.

The islands became part of the Kingdom of Mann and the Isles, the Suðreyjar kingdom of the Norse. The Norsemen ruled for over 400 years until sovereignty was transferred to Scotland by the Treaty of Perth in 1266. The islands were then held by the Clans MacLeod and MacDonald, but Staffa was not regularly inhabited.

[[Good Charlotte (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 albums, Good Charlotte albums, Pop punk albums

Good Charlotte is the debut studio album by American pop punk band, Good Charlotte. Good Charlotte was released on September 26, 2000. It was the first and last album to feature Aaron Escolopio on the drums. All of the songs except for "Let Me Go" and "Seasons" were written by Benji and Joel Madden. "Let Me Go" and "Seasons" were written by Benji Madden, Joel Madden and Josh Ian.

[[The Fall of the House of Usher]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American short stories, Short stories by Edgar Allan Poe

The Fall of the House of Usher is a short story by Edgar Allan Poe. It was first published in September 1839 in Burton's Gentleman's Magazine. It was slightly revised in 1840 and published in a collection of Poe's stories called Tales of the Grotesque and Arabesque. The poem "The Haunted Palace" is part of the story. Vincent Price and Myrna Fahey starred in a 1960 Roger Corman movie based on the story.

[[Snow White]]

CATEGORIES: Grimms' Fairy Tales

"Snow White" is a fairy tale. It is known around the world in various versions. Early printed versions are found in Giambattista Basile's Pentamerone (1634) and in J. K. Musäus's German Folktales (1782). The Brothers Grimm recorded a version called "Little Snow White" (Schneewittchen) in 1812 in their Children's and Household Tales. The Grimms' story is probably the best-known version of "Snow White" today. "Snow White" has been adapted many times to plays, movies, and television programs. Walt Disney adapted the Grimms version to an animated movie in 1937 called Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. 

[[Mud bogging]]

CATEGORIES: Motor sports

Mud bogging (sometimes called mud racing, mud running, mud drags, or mudding) is a type of off-road motorsport. It is popular in Canada and the United States. The goal of mud bogging is to drive a vehicle through a pit of mud.  Winners are decided by the distance they get through the pit.  However, if several vehicles are able to travel the entire length, the time taken to go through the pit will decide the winner. Usually, vehicles competing in mud bogs are four-wheel drives. The motor sport is managed by groups like the American Mud Racing Association.  and the National Mud Racing Organization (NMRO). 

[[Moonshine]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink, Illegal drugs

Moonshine (also called white lightning, mountain dew, hooch, "Tennessee white whiskey", and many other names) is an alcoholic drink that is made illegally. But is usually hidden well from the law.

[[Rochelle Humes]]

CATEGORIES: Black British actors, Black British musicians, British child singers, English movie actors, English pop singers, English television actors, People from Barking and Dagenham (London borough), Singers from London, 1989 births, Living people

Rochelle Eulah Eileen Wiseman (born 21 March 1989) is a British pop singer and actress. She was born in Barking, London to a British mother and Sierra Leonean father. She was a member of S Club 8. Since 2007, she is a member of girl group The Saturdays.

She is married to Marvin Humes of JLS. The couple have a daughter.

[[Rumer Willis]]

CATEGORIES: American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Kentucky, 1988 births, Living people

Rumer Glenn Willis (born August 16, 1988 ) is an American actress. She has been featured in several movies. She was born in Paducah, Kentucky. She is the eldest daughter of actors Demi Moore and Bruce Willis.

[[Timothy Spall]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Actors from London, English movie actors, English television actors, English television presenters, English voice actors, People from Wandsworth (London borough), Television personalities from London

Timothy Spall OBE (born 27 February 1957) is a British character actor. He was born in Battersea, London and lives in Forest Hill, London. He played one the main characters in drama series Auf Wiedersehen, Pet. He played major characters in Secrets & Lies, Shooting the Past as well as the title role in Pierrepoint. 

He presents Timothy Spall: Back at Sea in which he and his wife travel around the coast of the United Kingdom in a Dutch barge.

His son Rafe Spall is an actor.

[[Pop Tarts]]

CATEGORIES: Snack foods

Pop-Tarts is a brand of rectangular, pre-baked toaster pastries made by the Kellogg Company. Pop-Tarts have a sugary filling sealed inside two layers of rectangular, thin pastry crust. Some varieties are frosted. Although sold pre-cooked, they are designed to be warmed inside a toaster or microwave oven. They are usually sold in pairs inside foil packages, and do not require refrigeration.

[[Gran Premio Latinoamericano]]

CATEGORIES: Horse racing, Sport in Argentina, 1981 establishments in South America

The Gran Premio Latinoamericano also named Gran Premio Asociación Latinoamericana de Jockey Clubes e Hipódromos is a horse-race for thoroughbreds of the South American hypodromes. This is the main competition of the OSAF - South American Organization for the Promotion of the Thoruoughbred. At present, OSAF is made up of the most important South American Jockey Clubs, Horseracing Institutions, Breeders’ Associations, and Stud Books. Panama in 2009 and Mexico in 2011 was admitted to the Asociación Latinoamericana de Jockey Clubes e Hipódromos and their hypodromes can feature these races in the next years.

This race is for 3 years old or more thoroughbreds. The distance is 2000 metres, but in 2012 is 2100 metres.  In the year of 2012 the race will be on 10 March at Hipódromo de Palermo, Buenos Aires.

[[Carlos Knight]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, African American actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Living people, American child actors, Actors from South Carolina, People from Columbia, South Carolina

Carlos Knight (born October 22, 1993) is an American actor. He starred in the Fred Figglehorn franchise as Diesel. Knight is from Columbia, South Carolina.

[[Antonio del Pollaiuolo]]

CATEGORIES: 1429 births, 1498 deaths, 15th century Italian painters

Antonio del Pollaiuolo (17 January 1429 – 4 February 1498), also known as Antonio di Jacopo Pollaiuolo or Antonio Pollaiolo was an Italian 15th century painter. He painted The Martyrdom of St. Sebastian (1475, oil on poplar). The painting is at The National Gallery in Trafalgar Square, London.

[[Kevin McDonald]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Actors from Montreal, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Comedians from Quebec

Kevin Hamilton McDonald (born May 16, 1961) is a Canadian actor, voice artist, and comedian. He's the voice of Agent Pleakley in the Lilo & Stitch series, Waffle in Catscratch and the Almighty Tallest Purple in Invader Zim.

McDonald founded The Kids in the Hall with his best friend and actor Dave Foley.

[[Angels in the Outfield (1994 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 comedy movies, 1990s fantasy movies, 1990s sports movies, American comedy movies, American fantasy movies, American sports movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Sports comedy movies, Disney movies

Angels in the Outfield is a 1994 American fantasy sports comedy movie. It stars Danny Glover. The movie is about baseball and is set in Los Angeles.

[[Jamal Woolard]]

CATEGORIES: Comedians from New York City, American movie actors, American rap musicians from New York, Actors from New York City, Singers from New York City, Living people, 1975 births

Jamal Woolard (born July 8, 1975) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, rapper, and comedian. He is best known for portraying The Notorious B.I.G. in Notorious.

[[Thursday (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Post-hardcore bands, American punk bands, Emo bands, Musical groups from New Jersey

Thursday was an American emo band, formed in New Brunswick, New Jersey, at 1997. The group has released six full-length albums, one compilation album, four EPs and one slipt. The band separates in November 22, 2011.

[[Monticello]]

CATEGORIES: Presidential homes in the United States, World Heritage Sites in the United States, 1772 establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in Virginia

Monticello was the home of President Thomas Jefferson. It is near Charlottesville, Virginia. It is now a National Historic Landmark. 

It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

[[Fermionic condensate]]

CATEGORIES: Astrophysics, Nuclear physics, Matter, Physical chemistry, Quantum mechanics

A fermionic condensate, or fermi condensate, is a state of matter (superfluid phase) which is very similar to the Bose–Einstein condensate. Superfluids are also Bose-Einstein condensates.

The only difference is that Bose-Einstein condensates are made up of bosons, and are social with each other (in groups, or clumps). Fermi condensates are anti-social (they don't attract each other at all). This has to be done artificially.

This state of matter was made in December 2003 by Deborah Jin and her group. Jin worked for the National Institute of Standards and Technology at the University of Colorado. Her team created this state of matter by cooling a cloud of potassium-40 atoms to less than a millionth°C over absolute zero (-273.15 °C, this is the hypothetical lowest limit of physical temperatures). This is the same temperature required to cool matter to a Bose–Einstein condensate. The process of cooling a gas into a condensate is called condensation.

[[Lincoln Home National Historic Site]]

CATEGORIES: Presidential homes in the United States, Abraham Lincoln, Buildings and structures in Springfield, Illinois

Lincoln Home National Historic Site preserves the home of Abraham Lincoln and his wife Mary Todd Lincoln in Springfield, Illinois. The Lincolns bought the house in 1844. They lived there until 1861 when Lincoln became the 16th President of the United Sates. The site includes a four-block historic district and a visitor's center. Lincoln's son, Robert Todd Lincoln donated the family home to the State of Illinois in 1887. He wanted the house to be well-maintained forever. He also wanted the house to be open to the public at no charge. The home and the historic district became a National Historic Site on August 18, 1971. The house has two floors and 12 rooms. It was the only house Lincoln ever owned. 

[[Evangeline]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American poems, Poems by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

Evangeline, A Tale of Acadie is a long poem. It was written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. It was published in 1847. The poem is about a girl named Evangeline. She searches for her lost love Gabriel. Longfellow got the idea for the poem from his friend Nathaniel Hawthorne. He modelled the poem on the Greek and Roman classics. Evangeline is one of Longfellow's most popular works.

[[The Village Blacksmith]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American poems, Poems by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

"The Village Blacksmith" is a poem. It was written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. It was published in 1841 in Longfellow's book, Ballads and Other Poems. 

The real  blacksmith of the poem was Dexter Pratt. He was Longfellow's neighbor. The first lines of the poem are well-known: "Under a spreading chestnut tree / The village smithy stands." 

In 1879, children in Cambridge, Massachusetts gave Longfellow a chair. It was made from the chestnut tree of the poem. 

[[The Wreck of the Hesperus]]

CATEGORIES: Poems by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, 19th-century American poems

"The Wreck of the Hesperus" is a poem. It was written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. It was published in 1842 in Longfellow's book, Ballads and Other Poems. His inspiration for the poem was a bad storm in 1839. The storm destroyed 20 ships and killed 40 people. A dead woman was found in the sea tied to a mast.

[[The Young and the Hopeless]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 albums, Good Charlotte albums, Pop punk albums

The Young and the Hopeless is the second studio album by American pop punk band, Good Charlotte. The Young and the Hopeless was released on October 1, 2002 and was re-released in 2004. It was the first album by Good Charlotte to feature an intro song. The album featured the singles "Lifestyles of the Rich & Famous", "The Anthem", "Girls & Boys", "The Young & the Hopeless" and "Hold On".

[[The Chronicles of Life and Death]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Good Charlotte albums, Pop punk albums

The Chronicles of Life and Death is the third studio album by American pop punk band, Good Charlotte. The Chronicles of Life and Death was released on October 5, 2004. It was released with both a "Life" and a "Death" version. The life version contained a bonus track called "Falling Away" which also featured the hidden track "Wounded". It was the first and last album to feature Chris Wilson on the drums.

[[Massage]]

CATEGORIES: Health

Massages refer to rubbing a particular place on the body. They are often performed when a certain part of the human body is injured, strained or in cramps. Massages are often performed on human feet, backs and arms, but can be done on many parts of the body.

[[Good Morning Revival]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Good Charlotte albums, Pop punk albums

Good Morning Revival is the fourth studio album by American pop punk band, Good Charlotte. Good Morning Revival was released on March 27, 2007. It was the first Good Charlotte album to feature Dean Butterworth on the drums after Chris Wilson left the band in 2005. Benji Madden came up with the name of the album. It was the last album to be released on the Daylight Records due to Good Charlotte signing with Capitol Records. The Japanese edition featured two bonus tracks; "Keep Your Hands Off My Girl (Broken Spindles Remix)" and "Face the Strange".

[[Cardiology (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Good Charlotte albums, Pop punk albums

Cardiology is the fifth studio album by American pop punk band, Good Charlotte. Cardiology was released on October 27, 2010. Benji Madden came up with the name of the album saying that the lyrical content of the album is "all is connected to the heart". The album has sold over 52,000 copies as of September 2011.June 2013

[[Yulara, Northern Territory]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in the Northern Territory, 2006 establishments in Australia

Yulara is a town in the southern region of the Northern Territory, Australia. It is very isolated, being just outside the border of Uluṟu-Kata Tjuṯa National Park. In the 2006 census, Yulara had a population of 1,606. Most of the people who live at Yulara work in the tourist industry, emergency services or the national park. The name comes from local Aboriginal words for "howling dingos". Yulara is 18 by road from Uluru (Ayers Rock) and 55 km from Kata Tjuta (the Olgas).

Facilities in Yulara include a supermarket, post office, library, post office, bank, child care centre, health clinic and a hairdresser.

[[Kata Tjuta]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of the Northern Territory, World Heritage Sites in Australia, Pitjantjatjara

Kata Tjuta, sometimes written Tjuṯa (Kata Joota), and also known as Mount Olga or The Olgas), is a group of large rock formations in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is located about 365 southwest of Alice Springs. Kata Tjuta and Uluru, 25 to the east, make up the two focus points of the Uluru-Kata Tjuta National Park. The rock is conglomerate, a sedimentary rock made up of clusters of different types of rock (including granite and basalt), covered in sandstone. There are 36 domes covering an area of 21.68. The highest point, Mount Olga, is 1066 above sea level. It is about 546 above the ground around it. It is about 198 higher than Uluru.

[[Lymphogranuloma venereum]]

CATEGORIES: Sexually transmitted diseases, Lymphatic system, Diseases caused by bacteria

Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) is a chronic (long-term) infection of the lymphatic system caused by three different types of the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. The bacteria spread through sexual contact. The infection is not caused by the same bacteria that cause genital chlamydia.

LGV is more common in Central and South America than in North America. Every year, a few hundred cases of LGV are diagnosed in the United States. However, the actual number of infections is unknown.

LGV is more common in men than women. The main risk factor is being HIV-positive.

Symptoms of LGV can begin a few days to a month after coming in contact with the bacteria. Symptoms include:

[[Geoffrey Howe]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British lawyers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Chancellors of the Exchequer, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deputy Prime Ministers of the United Kingdom, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Port Talbot, Politicians from Glamorgan, UK MPs 1964–1966, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992

Richard Edward Geoffrey Howe, Baron Howe of Aberavon, CH, QC, PC (20 December 1926 – 9 October 2015) was a British Conservative politician. 

Howe was born in Port Talbot, Wales. He read Law at Trinity Hall, Cambridge and had a career as a lawyer before becoming a Member of Parliament. In 1953, he married Elspeth Howe.

He was MP for Bebington from 1964-1966, for Reigate from 1970-1974 and for East Surrey from 1974-1992. He was Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1979-1983 and was Foreign Secretary from 1983-1989. He was made a life peer in 1992. He was close friends with Denis Healey. Healey died a few days before Howe.

Howe died of a heart attack in Warwickshire, England at the age of 88.

[[Common pipistrelle]]

CATEGORIES: Bats, Mammals of Europe, Mammals of Asia, Mammals of Great Britain

The common pipistrelle (Pipistrellus pipistrellus) is a small  bat with a very large range across most of Europe, North Africa, southwestern Asia, and possibly into Korea. It is one of the most common bat species in the British Isles.

It is 3.5–4.5 cm long with a wingspan of 19–25 cm, with brown fur. It is common in woodland and farmland but is also found in towns, where it roosts in lofts and buildings.

In 1999 the common pipistrelle was split into two species on the basis of different-frequency echolocation calls. The common pipistrelle uses a call of 45 kHz, while the soprano pipistrelle echo-locates at 55 kHz. Since then other differences, in appearance, habitat and food, have also been found.

[[Dragonfruit]]

CATEGORIES: Fruits

Pitaya fruit, pitahaya fruit, commonly known as the dragon fruit, is a fruit from Central America, South America, and Asia. It has a light sweet taste, an intense shape and colour, and has a texture of between that of a kiwi and an apple. In addition to being tasty and refreshing, it contains a lot of water and other important minerals with varied nutritional ingredients.

[[Britney (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 albums, Britney Spears albums

Britney is the third studio album released by Britney Spears. It was released in 2001. It has the singles "I'm A Slave 4 U" (the highest charting single off the album), "Overprotected", "I Love Rock 'n' Roll", "I'm Not A Girl, Not Yet A Woman", and "Boys".

[[The Singles Collection]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Britney Spears albums

The Singles Collection is the second compilation album by Britney Spears. 

It was released in late 2009. It features the biggest hits of her career to that point plus one new song, "3", which was her first to debut at #1 on the Billboard Hot 100.

[[Toxic (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Song articles missing an audio sample, Articles with infobox errors, 2003 songs, Britney Spears songs

"Toxic" is a song by American singer Britney Spears, taken as the second single from her fourth studio album In the Zone. It was originally written for Australian singer Kylie Minogue, who turned down recording it. It reached number nine on the Billboard Hot 100 and went to #1 in the UK, Canada, Australia, Norway, and on Billboard’s Hot Dance/Club Play and Mainstream Top 40/Pop Songs airplay charts.

In 2006, the song was certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America.

[[From the Bottom of My Broken Heart]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 songs, Britney Spears songs

"From the Bottom of My Broken Heart" is a song released off of Britney Spears' first studio album ...Baby One More Time. It was released as a single in December 1999 in the United States, Latin America, and Oceania. It reached the top 10 of the Billboard Hot 100 in the year 2000.

[[A Few Good Men]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 crime movies, 1992 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, Cuba, English-language movies, Legal movies, Movies set in Washington, D.C., Columbia Pictures movies, Movies directed by Rob Reiner

A Few Good Men is a 1992 American military drama movie about the corruption of the US Navy in Cuba and Washington, D.C.. It starred Jack Nicholson, Tom Cruise and Demi Moore.

[[Angry Kid]]

CATEGORIES: British television series, Animated television series

Angry Kid is a British television series about a redheaded teenager named Angry Kid, created by Darren Walsh.

[[Tales of a Wayside Inn]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American poems, Poems by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

Tales of a Wayside Inn is a book of poems by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. It was published in 1863.  The book is set in a real place. That place was a tavern in Sudbury, Massachusetts. Longfellow lived 20 miles away in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The inn was a favorite place for the people of Cambridge to go.  The people in the book were real people, too. They were friends of Longfellow. In the book, they tell stories to each other while visitng the Wayside Inn. The best known poem is "Paul Revere's Ride". It begins: "Listen my children and you shall hear / Of the midnight ride of Paul Revere."

Longfellow wrote the book to help him cope with his wife's death. She died at home. She was standing in front of a fireplace. Her skirt caught fire. Longfellow visited the real tavern in 1862. It was called the Red Horse Tavern at that time. It was closed because the owner had died the year before. Longfellow said it was "a rambling, tumble-down building". Two more books about the Wayside Inn were published. One book was published in 1870, and other in 1872.

[[Wayside Inn]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Massachusetts, Taverns, 1716 establishments in the Thirteen Colonies

The Wayside Inn is an inn in Sudbury, Massachusetts, United States. It is the setting for Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's Tales of a Wayside Inn. The inn was founded in 1716 by David Howe. It was called Howe's Tavern. It is thought to be the oldest inn in the United States. Howe's granddaughter, Lydia Howe, was born in the inn. The inn is still open. It has a restaurant and guest rooms.

[[Paul Revere's Ride (poem)]]

CATEGORIES: Poems by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, 19th-century American poems

"Paul Revere's Ride" is a poem written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. It was published in 1860 in the magazine The Atlantic Monthly. It was published again in Longfellow's book Tales of a Wayside Inn. The poem is about Paul Revere's midnight ride through the Massachusetts countryside. He wanted to warn the patriots that the British were on their way to fight them. Longfellow was inspired to write the poem after visiting the Old North Church in Boston.  

[[Bundaberg]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Queensland

Bundaberg is a city in Queensland, Australia. It is famous for Bundaberg rum, which is made there. Bundaberg was affected by the 2010–2011 Queensland floods.

[[Old North Church]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in the United States, Buildings and structures in Boston, Massachusetts, 1720s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 1723 establishments, 18th-century establishments in Massachusetts

Old North Church (officially, Christ Church in the City of Boston) is a church in Boston, Massachusetts at 193 Salem Street. It was built in 1723. Its design was inspired by the works of Christopher Wren. The church is a parish of the Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts. It is the oldest standing church building in Boston. Inside the church is a bust of George Washington that the Marquis de Lafayette thought the best likeness of Washington he had ever seen.

The church is known to most Americans because it was here that a lantern signal was sent by sexton Robert Newman from the church steeple on the evening of April 18, 1775 to warn American patriots that British soldiers were approaching Lexington and Concord by sea and not by land. "Paul Revere's Ride", a poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, remembers this event. 

The church steeple was damaged by storms in 1804 and 1954. It was rebuilt. It is now 175 feet (53 m) tall. The original weathervane is on top. There are 1100 bodies buried in the basement. Many of these are patriots who were killed at the Battle of Bunker Hill. Old North Church is a National Historic Landmark. Queen Elizabeth II visited the church in 1976 and was given a silver chalice (a cup) modelled on one made by Paul Revere.

[[Pitjantjatjara language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages, Pitjantjatjara

Pitjantjatjara (ˈb̥ɪɟanɟaɟaɾa or ˈb̥ɪɟanɟaɾa) is one of the Western Desert languages of Australia. It is often considered a dialect. It is spoken by the Pitjantjatjara people of central Australia. It is mutually intelligible with other languages of the Western Desert and is very closely related to the Yankunytjatjara language.

The name of the people comes from their word for coming/going: pitjantja.

[[Aṉangu]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous peoples of Australia

Anangu, Aṉaŋu or Arnangu (pronounced with the stress on the first syllable: ˈaɳaŋʊ), is a word used to refer to Aboriginal people in Australia. It is found in some dialects of the Western Desert Language (WDL) of western and central Australia.

Before European people arrived in central Australia, the word probably meant 'human being', or 'person'. But now it is used to mean 'Aboriginal person' only. Because other Aboriginal languages have their own words for '(Aboriginal) person' the word anangu is mostly used in English to refer to the WDL-speaking people. Used in this way, it is not used to refer to any traditional grouping (or tribe), but to the WDL people as a whole. The correct term for "black person" in Pitjantjatjara is aṉangu maru, literally "dark/black person".

[[House of the Seven Gables]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Massachusetts, 1668 establishments, 1660s establishments in Massachusetts

The House of the Seven Gables is a historic house in Salem, Massachusetts. It was built for Captain John Turner. It remained in the Turner family for three generations. The earliest section of the house was built in 1668. It faced south towards Salem Harbor. It was a two-room, 2 1⁄2-story house. It had cross-gables and a huge central chimney. This portion now forms the middle of the house. The house was remodelled over the years. It was eventually acquired by the Ingersoll family. Nathaniel Hawthorne often visited his cousin Susannah at the house. He wrote a novel called The House of the Seven Gables. The book uses the house as background. The house was restored between 1908 and 1910. A "cent-shop" and a secret staircase were added. This was done to please visitors who expected the house to resemble the one in Hawthorne's book.  The House of the Seven Gables is the oldest surviving mansion house in continental North America. It has 17 rooms and over 8,000 square feet. The house is now a non-profit museum.

[[Colossus computer]]

CATEGORIES: Computers, World War II

Colossus was the world's first programmable electronic digital computer.  British code breakers used Colossus for cryptanalysis during World War II.

These messages were sent between the German High Command, and  army field commanders.  Reading these messages helped the Allies to win the war.

Codebreaker Max Newman worked at the Government Code and Cypher School (GC&CS) at Bletchley Park. His problem was how to get a machine that would help turn German coded radio teleprinter messages into ordinary language. A group of Post Office telephone engineers led by Tommy Flowers worked out how to do this. Their design, which was called "Colossus" used many vacuum tubes (valves).  The first machine, Mark 1, worked in December 1943 and solved its first problem in February 1944.  Colossus Mark 2 was even better.  It first worked on 1 June 1944, just before the Normandy Landings on D-Day.  Ten Colossus computers were in use at the end of the war.

British codebreakers called the teleprinter messages "Fish". The messages had been coded by an unknown German machine.  They called the machine and its coded messages "Tunny".  Colossus imitated the machine and read the coded message from a punched tape. It tried various possibilities of how two of the wheels had been set up. When Colossus found likely settings for two wheels, the codebreaker designed further programs for Colossus until likely settings of other wheels were found. Colossus did not perform all of the decoding process. It just found likely settings of the machine. The output from Colossus was then worked on by people who had a very good knowledge of the German language.

After the war the British codebreakers found out that the code machine was the Lorenz SZ42.  All the secret Colossus computers were taken to pieces, so that no one would find out about them.  The designs were destroyed.  For thirty years no one knew who made them.  Between the early 1990s and 2007, a working copy of a Colossus computer was built.  This can be seen at The National Museum of Computing at Bletchley Park in England.

[[Communic]]

CATEGORIES: Norwegian heavy metal bands, Power metal bands

Communic is a Norwegian progressive metal band from Kristiansand, Norway. Communic has three members in the band; the current band members are Oddleif Stensland, Erik Mortensen and Tor Atle Andersen. The band formed in March 2003 as a side project for the band, Scariot. They are currently signed to Nuclear Blast Records and have released 4 albums and a demo.

[[Sublime (philosophy)]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy

In philosophy, the term sublime refers to something that is great. This greatness can be physical, moral, intellectual, metaphysical, aesthetic, spiritual or artistic. Very often, the term refers to something that is so great that it cannot be calculated, measured or imitated. Special skills are often needed to fully perceive or understand the sublime. 

As a category in aesthetics, the main property is that its beauty is bigger that something that is merely beautiful. Sometimes, the sublime may be sacred and causes awe.

It is only western philosophy that makes a distinction between the beautiful and the sublime; there is no such distinction in eastern philosophy.The first known work in philiosphy treating the sublime is called On the Sublime, and was written by an otherwise unknown writer who lived in the first or third century. This writer is often called Longinus. Longinus was a teacher of rhetoric, and used the sublime to describe great language in this context. According to Longinus, the sublime inspires awe and veneration, with greater persuasive powers. Nicolas Boileau-Despréaux translated this work into French, in the 16th century; in the 18th century the text was translated into English as well.

Philosophers who wrote about the sublime include Edmund Burke, Immanuel Kant, Arthur Schopenhauer, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Theodor W. Adorno, and Jean-François Lyotard. Writers include Friedrich Schiller and Victor Hugo.

[[Shōnan]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Japan

Shōnan is the name of a local Japanese region along the coast of Sagami Bay which is about 50 kilometres southwest of Tokyo.  

Shōnan is centered on Enoshima, which is a small island near the coast.

[[Renata Scotto]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, sopranos, Living people, Italian opera singers

Renata Scotto (born on February 24, 1934) is an Italian operatic soprano who enjoyed a long and distinguished international career.

[[Madama Butterfly]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Giacomo Puccini, 1904 works, 1900s operas

Madama Butterfly is an Italian opera in three acts with music by Giacomo Puccini. The libretto was written by Giuseppe Giacosa and Luigi Illica. It was based on a play by David Belasco. The opera was first performed in Milan, Italy, on February 17, 1904. Its revised version was performed in Brescia, on May 28, 1904. Although a fiasco at its premiere, it soon established itself in its revised version as one of the most beloved of operas. 

[[La Gioconda]]

CATEGORIES: operas

La Gioconda is an Italian opera in four acts, music by Amilcare Ponchielli and libretto by Arrigo Boito, after Victor Hugo's play Angelo, Tyran de Padoue. It was first performed in Milan, on April 8, 1876. By far Ponchielli's most successful work and his only opera still regularly performed. 

[[Europa (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Greek mythology, National personifications

Europa is a figure from Greek mythology. She is the daughter of Phoenician king Agenor and of Telephassa. Zeus falls in love with her. Because of his wife Hera, he has to take the shape of a bull. Hermes makes the herd of cattle with the bull Zeus graze near the beach near Sidon, where Europa is playing. That way, Zeus is able to abduct Europa on his back. He swims to Matala on Crete where he shows himself. The children of Europa and Zeus are Minos, Rhadamanthys and Sarpedon. Because of a prophecy of Aphrodite, the new continent Europe is named after Europa.

The oldest telling of the story can be found in the Illiad by Homer. There, she is the daughter of Phoinix. Other ancient tellings include "Europa" by Moschos, and the Metamorphoses by Ovid.

Agenor sent his sons to search for Europa, but they could not find her. Cadmus asks the Oracle at Delphi and is told to give up the search, and found Thebes in Boetia instead.

According to other sources, Europa remained on Crete, were she married Asterion, and became queen. Asterion did not have any children, so he adopted her sons.

The oldest known paintings which clearly show Europa date from the 7th century BC. 

[[Marot jar]]

CATEGORIES: Containers, Fluid mechanics

A marot jar is a special kind of syphon or siphon device invented some time during the 1700s. The device is filled up water and lets it out in a special way so that the speed and amount of water that comes out is always the same, even if the jar is completely full or almost empty.

In the diagram (see right), an air-tight jar contains some water (blue) and some air (yellow). The green pipe is started as a siphon so that water starts flowing out of the pipe. Because the pipe lets out water, the pressure on the inside of the jar is less than the pressure outside, so it causes air to be sucked in through the orange pipe. Because the pressure is going to tend to being the same inside and outside of the jar, the water is going to flow out of the pipe at the same speed and amount.

[[The Lorax]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 books, Books by Dr. Seuss, English-language picture books

The Lorax is a children's book. It was written by Dr. Seuss. It was first published in 1971. The Lorax is a small orange creature. He speaks for the trees against the greedy Once-ler. The book is a fable about industrialized society and the danger it poses to nature. It has been made into a 2012 movie and a 1972 television show. Some people criticized the book. They thought it was gloomy. They thought it was not a good book for children. Some people thought it was unfair to the logging industry.

[[Andrew Castle]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, British male tennis players, English television presenters, Living people, Reality television participants, Sportspeople from Surrey, Strictly Come Dancing participants, Television personalities from Surrey

Andrew Nicholas Castle (born 15 November 1963) is a retired British tennis player. He became a television presenter. He was born in Epsom, Surrey. He retired from tennis in 1992.

He was a contestant on the 2008 series of Strictly Come Dancing and on the 2010 series of 71 Degrees North.

[[The Cat in the Hat]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 books, English-language picture books, Books by Dr. Seuss

The Cat in the Hat is a children's book written by Dr. Seuss and was first published in 1957. Seuss wrote the book after being challenged to write a story beginning readers would love. He was given a list of 438 words beginning readers were expected to know. He was told these were the only words he could use. He used 223 words on the list.  The Cat would appear in other Dr. Seuss books. More than 11 million copies of the book have been printed. It has been translated into more than 12 different languages including Latin and Yiddish. The story has been made into a television special and a 2003 movie. The Cat appears in a Broadway musical called Seussical. He also is the host of the educational children's shows The Wubbulous World of Dr. Seuss and The Cat in the Hat Knows a Lot About That.

[[Les contes d'Hoffmann]]

CATEGORIES: operas

Les contes d'Hoffmann (The Tales of Hoffmann) is a French opera. It has a prologue, three acts and an epilogue. The music was written by Jacques Offenbach. The libretto was written by Jules Berbier and Michel Carré. It is based on E.T.A Hoffmann's Dr Sandmann, Geschichte von Verloreren Spiegelbilde. The opera was first performed in Paris, on 10 February 1881. 

The opera was the last and perhaps greatest work of Offenbach. It was not quite finished when he died. The final score was completed by Ernest Guiraud. Guiraud also wrote the recitatives, though at first it was meant to have spoken-dialogue. The work was an immediate success and has remained so since its creation. 

[[The Song of Hiawatha]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American poems, Poems by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Epic poems

The Song of Hiawatha is an epic poem written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. It was first published in 1855. The poem was loosely based on the legends of Native American peoples. In 1857, Longfellow estimated that the work had sold 50,000 copies. 

The Song is about Hiawatha and his beloved Minnehaha. It is set along the south shore of Lake Superior. The poem was very popular, but critics did not like it. 

Composers and painters were inspired to create works based on the poem. A 2005 television movie was based on the poem.

== Story == 

Hiawatha's birth is foretold by a "mighty" peace-bringing leader named Gitche Manito. A woman named Nokomis falls from the moon. Nokomis gives birth to Wenonah. She grows to be a beautiful young woman. Nokomis warns her not to be seduced by the West Wind. She does not listen to her mother, and Hiawatha is born. 

Hiawatha has childhood adventures, falls in love with Minnehaha, slays the evil magician Pearl-Feather, invents written language, discovers corn, and other episodes. The poem closes with the approach of a canoe to Hiawatha's village. It contains "the Priest of Prayer, the Pale-face." Hiawatha welcomes him with joy. 

The "Black-Robe chief" brings word of Jesus Christ. Hiawatha and the chiefs accept the Christian message. Hiawatha says good-bye to Nokomis, the warriors, and the young men. He says, "But my guests I leave behind me / Listen to their words of wisdom, / Listen to the truth they tell you." He endorses the Christian missionaries. He launches his canoe for the last time westward toward the sunset. Then he departs forever.

[[Ed Sullivan]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1974 deaths, American screenwriters, American television presenters, American television producers, Deaths from esophageal cancer, Writers from New York City

Edward Vincent "Ed" Sullivan (September 28, 1901 – October 13, 1974) was an American entertainment writer and television host. He was best known as the presenter of the television variety show The Ed Sullivan Show.  The program was shown on television from 1948 to 1971 (twenty-three years). It was one of the longest-running variety shows in United States history.

In 1996, Ed Sullivan was #50 on TV Guide's "50 Greatest TV Stars of All Time".

[[Psychological nativism]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

In psychology, nativism is a theory that says that most basic skills are hard-wired in the brain at birth. This theory is the opposite of the theory called the blank slate, or tabula rasa. Blank slate theories said that humans have almost no skills or abilities at birth: they learn these skills over the course of their life. People who believe in nativism (within certain limits) include Jerry Fodor, Noam Chomsky and Steven Pinker. These psychologists believe that humans are born with a set of abilities that help them learn other skills, such as speech.

Some mammals do seem to inherit emotional reactions. Monkeys fearing snakes is an example. Most of the behaviour of insects, reptiles and birds is inherited in some detail. Mammals, however, show a greater ability for learning than other kinds of animals.

Charles Darwin, in The expression of emotions in man and animals (1872), showed that the way most emotions were shown was common between human cultures. He said this was inherited and had been the result of evolution. Behaviorism says that man's behaviour is affected by its results (operant conditioning). Behaviourists denied the importance of inherited behaviours, instincts, or an inherited tendency to behave. People who believe in evolutionary psychology think this is wrong. They think human behaviour has deep roots in our evolutionary past.

[[Syphon]]

CATEGORIES: Fluid mechanics, Tools

The word syphon (Σίφων, also spelled siphon) can refer to any device that conducts the flow of liquids through tubes. Used in the right way, the word refers to a tube in an upside-down U shape. The tube makes liquid flow up hill. It flows higher than the source of the liquid, to come out at a level lower than the surface of the source. The movement is done without pumps. It is powered by the fall of the liquid as it flows down the tube under the pull of gravity.

The syphon must touch the liquid in the (upper) reservoir (the source, where the liquid comes from) in order for it to work. This allows atmospheric pressure to push the liquid up the tube. The top of the tube is where the lowest pressure is, so the liquid will move towards that area in the same way as a barometer. The top of a syphon is the same as the height of a barometer, because they work in the same way. The lower pressure is caused by the liquid falling on the downhill side. A syphon can raise water to a height of 25 feet above the source elevation. New discoveries in Syphon Pump Metering allows for dispensing liquid above the source. United States Patent #5,358,000 was the first to teach this method.

A siphon can be used for irrigation purposes.  

When both ends of a syphon are at atmospheric pressure (equal pressure), liquid flows from high to low. However, if the lower end is pressurised, liquid can flow from low to high. Most syphons have water as a fluid. Other fluids, such as mercury, or organic liquids or even gasses like carbon dioxide can also be syphoned.

[[DSM IV]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses

The DSM-IV is the fourth version of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). The DSM is a manual written by the American Psychiatric Association (APA). They are numbered using Roman numerals: DSM-I, DSM-II, DSM-III, DSM-IV, but the latest edition adopted Arabic numerals allowing subsequent editions to be numbered, 5.1, 5.2 and so on. After the DSM-IV was published, some changes (or revisions) were made to the descriptions in the manual. Because of this, the most recent version of the DSM-IV is officially called the DSM-IV-TR (the TR stands for "Text Revision").

The DSM lists every condition that is officially called a mental illness by the APA. The DSM organizes these conditions into different categories. Each condition is given a code, made up of numbers or a combination of numbers and letters. Along with the condition's name and code, the DSM also gives other information, like:

The conditions that are listed in the DSM have changed over time. In each new version of the DSM, the APA adds conditions that it has accepted as mental illnesses since the last version was published. It may also take out conditions that are no longer thought of as mental illnesses. (For example, homosexuality was listed as a mental illness in the earlier DSMs, but was then taken out.) The APA may also change the way it describes certain conditions.

[[The House of the Seven Gables]]

CATEGORIES: 1851 books, American novels, Works by Nathaniel Hawthorne

The House of the Seven Gables is a novel written by Nathaniel Hawthorne. It was published in 1851. The book is about an old New England family. Themes include guilt, revenge, and atonement. The supernatural and witchcraft are a part of the story. An old house in Salem, Massachusetts was used as background for the story. The house belonged to Hawthorne's cousin Susanna Ingersoll. He visited the house often. He was also inspired by his ancestors. They played a part in the Salem Witch Trials of 1692. The book was well received. The House of the Seven Gables has been adapted to movies and television shows.

[[Mandy Capristo]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Entertainers from Hesse, German models, German pop singers, German television presenters, People from Mannheim, German musicians, German singers

Mandy Grace Capristo (born March 21, 1990 in Mannheim) is a German pop singer-songwriter, model, presenter, and dancer. She was known as a singer of the band Monrose.

[[Baia de Criș]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Romania, Transylvania

Baia de Criș (Körösbánya) is a commune in Hunedoara County, Romania. It is a collection of nine villages: Baia de Criș, Baldovin (Báldovin), Căraci (Karács), Cărăstău (Karasztó), Lunca (Lunka), Rișca (Riska), Rișculița (Riskulica), Țebea (Cebe) and Văleni.

The village of Țebea is where the Revolt of Horea, Cloșca and Crișan started in 1784, and marks the death place and burial site of Avram Iancu.

[[Constitution of India]]

CATEGORIES: Government of India, Constitutions, 1950, 1950s in India, B. R. Ambedkar

The Constitution of India is the supreme law in India . A Constitution is a set of rules and regulations guiding the administration of a country. The constitution of India is the framework for political principles, procedures and powers of the government. It is also the longest constitution in the world with 395 articles and 12 schedules. Originally it consisted of 395 Articles arranged under 22 Parts and 8 Schedules. Today after many amendments, it has 470 Articles and 12 schedules and 25 parts (According to 2021). The constitution was written on 26 November 1949, and was made the center of law on 26 January 1950.  

[[Preamble]]

CATEGORIES: Documents

A preamble is an introduction to a document that describes the documents purpose. The word comes from "pre" meaning "before" and "amble" meaning walk. A preamble can contain facts about the document. The preamble of a law is not part of the law but explains its purpose. The preamble of a book is called a preface. The preamble of a musical composition is a prelude or overture. The preamble of a Wikipedia article walks before the sections, and is called the lede or introduction. 

A data packet has a preamble which the system needs but which goes before the data that the user will use. 

[[Gil Jae]]

CATEGORIES: 1353 births, 1419 deaths, Korean educators, Korean politicians, Murder victims, Korean writers

Gil Jae or Kil Jae(1353 - 1419) was a Korean Goryeo Dynastys scholars, politician, educators and Joseon Dynastys educator, writer, poet and thinker.

[[Little Things (Good Charlotte song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 songs, Good Charlotte songs

"Little Things" is the first single off the debut album by pop punk band Good Charlotte called Good Charlotte. The song is also the first track off the album. The song was released on March 27, 2001 and was re-released in the United Kingdom on March 9, 2009. The song was featured in the movie Dude, Where's My Car? and the video game Project Gotham Racing.

[[The Motivation Proclamation]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 songs, Good Charlotte songs

"The Motivation Proclamation" is the second single off the debut album by pop punk band Good Charlotte called Good Charlotte. The song is also the third track off the album. The song was released on August 7, 2001.

[[Spaceballs]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 comedy movies, American comedy movies, American science fiction movies, Movies set on fictional planets, English-language movies, MGM movies, Parody movies, Movies directed by Mel Brooks

Spaceballs is a 1987 American science fiction comedy movie. It was directed by Mel Brooks. It starred Bill Pullman, John Candy, Mel Brooks and Rick Moranis. Its plot and characters parody the original Star Wars trilogy, as well as other sci-fi franchises including Star Trek, Alien, and the Planet of the Apes films.

[[Little Women]]

CATEGORIES: 1868 books, 1869 books, Books by Louisa May Alcott, Children's books, Works about sisters, 19th century American novels, Children's literature, English-language novels, Young adult novels

Little Women, or Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy is a book by Louisa May Alcott. Alcott drew on her own childhood experiences with her three sisters when writing the book. They lived in Concord, Massachusetts at Orchard House.

Little Women was the book that helped Louisa Alcott become a well-known author. It was not her favorite novel that she wrote. In the year 1994, the book was made in a movie.  Alcott’s writing skills were not the best, but she did have a lot of creativity. Her creativity shown through when she opened a school after getting a $40 donation. After she opened the school, she decided to go back to writing.  (link One)  

The book was originally published in two parts. Part one was called "Little Women". It was published in 1868. Part two was called "Good Wives". Part two followed the girls as they grew up and married. It was published in 1869. Both parts were very successful.

[[Mario Del Monaco]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1982 deaths, Deaths from nephritis, Disease-related deaths in Italy, Italian singers, Musicians from Tuscany, Italian opera singers, People from Florence, Tenors

Mario Del Monaco (July 27, 1915 - July 16, 1982) was an Italian tenor, particularly associated with Italian heroic roles, notably Otello. One of the leading "tenore di forza" (dramatic tenor) of the 1950s, he possessed a voice of considerable range and power with a thrilling upper register.

[[Thornhill (Alabama)]]

CATEGORIES: Plantations in the United States, Houses in the United States, 1833 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Alabama

Thornhill is an old plantation house near Forkland, Alabama. The Greek Revival main house was built in 1833 by James Innes Thornton.  Thornhill was a cotton plantation in the early 1830s. It extended over 2,600 acres. By 1860, there were 156 slaves working on the plantation.  About a third of the slaves lived in quarters behind the main house. William Nichols is believed to be the architect. The house measures 55 feet wide. Inside is a 14 ft wide by 40 ft long central hall. There is a spiral staircase at the back. There are two rooms to either side. The left front room was the parlor. The dining room was behind it. On the front right was the master bedroom. The plantation office was behind it. Upstairs is a matching hall and four bedrooms. All eight rooms are 19.5 feet square. The downstairs rooms have 12-foot ceilings. The upstairs ceilings are 11 feet. There was once a brick kitchen behind the house. It later burned. Additions were made to the original house from 1890 to 1949. They were razed in 1994 and rebuilt to better match the original intent. The two-story portico with six Ionic columns was added about 1850. The plantation schoolhouse was constructed about 1845. The Thornton children and neighboring plantation children were taught there. Surrounding the schoolhouse are 230-year-old post oaks. The house was placed on the National Register of Historic Places on May 10, 1984.

[[Stadtholder]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of state, History of Europe

A stadtholder is a political leader or governor who controls a region or area of land for someone else.

The title was used in the northern part of Western Europe during the 18th century. It was most commonly used in the areas that now are the countries of Belgium and the Netherlands. When a person ruled many different areas, they often could not take control of all of them at the same time. To deal with this problem, they would make a person a Stadthold of an area. That person would act as the ruler for that area. The stadtholder had total control of the area.

The stadtholder of the Dutch Republic was in practice a hereditary monarch in the 16th to 18th centuries. After the Napoleonic Wars they were called kings. 

[[The Click (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 songs, Good Charlotte songs

"The Click" is the third single off the debut album by pop punk band Good Charlotte called Good Charlotte. The song was released in 2001. It didn't appear on the track listing of Good Charlotte but was on the track listing of the Japanese and 2003 re-release of Good Charlotte. The song was also the theme song for the television show Undergrads and the band have also been mentioned in numerous episodes and made an appearance in the 12th episode where they played "The Click".

[[Reductionism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy of science, Philosophical movements and positions

Reductionism is the idea that a system can be totally determined by looking at its parts, and by combining these using rules such as logic. Theories can be reduced to observations, concepts to things, and the laws of nature to the events that cause them. 

[[Sagami Bay]]

CATEGORIES: Bodies of water of Japan, Bays

Sagami Bay, also known as the Sagami Gulf or Sagami Sea, is an area of the Pacific coastline of the Japanese island of Honshu.   The bay is approximately 40 southwest of the capital, Tokyo.  

Underwater canyons extend out of Sagami Bay into the Pacific Ocean in a continuous slope called the "Sagami Trough".

Major cities on the bay include Odawara, Chigasaki, Fujisawa, Hiratsuka, Ito, and Kamakura.

[[OneDrive]]

CATEGORIES: Web software, Microsoft Office, File sharing

Microsoft OneDrive (previously Microsoft SkyDrive, Windows Live SkyDrive and Windows Live Folders) is a free file hosting service. It lets users upload files to a cloud storage. The files can be accessed from a Web browser. It was part of the Windows Live range of services. To use the OneDrive service, a user needs a Microsoft account. OneDrive has support for Office Web Apps. It lets users change and make Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote files.

[[Otello]]

CATEGORIES: Operas, Compositions by Giuseppe Verdi

Otello is an Italian opera in four acts by Giuseppe Verdi. The libretto is by Arrigo Boito, based on William Shakespeare's play Othello. It was first performed at La Scala in Milan on February 5, 1887. The work is widely regarded as one of the greatest of music-dramas. Famous interpreters of the role have included Mario Del Monaco, Jon Vickers and Placido Domingo. 

[[The Watchtower]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines, Jehovah's Witnesses, Monthly magazines, Religious media

The Watchtower is a magazine produced on a monthly basis by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania, distributed by Jehovah's Witnesses as part of their ministry (preaching) work. It's full name is The Watchtower Announcing Jehovah's Kingdom. The Watchtower's stated aim is to "honor Jehovah God, the Supreme Ruler of the universe". It is the most widely circulated magazine worldwide, and its companion magazine Awake! is the second most widely circulated magazine worldwide, according to the article Top 5 World’s Best Magazines.

There is also a "Study Edition" of The Watchtower that is not distributed to the public. It is used by Jehovah's Witnesses at their weekend meetings.

[[Cavalleria rusticana]]

CATEGORIES: Operas

Cavalleria rusticana is an Italian opera in one act. The music was written by Pietro Mascagni. The story and words (libretto) were written by Giovanni Targioni-Tozzetti and Guido Menasci. The opera was based on a play by Giovanni Verga.

The opera was first performed in Rome on May 17, 1890. The work marked the start of the verismo style in Italian opera. It is often paired with Ruggero Leoncavallo's opera Pagliacci to make a full evening. Both operas are just a little over one hour each.

[[Arrietty]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 movies, 2010s anime, 2000s fantasy movies, Disney movies, Studio Ghibli, Movies based on books

Arrietty (called The Borrower Arrietty in Japan and  The Secret World of Arrietty in North America) is a 2010 Japanese animated fantasy movie directed by Hiromasa Yonebayashi, written by Hayao Miyazaki and Keiko Niwa and produced by Studio Ghibli, based on Mary Norton's novel The Borrowers. The movie is about a young Borrower named Arrietty. The movie stars the voices of Mirai Shida as the titular character, Ryunosuke Kamiki as Sho, and Tatsuya Fujiwara as Spiller.

The North American version of the movie was made by Disney, and stars Bridgit Mendler as Arrietty, David Henre as Sho (renamed Shawn), and Moisés Arias as Spiller. It also has Will Arnett as Arrietty's father Pod, and Amy Poehler as her mother Homily.

[[Cytokinin]]

CATEGORIES: Hormones, Plant physiology

Cytokinins are hormones in plants that are found both naturally and synthetically. They are used to make the process of cell mitosis quicken, and thus to make the plant grow faster.

[[Haskell (programming language)]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

Haskell ˈ is a purely functional programming language. It is named after Haskell Brooks Curry, a U.S. mathematician who contributed a lot to logic. Haskell is based on lambda calculus and uses the Greek letter lambda as its logo. The main implementations are the Glasgow Haskell Compiler (GHC), and Hugs, a Haskell interpreter.

[[Second Boer War]]

CATEGORIES: Boer Wars, Wars involving the British Empire, History of South Africa

The Second Boer War (Tweede Boerenoorlog, Tweede Vryheidsoorlog or Tweede Boereoorlog) was a war. It lasted from 11 October 1899 until 31 May 1902. In the war, the British Empire fought against the Afrikaans-speaking Dutch settlers of two independent Boer republics, the South African Republic (Transvaal Republic) and the Orange Free State. Winston Churchill, who later became famous, was captured but escaped. At this time, the British made use of concentration camps. This weakened the Boers. It helped the British stop the war from lasting any longer.

The British troops won the war. As a result, both republics were annexed to the British Empire. Later, both were eventually  incorporated into the Union of South Africa, a dominion of the British Empire, in 1910. The conflict is commonly referred to as The Boer War but it is also known as the South African War outside South Africa, the Anglo-Boer War among most South Africans, and in Afrikaans as the Anglo-Boereoorlog or Tweede Vryheidsoorlog ("Second War of Liberation" or lit. "Second Freedom War") or the Engelse oorlog (English War).

The Second Boer War is a part of what are known as the Boer Wars.  These include the lesser known First Boer War that took place from December 1880 to March 1881.

[[Enoshima]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Japan

Enoshima is a small island in Sagami Bay on the Pacific Coast of the Japanese island of Honshu.  It is part of Fujisawa in Kanagawa Prefecture.

Enoshima has an area of about 0.2 km². It is linked to the mainland by a bridge.

The island is at the mouth of the Katase River.

In 1927, Enoshima was recognized as one of the 100 Landscapes of Japan which best showed Japan and its culture in the Shōwa period.

[[Henny Penny]]

CATEGORIES: Fairy tales, Idioms

Henny Penny, also known as Chicken Little or Chicken Licken, is a fable. It is about a chicken who believes the world is coming to an end.

[[Louisa May Alcott]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American children's writers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Writers from Pennsylvania, 19th-century American novelists, 1832 births, 1888 deaths

Louisa May Alcott (November 29, 1832 - March 6, 1888) was an American writer. She was born at Germantown, Pennsylvania to Amos Bronson Alcott, a controversial educator.

In 1834, the Alcott family moved to Massachusetts, finally settling at Concord. Family friends in the area included Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry David Thoreau, and Nathaniel Hawthorne. 

[[Sir Gawain]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in written fiction

Sir Gawain is a legendary character in the King Arthur stories, but according to some historical critics originates and inspired from a real knight of 850 in the area of north Europe, between legend and oral norvegian Orkney Islands history. He is one of the most important Knights of the Round Table. His parents are Arthur's sister Anna and King Lot. He is the main character of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, a medieval fantasy poem. He is said to be Arthur's nephew. He appears very early on in the legend and has been mentioned in very early Welsh sord in wales.

He is one of a select number of Round Table members to be referred to as one of the greatest knights, most notably in Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, well know also like with the nickname First knight. He is almost always portrayed as the son of Arthur's sister Morgause (or Anna) and King Lot of Orkney and Lothian, and his brothers are Agravain, Gaheris, Gareth, and Mordred. He was well known to be the most trustworthy friend of Sir Lancelot. In some works, Sir Gawain has sisters as well.

Gawain is often portrayed as a formidable, courteous, and also a compassionate warrior, fiercely loyal to his king and family. He is a friend to young knights, a defender of the poor, and as "the Maidens' Knight", a defender of women as well. In some works, his strength waxes and wanes with the sun; in the most common form of this motif, his might triples by noon, but fades as the sun sets. His knowledge of herbs makes him a great healer, and he is credited with at least three children: Florence, Lovell, and Gingalain, the last of which is also called Libeaus Desconus or Le Bel Inconnu, the Fair Unknown. Gawain appears in English, French and Celtic literature as well as in Italy where he appears in the architecture of the north portal in the cathedral of Modena, constructed in 1184.

[[Donna Reed]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Iowa, American movie actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1921 births, 1986 deaths

Donna Reed (born Donna Belle Mullenger, January 27, 1921 - January 14, 1986) was an American actress. She was born in Denison, Iowa. 

Reed had a major role in It's a Wonderful Life. She won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role in From Here to Eternity. She won a Golden Globe Award for Best TV Star - Female for her central role in The Donna Reed Show.

She died of pancreatic cancer in Beverly Hills, California.

[[Danny Dyer]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, 1977 births, Living people, Officers of the Order of the British Empire

Danny Dyer 100% (born 24 July 1977) is a British actor. He was born in Custom House, London. Dyer had major roles in Human Traffic, Borstal Boy, Goodbye Charlie Bright, The Football Factory, The Business, Severance and Outlaw. 

[[The Bill]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 television series debuts, 2010 British television series endings, 1980s British drama television series, 1980s British workplace television series, 1980s crime television series, 1980s workplace drama television series, 1990s British drama television series, 1990s British workplace television series, 1990s crime television series, 1990s workplace drama television series, 2000s British drama television series, 2000s British workplace television series, 2000s crime television series, 2000s workplace drama television series, 2010s British drama television series, 2010s British workplace television series, 2010s crime television series, 2010s workplace drama television series, British crime drama television series, British workplace drama television series, Crime drama television series, ITV television programmes, Police television series, Television series set in London, English-language television programs

The Bill is a British police procedural television series. It ran from 1984 to 2010 on ITV and is set in the East End of London. It started with a pilot episode from 1983 called Woodentop and often featured guest stars who would later become more famous in other roles. 

[[The Courtship of Miles Standish]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American poems, Poems by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

The Courtship of Miles Standish is a long poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. It was published in October 1858. It sold 25,000 copies in two months. 

It tells the story of early New England settlers Miles Standish, John Alden, and Priscilla Mullins. Miles Standish and John Alden are both in love with Priscilla.  

It is unknown whether the story was taken from real-life, or if it was an American folk tale. One critic liked some aspects of the poem. He complained about other aspects though. Longfellow wrote the poem in an unfamiliar meter, Greek hexameter, and used medieval words. 

[[Darren Walsh]]

Darren Walsh may refer to:

[[Darren Walsh (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Australian rules footballers

Darren Walsh (born 27 December 1984) is a former Australian rules footballer who played for Essendon in the AFL.

He was drafted by the Essendon Football Club in the 2002 National draft at pick 27 in the 2nd round. He played two games in his first season with Essendon but ended the season with glandular fever. Walsh was delisted after the 2004 season without having played another game.

[[Darren Walsh (director)]]

CATEGORIES: British movie directors, British writers, Animators, British movie actors, British voice actors, British comedians, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Darren Walsh is an English director, animator, writer, actor, voice artist, and comedian. He is best known as the voice of Angry Kid in the show of the same name. He also created, directed, and wrote the programme.

[[Aardman Animations]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 establishments in the United Kingdom, Academy Award winners, British animation studios

Aardman Animations Ltd., also known as Aardman, is a British stop-motion clay animation studio in Bristol, England. It is known for using techniques with the characters Wallace and Gromit modelled in plasticine. It successfully entered the computer animation market with Flushed Away (2006).

Their stop-motion films are among the highest-grossing stop-motion films of all time. Their debut, Chicken Run (2000), is their top-grossing film. It is the highest-grossing stop-motion film of all time.

In 1991, Park's short, Creature Comforts, was the first Aardman production to win an Academy Award.

[[Regis Felisberto Masarim]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Regis Felisberto Masarim (born March 6, 1973) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Seiichi Makita]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Seiichi Makita is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yasushi Matsumoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Yasushi Matsumoto is a former Japanese football player.

[[Edoson Silva Martins]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Edoson Silva Martins (born March 16, 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Hideyuki Imakura]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Hideyuki Imakura is a former Japanese football player.

[[Chuda]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in India

Chuda is a village in Gujarat, India. It is popular for dry red chili powder.  It is near Limbdi. Chuda is located on the banks of River Vasal. There are a few places to visit in Chuda which are of historical importance. Most famous is Jain Temple of Shri Adinath which is located in the middle of village. Jain Temple having 2200 Years old idle of shri Sumatinatha from the time of the great Samprati Maharaja.

[[Kenji Sakaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Kenji Sakaguchi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Akiyoshi Yoshida]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Akiyoshi Yoshida is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yukinori Muramatsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Yukinori Muramatsu is a former Japanese football player.

[[Nobuyuki Hosaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Nobuyuki Hosaka is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tadashi Koya]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Tadashi Koya is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shin Je-Bon]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, North Korean footballers

Shin Je-Bon (born September 27, 1971) used to be a North Korean football player.

[[Kinya Takehara]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Kinya Takehara is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hirokazu Goshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Hirokazu Goshi is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Osamu Chiba]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyagi Prefecture

Osamu Chiba is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shuji Kusano]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukushima Prefecture

Shuji Kusano is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kazuhisa Irii]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Kazuhisa Irii is a former Japanese football player.

[[Keisuke Makino]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Keisuke Makino is a former Japanese football player.

[[Teppei Isaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Teppei Isaka is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a association football player.

[[Nobutaka Tanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Nobutaka Tanaka is a former Japanese football player.

[[Satoshi Oishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Satoshi Oishi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Fujio Yamamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Fujio Yamamoto is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kozo Hosokawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto Prefecture

Kozo Hosokawa is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yosuke Sakamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto Prefecture

Yosuke Sakamoto is a former Japanese football player.

[[Masahiro Ota]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto Prefecture

Masahiro Ota is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takayuki Sugiyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Takayuki Sugiyama is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kenichi Hashimoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Kenichi Hashimoto is a former Japanese football player.

[[Marcelo Mabilia]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Marcelo Mabilia (born October 31, 1972) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Masaru Hirayama]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukui Prefecture

Masaru Hirayama is a former Japanese football player.

[[Cléber Eduardo Arado]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil, Brazilian footballers

Cléber Eduardo Arado (October 11, 1972 – January 2, 2021) was a Brazilian football player.

[[Marcio dos Santos Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Marcio dos Santos Silva (born February 5, 1969) is a former Brazilian football player. 

[[Mobbing]]

CATEGORIES: Bullying

Mobbing is a special type of consensus bullying behavior.  It is about an imbalance of social, physical or other power involving a group or a person.

Mobbing is like a "virus" or a "cancer" that spreads via gossip, rumour and innuendo. Mobbing is developed or pushed by a leader who persuades others into a systematic pattern of "mob-like" behaviour toward the target.

[[James Fenimore Cooper]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from New Jersey, 19th-century American novelists, 1789 births, 1851 deaths

James Fenimore Cooper (September 15, 1789 - September 14, 1851) was an American writer. He created the character of Natty Bumpo, the archetypal American frontiersman.

[[Kenichi Serata]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Kenichi Serata is a former Japanese football player.

[[Claudio Batista dos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Cláudio Batista dos Santos (born April 19, 1967) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Alex Lopes de Nasciment]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Alex Lopes de Nasciment (born April 22, 1969) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Shinichi Kawano]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyazaki Prefecture

Shinichi Kawano is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yoichi Kajiyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Yoichi Kajiyama is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yoshihiko Matsuoka]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Yoshihiko Matsuoka is a former Japanese football player.

[[Naoki Matsushita]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukushima Prefecture

Naoki Matsushita is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kentaro Ishikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Kentaro Ishikawa is a former Japanese football player.

[[Buiu]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Buiu (born May 5, 1980) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Anderson Gils de Sampaio]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Anderson Gils de Sampaio (born February 15, 1977) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Alicilio Pinto Silva Junior]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Alicilio Pinto Silva Junior (born May 15, 1977) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Takahiro Sasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Takahiro Sasaki is a former Japanese football player.

[[Albert Tomas]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Albert Tomas Sobrepera (born December 19, 1970) is a former Spanish football player.

[[Koji Okamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Koji Okamoto is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takuya Suzumura]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Takuya Suzumura is a former Japanese football player.

[[Atsuo Watanabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Atsuo Watanabe is a former Japanese football player.

[[Robert Vancea]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Romanian footballers

Robert Dumitru Vancea (born September 28, 1976, Craiova) is a Romanian professional football player.

[[Júlio César Rocha Costa]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Júlio César Rocha Costa (born May 12, 1980) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Jefferson Fred Rodriguez]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Jefferson Fred Rodriguez (born February 28, 1978) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Carlos Henrique Raimundo Rodriguez]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Carlos Henrique Raimundo Rodriguez (born December 24, 1976) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Chay Hews]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Queensland

Chay Hews (born 30 September 1976) is an Australian football player.

[[Jailton Nunes de Oliviera]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Jailton Nunes de Oliviera (born January 30, 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Kenji Ito]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Kenji Ito is a former Japanese football player.

[[Paulo Magino]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Paulo Magino (born June 23, 1979) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Luizinho Vieira]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Brazilian football managers

Luiz Henrique Vieira (born February 4, 1972) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Tetsu Yamato]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture

Tetsu Yamato is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kleber Romero]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Kleber Romero (born February 14, 1976) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Valdinei Rocha de Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Valdinei Rocha de Oliveira (born October 27, 1971) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Hiromasa Tokioka]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Hiromasa Tokioka is a former Japanese football player.

[[Alan David Dotti]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Alan David Dotti (born March 19, 1977) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Taisuke Hiramoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Taisuke Hiramoto is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yasuhiro Toyota]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Oita Prefecture

Yasuhiro Toyota is a former Japanese football player.

[[Otsego Hall]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in New York

Otsego Hall was a house in Cooperstown, New York. It was the ancestral home of American author James Fenimore Cooper. It was built by his father William Cooper, who also founded the village of Cooperstown. This village was  where the Hall was located. Building began in 1796. The Hall was completed in 1799. It was the largest private home in central New York for a long time.

In June 1834 James Fenimore Cooper decided to reopen the Hall. He had lived in other places for almost sixteen years.  The Hall had been closed for a long time. It was falling into decay. Repairs were begun at once, and the Hall was quickly restored. At first, James spent his winters in New York City and his summers in Cooperstown. Eventually he made Otsego Hall his forever home.  The Hall burned down a few years after he died.  The surrounding property was sold. His daughter and secretary, Susan Fenimore Cooper, built her home in Cooperstown with bricks and other materials from the ruins of Otsego Hall.

[[Genilson da Rocha Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Genilson da Rocha Santos (born December 1, 1971) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Ricardo Frederico Rodrigues Antunes]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Ricardo Frederico Rodrigues Antunes (born January 1, 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Yuki Imamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Yuki Imamura is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takeshi Shimizu]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Takeshi Shimizu is a former Japanese football player.

[[Keiji Koizumi]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Keiji Koizumi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Atsuto Oishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture

Atsuto Oishi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shinya Hagihara]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Shinya Hagihara is a former Japanese football player.

[[Eiichi Uemura]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Eiichi Uemura is a former Japanese football player.

[[Saulo Estevao da Costa Pimenta]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Saulo Estevao da Costa Pimenta (born April 11, 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Makoto Ikeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Niigata Prefecture

Makoto Ikeda is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takeshi Kawaharazuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Takeshi Kawaharazuka is a former Japanese football player. He currently plays for the Japan national beach soccer team.

[[Tomonori Tsunematsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Tomonori Tsunematsu is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yuji Nakayoshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yuji Nakayoshi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Alex (born in 1976)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Alex (born April 20, 1976) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Kazumasa Shimizu]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture

Kazumasa Shimizu is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jose Pedro Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Jose Pedro Santos (born September 6, 1976) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Daniel Rossi]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

 Daniel Rossi Silva (born on 4 January 1981 in Rio Claro, São Paulo), commonly known as just Daniel Rossi or Daniel, is a Brazilian footballer (midfielder) playing currently for SK Sigma Olomouc.

[[Raul Maldonado]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Raul Maldonado (born March 11, 1975) is a former Argentine football player.

[[Romild Santos Rosa]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Romild Santos Rosa (born October 25, 1973) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Fabricio Andre Pires]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fabricio Andre Pires (born January 29, 1982) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Takashi Kojima]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Shiga Prefecture

Takashi Kojima is a former Japanese football player.

[[Fabio Augusto Justino]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fabio Augusto Justino (born June 16, 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Motoki Imagawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Motoki Imagawa is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jeferson Antonio Alves Dupin]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Jeferson Antonio Alves Dupin (born October 19, 1972) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Washington Luigi Garucia]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Washington Luigi Garucia (born November 24, 1978) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Satoshi Yashiro]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Satoshi Yashiro is a former Japanese football player.

[[Adsorption]]

CATEGORIES: Matter, Physical chemistry

Adsorption is the sticking of atoms or molecules to a surface (called "adsorbent"). The particles which get stuck on can be from a gas, liquid or a dissolved solid. An example would be the way water sticks to the surface of sand grains on a beach, or to particles of soil.

The exact nature of the force which holds them on varies according to the nature of the surface and the adsorbed molecules. The force may be a weak physical force, or weak chemical bonds, but strong enough to keep the layer of molecules stuck on. Supplying more heat usually breaks the bonds and causes the adsorbed molecules to evaporate. Only "free water" (that is not trapped inside solid particles) can evaporate.

[[Kota Minami]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Oita Prefecture

Kota Minami is a former Japanese football player.

[[Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Christianity in the United States, Jehovah's Witnesses, New York City, 1881 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Pennsylvania

The Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania is the main legal body used around the world by Jehovah's Witnesses to organize the religion and also to decide on its official list of beliefs. Members of Jehovah's Witnesses usually call it just as "the Society". Its headquarters are in Brooklyn, New York in the United States and its rules allow only between 300 and 500 members. All of them must be "mature, active and faithful" male Jehovah's Witnesses.

A preacher, Charles Taze Russell, started the organization in 1881 as Zion's Watch Tower Tract Society, so he could share religious pamphlets with people. In 1896, its name was changed to Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society. When Russell died in 1916, a fight started between some of the society's directors and the man who took his place, Joseph Franklin Rutherford. The fight became very bitter and many of the people who had followed Russell, who were called International Bible Students, left and started other religious groups. But Rutherford stayed as president of the society and in 1931 the Bible Student groups around the world changed their name to Jehovah's witnesses. In 1955, the corporation changed its name again to Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. From 1976, the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses began to control all the decisions and the work of the Watch Tower Society.

[[Jun Mizuno]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Jun Mizuno is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shigeo Onoue]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Shigeo Onoue is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takashi Imoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture

Takashi Imoto is a former Japanese football player.

[[Fumiaki Nakamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Fumiaki Nakamura is a former Japanese football player.

[[Cleber Alessandro Gomes]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Cleber Alessandro Gomes (born May 7, 1976) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Leandro Tomaz Perez]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Leandro Tomaz Perez (born July 29, 1979) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Ángel Ortiz]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Paraguayan footballers

Ángel Ortiz (born 27 December 1977) is a Paraguayan football player.

[[Jiro Hiratsuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Jiro Hiratsuka is a former Japanese football player.

[[Maruco Antonio Urunau]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Maruco Antonio Urunau (born November 16, 1970) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Masahiro Shimmyo]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Masahiro Shimmyo is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shinichi Fujita]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture

Shinichi Fujita is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yoshinobu Akao]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Yoshinobu Akao is a former Japanese football player.

[[Daichi Fukushima]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Daichi Fukushima is a former Japanese football player.

[[Sandro Luis Zamboni Britzke]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Sandro Luis Zamboni Britzke (born February 20, 1978) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Marcos Antonio García Nascimento]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Marcos Antonio García Nascimento (Nasa) (born October 21, 1979 in Franca, Brazil) is a Brazilian footballer who last played for Deportes Concepción in Chile.

[[Marco Tulio]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Marco Tulio Lopes Silva (born February 28, 1981) is an Brazilian footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder. He currently playing for T-Team FC in Malaysia Super League.

[[Pak Yong-Ho]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Pak Yong-Ho is a Japanese athlete.  He was a professional football player in Japan.

[[Hiroshi Sakai]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Hiroshi Sakai is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryohei Koike]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Ryohei Koike is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takuma Sugano]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Takuma Sugano is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jun Enomoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Jun Enomoto is a former Japanese football player.

[[Masakazu Senuma]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Masakazu Senuma is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takashi Seki]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Takashi Seki is a former Japanese football player.

[[Marco Luiz Brito]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Marco Luiz Brito (born August 4, 1977) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Shadows-on-the-Teche]]

CATEGORIES: Plantations in the United States, 1830s establishments in Louisiana

Shadows-on-the-Teche is an old plantation house at 317 E. Main St., New Iberia, Louisiana. It was built in 1833-34. Original owners David and Mary Weeks were rich growers of sugarcane. They owned four plantations. The house is Greek Revival in style. A portico of eight columns supports a second floor verandah. The house is made of bricks. The interior was originally furnished with Federal-style and Empire-style furniture imported from the East Coast. The house was built on the edge of one of Weeks's sugarcane plantations.  It was designed for social life and entertaining. The house was said to be the third brick house built on Bayou Teche.

A series of tragedies struck the Weeks family following the completion of the house.  David Weeks died in August 1834.  His wife married John Moore. The household was dependent on slavery.  Mary and John supported secession. During the American Civil War, Federal troops occupied the property. Union officers lived in the house. Mary Weeks died in December 1863. The house was still being used by Union troops. He son restored some of the family fortune during the Reconstruction years. Succeeding generations however were forced to sell much of the property to meet living expenses.

David and Mary Weeks's great-grandson, William Weeks Hall, lived in the house from 1922 until his death in 1958.  He tried to preserve what remained of the property.  He made a large garden of live oak, bamboo, camellias, azaleas, and other plants.  He  donated the house and garden to the National Trust for Historic Preservation at his death. The Trust has owned and operated Shadows until the present. Shadows-on-the-Teche was named a National Historic Landmark on 30 May 1974.  

[[Kazuo Shimizu]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Kazuo Shimizu is a former Japanese football player.

[[Taichi Sato]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Taichi Sato is a former Japanese football player.

[[Junji Sato]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamagata Prefecture

Junji Sato is a former Japanese football player.

[[Genichi Takahashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Genichi Takahashi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Makoto Takeya]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Makoto Takeya is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player.

[[Masaaki Koido]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Gifu Prefecture

Masaaki Koido is a former Japanese football player and a J. League Division 1 coach.

[[Masahiro Miyashita]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Masahiro Miyashita is a former Japanese football player.

[[Daniel Carlos Silva Anjos]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Bahia

Daniel Carlos Silva Anjos (born 23 November 1979 is a Brazilian football player.

[[Aílton de Oliveira Modesto]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Aílton de Oliveira Modesto (born February 27, 1980) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Luiz Renato Viana da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Luiz Renato Viana da Silva (born January 10, 1982) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[James Angulo]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Colombian footballers

James Angulo Zomora (born January 20, 1974) is a former Colombian football player.

[[Teppei Uchida]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Teppei Uchida (born May 22, 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Alex Felipe Nery]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Alex Felipe Nery (born August 14, 1975) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Ricardo de Freitas Carreir]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Ricardo de Freitas Carreir (born January 20, 1978) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Vagner da Silva Sarti]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Vagner da Silva Sarti (born January 9, 1978) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Deili Custodio da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Deili Custodio da Silva (born March 8, 1980) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Wataru Ota]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Wataru Ota is a former Japanese football player.

[[Satoru Yoshida]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Satoru Yoshida is a former Japanese football player.

[[Lindomar Ferreira de Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Lindomar Ferreira de Oliveira (born November 20, 1977) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Naotaka Takeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Naotaka Takeda is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takamichi Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Niigata Prefecture

Takamichi Kobayashi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Masayuki Onishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Masayuki Onishi (born July 5, 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kenji Miyazaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Kenji Miyazaki is a former Japanese football player.

[[Goichi Ishitani]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Goichi Ishitani is a former Japanese football player.

[[Luciano Asley Rocha Carlos]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Luciano Asley Rocha Carlos (born June 19, 1977) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Takamasa Watanabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Takamasa Watanabe is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shinya Yabusaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Shinya Yabusaki is a former Japanese football player.

[[Gesiel José de Lima]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Gesiel José de Lima, commonly known as Nasa (born December 8, 1968), is a retired association footballer who played as a midfielder for several Série A clubs.

[[Srđan Pecelj]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Bosnia and Herzegovina footballers

Srđan Pecelj (can also be written as Srdjan Pecelj, born 12 March 1975) is a Bosnian football defender who currently plays for Rudar Trbovlje in the Ljubljanska Football League, one of the five groups of the Slovenian Regional League, fourth tier in Slovenian football system.

[[Daniel Conceicao Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Daniel Conceicao Silva (born October 10, 1970) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Toru Ojima]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Toru Ojima is a former Japanese football player.

[[Nozomu Kanaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Nozomu Kanaguchi is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player.

[[Hidetoyo Watanabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Hidetoyo Watanabe is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tetsuya Nishiwaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Tetsuya Nishiwaki is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tomohide Nakazawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Tomohide Nakazawa is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kleber Rogerio do Carmo Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Kleber Rogerio do Carmo Silva (born April 14, 1981) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Hiromasa Azuma]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Wakayama Prefecture

Hiromasa Azuma is a former Japanese football player.

[[Masahiro Kano]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Masahiro Kano is a former Japanese football player.

[[Makoto Kaneko]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Makoto Kaneko is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yusuke Yoshizaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Yusuke Yoshizaki is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hitoshi Matsushima]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Hitoshi Matsushima is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kosuke Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Kosuke Suzuki is a former Japanese football player.

[[Koichi Yokozeki]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture

Koichi Yokozeki is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shinya Hoshido]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Shinya Hoshido is a former Japanese football player.

[[Naoki Makino]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Naoki Makino is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tsuyoshi Nakao]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Tsuyoshi Nakao is a former Japanese football player.

[[Satoru Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Gunma Prefecture

Satoru Kobayashi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takao Yamauchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Takao Yamauchi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Claudecir Aparecido de Aguiar]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Claudecir Aparecido de Aguiar (born October 15, 1975) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Sandro Andre da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Sandro Andre da Silva (born March 5, 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Dai Sato]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Dai Sato is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hiroyuki Takahashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Hiroyuki Takahashi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Slave breeding in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Slavery, History of the United States, African-American history

Slave breeding was long a part of slavery. As in other slave countries, its purpose was to make more slaves. Slave breeding became more important in the United States the 19th century when the Atlantic slave trade ended. As with other commodities, scarcity caused the price of slaves to rise, so more slaves meant more money for their owners. Pregnancy was encouraged. Many slave masters mated with their own slaves to make more slave children. 

[[Meadowlawn (Alabama)]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Alabama, Houses in the United States, 1853 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Alabama

Meadowlawn is an antebellum (before the American Civil War) plantation house built in the Greek revival style. It is located in Lowndesboro, Alabama. The house is a two-story frame house with 13 fluted Doric columns on two sides. There are balconies over both main entrance doors with wrought iron railings.

Meadowlawn was built in 1853 for Squire George Thomas (1797-1867).  The house was later sold to Fort Williamson.  In 1905 the house was sold to Ransom Meadows (1846-1940).  He was the last surviving Confederate veteran in Lowndes County.  His daughter, Aline Meadows, (1880-1979) married Robert Bragg Hagood on April 3, 1907. Ransom Meadows deeded the house to the Hagoods. Mrs. Hagood named the house Meadowlawn.  She lived in the house until her death at age 99.  The house still remains in the Hagood family.  It is a contributing property of the Lowndesboro Historic District.  The District was added to the National Register of Historic Places on December 12, 1973.

[[Magnolia Hall (Alabama)]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Alabama, Houses in the United States

Magnolia Hall is a plantation house at the corner of Otts and Tutwiler streets in Greensboro, Alabama. It is also known as the McCrary-Otts House. It is a historic Greek Revival mansion.  It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places as a contributing property to the Greensboro Historic District. It was recorded by the Historic American Buildings Survey in March 1936.

[[List of New York Rangers players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of National Hockey League players, New York Rangers players

This is a list of players who have played at least one game for the New York Rangers of the National Hockey League (NHL) from 1926–27 to present.

[[List of Montreal Canadiens players]]

CATEGORIES: Montreal Canadiens players, Lists of National Hockey League players, Canada-related lists

This is a complete list of ice hockey players who have played for the Montreal Canadiens in the National Hockey League (NHL). It includes players that have played at least one regular season or playoff game for the Montreal Canadiens since the team joined the NHL in 1917. Founded in 1909 as one of the founding members of the National Hockey Association (NHA), the Montreal Canadiens were also one of the founding members of the NHL. Since the formation of the NHL, 709 different players have played with the Canadiens

As of April 3, 2008, 71 goaltenders and 638 skaters (forwards and defencemen) have appeared in at least one regular-season and/or playoff game with the Montreal Canadiens since the formation of the league in the 1917–18 NHL season. The 709 all-time members of the Canadiens are listed below, with statistics complete through the end of the 2013–14 NHL season. This list does not include members of the Montreal Canadiens while the team was a member of the NHA from 1909 until 1917.

The "Seasons" column lists the first year of the season of the player's first game and the last year of the season of the player's last game. For example, a player who played one game in the 2000–01 season would be listed as playing with the team from 2000–2001, regardless of what calendar year the game occurred within.

[[Kipper the Dog]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 British television series debuts, 1990s British television series, Animated television series, Fictional characters

Kipper the Dog is a character in a series of books for preschool age children by a British writer, Mick Inkpen. The books consist of 34 titles (as of July 2005), which have sold over 8 million copies and have been translated into over 20 languages. The books have also won many awards. 

Kipper (the Dog) is also the name of a British animated television series based on the same characters. In some cases, the episodes are specifically based on particular stories by Mick Inkpen. The videos have won awards including a BAFTA award for best children's animation. The show was broadcast from 1997 to 2000 on CITV and Nick Jr.. It currently airs on PBS Kids Sprout. It took a break for a while from CITV until it was repeat on Christmas Eve 2003 showing the 'Christmas Eve' episode and repeated for most of 2004. Kipper has not been on CITV since then. 

The show was released on VHS and DVD by HIT Entertainment, but the episodes were not in order.

[[Uluṟu-Kata Tjuṯa National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia, Protected areas of the Northern Territory, Pitjantjatjara

Uluṟu-Kata Tjuṯa National Park is a national park of Australia. It is in the Northern Territory, 440 south-west of Alice Springs. The park surrounds the two huge rock formations after which it is named: Uluṟu (Ayers Rock) and Kata Tjuṯa (The Olgas).

[[George Willis]]

CATEGORIES: 1828 births, 1898 deaths, English politicians, British physicians, People from County Cavan

George Willis, MD JP (1828-1898) was a British medical doctor and politician.

[[Death row]]

CATEGORIES: Imprisonment and detention, Punishments, Capital punishment

Death row is a place where people convicted of bad things go to be executed using different methods. Some are lethal injection or a gas chamber, or even an electric chair. Death row is often known as capital punishment due to the fact that many years ago, people who were convicted of really bad things such as killing were executed by being hanged, drawn and quartered, firing squad, gas chamber, guillotine, or shooting. 

[[Animation Domination]]

CATEGORIES: Fox television series, 2005 television series debuts

Animation Domination is a group of television shows that is shown on Fox. It began on May 1, 2005 and airs on Sunday nights. In Canada, it is known as Animation Rules. Fox plans on airing it on Saturday nights. It airs from 7 to 10 PM when The OT is not on, when The OT is airing, Animation Domination is broadcast from 8 to 10 PM, unless the NFL game runs for longer, which might cause the block not to air until the following week.

[[William Willis]]

CATEGORIES: 1837 births, 1894 deaths, British physicians

William Willis (1837–1894) was a British medical doctor and professor at the University of Tokyo.

[[Ernani]]

CATEGORIES: operas, Compositions by Giuseppe Verdi

Ernani is an Italian opera in four acts by Giuseppe Verdi, with a libretto by Francesco Maria Piave, based on Victor Hugo's play Hernani. It was first performed in Venice, on March 9, 1844. 

[[La forza del destino]]

CATEGORIES: operas, Compositions by Giuseppe Verdi

La forza del destino (The Force of Destiny) is an Italian opera in four acts by Giuseppe Verdi, with a libretto by Francesco Maria Piave and later Antonio Ghislanzoni, based on Angel de Saavedra Ramirez de Baquedano's Don Alvaro o la Fuerza del Sino. It was first performed in Saint Petersburg, Russia, on November 10, 1862, A revised version was performed in Milan, on February 27, 1869. One of Verdi's richest "middle-period" works, with one of the finest of all operatic overtures. 

[[Mirella Freni]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from neurodegenerative disease, Deaths from stroke, Italian singers, Musicians from Emilia-Romagna, Italian opera singers, People from Modena, Sopranos

Mirella Freni (February 27, 1935 – 9 February 2020) was an Italian soprano, one of the leading lyric sopranos of her era. She had a beautiful and well-schooled voice and a charming stage presence. 

[[Rachel Crow]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, Living people, Singers from Colorado, American television actors, Comedians from Colorado, African American actors, African American comedians, Actors from Colorado, The X Factor contestants

Rachel Crow (born January 21, 1998) is an American singer, actress, and comedienne. She has been on many television programs, including Brain Surge, Inside Edition, and The Wendy Williams Show. Right now, she has a role in Fred: The Show as Starr.

[[Rachel McAdams]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London (Ontario), Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, 1978 births, Living people, Actors from Toronto, Canadian stage actors, Canadian voice actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Rachel Anne McAdams (born November 17, 1978) is a Canadian actress. She was born in London, Ontario and grew up in St. Thomas, Ontario. 

She had major roles in The Hot Chick, Mean Girls, The Notebook, Wedding Crashers, Red Eye, The Family Stone, State of Play, The Time Traveler's Wife, Sherlock Holmes, Morning Glory, Midnight in Paris, The Vow and About Time.

She was nominated for the Orange Rising Star Award in 2006.

[[Big Momma's House]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 movies, American comedy movies, English-language movies, 20th Century Fox movies

Big Momma's House is an American crime comedy movie, made in 2000. It was directed by Raja Gosnell. It stars Martin Lawrence as the main character, "Malcolm Turner", and Nia Long as "Sherry Pierce".

The storyline is about an FBI named Malcom Turner going undercover as an elderly woman called Hattie Mae "Big Momma" Pierce (Sherry's grandmother). Sherry decided to stay her grandmother's house while her grandmother is out of town. His job is to protect Sherry after her violent ex-boyfriend is released from prison.

It had two sequels: Big Momma's House 2 (2006) and Big Mommas: Like Father, Like Son (2011).

[[Cape Henry Light]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Virginia, Virginia Beach, Virginia, Lighthouses, 1792 establishments in the United States, 1881 establishments in the United States

The Cape Henry Lighthouse is a lighthouse in Virginia. It is near Virginia Beach, Virginia. For a long time, it has been important for the large amount of shipping entering the Chesapeake Bay from the Atlantic Ocean. The first building was the first lighthouse authorized by the U.S. government. It was built in 1792.  The lighthouse was also the first federal construction project under the Constitution. It was expected to cost $15,200 to build. Another $2,500 was needed to finish the lighthouse. A second lighthouse was built in 1881 a short distance away. It was built because people were worried the first building was not stable.

[[Washington Irving]]

CATEGORIES: 1783 births, 1859 deaths, Writers from New York City, Ambassadors of the United States

Washington Irving was an American writer. He was born in New York City on April 3, 1783.  He began his literary career writing humorous newspaper sketches. He edited magazines. He went to Europe on family matters as a young man. He remained there for 17 years. He served as the United States ambassador to Spain from 1842 to 1846. He wrote biographies. He regarded his 5-volume life of George Washington as his masterpiece. He died in his home, Sunnyside, at Tarrytown, New York on November 28, 1859.

Irving and his contemporary James Fenimore Cooper were America's first internationally acclaimed authors. Irving encouraged American authors and supported stronger copyright laws. He is best known today for two short stories: "Rip Van Winkle" and "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow". They have been adapted to the stage, to television, and to animated and live-action movies.

The Chicago community area Irving Park is named after him.

[[Sunnyside (Tarrytown, New York)]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in New York, National Historic Landmarks of the United States, Houses in the United States

Sunnyside is a house in Tarrytown, New York. It was once the home of American writer Washington Irving. He wrote many books, but he is best known for the short stories "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" and "Rip Van Winkle". Irving bought the property on June 7, 1835 for $1,800. He described it to his brother as "a beautiful spot, capable of being made a little paradise ... I have had an architect up there, and shall build upon the old mansion this summer. My idea is to make a little nookery somewhat in the Dutch style, quaint, but unpretending. It will be of stone." In its day, Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. said that Sunnyside stood "next to Mount Vernon, the best known and most cherished of all the dwellings in our land." The public interest in the home drew several gawkers hoping to catch a glimpse of Irving working. Irving died of a heart attack in his bedroom at Sunnyside on November 28, 1859. Irving's descendants lived in the house until 1945. In that year, John D. Rockefeller, Jr. bought it. He opened the house to tourists in 1947. Sunnyside is now a museum. An admission fee is charged. The house contains furniture that once belonged to Irving. Sunnyside became a National Historic Landmark in 1962.

[[The Legend of Sleepy Hollow]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American short stories, Works by Washington Irving

"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" is a short story by Washington Irving. The story was published in 1820 in a collection of Irving's literary pieces called The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon, Gent. The story was one of the first fictional works by an American author to become popular outside the United States. Adaptations include Walt Disney's animated movie The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad of 1949 and, more recently, Tim Burton's Sleepy Hollow of 1999 starring Johnny Depp.

[[George Li]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American pianists, 1995 births

George Li (Chinese: 黎卓宇, Pinyin: Lí zhuōyǔ), born August 24, 1995 in Boston, Massachusetts, is a Chinese-American pianist.

Li has been performing since he was nine years old, and is known as a recitalist, a chamber musician, and a soloist with orchestra. At the age of eleven, he played at New York's Carnegie Hall. The performance was featured in the new TV series by NPR, From the Top.

[[Yin Chengzong]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Chinese pianists

Yin Chengzong (Chinese: 殷承宗, Pinyin: Yīn Chéngzōng) (born 1941 in Gulangyu Island, Xiamen, Fujian, China) is a Chinese pianist and composer. He is famous for composing the Yellow River Piano Concerto he arranged based on the Yellow River Cantata. 

[[Fou Ts'ong]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, Chinese pianists, British pianists, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom, People from Shanghai

Fou Ts'ong (傅聰; 10 March 1934 – 28 December 2020) was a Chinese-born British pianist. He was perhaps best known for winning third prize and the Special Mazurka prize at the International Chopin Competition at Warsaw. He was born in Shanghai.

Fou died of COVID-19 on 28 December 2020 in London, aged 86.

[[Kipper (disambiguation)]]

Kipper may refer to:

[[Philipp Kohlschreiber]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, German tennis players, Male tennis players, People from Augsburg, Sportspeople from Bavaria

Philipp Eberhard Hermann Kohlschreiber  (born 16 October 1983 in Augsburg) is a German tennis player. He turned professional in 2001. 2013, his highest ranking has been number 16 in the world.

[[Murray Perahia]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American pianists, American conductors

Murray Perahia KBE (born April 19, 1947) is an American pianist and conductor. 

Murray Perahia was born in New York City to a family of Sephardi Jewish origin. According to the biography on his Mozart piano sonatas CD, his first language was Judaeo-Spanish. The family was from Thessaloniki, Greece. His father moved to the United States in 1935.   

In 1965, Perahia won the Young Concert Artists International Auditions. In 1972, he was the first North American to win first prize at the Leeds Piano Competition.

[[The General Strike]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums, Punk albums

The General Strike is a 2012 album by American punk rock band Anti-Flag. It is their 9th album.

[[Études (Chopin)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Frédéric Chopin

The Études by Polish composer Frédéric Chopin are three sets of études for piano. 

[[Mono Lake Tufa State Reserve]]

CATEGORIES: State parks in the United States, Geography of California

The Mono Lake Tufa State Reserve is a nature reserve near Yosemite National Park within Mono County, California. This reserve was founded in 1981 by the California State Legislature, to protect the formations of the natural limestone "Tufa" at Mono Lake.

[[Lev Ivanov]]

CATEGORIES: Choreographers, 1834 births, 1901 deaths, Russian people

Lev Ivanovich Ivanov (1834-1901) was a Russian ballet dancer and choreographer. He became Second Balletmaster of the Imperial Ballet. Ivanov is credited with choreographing The Nutcracker in 1892 due to the ill health of Ballet Master Marius Petipa. The extent of his work is disputed. Only Petipa's name appeared on posters for the first production. Ivanov also worked with Petipa on a restaging of Swan Lakein 1895. He choreographed Acts 2 and 4, and the Italian and Hungarian dances in Act 3. Other ballets choreographed by Ivanov as the Second Balletmaster to Petipa include "The Enchanted Forest" (1887), and "The Tulip of Haarlem" (1887). Ivanov is credited with the choreography for the "Polovetsian Dances" in the first production of Borodin's Prince Igor in 1890. Late in life, Ivanov petitioned the Imperial Theatres for financial assistance on the strength of his 50 years of service. He died in poverty.

[[Arthur Ashe]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 1993 deaths, African-American tennis players, American activists, American male tennis players, Deaths from AIDS, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in New York City, Male tennis players, People from Richmond, Virginia, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, Sportspeople from Virginia, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions

Arthur Robert Ashe, Jr. (July 10, 1943 – February 6, 1993) was an American tennis player. He started playing tennis professionally in 1969. He won three singles Grand Slam titles: the US Open in 1968, the Australian Open in 1970 and Wimbledon in 1975. He won two Grand Slam doubles titles: the French Open in 1971 and the Australian Open in 1977. Arthur Ashe was ranked no 1. for being the best tennis player, the first African American to be number one. He retired in 1980. Arthur Ashe raised awareness about HIV and AIDs. He also was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1993.

Ashe was born and raised in Richmond, Virginia. He died of AIDS in New York City. 

[[Italian Concerto]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach, Concertos

The "Italian" Concerto (or, Concerto in the Italian style) is a piece of music for harpsichord composed by Johann Sebastian Bach. It was published in 1735 with the French Overture in the second volume of Bach's Keyboard Practice. Both pieces are Bach's interpretations of popular musical forms of the day. The Italian Concerto is a three-movement composition written specifically for a two-manual harpsichord (see image).

The first movement is written in F major. It has a time signature of 2/4, but lacks a tempo marking. It is always played Allegro (fast). The second movement is written in D minor. Its time signature is 3/4, and its tempo marking is Andante (slow).  The third movement is written in F major. Its time signature is cut-time (2/2), and its tempo is marked Presto (very fast). The first and third movements are composed in ritornello style. This means a theme particular to the movement returns time and again. The second movement is a very florid arioso-like piece.

An orchestral Italian concerto relies upon contrasts between the full orchestra and a small group of instruments which act as soloists. Bach achieves this effect by using the lower manual on the harpsichord as the "full orchestra" and the upper manual as the "small group of instruments".

[[Steps (group)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 establishments in England, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, British pop music groups, Musical groups established in 1997, Musical groups from London

Steps are a British vocal pop group who formed in 1997. The members of the quintet are Lee Latchford-Evans, Claire Richards, Lisa Scott-Lee, Faye Tozer and Ian "H" Watkins. Steps have released four albums. They released their first single "5,6,7,8" in 1997. 

[[Falstaff]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in Shakespeare's plays

Sir John Falstaff is a fictional character who appears in three plays by William Shakespeare. In two of the Henry IV plays, he is a friend of Prince Hal, the man who becomes King Henry V.  

Falstaff is very fat.  He thinks he is very important and is always boasting.  He is also a coward.  Falstaff makes Prince Hal get into trouble.  When Hal becomes king Falstaff is rejected.

Falstaff is a comic figure, but Shakespeare makes him say some things which tell us a lot about human nature. For example: before a battle in Henry IV he explains that his cowardice is actually common sense, because honour in battle is not really worth anything. Honour would not stop other people saying he was a coward and it would not help him if he got injured.

Falstaff also appears in The Merry Wives of Windsor.

Shakespeare’s character inspired several musicians to compose music about him.  Carl Otto Nicolai wrote an opera called Die lustigen Weiber von Windsor (1849). Verdi’s wrote an opera Falstaff based on the same play.  It is often thought to be Verdi’s greatest opera. Ralph Vaughan Williams wrote an opera called Sir John in Love, (1924–1928).  Elgar wrote a brilliant piece for orchestra called “Falstaff” which he called: “a symphonic study”.

It is likely that Shakespeare based the character of Falstaff on a real person.  Many ideas have been discussed but no one can be sure who Shakespeare may have had in mind.

[[Laura Linney]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Laura Leggett Linney (born February 5, 1964) is an American actress. She has acted in movies, on television and theater. She won a Golden Globe Award for playing Abigail Adams in John Adams. She is best known for playing the central role of Cathy Jamison in The Big C, for which she won a Golden Globe Award.

She was born in Manhattan, New York City. She is the elder daughter of Romulus Linney (1930-2011). 

[[Sammy Davis Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1990 deaths, Actors from New York City, African American actors, African American musicians, American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Converts to Judaism, Deaths from throat cancer, Jewish American actors, Jewish American musicians, Jewish businesspeople, Kennedy Center honorees, Musicians from New York City, Singers from New York City

Sammy Davis Jr. (December 8, 1925 – May 16, 1990) was an American entertainer. He was a dancer, singer and instrumentalist (playing vibraphone, trumpet and drums), comedian and actor. He was born in Harlem, New York City. Davis became hugely successful as a stage singer and recording artist and when asked to play at segregated places (where African-Americans were not allowed) he refused. Because of this some popular venues began to allow African-Americans to attend just so they could have Davis and other popular black musicians play. Before that black singers like Davis and Nat King Cole could play at the hotels and casinos but not stay or gamble there.

Davis led an unhealthy lifestyle of drinking, smoking and cocaine use but was one of the most popular musicians and actors of the time. He converted to Judaism while in the hospital in 1954 and 1955. He was also a member of the Rat Pack with friends Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin.

The Kennedy Center honored Davis in 1987.

Davis died of throat cancer in Beverly Hills, California.

[[Lang Lang]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese pianists, 1982 births, Living people

Lang Lang (Chinese: 郎朗, Pinyin: Láng Lǎng), born June 14, 1982, in Shenyang, Liaoning, China, is a Chinese pianist. He has played with the best orchestras in Europe, the United States and his native China. He is very famous around the world for his concert performances, television appearances, albums and soundtracks. Lang has done much to encourage children and young musicians to like classical music, especially through the international foundation he created in New York in 2008.

[[Erhu]]

CATEGORIES: String instruments, Chinese culture

The erhu (二胡; pinyin: èrhú) is a two-stringed bowed musical instrument which may also be called a "southern fiddle", and sometimes known in the Western world as the "Chinese violin" or a "Chinese two-stringed fiddle". It is used as a solo instrument as well as in small ensembles and big orchestras. It is the most popular of the huqin family of bowed string instruments used by various ethnic groups of China. The erhu is used in both traditional and contemporary music arrangements, such as in pop, rock, jazz, etc.

[[Billie Jean]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 1983 songs, Grammy Award winning songs, Michael Jackson songs

"Billie Jean" is a song released from the late pop singer Michael Jackson's 1982 album Thriller. The song was released in borderline 1983/1984. Billie Jean was one of many hits by the singer and established itself at number one in the Billboard Hot 100. At the 1984 Grammy Awards Jackson was awarded Best R&B Song and Best R&B Male Vocal Performance for the song. In 2008 Kanye West remixed the song for Olivia Rodrigo. According to Quincy Jones, the song is based off Olivia who would always sneak into Michael's backyard and claim her little brother was his son.

[[Evgeny Kissin]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Russian pianists

Evgeny Igorevitch Kissin (Евге́ний И́горевич Ки́син Yevgeniy Igorevich Kisin; born in Moscow, 10 October 1971) is a Israeli-Russian-British pianist.  He has been an Israeli citizen since 2013. He is famous for his playing of the works of the Romantic repertoire, such as Frédéric Chopin and Franz Liszt.

[[Camryn Manheim]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from New Jersey, 1961 births, Living people

Camryn Manheim (born March 8, 1961) is an American actress. She is best known for her role in the television show The Practice. She also acted in movies, mostly independent movies. She was in the 1997 movie Romy and Michele's High School Reunion. She also acted in Ghost Whisperer.

[[Inflow]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers, Waterways

An inflow is a river that leads to a lake or some other body of water. The inflow gives the lake a supply of water. If lakes have no way of getting water added to them, they will eventually dry up through evaporation. 

Some lakes are big enough that they can stay full through rain instead of inflows. An example of such a lake is the Great Salt Lake in Utah.

[[Fox Entertainment Group]]

CATEGORIES: American entertainment companies, News Corporation, 21st Century Fox, Disney, Defunct companies

Fox Entertainment Group was an American entertainment company. It owns places that movies are produced, television networks and others. It is named after William Fox.

[[Sexy Bitch]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Pop songs, David Guetta songs

"Sexy Bitch" (renamed "Sexy Chick" whenever censored) is a hit song by David Guetta. Akon sings in it. The single was released during 2009. There are several music videos for this song. It was written by Giorgio Tuinfort, Aliaune Thiam, David Guetta, Jean-Claude Sindres and Sandy Vee.

[[Steinway & Sons]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 establishments, Companies of Germany, Companies of the United States, Musical instrument companies

Steinway & Sons, also known as Steinway, (Steinway - pronounce.ogg) is an American-German piano company. It was founded in 1853 in Manhattan, New York City, the United States, by German piano builder Heinrich Engelhard Steinweg (later known as Henry E. Steinway). The employees at Steinway were mostly German immigrants. The company's growth led to the opening of a factory in Queens, New York City, the United States, and a factory in Hamburg, Germany. The factory in Queens supplies the Americas and the factory in Hamburg supplies the rest of the world.

Steinway is a prominent piano company making pianos of high quality. Many inventions within piano development have been made at the Steinway factories. Steinway has been granted 126 patents in piano making – the first patent was granted in 1857. The company's share of the high-end grand piano market is over 80 percent.

Steinway pianos have got many awards. One of the first is a gold medal in 1855 at the American Institute Fair at the New York Crystal Palace. From 1855 to 1862, Steinway pianos got 35 gold medals. Many awards and recognitions followed, for example three medals at the world's fair of 1867 in Paris. The European part of the company holds a royal warrant of appointment to Queen Elizabeth II.

Steinway pianos are made at the factories in Hamburg and Queens. In addition to the flagship Steinway piano line, Steinway markets two cheaper brands of piano. They are sold under the secondary brand names Boston and Essex. The Boston brand is for the mid-level market and the Essex brand is for the entry-level market. Boston and Essex pianos are designed by Steinway engineers. To take advantage of lower costs of part production and labor, they are made in Asia by other piano makers under the supervision of Steinway employees.

[[Lamian]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese food, Noodles

Lamian (拉面) is a type of Chinese noodle. It is made by stretching and folding the dough into strands. The twisting and later stretching of the strips of dough happens because of the weight of the dough. The strands can be made in many lengths and thicknesses depending on how many times it is stretched and folded. The Songshi yangsheng bu (宋氏養生部), which was written by Song Xu around 1504, has the earliest description of how to make lamian.

Literally, lamian means "pulled noodles" (the Chinese word la (拉) means to pull, which is how the dough is made into long thin noodles, mian (面)). Lamian dishes are usually served in beef or mutton soup. Sometimes the noodles can be stir-fried (chaomian (炒面)) and served with a tomato-like sauce.

[[Gullah Gullah Island]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 American television series debuts, Nickelodeon television series, 1998 American television series endings, English-language television programs

Gullah Gullah Island was an American children's television series that features Gullah culture. It was on Nick Jr. from July 6, 1994 to January 9, 1998, with reruns from January 10, 1998 to their 9th birthday.November 2015 It starred Ron Daise and his wife Natalie Daise. It was the first show designed for preschoolers to feature a black family. It was created by Maria Perez-Brown, Kathleen Minton Capano, and Kit Laybourne. It had 3 seasons and 78 episodes.

Gullah Gullah Island on NickRewind's NickRewind Jr. The added to Paramount+ in July 2021.

[[Inventions and Sinfonias (Bach)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach

The Inventions and Sinfonias (1720; revised 1723) are 30 pieces of keyboard music (15 each in sinfonia and invention) composed by Johann Sebastian Bach. They are sometimes known as the Two and Three Part Inventions. Bach arranged the two groups of pieces in order of ascending key. Each group covers the eight major and seven minor keys. Bach wrote them as exercises and study pieces for his 12 year old son, Wilhelm Friedemann Bach. The 1720 versions are found in the boy's Little Keyboard Book of 1722. The invention and sinfonias are often used as preparation for two volumes of Bach's The Well-Tempered Clavier.

Bach wrote in the preface to the printed edition of the Inventions and Sinfonias: "Honest method, by which the amateurs of the keyboard – especially, however, those desirous of learning – are shown a clear way not only (1) to learn to play cleanly in two parts, but also, after further progress, (2) to handle three obligate parts correctly and well; and along with this not only to obtain good inventions (ideas) but to develop the same well; above all, however, to achieve a cantabile style in playing and at the same time acquire a strong foretaste of composition."

(In that year, there wasn’t piano. So, J.S.Bach used harpsichord as a keyboard instrument.)

[[List of Joan of Arcadia episodes]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of television series episodes, American drama television series

This is a list of the episodes of the CBS television serial Joan of Arcadia.

[[Piano Sonata No. 1 (Mozart)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Solo piano pieces, Sonatas

Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's Piano Sonata No. 1 in C major, K 279 (189d) (1774) is a sonata in three movements:

It takes about 14 minutes to play the entire sonata.

[[List of Detroit Red Wings players]]

CATEGORIES: Detroit Red Wings players, Lists of National Hockey League players

The Detroit Red Wings are a professional ice hockey team based in Detroit, Michigan. They are members of the Atlantic Division of the National Hockey League's (NHL) Eastern Conference. The Red Wings franchise has been a part of the NHL since 1926, making them one of the "Original Six" clubs. Originally named the Detroit Cougars, the team was renamed to the Detroit Falcons in 1930; in 1932, the team's name was changed to the Detroit Red Wings and has remained the same since. As of the conclusion of the 2014–15 NHL season, 897 players have played for the franchise; of them, 91 of them are goaltenders, while 806 are skaters.

Since its creation, the team has had 36 captains, including Hall of Famers Sid Abel, Ted Lindsay and Red Kelly. Six players have had the honor of having their jersey number officially retired from play; one of them is Steve Yzerman, who played for the Red Wings from 1983 to 2006, and was the longest-serving captain in North American major league sports, with a tenure of 19 years. Yzerman led his team to three Stanley Cups and was the recipient of several awards, including the Lester B. Pearson Award and Lester Patrick Trophy for his outstanding play and contributions to the sport. Thirty-five other players have been inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame.

As of the conclusion of the 2010–11 NHL season, the Red Wings have made the Stanley Cup playoffs for 20 consecutive seasons, the longest post-season streak for a single team in all of North American major professional sports. Gordie Howe holds the franchise records for the most points (with 1809) and for the most goals (with 786). Howe was a member of a Stanley Cup-winning team four times, all with the Red Wings. As of the conclusion of the 2010–11 season, 869 players have played for the franchise; of them, 89 of them are goaltenders, while 780 are skaters.

[[List of NHL players (A)]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of National Hockey League players

This is a list of National Hockey League (NHL) players who have played at least one game in the NHL from 1917 to present and have a last name that starts with "A".

[[List of NHL players (B)]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of National Hockey League players

This is a list of National Hockey League (NHL) players who have played at least one game in the NHL from 1917 to present and have a last name that starts with "B".

[[List of Sagan Tosu players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

This is a List of Sagan Tosu players. Sagan Tosu is a Japanese professional football club in Tosu on the island of Kyushu.

[[List of NHL players (C)]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of National Hockey League players

This is a list of National Hockey League (NHL) players who have played at least one game in the NHL from 1917 to present and have a last name that starts with "C".

[[List of Albirex Niigata players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players, Albirex Niigata players

The List of Albirex Niigata players is evolving. The history of the team is created by its players.

Albirex Niigata is a Japanese professional football club in Niigata.

[[The Nightingale (Andersen)]]

CATEGORIES: Fairy tales, Works by Hans Christian Andersen

"The Nightingale" is a literary fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen. It was published in 1844 in Andersen's New Fairy Tales (Nye Eventyr) with "The Angel", "The Sweethearts", and "The Ugly Duckling". The critics liked these stories. Andersen's inspiration for "The Nightingale" was Tivoli Gardens, an amusement park with Chinese decorations in Copenhagen which opened in the summer of 1843.  Another inspiration was Jenny Lind, a Swedish opera singer. Andersen was infatuated with her. She was known as the "Swedish Nightingale". Andersen began writing the tale on 11 October 1843 and completed it within 24 hours.

[[List of Avispa Fukuoka players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players, Avispa Fukuoka players

The List of Avispa Fukuoka players is evolving.

Avispa Fukuoka  is a Japanese professional football club in Hakata ward of Fukuoka.

[[List of NHL players (J)]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of National Hockey League players

This is a list of National Hockey League (NHL) players who have played at least one game in the NHL from 1917 to present and have a last name that starts with "J".

[[List of NHL players (L)]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of National Hockey League players

This is a list of National Hockey League (NHL) players who have played at least one game in the NHL from 1917 to present and have a last name that starts with "L".

[[List of NHL players (M)]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of National Hockey League players

This is a list of National Hockey League (NHL) players who have played at least one game in the NHL from 1917 to present and have a last name that starts with "M".

[[Larry Johnson (running back)]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Kansas City Chiefs players, Cincinnati Bengals players, Washington Redskins players, Miami Dolphins players

Larry Johnson (born November 19, 1979) is a former American Football runningback in the National Football League. He played college football for Penn State.

Johnson spent most of his career with the Kansas City Chiefs. After replacing the often-injured veteran Priest Holmes, Johnson excelled. He played very well in 2005 and 2006 and far passed the 1,000 yard mark that notable backs and receivers aim for. However, after an argument with head coach Todd Haley in 2009, he was released. He finished the season with the Cincinnati Bengals, but was not resigned.

Johnson spent portions of offseasons with the Washington Redskins and Miami Dolphins, but was cut both times.

[[Little Britain]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 British television series debuts, 2006 British television series endings, 2000s British comedy television series, 2000s LGBT television series, 2000s satirical television series, BBC television comedy, British LGBT television programmes, British satirical television series, Cross-dressing, LGBT comedy television series, Television sketch shows, English-language television programs

Little Britain is a British television sketch comedy show. It was shown on the BBC from 2003–2006. It was created by and stars Matt Lucas and David Walliams. It is narrated by Tom Baker. It has been taken off streaming services due to racist humor as a result of the George Floyd protests.

[[Tyrod Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, Buffalo Bills players, Cleveland Browns players, American football quarterbacks, Sportspeople from Virginia, People from Hampton, Virginia

Tyrod Taylor (b. August 3, 1989) is an American football player. He plays as a  quarterback for the Los Angeles Chargers of the National Football League. He played college football for the Virginia Tech Hokies. He played relatively well with Virginia Tech, where he wore number 5, but was not drafted until the 6th round by the Baltimore Ravens in 2011.

With the Ravens, Taylor moved on from a preseason injury and played in three games as the backup to starter Joe Flacco. He rushed for two yards in one game, lined up as a wide receiver in another, and completed an 18-yard pass to Anquan Boldin as well. He was on the roster when the Ravens won Super Bowl XLVII and defeated the San Francisco 49ers 34-31.

Taylor left Baltimore after four years for the Buffalo Bills, becoming the starter for three years. He was named to a Pro Bowl after a strong first season as the starting quarterback, then in 2017, helped the team make the playoffs for the first time since 1999. Following that season, the Bills traded him to the Cleveland Browns, where he played one year before joining the Chargers in 2019.

[[Yuja Wang]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese pianists, 1987 births, Living people

Yuja Wang (Chinese: 王羽佳, pinyin: Wáng Yǔjiā), born 10 February 1987, is a Chinese pianist.

Wang started to play the piano at the age of six; her earliest public concerts were at China, Germany and Australia. At the age of seven, Wang began to study at Beijing's Central Conservatory of Music before moving to the US to study at the Curtis Institute of Music at the age of fifteen.

In 1998, Wang was awarded third prize at the Ettlingen International Competition for Young Pianists in Ettlingen, Germany. In 2001, she won the third prize and the "Special Jury Prize" at the First Sendai International Music Competition in Sendai, Japan in the piano section.

In January 2009, Wang signed an exclusive recording contract with Deutsche Grammophon. She has already released four CD's: Sonatas & Etudes in 2009; Transformation in 2010; Rachmaninov in 2011; and Fantasia in March 2012.

There has been a possibility that Wang released a debut CD in 1995.

[[French Suites]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach, Suites

The French Suites are six suites composed by Johann Sebastian Bach between 1722 and 1725. They were written to be played on the harpsichord or clavichord.  A suite is a group of dances. Bach did not call them French Suites. That title was given to the group by someone else. They were called the French Suites to distinguish them from another group of suites by Bach called the English Suites. 

The French Suites are largely based on Italian models, and are written in the keys of D minor, C minor, B minor, E-flat major, G major, and E major. All six suites open with an Allemagne and are followed by a Courante and a Sarabande. All six suites end with a Gigue (jig). Between the Sarabande and the Gigue are found a variety of dances that include Minuets, Bourrées, Gavottes, and others. 

There is no definitive manuscript. The ornamentation varies from one manuscript to another. Two other suites  one in A minor and the other in E-flat major  sometimes appear in the manuscripts. Bach's French Overture is also a suite but is not connected to the French Suites.

[[Baltimore Colts]]

CATEGORIES: Indianapolis Colts, Sports in Baltimore, Maryland, 1953 establishments in the United States, 1984 disestablishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Maryland

[[Cultigen]]

CATEGORIES: Botany

A cultigen is a plant that is the result of artificial selection by humans. Liberty Hyde Bailey, an American botanist was the first to use the term, in 1918. Bailey noticed that the classification Linné introduced for plants was not useful for classifying plants which came from human cultivation and selection. He called the plants which grow in the wild without human selection indigens. A cultigen was: " ... a domesticated group of which the origin may be unknown...  has such characters as to separate it from known indigens, and is probably not represented by any type specimen or exact description".  The point is that a cultigen cannot always be placed in the traditional Linnean system of botanical classification.

Bailey later changed his definition to "Plant or group known only in cultivation; presumably originating under domestication; contrast with indigen", which is the definition used above. Examples of cultigens are maize and cabbage.

[[Oil spill]]

CATEGORIES: Water pollution

Oil from ships and oil tankers can spill onto the sea water and pollute the water. Oil poisons and harms the aquatic organisms and sea birds. The fur of sea mammals and the feathers of sea birds can be damaged by the oil. The animals may suffer, and the effect may be fatal for them. When birds get soaked in oil they can't fly and they can't go in water.

The pollution of the environment with crude or mineral oil or their by-products is called an oil spill. Most often the term is used for marine environments, where coasts, lakes, rivers and oceans are polluted. There are three main ways to combat such pollution once it has occurred:

An oil spill can not only affect the coasts, lakes, rivers and oceans but also the environment and the ecosystems. Many animals could get injured and later die without help. Also all the vegetation  could be affected by the oil.

[[List of Cerezo Osaka players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Cerezo Osaka players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Cerezo Osaka is a Japanese professional football club in Osaka.

[[Lenticular galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: Lenticular galaxies

A lenticular galaxy is a type of galaxy. These galaxies have an elliptical shape and ill-defined spiral arms. Basically, they are a combinations of spiral and elliptical galaxies. Examples include the Cartwheel Galaxy and NGC 4479. They are disk galaxies that have lost most of its interstellar matter, therefore have very little ongoing star formation. Because of this, they contain a lot of aging stars like elliptical galaxies.

Despite being different shapes and a different galaxy type, lenticular and elliptical galaxies share common properties such as spectral features and sizes. They are also early-type galaxies that are slowly evolving.

[[List of Ehime FC players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Ehime F.C. players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Ehime F.C. is a Japanese professional football club in Matsuyama.

[[Fishing industry]]

CATEGORIES: Industries

All activities that are concerned with growing, catching, processing or transporting fish either as a hobby or as an economic activity is called Fishing industry.

According to the FAO  definition it includes  recreational, subsistence and commercial fishing, and the harvesting, processing, and marketing sectors. The commercial activity is aimed at the delivery of fish and other seafood products for human consumption or as input factors in other industrial processes. Directly or indirectly, the livelihood of over 500 million people in developing countries depends on fisheries and aquaculture.

[[John Wesley Hillman]]

CATEGORIES: 1832 births, 1915 deaths, People from New York

John Wesley Hillman (March 29, 1832 – March 19, 1915) was an American prospector during the California Gold Rush. He was also an explorer who was among the first European Americans to see Crater Lake in the U.S. state of Oregon. He is credited with discovering the lake.

[[Stability]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Mathematics

Stability is a property of many systems. It means being at rest, not liable to change. In mechanics and dynamics, a system is stable (has stability) if it will not change motion of its own accord, and will resist small efforts to change its direction or position.

Thus an airliner in flight is dynamically stable, and will keep going in the same direction even when buffeted by uneven air pressure (wind). To change its direction, its control system must be altered. On the other hand, a fighter plane is unstable, and must be controlled at all times by a combination of the pilot and a computer.

Most nuclear isotopes are unstable, but the world is mostly made of stable ones. 

In a boat stability means that it is less likely to capsize.

[[Type specimen]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy

In biology, a type specimen is a particular specimen to which a scientific name is formally attached. For this purpose a specimen is something that can be kept, unchanging, for a long time (for centuries). A specimen may be an organism, a part of an organism, or many small organisms together. 

Preferably a type specimen should be kept where researchers may have a chance to study it. Often, type specimens are kept in museums and the like. A type specimen need not be typical, that is, it need not be representative.

A type specimen can be assigned when a name is first published, or it can be assigned later. Besides type specimens there are other form of types. 

One particular type specimen may have any number of scientific names attached to it. For example the names Fabaceae (family), Faboideae (subfamily), and Faba (genus) all have the same specimen as the type. For any one circumscription,Clarify position, and rank of a taxon only one name can be correct (for a genus that includes the type specimens of the names Vicia and Faba, both, the correct name will be Vicia).

A type specimen is only one of several possible kinds of type. For example, the type of the name of a genus of animals is a type species. But the type specimen is the most famous kind of type.

[[Gene flow]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics

Gene flow or gene migration is the name for the transfer of alleles or genes from one population to another. The most usual cause is the movement of animals or (with plants) the movement of seeds or fruits.

Various barriers to gene flow can occur. The most usual is a geographical barrier of some kind. The beginnings of speciation often depends on the separation of populations which were once interbreeding (panmictic).

[[List of Sanfrecce Hiroshima players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Sanfrecce Hiroshima players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Sanfrecce Hiroshima  is a Japanese professional football club in Hiroshima.

[[Fusion power]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear energy

Nuclear fusion is when two atoms merge to form a new one. This reaction generates energy. The idea behind a fusion reactor is to build a nuclear power plant that uses this process to produce electricity. Nowadays,  nuclear power plants use nuclear fission to produce energy. Nuclear fission is not the same as nuclear fusion. 

Nuclear fusion is the same type of process the Sun uses to generate heat. The most powerful nuclear weapons also use fusion.

As of 2012, there are no commercial power plants that use this technology; there are a few academic ones; these include the Joint European Torus, in England. This reactor uses a principle called Tokamak. A tokamak uses magnets that are shaped like a doughnut to squish the atoms. 

As of 2021, there have never been any nuclear fusion reactors.

[[List of Gamba Osaka players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Gamba Osaka players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Gamba Osaka is a Japanese professional football club in Osaka.

[[First Coast]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Florida

The First Coast is a region of the U.S. state of Florida. It is in the northern part of the state. The First Coast includes five counties around Jacksonville: Duval, Clay, Nassau and St. Johns. Its name comes from a marketing campaign in the 1980s. It is also called Florida's First Coast.

[[Gainare Tottori]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese football clubs, Tottori Prefecture

Gainare Tottori is a Japanese professional football club in Tottori Prefecture.

[[Matukituki River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Oceania, Bodies of water of New Zealand

The Matukituki River is found in the Southern Alps of New Zealand's South Island. It flows for 30 kilometres from Mount Aspiring National Park into the southwestern edge of Lake Wanaka.

[[Buddhist crisis]]

CATEGORIES: Vietnam War, 1963, 1960s in Asia

The Buddhist Crisis was a period of political and religious tension in South Vietnam. The crisis was characterized by a series of discriminating acts by the South Vietnamese government and a campaign of civil resistance mainly led by Buddhist monks.

The crisis was started when the President Ngô Đình Diệm banned the flying of the Buddhist flag. That led to the shooting of nine unarmed civilians who were protesting a ban of the Buddhist flag on May 8 and suicide by burning of Thích Quảng Đức on June 11. The crisis ended when Ngô Đình Diệm was assassinated on November 2, 1963.

[[News Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: News Corporation, 1979 establishments, 2013 disestablishments

The News Corporation (or 'News Corp.') was an Australian, and later American, mass media corporation. It was based in New York City, New York. It was the world's second biggest media company in revenue in 2011, and the world's third largest company in entertainment in 2009.

News Corporation was founded in Adelaide in 1979, by Rupert Murdoch. It was incorporated under South Australian commercial law until 2004 when the company moved to the United States. It was re-incorporated under Delaware law after its shareholders approved the move on 12 November 2004. It was a publicly traded company listed on the NASDAQ. Murdoch remained the chairman and chief executive officer of the company until its end in 2013.

Among its major holdings were News Limited, News International (whose properties include The Times, The Sun, and the now-closed News of the World), Dow Jones & Company (which owned The Wall Street Journal), the book publisher HarperCollins, and the Fox Entertainment Group (owners of the 20th Century Fox film studio and the Fox Broadcasting Company).

News Corporation was split into two different companies on 28 June 2013. Both are publicly traded companies: 21st Century Fox consists mainly of television and media assets, while a new News Corp focuses on publishing.

[[Aizuwakamatsu, Fukushima]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Fukushima Prefecture

Aizuwakamatsu is a city in the Aizu region of Fukushima Prefecture, Japan.

[[Concorde]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft, Aviation in France

Concorde was a passenger airplane that flew faster than the speed of sound. It was made by the French company Aérospatiale and the British company British Aircraft Corporation. Concorde carried passengers from 1976 to 2003. Twenty aircraft were built.

Concorde flew across the Atlantic Ocean in a little less than 3.5 hours. Other airplanes take about eight hours.

When Concorde was being developed, orders from airlines to buy the plane was high. At the time, passenger planes that flew faster than the speed of sound were considered to be a big technological leap. 

Some people did not like the sonic booms caused by Concorde flying faster than the speed of sound. They also complained of the noise Concorde made when taking off and landing. It was twice as loud as conventional passenger jets. Concorde was not allowed to fly over certain countries because of this. There were also concerns that having many Concordes in the air at once could damage the ozone layer. The price of fuel increased many times in the 1970s, but the Concorde also consumed much more fuel than a conventional passenger jet. 

Many airlines later considered Concorde too expensive for the cost and were no longer interested in the plane. They cancelled their orders. Another supersonic airliner, the Boeing 2707 was cancelled for similar reasons.

The first scheduled flights were on 21 January 1976. Concorde flew between several different cities in Europe, North America, South America, and Asia. Concorde initially did not make a profit because of the high costs to run the plane. From the 1980s onwards, ticket prices became much higher. Concorde was mainly used by rich people who could pay the high ticket price.

The high running costs, the crash of Air France Flight 4590 in 2000 and the September 11 attacks caused Concorde to be retired in 2003.

Concorde is considered to be an engineering marvel and a symbol of pride for Britain and France.

[[Date, Fukushima]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Fukushima Prefecture

Date is a city in northern Fukushima, Japan.

There were nine towns in Date District, Fukushima. On January 1, 2006, five towns in Date District joined together and became the city of Date. These five towns were Hobara, Yanagawa, Date, Ryōzen, and Tsukidate. Hobara was in the center.

[[Canyoneering]]

CATEGORIES: Sports, Canyons

Canyoneering or canyoning is a dangerous sport. A person who goes canyoneering is a canyoneer. A canyoneer is a person who walks, swims, or rappels (climbs down ropes) into canyons. Sometimes these canyons are very deep and very narrow. Canyons that are very narrow are called "slot canyons". 

[[Logan Lerman]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Actors from Beverly Hills, California, American movie actors

Logan Wade Lerman (born January 19, 1992) is an American actor. He played Percy Jackson in the 2010 film Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief, directed by Chris Columbus. He also played "Charlie" in a movie of the book Perks of Being a Wallflower. Lerman's other movie roles include Hoot (2006), 3:10 to Yuma, a western (2007), Gamer (2009), and The Three Musketeers (2011), as d'Artagnan. He starred on the series Jack & Bobby (2004 to 2005).

Lerman was born in Beverly Hills, California. His parents are both Jewish. He has two siblings, both older, and is a self-described "film geek". He would like to direct and write films in the future.

[[Ernest Giles]]

CATEGORIES: 1835 births, 1897 deaths, English explorers, People from Bristol, Deaths from pneumonia

William Ernest Powell Giles (7 July 1835 – 13 November 1897), best known as Ernest Giles, was an Australian explorer. He led three long expeditions in central Australia.

[[William Gosse]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1881 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English explorers, People from Hertfordshire

William Christie Gosse (1842–12 August 1881) was an explorer. He was born in Hertfordshire, England. He moved to Adelaide, Australia with his father in 1850. Gosse was one of the first Europeans to explore central Australia. He spotted Uluru on 19 July 1873 and named it Ayers Rock after Sir Henry Ayers, the Chief Secretary of South Australia. Gosse was not the only explorer in the region at the time. Due to the construction of the Overland telegraph Line, the area was opened up to exploring, and Ernest Giles was also looking for a path to the West. Giles failed on his first attempt and Gosse succeeded by following Giles original track. 

Gosse died of a heart attack on 12 August 1881, aged 38, after being sick for a long time.

[[German wine]]

CATEGORIES: German food, Rhineland-Palatinate, Hesse, Baden-Württemberg

German wines are those produced in Germany, one of the oldest wine producing region, and are considered to be among the best wines in the world. Wine is a popular beverage in Germany. Depending on the vintage, Germany is the world's eight largest producer of wine. Grapes are grown only in the sout-western parts of Germany in the states of Rhineland-Palatinate, Hesse an Baden-Württemberg, with more than 102,000 hectares vineyards under cultivation. 

[[Adolphe Adam]]

CATEGORIES: 1803 births, 1856 deaths, French composers, Writers from Paris, Burials at Montmartre Cemetery, Paris

Adolphe Charles Adam (24 July 1803 – 3 May 1856) was a French composer and music critic. He composed many operas and ballets. He is best known today for his ballets Giselle (1841) and Le corsaire (1856, his last work), and his operas Le postillon de Lonjumeau (1836), Le toréador (1849), and Si j'étais roi (1852, often regarded as his finest work). He also composed the popular Christmas carol "Minuit, chrétiens!" ("O Holy Night") (1847). Adam was also a  teacher. Léo Delibes was among his pupils.

[[Henry Ayers]]

CATEGORIES: 1821 births, 1897 deaths, Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George, People from Portsmouth, Premiers of South Australia

Sir Henry Ayers GCMG (1 May 1821 – 11 June 1897) was the Premier of South Australia five times between 1863 and 1873. 

Ayers was born at Portsea, Hampshire, England. He moved to Australia in 1840 with his wife, Elizabeth. He worked in the mining industry. His copper mine became very important to the economy of South Australia. Ayers later went into politics. He was elected to the South Australian parliament on 9 March 1857. He stayed a member for more than 36 years. Ayers first became premier on 15 July 1863.

Ernest Giles, an explorer, named Ayers Rock after him in 1872. In the same year,  Ayers was knighted KCMG and raised to GCMG in 1894. He died in Adelaide on 11 June 1897.

[[Bushfood]]

CATEGORIES: Australian culture, Foods, Indigenous Australian culture

Bushfood (also called bush tucker in Australia) is any food native to Australia eaten by the original inhabitants, the Australian Aborigines. Most bushfoods are very nutritious. Examples of native animal foods (meats) are kangaroo, emu and crocodile. These are quite common and can be found in many supermarkets and restaurants. Other animals, like lizards and grubs, were eaten by aboriginal (native) Australians, long before white people came to the area. It also includes fruits and berries. The most famous native bushfood plant is the macadamia nut. This is farmed and sold in large numbers.

By the end of the 19th century, there were only less than 100.000 Aboriginal people. Since the arrival of the settlers, the native population died from new diseases, alcohol and poverty, as their native land was taken away from them. They had to move to places where they could not live in their traditional way. Most of their languages died out. Until the 1960s, children were taken away from their families and forced to live in children's homes („Stolen Generation“). The idea was to make them „good“ Australians by educating them „properly“.

[[List of J.League players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

This is a list of J. League players - football players who have played in the J. League Division 1 and J. League Division 2, the professional football league in Japan.

In the first 20 years of the league, more than 900 foreign players have been members of Japanese teams.

The table is up to date as of the beginning of the 2012 season.

[[Station (agriculture)]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture in Australia, Australian culture

Station is the term for a big agricultural property (owned land) that is used for raising livestock. The word is used in Australian and New Zealand English. The owner of a station is called a grazier. They are also sometimes called pastoralists. Its workers are called stockmen. The stations may be called sheep stations or cattle stations, depending on what type of animal it raises.

[[Mikhail Fokine]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 births, 1942 deaths, Choreographers, Russian people, Ballets Russes

Mikhail Fokine (23 April – 22 August 1942) was a Russian choreographer and dancer. He was born in St Petersburg, the son of a prosperous middle-class merchant. At the age of nine, he was accepted into the St Petersburg Imperial Ballet School. In 1898, on his 18th birthday, he debuted on the stage of the Imperial Mariinsky Theatre in Paquita, with the Imperial Russian Ballet. In 1902, he became a teacher with the ballet school.

Fokine hoped to go beyond the older ballet traditions. To him virtuoso ballet techniques were not an end in themselves, but a means of expression. He believed that many of the ballets of his time used costuming and mime which did not reflect the themes of the ballets. Therefore, he tried to strip ballets of their artificial miming and outdated costumes. In addition, as a choreographer, he started a reform that took ballerinas out of their pointe shoes. Also, he experimented with a freer use of the arms and torso. He presented his reformist ideas to the management of the Imperial theatre, but did not get their support. Some of his early works include the ballet Acis and Galatea (1905) and The Dying Swan (1907), which was a solo dance for Anna Pavlova, choreographed to the music of Saint-Saëns' Le Cygne.

In 1909, Sergei Diaghilev invited Fokine to become the choreographer of his Ballets Russes in Paris. Fokine broke off the collaboration in 1912, jealous of Diaghilev's close relationship with Vaslav Nijinsky. He moved to Sweden in 1918 and later established his home in New York City, where he founded a ballet school and continued to appear with his wife, Vera Fokina. He became a United States citizen in 1932. Fokine died in New York on 22 August 1942.

Fokine staged more than 70 ballets in Europe and the United States. His best known works were Chopiniana (later revised as Les Sylphides), Le Carnaval and Le Pavillon d'Armide. Among his works for the Ballets Russes were The Firebird, Petrushka, Le Spectre de la Rose and Daphnis et Chloé. Also, for the Ballets Russes, he created a ballet out of Rimsky-Korsakov's Scheherazade. His pieces are still performed by the leading ballet troupes of the world.

[[Lasseter's Reef]]

CATEGORIES: Australian folklore, History of Australia

Lasseter's Reef was a legendary rich gold deposit that was said to be in remote central Australia. A prospector, Harold Bell Lasseter, claimed to have discovered the site in 1897. But Lasseter forgot the exact location of it. He died when he went back into the desert to look for it again. The gold's location remains a mystery—nobody even knows whether it really exists.

Lasseter told the story in 1929. He said that he had found the gold near the border of the Northern Territory and Western Australia. This area at the time was uncharted (no maps had been made of it). When he came out of the desert, he spent the next thirty years trying to get people to fund an expedition to go back and look for it. But people ignored him because people were already making fortune from the gold rush at Kalgoorlie in Western Australia. Nobody wanted to risk going into unchartered desert.

But during the Great Depression, people became interested. Lasseter got enough money for an expedition to relocate the gold. But the expedition was hard—there were long distances involved, no maps to guide them, and it was very hard to find water. When the expedition party became lost, the people who went with Lasseter called him a liar. They left him, but Lasseter continued, with one other man. The man later said that Lasseter became crazy in the desert, and he too left him.

Now alone, Lasseter continued in the desert, but eventually became exhausted and dehydrated. He died from exhaustion and malnutrition in early 1931. He was on his way to Uluru or Kata Tjuta. His body was found in March 1931 by a bushman. The story of Lasseter's expedition is known from the stories of his travelling group. The later part of the story is known from Lasseter's diary, which was found on his body. No maps showing the location of the fabled gold reef were ever found. The tale of the reef has become legend. It is probably the most famous "lost mine" legend in Australia.

[[Altar lamp]]

CATEGORIES: Christian symbols, Judaism

An altar lamp, or sanctuary lamp, is the flame kept near the altar in a church or synagogue. The flame is always kept alive, so is commonly called an "eternal flame". It represents that God is always there with the people.

[[Le Spectre de la rose]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets choreographed by Michel Fokine, Ballets Russes productions, Ballets starring Nijinsky

Le Spectre de la rose (The Spirit of the Rose) is a short ballet. It is about a young girl who dreams of dancing with the spirit of a souvenir rose from her first ball. Jean-Louis Vaudoyer wrote the ballet story. He based it on a verse by Théophile Gautier.  

The dances were designed by Michel Fokine. The music is Hector Berlioz's 1841 orchestration of Carl Maria von Weber's piano music Aufforderung zum Tanz (Invitation to the Dance). Léon Bakst designed the original sets and costumes. 

The ballet was first presented in Monte Carlo on 19 April 1911. Nijinsky danced The Rose and Tamara Karsavina danced The Young Girl. It was a great success. Spectre became internationally famous for the leap (jump) Nijinsky made through a window at the ballet's end.  

[[FC Machida Zelvia]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese football clubs, 1977 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Japan

FC Machida Zelvia  is a Japanese professional football club in Machida in the Tokyo region.

[[Dunscaith Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in Scotland, Ruins

Dunscaith Castle (also called Castle Dún Scáith, or Fort of Shadows) is a ruined castle on the Isle of Skye in Scotland. The castle is the legendary home of Queen Scáthach in Scottish mythology.

[[Park Yong-Ho]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, People from Incheon

Park Yong-Ho (born March 25, 1981) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was part of the South Korean team in 2004 Summer Olympics.

[[Willem Dafoe]]

CATEGORIES: People from Appleton, Wisconsin, Actors from Wisconsin, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, 1955 births, Living people

Willem Dafoe (born William James Dafoe, July 22, 1955) is an American actor. He was born in Appleton, Wisconsin. He played major roles in To Live and Die in L.A., Platoon, The Last Temptation of Christ, Mississippi Burning, Body of Evidence, Clear and Present Danger, Speed 2: Cruise Control, The Boondock Saints, Shadow of the Vampire, Spider-Man and The Clearing. He  was also in the  2017 movie Justice League and 2018 movie Aquaman as Nuidis Vulko.

[[Les Sylphides]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets choreographed by Michel Fokine, Ballets Russes productions, Ballets starring Nijinsky

Les Sylphides (The Sylphs) is a ballet choreographed by Michel Fokine to the music of Frederic Chopin. The music was orchestrated by Stravinsky among others. The scenery and costumes were designed by Alexandre Benois. 

The ballet was first performed by the Ballets Russes in Paris at the Théâtre du Châtelet on 2 June 1909. It starred Nijinsky, Tamara Karsavina, Anna Pavlova, and Maria Baldina. The ballet is non-narrative. It does not tell a story. It is a series of dances meant to evoke the atmosphere and ambiance of a romantic ballet.

Les Sylphides was developed from a Fokine ballet called Chopiniana. This ballet was performed in St Petersburg on 21 March 1908. It was a series of imagined scenes from Chopin's life that included a Polish wedding and a ballroom polonaise. It was revised. All characters and any suggestion of a plot were dropped to create instead an evocation of the romantic ballet. 

The revised ballet (still called Chopiniana) was performed in St Petersburg on 6 April 1908. This second version was costumed in the long white ballet tutu made famous by Marie Taglioni in La Sylphide.  Chopiniana was renamed Les Sylphides when it was presented in Paris.

Les Sylphides generally includes the following musical numbers:

[[Alain Delon]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Actors from Ile-de-France, French movie actors, French movie directors, French movie producers, French screenwriters, French television actors, Swiss movie actors, Swiss screenwriters, Television producers, Writers from Ile-de-France

Alain Fabien Maurice Marcel Delon (alɛ̃ dəlɔ̃; born 8 November 1935) is a French actor. He became famous quickly, and by the age of 23, he was already being compared to French actors like Gérard Philipe and Jean Marais. He was also compared to American actor James Dean. He was even called the male Brigitte Bardot. During his career, Delon has worked with many well-known directors. Some of these are Luchino Visconti, Jean-Luc Godard, Jean-Pierre Melville, Michelangelo Antonioni and Louis Malle. 

Delon was given Swiss citizenship in 1999. He has a company managing product company, and it is based in Geneva.

[[Peter Finch]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Actors from London, Actors from Sydney, Australian movie actors, Australian radio personalities, Australian stage actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1916 births, 1977 deaths

Frederick George Peter Ingle Finch (28 September 1916 - 14 January 1977) was a British-born Australian actor. He was born in South Kensington, London. He was raised in Vaucresson, France and Sydney, Australia. He was married to ballet dancer Tamara Tchinarova.

Finch is best known for his role in Network, for which he won an Academy Award, BAFTA and Golden Globe Award. He died of a heart attack in Beverly Hills, California.

[[Depressant]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Depressants are a group of drugs that depress or slow down the activity of certain areas of the brain.  Functionally, depressants counter the effects of stimulants, which increase brain activity. Drugs of the depressant type are widely used around the world, as prescription drugs.  They can help with the following:

[[Barbiturate]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Drugs used in psychiatry

Barbiturates are a group of drugs that are derivates of Barbituric acid. Adolf von Baeyer was the first to produce Barbituric acid, in 1863. For many years, barbiturates were used as sedatives. Today, their use is very limited in many countries, mainly because they cause addiction and people soon develop a tolerance. People with a drug tolerance will need a higher dosage of the drug to get the same effect as before. After a while, the drug becomes useless for such people. This increased use often leads to physical dependence as the body becomes used to the constant presence of barbiturates. When the person abruptly stops taking the drug or reduces the dose, withdrawal symptoms may arise. 

Barbiturates were once used as a primary treatment for Epilepsy; this is especially true for the substance called Phenobarbitol or Phenobarbitone.  The sedative side effect of the drug made it increasingly unpopular, and it is now prescribed less for epilepsy, in favor of other drugs that do not have sedative effects.

Benzodiazepines are another group of drugs, which have sedative properties: They make people sleepy, and help them sleep. In contrast, Barbiturates force people to sleep. In the case of severe sleeping problems which cannot be controlled by other drugs, Barbiturates are sometimes used as off-label drugs.   

[[Whose Line Is It Anyway?]]

CATEGORIES: American comedy television series, British comedy television series, English-language television programs

Whose Line is it Anyway? is  a United States comedy television show that ran from 1998 to 2007. A revival premiered in 2013. It was presented by Drew Carey on the ABC network, with the revival hosted by Aisha Tyler and airing on The CW network. The design of the show came from a British television of the same name.

The show consisted of a group of four people acting out comedy sketches on-the-spot, with Aisha Tyler choosing what they would do with help of the live audience.

[[Dez Bryant]]

CATEGORIES: Dallas Cowboys players, American football wide receivers, Sportspeople from Texas, 1988 births, Living people

Dez Bryant is an American football wide receiver for the Baltimore Ravens. He played college football for the Oaklahoma State Cowboys. Despite some minor character concerns, Byrant has been a successful returner and wideout for Dallas.

[[Pontifical Catholic University of Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Chile, Santiago de Chile, 1888 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Chile

The Pontifical Catholic University of Chile is a Catholic university based in the city of Santiago de Chile. It was founded in 1888 through a decree issued by the Santiago Archbishop. This university was one of the first Chilean universities taughting strong entrepreneurship starting with two subjects: law and mathematics.

[[Jude Law]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Actors from London, BAFTA Award winners, English movie actors, English movie producers, English stage actors, English television actors

David Jude Heyworth Law (born 29 December 1972) is an English actor. He was born in Lewisham, London and grew up in Blackheath, London. He played major roles many movies. These include The Talented Mr. Ripley, Enemy at the Gates, A.I. Artificial Intelligence, Road to Perdition, Cold Mountain, Alfie, Closer and The Holiday. 

For his work in The Talented Mr. Ripley, he won 2000 BAFTA Award for "Actor in a Supporting Role".

[[Connellan Airways]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Australia, 1943 establishments, 1980 disestablishments, 1940s establishments in Australia

Connellan Airways (later called Connair) was an Australian airline that operated in northern Australia. It was founded by Edward Connellan (1912–1983) on 23 July 1943. The airline flew planes between remote areas of the outback. They worked a lot with the Royal Flying Doctor Service.

The name was changed to Connair in 1970. Connair had money problems in the 1970s. The company was sold to another airline company on 14 March 1980. It was liquidated (turned into money and dismantled) shortly after.

[[Jacaranda]]

CATEGORIES: Bignoniaceae

Jacaranda is a genus of 49 species of flowering plants in the family Bignoniaceae. It comes from tropical and subtropical regions of Central America, Mexico, South America (especially Argentina, Brazil, Peru and Uruguay), and the Caribbean. It is also found in Asia, especially in Nepal. It is found throughout the Americas and Caribbean. It has also been introduced to Australia, New Zealand, India, Fiji and parts of Africa. The genus name is also used as the common name.

[[Ion Television]]

CATEGORIES: American television networks

Ion Television (stylized "ion TELEVISION") is a United States television network. It is owned by ION Media Networks. The channel started broadcasting on August 31, 1998 as PAX TV, as Independent Television on July 1, 2005, and as Ion Television on January 29, 2007. 2010, the network is available in 99 million homes through its 60 stations.

[[UniMás]]

CATEGORIES: American television networks, 2002 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Florida

Channel 408 (HD)

UniMás is a U.S. Spanish-language broadcast television network owned by Univision with headquarters in Miami, Florida.

[[Olaf Rose]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, German historians, German politicians, Neo-Nazis, Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia

Olaf Volker Bernhard Rose Rose (born 1958 in Arnsberg) is a German historian and politician. He is member of the National Democratic Party of Germany. Rose works as an adviser for the party in the Landtag of Saxony. He is co-founder of Gesellschaft für Freie Publizistik and city councilor in Pirna.

In 2012 he was a candidate in the German presidential election.

[[Kaltukatjara]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in the Northern Territory, Indigenous Australian communities, Pitjantjatjara, 1968 establishments in Australia

Kaltukatjara (Kaḻṯukatjara) is a town in the southwest of the Northern Territory of Australia. It is also called Docker River in English. It is about 670 km southwest of Alice Springs, and 8 km from the border with Western Australia. In the 2006 census, Kaltukatjara had a population of 355. All of the residents are either Pitjantjatjara, Ngaatjatjarra or Ngaanyatjarra Aboriginal people.

[[The Honeymooners]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, Black and white television series, 1950s television series, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

The Honeymooners is a 30-minute American television sitcom series. Jackie Gleason plays  New York City bus driver named Ralph Kramden, Audrey Meadows plays his wife Alice, Art Carney plays his friend Ed Norton, a sewer worker, and Joyce Randolph plays Ed's wife Trixie. The show aired on CBS from 1 October 1955 to 22 September 1956. It was a great success. The Honeymooners dropped in the ratings after 39 episodes and its run ended.

[[What's My Line?]]

CATEGORIES: Television game shows, CBS network shows, Emmy Award winning programs, Golden Globe Award winning programs, 1950s television series, First run syndicated television programs, English-language television programs

What's My Line? is a panel game show. It ran weekly in the United States. The show aired on Sunday at 10:30 p.m. EST on CBS from 1 October 1950 to 3 September 1967. Lady panelists wore floor-length dresses and jewelry. Gentleman panelists wore tuxedos. They tried to guess the jobs of everyday people by asking "yes" or "no" questions.  Repartee between panelists and host John Charles Daly was witty, tasteful, and sophisticated. Regular panelists included Dorothy Kilgallen, Arlene Francis, and Bennett Cerf. A chair was open for a guest panelist. The high point of the program was the Mystery Guest. This guest was usually a well-known celebrity such as a Broadway or movie star. Sometimes the Mystery Guest was a little known person in the news such as an astronaut. Panelists wore blindfolds and tried to guess who the Mystery Guest was by asking "yes" or "no" questions. Mystery Guests changed their voices to make it hard for the panelists to know who they were. Baseball great Mickey Mantle, movie star Zsa Zsa Gabor, and future President of the United States Ronald Reagan were three of the many Mystery Guests. What's My Line?' won three Emmy Awards for "Best Quiz or Audience Participation Show", in 1952, 1953, and 1958. The show won a Golden Globe for "Best TV Show" in 1962. CBS stopped broadcasting the program in 1967. It returned in syndication as a daily program. This program was shown from 1968 until 1975. There have been several international versions, radio versions, and a live stage version. It is the longest-running U.S. primetime network television game program (51st).

[[Queen for a Day]]

CATEGORIES: Television game shows, 1950s television series, English-language television programs

Queen for a Day was a radio and television game series. It was one of the first big-prize giveaway television programs. Queen for a Day had its launch on the radio on April 30, 1945. It ran on the radio until 1957. The program then ran on television's NBC from 1956 to 1964.  The program is something of an early "reality show". The program was so popular that NBC increased its running time from 30 minutes to 45 minutes.

The format was simple. Host Jack Bailey interviewed four women contestants. Each told of her personal troubles. These troubles might involve a terminally sick child at home, a husband disabled and out of work, or the need for a hearing aid or a new washing machine. The audience chose the winner by applauding their favorite. She who received the greatest amount of applause as registered by the "applause meter" was Queen for a Day. The winner was crowned, escorted by attendants to a throne, and given not only what she wanted, but juicy prizes like high-end appliances, upscale fashions, and exotic vacation trips as well. Mark Evanier, veteran television writer, writes that Queen for a Day was "one of the most ghastly shows ever produced" and further stated it was "tasteless, demeaning to women, demeaning to anyone who watched it, cheap, insulting and utterly degrading to the human spirit."

[[Handicraft]]

CATEGORIES: Manufacturing

Handicraft is a type of craft where people make things using only their hands or basic tools. The items are usually decorative and have a particular use. Usually the term refers to traditional methods of making things. 

The items often have cultural or religious value. Things made by mass production or machines are not handicraft goods.In Bangladesh we can see many handicrafters living there live only by making handicrafts objects. Also, handicraft things are different from "arts and crafts" because they are meant to be used for something. Handicraft items are generally contrasted with mass production . It stimulates a person's creativity through art . Not only that,it enhances a person's thinking power . It has been protecting our culture in many ways and will further help preserve culture in the future through practice.

[[Margo Martindale]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from Texas, Emmy Award winners, 1951 births, Living people

Margo Martindale (born July 18, 1951) is an Emmy Award winning American actress. She was born in Jacksonville, Texas. She has acted in many movies, stage plays and TV series.

In 2011, She won the Emmy Award for "Outstanding Supporting Actress In A Drama Series" for her acting as Mags Bennett on the TV series Justified.

[[Dawan Landry]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Sportspeople from Louisiana, Baltimore Ravens players, Jacksonville Jaguars players, Living people

Dawan Landry (born December 30, 1982) is an American football player. He plays  strong safety for the Jacksonville Jaguars of the National Football League. He played college football for the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets. He was drafted by the Baltimore Ravens in 2006, and has had a relatively successful career with Baltimore and Jacksonville. Landry missed most of 2008 with an injury, but that was the only season in which he did not play in all 16 games. He had 5 interceptions in 2006 (one toutchdown), four interceptions and a touchdown in 2009, a score in 2010, and two interceptions in 2011. Landry also came in second for the Ravens in 2010 with 111 tackles.

[[Quarterback sack]]

CATEGORIES: American football, Sports words

A quarterback sack is a move in American football. A defender rushes past the line of scrimmage and tackles the quarterback for a loss of yardage. In the National Football League, New York Giants defensive end Michael Strahan made 22.5 sacks in the 2002 season alone, which remains a record.

[[Tackle (football)]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words

A tackle in football is a defensive move in various types of football. It aims to stop an opponent who is running with the ball.

In English style rugby football it means bringing down an opponent running with the ball. It is done by diving and catching the runners' legs. Outlawed as dangerous are tackles round the neck, and less effective tackles are round the runner's body. In practice there are variations, such as shoving an opponent running with the ball into touch (out of the field of play). There are some differences between Rugby Union and Rugby League as to the events after the tackle.

In soccer, tackles are done with the feet around or against the opponent's feet. To be legal the opponent must have control of the ball at the time. Since soccer is a high-speed game, various rules protect the player running with the ball. However, from 2017, tackles from any direction that endanger an opponent's safety may result in the offender being sent-off. This includes "scissoring" which is likely to be punished with a send-off (red card), as it poses a high risk of severe knee injury to the player being tackled. A "studs up" tackle may be dangerous. Referees may caution (yellow card) players who commit such challenges. 

In American and Canadian  football to tackle is to obstruct (physically interfere) the forward progress of a player in possession of the ball. In any such case, the ball becomes dead, the down is over, and play ceases until the beginning of the next play.

[[Releaser]]

CATEGORIES: Ethology

A releaser is a stimulus from one animal to another, which causes a particular response. The releaser, or sign stimulus triggers an innate releasing mechanism in the receiver. The receiver then does its response, the fixed action pattern (FAP).

This kind of system is inherited by both animals. Example: a fledgling bird does its releaser, say it squawks and opens its beak wide, showing bright red inside throat. This triggers the adult to cough up food stored in its gullet. Both 'partners' are behaving instinctually with inherited behaviours: these are not learnt during life. A FAP can truly be said to be 'hard-wired': a specific stimulus nearly always results in the same behavioral response.

Another behavious system is the 'dances' of water birds such as the Great Crested Grebe. They pair for life, and 'dance' whenever a pair meet up after an absence, and on other occasions. The dances are quite complex, and were first described fully by Julian Huxley. Here the meeting is the releaser, and both partners do the fixed action pattern. The function of the system is a little unclear, but it has something to do with reinforcing the pair's bond.

It is not necessary for both partners to benefit, nor to be of the same species. Some moths instantly fold their wings and drop to the ground if they encounter bat ultrasonic signals. This helps helps the moths, but obviously not the bats. In turn, some bats turn off the sound blips when they hear a moth, and glide in the last few feet. This also is an inherited behaviour. This example may be better described as a reflex action.

[[Fruit fly]]

CATEGORIES: Flies

Fruit fly may mean the flies in two families:

[[Copper Age]]

CATEGORIES: Periods and ages in history

The Copper Age was a time period between the Neolithic and the Bronze Age. It is also named Chalcolithic (χαλκός khalkos "copper" + λίθος lithos "stone"). 

In the Bronze Age, people added tin to copper to make bronze, an alloy which is much harder than either tin or copper. During the Copper Age, this fact became known, but was not much used because tin was scarce. 

The Vinča culture was the first to develop the knowledge and skills to process copper, i, the late 6th millennium BC. 

Edged weapons such as knives, swords, spearheads, and axes were made of copper, as were brooches, pins, belt boxes and vessels for food and drink.

[[Blaine Gabbert]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, American football quarterbacks, Sportspeople from Missouri, Jacksonville Jaguars players, Living people

Blaine Gabbert is an American football quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers of the National Football League. He played college football for the Missouri Tigers. He also played for the Jacksonville Jaguars.

[[Part of Me]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 songs, Katy Perry songs, Songs about infidelity, Songs with feminist themes

"Part of Me" is a song by American recording artist Katy Perry. The song was written by Perry, Bonnie McKee, Lukasz Gottwald, Henry Walter, and Max Martin, while the production was done by Dr. Luke and Cirkut. The song was released as the first single from Teenage Dream: The Complete Confection, which is a re-release of her album Teenage Dream. This song was leaked several times; in late 2010, the entire demo of the song leaked online, with music critics comparing the song to Perry's previous single "California Gurls" (2010). The lyrics were changed on the released version, prompting speculation that the lyrics were directed towards ex-husband Russell Brand, which Perry later denied.  Following a performance on the 54th Grammy Awards, the song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100.

The song has reached number one in the UK, Canada, New Zealand, and the US.  It has been certified triple-platinum in the US for sales of over three million copies there.

[[Waking Up in Vegas]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Katy Perry songs

"Waking Up in Vegas" is the fourth and last single from the Katy Perry studio record One of the Boys. It was released to radio April 21, 2009 and received positive reviews by the music critics. The song peaked near #1 on Billboard Hot 100, giving Perry her third top ten song off that album. It also topped #1 in Australia and the Netherlands.

[[The Cleveland Show]]

CATEGORIES: The Cleveland Show, 2009 American television series debuts, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, Adult Swim, American animated television series, Fox television series, Television spin-offs, Virginia in fiction, Family Guy, English-language television programs

The Cleveland Show is an animated sitcom that first aired on September 27, 2009 on the "Animation Domination" block on Fox in the United States. The show was created by Seth MacFarlane, Mike Henry, and Richard Appel as a spin-off show from Family Guy.

The family was conceived by MacFarlane, he took the Family Guy character, Cleveland Brown, and his son, Cleveland Brown Jr., and redesign Cleveland Brown Jr. to make him look older, and softly-spoken. Before the first episode aired it was already renewed for season 2, which had 22 episodes. On June 10, 2010, three weeks after the first season ended it was renewed for another season (season 3). It was also renewed for season 4. The show was canceled in May 2013, airing its final episode on May 19. There is four seasons of The Cleveland Show and 88 episodes.

The series shows the life of Cleveland Brown, his son, Cleveland Brown Jr., his wife, Donna, and her kids, Roberta and Rallo.

The show uses a lot of profanity and sex scenes, which is why the show is rated TV-14, and rarely TV-PG.

According to critics, the show is an okay show, however some say it is a horrible show. The Parents Television Council said that the first season episodes was the worst show of the week. About 6 million people watched the show for season one. It was nominated for an award on the 36th People's Choice Awards, and on the 63rd Primetime Emmy Awards.

[[Bob's Burgers]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 American television series debuts, 2010s American sitcoms, 2020s American sitcoms, 2010s American workplace television series, 2010s animated television series, 2020s animated television series, American animated television series, American workplace comedy television series, Television series about families, English-language television programs

Bob's Burgers is an American adult animated sitcom. It first appeared on television on January 9, 2011. This TV show would be shown during Fox's "Animation Domination" block, a specific television block from Fox that airs on Sunday nights. As of March 2020, the show is on its tenth season, renewed for an eleventh.

[[Napoleon Dynamite (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 American television series debuts, 2012 American television series endings, 2010s American television series, American sitcoms, Animated television series, Idaho, English-language television programs

Napoleon Dynamite is an American animated sitcom. It aired from January 15 to March 4, 2012 on Fox's "Animation Domination" block. It is based on the movie of the same name. It was a mid-season replacement for Allen Gregory.

[[The Flintstones]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 establishments in the United States, 1966 disestablishments in the United States, 1960s American television series, American sitcoms, Animated television series, Fictional families, Period television series, Television series about dinosaurs, Television series about families, The Flintstones, English-language television programs, 1960 television series debuts, 1966 television series endings

The Flintstones was an American animated sitcom directed by William Hanna and Joseph Barbera. There were six seasons consisting of 166 episodes. Each episode was 25 minutes long.  A pilot episode was released in 1959 and the show aired between September 30, 1960 and April 1, 1966 on ABC.

[[Off-label use]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Off-label use of a prescription drug is when this drug is used for other indications that for those which it was approved, or that is given to a group for which it was not approved, or the dosage prescribed is different from the one mentioned. Off-label use of drugs is very common. In many countries, drugs need to show that they are effective against a given condition in clinical trials. Before these trials are done, drugs cannot legally be used for indications other than those for which they were tested. 

[[Sit Down, Shut Up (American TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, Animated television series, English-language television programs

Sit Down, Shut Up is an animated television sitcom that aired from April 19, 2009 to November 21, 2009 on Fox. It originally aired on the "Animation Domination" block, but was removed and put on Saturdays at midnight. It was based on the Australian series which had the same name.

[[Global Television Network]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television networks, 1974 establishments in North America, 1970s establishments in Canada

Global Television Network (mainly called Global or Global TV) is a Canadian television channels. Along with CTV and CBC, it is one of the countries major networks. It is currently Canada's number-two television network.

The network started in a television station of the same name, in South Ontario. The national entity was known as CanWest Global System until getting the Ontario station's branding in 1997.

[[So You Think You Can Dance]]

CATEGORIES: Reality television series, Dance

So You Think You Can Dance is a reality television show franchise. It was created by Simon Fuller and Nigel Lythgoe. It was produced by 19 Entertainment and Dick Clark Productions.

[[Fox News Sunday]]

CATEGORIES: American television news programs, Fox television series

Fox News Sunday is a news public affairs program on Fox Broadcasting Company that is aired on Sunday mornings on that network, and reaired on Sunday evenings on Fox News Network , it was first broadcast on April 28, 1996. Since 2008, it is broadcast in HD. Its first host was Tony Snow, he was later replaced by Chris Wallace when he joined the White House as a secretary. 

[[Fringe]]

CATEGORIES: American drama television series, Fox television series, American science fiction television series, English-language television programs

Fringe is a science fiction drama series. It was first broadcast on September 9, 2008 on Fox. The series ran for five seasons, ending on January 18, 2013.

[[The Finder]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 American television series debuts, 2012 American television series endings, 2010s American television series, American drama television series, Television series set in Florida, Television spin-offs, English-language television programs

The Finder is an procedural drama television series on Fox. It first aired on January 12, 2012. It is set in Key West, Florida and is a spin-off of Bones.

[[Wolf Vostell]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 1998 deaths, German artists

Wolf Vostell  (14 October 1932–3 April 1998) was a German artist who made arts in many forms including sculpture,  video art, and installations. He was an important artist in the second half of the 20th century. He believed that art should take place in the street, and that the audience should be involved. One of his works, called 130 kms per hour, was a crash between a train and a car.

[[Alcatraz (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American drama television series, English-language television programs

Alcatraz is a science fiction drama that first aired on January 16, 2012 on the Fox Network.

[[Touch (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 American television series debuts, 2013 American television series endings, 2010s American television series, American drama television series, Autism in fiction, Fox television series, Television series set in New York City, English-language television programs

Touch is an American supernatural drama television series, written and created by Tim Kring for the Fox Broadcasting Company. It was first aired on Wednesday, January 25, 2012 as a preview and on Thursday, March 22, 2012 as a series. 13 episodes have been ordered for the first season by Fox. The series was scheduled to begin on Monday, March 19, 2012, but was moved to Thursday, March 22, 2012, and on Thursday, March 15, 2012, a rerun of the first episode was broadcast. The show has a TV-PG and a TV-14 age rating in the United States. In Canada, the show is simultaneously broadcast on the Global Television Network, and premiered on the same day at the same time as the U.S. broadcast. The show is produced by 20th Century Fox Television and Chernin Entertainment. In the United States, the second season began airing on Fridays at 9:00 p.m.

[[List of Yokohama F. Marinos players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Yokohama F. Marinos players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Yokohama F. Marinos  is a Japanese professional football club in Yokohama.

[[Klamath County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Klamath County (ˈ KLAM) is a county which is in the U.S. state of Oregon. The county was named after the Klamath. The Klamath were the tribe of Native Americans living in the area when the first European explorers found the region. 2010, 66,380 live there. The county seat is at Klamath Falls.

[[Cornerback]]

CATEGORIES: American football positions

A cornerback is a position on defense in American football. Corners can rush the passer, intercept balls, tackle, and deflect passes. Their main job is to stop the opponent's receivers from making a catch.  Cornerbacks usually line up on the edges, or sides, of the defensive line opposite their opponent's receivers.   In zone defense, corners are assigned to a specific area of the field, in which they cannot let anyone make a catch. In man defense, corners cover one player and try to stop them from catching a ball.

[[The One That Got Away]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Katy Perry songs

"The One That Got Away" is a 2011 hit song by Katy Perry from her album Teenage Dream. The song talks about Radiohead and Johnny Cash. The song received positive review by music critics, although it only hit #3 on Billboard Hot 100. It was the only single from Teenage Dream that did not reach number one in the United States.  It was released in October 2011.

[[Jonathan Ogden]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Washington, D.C., Baltimore Ravens players, American football offensive tackles

Jonathan Philip Ogden is a former American football offensive tackle for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League. He played college football for the UCLA Bruins (Is in the UCLA Hall of Fame). Ogden was known for his energetic style.

He was the first player ever drafted by the Ravens. With Baltimore, Ogden became a Super Bowl XXXV champion. He was known as a very good player who was like a brick wall. A turf toe and knee problems eventually forced Ogden to retire after the 2007 season. He was inducted into the Ravens Ring of Honor in 2008. He does commerials for Apple Ford, which sells used cars.

He was voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame on February 2, 2013.

[[Entertainment Tonight Canada]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television series

Entertainment Tonight Canada (ET Canada) is a daily entertainment newsmagazine show that airs on Global in Canada. It is based on the American show which has the same name.

[[Entertainment Tonight]]

CATEGORIES: American television series, First run syndicated television programs, English-language television programs

Entertainment Tonight is an entertainment news program. It was first broadcast on September 14, 1981. It is syndicated by CBS Television Distribution in the United States, Canada and in many countries around the world.   It is the longest-running entertainment news program. The program was the first syndicated program distributed by satellite. The main anchor since 1982 had been Mary Hart. She left the program on May 20, 2011. Mark Steines and Nancy O'Dell took on the roles of main hosts after Hart left.

[[The Good Wife]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 American television series debuts, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American crime drama television series, Legal television series, Television series set in Chicago, Illinois, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

The Good Wife is an American television legal drama set in Chicago, Illinois. It first aired on September 22, 2009 on CBS in the United States.

[[Hawaii Five-0]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American drama television series, CBS network shows, 2010 American television series debuts, English-language television programs

Hawaii Five-0 is a drama that first aired on 	September 20, 2010 on CBS, and is based on the original series.

On May 15, 2011, the series was renewed for a second season, which premiered on September 19, 2011.

The series ended on April 3, 2020.

[[Terrell Owens]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American football wide receivers, Sportspeople from Alabama

Terrell Eldorado Owens (ˈ; born on December 7, 1973, nicknamed "T.O.") is an American football wide receiver for the Allen Wranglers of the Indoor Football League, of where he is also a co-owner. A six-time Pro Bowl selection, Owens holds or shares several National Football League records, and features in the all-time top-five in several receiving categories, including yards and touchdowns. Owens played college football for the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.

Owens is also well known for the controversy he brings on and off the field. At one point, there were rumors that he attempted suicide, which Owens denied. Owens is now broke.

[[Titanic (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 television series debuts, 2012 television series endings, 2010s British television series, Drama television series, Miniseries, RMS Titanic, 2010s establishments in Canada, 2010s establishments in the United Kingdom, 2010s disestablishments in Canada, 2010s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, English-language television programs

Titanic is a four-part television drama. It is based on the sinking of the RMS Titanic.

[[Burnout (vehicle)]]

CATEGORIES: Motor sports

A burnout (also known as a peel out or power brake) is the practice of keeping a vehicle still (or close to) and spinning its wheels, causing the tires to heat up and smoke due to friction.

[[Jamboree]]

CATEGORIES: Scouting, Events

A jamboree is a scouting event. It is a large meeting of scouts from across a country or many countries. The first World Scout Jamboree was in 1920, in the United Kingdom. Since then, there have been 22 world jamborees, hosted in different countries. It is usually every four years.

The next major jamboree will be in Sri Lanka on 29 April 2012. Over 200 countries will participate and more than 5000 scouts from around the globe for this international event.

[[Scarecrow]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

A scarecrow is a figure usually made of sticks. It looks like a person. It is dressed in old clothes. A farmer puts a scarecrow in a field after he has planted seeds. He hopes the scarecrow will frighten birds away from the field. Some birds  such as crows and sparrows  eat the seeds the farmer plants. He does not want the birds to do this. If the birds eat the seeds, the farmer will not have a big crop of things to eat.

[[The Wonderful Wizard of Oz]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 books, 20th century American novels, English-language novels, Children's books

The Wonderful Wizard of Oz is a childrens' book. It was written by L. Frank Baum. The book was first published by the George M. Hill Company on 17 May 1900. The first edition has pictures drawn by W. W. Denslow. 

The story is about a little girl named Dorothy. She is swept away from her home in Kansas by a storm. She lands in a magical place called Oz. She makes friends with a scarecrow, a tin woodman, and a cowardly lion. She meets good witches and bad witches. The Wizard of Oz finds a way for Dorothy to go home. Dorothy finds out that Oz is a human who was swept away in a balloon. Soon she goes back to her home in Kansas.

The story has been reprinted many times. New pictures have been made for the story and sometimes the title is just The Wizard of Oz.  This is also the title of a musical play written in 1900 and a movie made in 1939 starring Judy Garland.

[[Arvo Pärt]]

CATEGORIES: Composers, Estonian musical entertainers, 1935 births, Living people

Arvo Pärt (born 11 September 1935) is an Estonian composer.  He wrote a large amount of religious music. Pärt is sometimes called a minimalist or 'holy minimalist'.  The first piece he wrote used a style called serialism.  He is influenced by the sound of Gregorian chant, and has created his own technique for composing, which he calls tintinnabuli.

[[List of Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players, Sapporo

The List of Consadole Sapporo players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Consadole Sapporo is a Japanese professional football club in Sapporo on the island of Hokkaido.

[[William Wallace Denslow]]

CATEGORIES: American illustrators, 1856 births, 1915 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American cartoonists

William Wallace Denslow (5 May 1856 – 27 May 1915) is known as W. W. Denslow. He was an American illustrator and caricaturist. He was born in Philadelphia. He had some art school training, but he was mostly self-taught. He designed books and posters. Denslow illustrated L. Frank Baum's The Wonderful Wizard of Oz and other books by Baum. They parted after an argument over copyright royalties.

Denslow illustrated Denslow's Mother Goose in 1901, and Denslow's Night Before Christmas in 1902. He illustrated the 18-volume Denslow's Picture Books series in 1903–04. He drew comic strips with Father Goose, the Scarecrow, and the Tin Woodman as characters. He created the comic strip "Billy Bounce". Billy was one of the first comics characters with superpowers. Denslow bought Buck's Island, Bermuda. He crowned himself King Denslow I. He was married three times and had one son. He died in New York City of pneumonia.

[[Margaret Hamilton]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, American movie actors, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Connecticut, Deaths from myocardial infarction, 1902 births, 1985 deaths

Margaret Brainard Hamilton (December 9, 1902 – May 16, 1985) was an American movie actress. She is best known for playing the Wicked Witch of the West in the 1939 movie The Wizard of Oz. In movies, she often played  older, unmarried women from New England who was extremely practical but did not enjoy jokes. Hamilton's plain looks helped to bring steady work as a character actress. Late in life she appeared in sitcoms and television commercials.  

She was born in Cleveland, Ohio. She married Paul Boynton Meserve in 1931. They had a son. They divorced. She never married again. She lived in New York City for most of her adult life.  She later moved to Millbrook, New York. She died of a heart attack on May 16, 1985 in Connecticut. She was cremated at Poughkeepsie Rural Cemetery. Her ashes were scattered.

[[Joseph Kony]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Terrorists, Ugandan people

Joseph Kony (pronounced koɲ; born 1961)  is a Ugandan guerrilla group leader. He is the head of the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA). While he had a lot of support from the public, the LRA turned against its supporters. They said that they did this to "purify" the Acholi people and turn Uganda into a theocracy ruled by the Ten Commandments. 

The LRA is known for the very bad things it does to civilians. Two of these things are murder and rape.

The LRA has become known for what it does against the people of several countries. Some of these countries are northern Uganda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Central African Republic, South Sudan, and Sudan. It has stolen and forced about 66,000 children to fight for them. 

In 2005, Kony was accused of war crimes by the International Criminal Court in The Hague, Netherlands. He has not yet been captured.

[[List of FC Tokyo players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of F.C. Toyko players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

F.C. Tokyo is a Japanese professional football club in Tokyo.

[[NYC 22]]

CATEGORIES: CBS network shows, American drama television series, Crime television series, Television series set in New York City, English-language television programs

NYC 22 (formerly known as Rookies and then The 2-2) is a police drama that began airing on April 15, 2012, as a midseason replacement for CSI: Miami. It aired on Sundays at 10:00 PM on CBS in the United States.

On May 13, 2012, the series was cancelled by CBS.

[[2011–12 United States network television schedule]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in American television, 2012 in American television

The following is the 2011–12 United States network television schedule.

[[Comedytime Saturday]]

CATEGORIES: Television programs

"Comedytime Saturday" is the official branding for a one-hour programming block in the 2011-12 television season on CBS. It airs reruns of shows on Thursdays and Mondays on CBS. How to Be a Gentleman was moved on this block when episodes got burned off, and Rules of Engagement moved to its timeslot (Thursdays at 8:30 PM).

[[Crimetime Saturday]]

CATEGORIES: Television programs

"Crimetime Saturday" is the official branding for a programming block that started in 2004–05 on the American CBS and Canadian CTV networks between 9 and 11 p.m. ET/PT on Saturday nights.

[[How to Be a Gentleman]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, 2011 American television series debuts, 2012 American television series endings, English-language television programs

How to Be a Gentleman was an American sitcom that first aired on September 29, 2011 and last aired on June 23, 2012.

[[The Firm (2012 TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American drama television series, 2012 television series debuts, 2012 establishments in Canada, 2012 establishments in the United States, English-language television programs

The Firm is a Canadian-American drama that first aired on January 8, 2012 on Global and NBC.

On February 3, 2012, NBC and Global announced that the series would be pulled from its Thursday 10/9c slot immediately, and placed on Saturdays at 9/8c starting on February 18.

[[Bokmål]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Norway, Germanic languages

Bokmål ("ˈbuːkmɔːl", lit. "book language") is one of two official written forms of Norwegian; the other is Nynorsk. Bokmål is used by 85-90% of the population in Norway and the usual way to teach to foreign students.

Bokmål is regulated by the government's Norwegian Language Council. A more conservative orthographic standard is called Riksmål, which is regulated by the non-governmental Norwegian Academy for Language and Literature.

[[Bío Bío Region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Chile

The Bío Bío Region (Región del Biobío) is one of Chile's 16 first order administrative divisions. Its capital is Concepción, the second city of Chile after the national capital, Santiago.

The region is named after its main river: the Bío Bío river.

[[Samari Rolle]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, American football cornerbacks, Tennessee Titans players, Baltimore Ravens players, Sportspeople from Miami, Florida

Samari Rolle (b. August 10, 1976 is a retired American football player. He played as a cornerback for the Florida Seminoles in college football. Rolle played in the National Football League from 1997 through 2009. He played for the Houston Oilers (and Tennessee Titans when they were created) from 1997 through 2004 and finished his career as a veteran with the Baltimore Ravens. 

In 2000, Rolle earned a Pro Bowl selection as he intercepted seven passes (one touchdown) for Tennessee. In 2007, Rolle was diagnosed with epilepsy, and won the Ravens' Ed Block Courage Award. In 2008, Rolle Rolle lost his father, but intercepted a pass the game he returned. He also got an interception for the Ravens in a 2008 playoff victory over Rolle's former team, the Titans. He was injured on the Physically Unable to Perform list for all of 2009. Rolle wore #21 with the Titans and #22 with the Ravens.

[[Frank Morgan]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from New York City, 1890 births, 1949 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Silent movie actors

Frank Morgan  (June 1, 1890 – September 18, 1949) was an American actor. His real name was Francis Phillip Wuppermann. He was born in New York City. He attended Cornell University. His brother, Ralph, was in show business. Morgan began acting in 1914. On movies, he played various characters in the 1939 movie The Wizard of Oz. Morgan was married and had a son. He died of a heart attack on September 18, 1949. He has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.

[[Little Nemo]]

CATEGORIES: American comic strips

Little Nemo is the main fictional character in a series of weekly comic strips by Winsor McCay. These comic strips appeared in the New York Herald and New York American newspapers from October 15, 1905 – July 23, 1911 and September 3, 1911 – July 26, 1914. The strip was first called Little Nemo in Slumberland and then In the Land of Wonderful Dreams. Little Nemo in Slumberland came back for a short time from 1924-1927. 

The comic was about the dreams of a little boy named Nemo. His name means "nobody" in Latin. In the first strips he tried to go to Slumberland. That was the land of King Morpheus. The King wanted Nemo as a friend for his daughter, the Princess. The last picture in each strip always was Nemo waking up, in or near his bed. Then the grownups were angry with him, because he had waken them up. Or they comforted him because he was sad.

In the earliest strips, the dream would end because of a disaster that could hurt or kill Nemo. These events would be something like falling from a bridge, becoming a monkey, or becoming 90 years older. Later on Nemo reached Slumberland. Then Flip always woke him up. Flip wore a hat that had 'Wake Up' written on it. Other characters in the strip were Dr. Pill, The Imp, the Candy Kid, and Santa Claus.

The strip was not a very big success from 1905 to 1927. Most comics readers liked the slapstick actions of the Katzenjammer Kids, Happy Hooligan, and Buster Brown (other comic strips) more than the surreal (not real) fantasy of Nemo. From the 1970s until now, people like the strip more. Many of the original strips were found at a comic strip studio in 1966. They were shown at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. 

Very special of Nemo was that the pictures were very difficult, had many details and beautiful colours. Also the story was special, because it was a fast story and had many strange characters and places.

[[Krazy Kat]]

CATEGORIES: American comic strips, Comics characters

Krazy Kat is a comic strip created by cartoonist George Herriman. It was published daily in newspapers between 1913 and 1944. It first appeared in the New York Evening Journal. Its owner, William Randolph Hearst, was a major booster for the strip throughout its run. 

The Krazy Kat characters were introduced in another Herriman strip The Dingbat Family. The phrase "Krazy Kat" originated there. It was the mouse's way of describing the cat. The strip is set in Herriman's vacation home of Coconino County, Arizona. Krazy Kat is mixture of offbeat surrealism, innocent playfulness, and poetic, idiosyncratic language. 

The strip focuses on the curious love triangle between Krazy Kat, a carefree, simple-minded cat; Ignatz Mouse; and police dog, Offissa Bull Pupp. Krazy has an unrequited love for the mouse. Ignatz despises Krazy. He throws bricks at Krazy's head. Krazy thinks this is a sign of the Mouse's affection. Krazy utters grateful replies such as "Li'l dollink, allus f'etful". Offissa Pupp is Coconino County's administrator of law and order. He makes it his mission to interfere with Ignatz's brick-tossing plans. He locks the mouse in the county jail.

The detailed characterization and Herriman's visual and verbal creativity made Krazy Kat one of the first comics to be praised by intellectuals. The strip was treated as "serious" art. Critic Gilbert Seldes wrote at length about the strip in 1924, calling it "the most amusing and fantastic and satisfactory work of art produced in America today." Poet E. E. Cummings admired Herriman and wrote the introduction to the first collection of the strip in book form. Krazy Kat was only a modest success during its initial run. In more recent years, many modern cartoonists have cited Krazy Kat as a major influence on their own work.

[[Pierre-Simon Laplace]]

CATEGORIES: 1827 deaths, 1749 births, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, French astronomers, French mathematicians, Theoretical physicists

Pierre-Simon Laplace (23 March 1749 – 5 March 1827), later Marquis de Laplace, was a French mathematician and astronomer.

His work helped to develop mathematical astronomy and statistics. His five volume Mécanique Céleste (Celestial Mechanics) (1799–1825) was a key work. In it, he changed the geometric study of classical mechanics to one based on calculus, which meant it could tackle a wider range of problems. In statistics, the so-called Bayesian interpretation of probability was mainly developed by Laplace.

He invented Laplace's equation, and pioneered the Laplace transform which is used in many branches of mathematical physics. The Laplacian differential operator, widely used in mathematics, is also named after him.

[[Château-Arnoux-Saint-Auban]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence

Château-Arnoux-Saint-Auban is a commune of 5,270 people (2008). It is found in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the south of France.

[[Inselberg]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

An inselberg or monadnock is a large rock formation that sits on its own, surrounded by flat lowlands. It can be a hill, ridge or small mountain. They are found in hot, dry areas of land. The name means "island mountain".

[[Great Slave Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Northwest Territories, Lakes of Canada

Great Slave Lake (Grand lac des Esclaves) is the second-largest lake in the Northwest Territories of Canada. It is the deepest lake in North America at 614m, and the ninth-largest lake in the world. It is 480 long and 19 wide. It covers 27200. The lake shares its name with the Slavey First Nations. Towns on the lake include: Yellowknife, Hay River, Behchoko, Fort Resolution, Lutselk'e, Hay River Reserve, Dettah and N'Dilo.

[[List of NHL players (S)]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of National Hockey League players

This is a list of National Hockey League (NHL) players who have played at least one game in the NHL from 1917 to present and have a last name that starts with "S".

[[Johann Friedrich Blumenbach]]

CATEGORIES: 1752 births, 1840 deaths, German doctors, Naturalists, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, Human body features

Johann Friedrich Blumenbach (11 May 1752 – 22 January 1840) was a German physician, naturalist, physiologist and anthropologist. He was one of the first to explore the study of mankind as an aspect of natural history. He used comparative anatomy to classify human races, of which he listed five.

[[List of Canadian painters]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian painters, Lists of Canadian people

The following is a brief alphabetical list of professional Canadian artists primarily working in watercolour or oil paint. See other articles for information on Canadian art or a List of Canadian artists for other information.

[[Homare Sawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan women's international footballers, Nadeshiko League players, Nippon TV Tokyo Verdy Beleza players, INAC Kobe Leonessa players, Footballers at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics, 1995 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2003 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup players, 1993 AFC Women's Championship players, 1995 AFC Women's Championship players, 1997 AFC Women's Championship players, 2001 AFC Women's Championship players, 2003 AFC Women's Championship players, 2006 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2008 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2010 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, 2014 AFC Women's Asian Cup players, Footballers at the 1994 Asian Games, Footballers at the 1998 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2002 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2006 Asian Games, Footballers at the 2010 Asian Games, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, FIFA Women's World Cup-winning players, AFC Women's Asian Cup-winning players, Asian Games medalists in football, Asian Games gold medalists for Japan, Asian Games silver medalists for Japan, Asian Games bronze medalists for Japan, Medalists at the 1994 Asian Games, Medalists at the 1998 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2002 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2006 Asian Games, Medalists at the 2010 Asian Games

Homare Sawa is a former Japanese football player. She played for the Japan national team.

[[Yanick Dupre Memorial Award]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey trophies and awards

The Yanick Dupre Memorial Award is presented annually to the American Hockey League's man of the year for service to his local community. The award winner is chosen by the league president. It was named after former Hershey Bears player Yanick Dupre, who died of leukemia at age 24.

[[List of Júbilo Iwata players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Júbilo Iwata players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Júbilo Iwata is a Japanese professional football club in Iwata.

[[Foot fetishism]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality

Foot fetishism (or foot fetish) is a sexual interest in human feet. The fetishist has an interest in foot shapes (such as foot arches or foot sizes), toe sizes, smell or foot wear (such as shoes, bracelets, or socks). The foot fetish is the most common fetish that is not the genitals. The fetish is most common for males, although females may also have this fetish.

A footjob is using feet to rub the penis (or sometimes the vagina or breasts) in a sexual way. It is a type of masturbation done with two people.

[[List of Kashima Antlers players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Kashima Antlers players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Kashima Antlers is a Japanese professional football club in Kashima.

[[CTV Two]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television networks, 1995 establishments in Canada

CTV Two is a English language television system in Canada, owned by Bell Media.

CTV Two Station

[[Billy Bean]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, People from Santa Ana, California, LGBT people from California, Gay men, Detroit Tigers players, Los Angeles Dodgers players, San Diego Padres players

William Daro "Billy" Bean (born May 11, 1964 in Santa Ana, California) is a former Major League Baseball player. He attended Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles. He was an outfielder, a pinch hitter, and a first baseman. He threw and batted left. Bean is gay, and wrote a book, Going the Other Way: Lessons from a Life in and out of Major League Baseball. For 13 years, Bean was the partner of Efrain Viega, the founder of Yuca restaurant in Miami. They broke up in July 2008. Bean has appeared on television. He starred in a MTV episode of Made, and he was an actor in an episode of the sitcom Frasier.

[[America's Funniest Home Videos]]

CATEGORIES: American comedy television series, American reality television series, ABC network shows, 1989 American television series debuts, 1990s television series, 2000s television series, English-language television programs

America's Funniest Home Videos is a reality-comedy show. The show originally aired on ABC.

[[The X Factor (U.S.)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 American television series debuts, 2013 American television series endings, 2010s American television series, American reality television series, The X Factor, English-language television programs

The X Factor USA is an American television music competition. The winner gets a recording contract and 5 million dollars. It first aired on September 21, 2011 on Fox. There have been three winners; Melanie Amaro, Tate Stevens and Alex & Sierra.

The original panel consisted of Simon Cowell, Paula Abdul, Cheryl Cole and L.A. Reid. Cheryl was later fired and was replaced by Nicole Scherzinger who was going to be the host along with Steve Jones. At the end of season 1, Paula, Nicole and Steve were all fired but Nicole would become a judge on the UK version.

Demi Lovato and Britney Spears replaced Paula and Nicole as judges while Khloe Kardashian and Mario Lopez became the co-hosts replacing Steve. In 2013, L.A. and Britney left the show and were replaced by Kelly Rowland and Paulina Rubio. Mario became the sole host after Khloe was sacked.

On February 7, 2014, Fox announced that The X Factor got cancelled due to Simon Cowell, who is going to judge back at the UK version of the show.

[[The Yellow Kid]]

CATEGORIES: American comic strips, Comics characters

The Yellow Kid is the name of a comic strip character. He appeared from 1895 to 1898 in the New York World, and later in the New York Journal. The Yellow Kid was created and drawn by Richard F. Outcault in the comic strip Hogan's Alley. It was one of the first Sunday supplement comic strips in an American newspaper. Its graphical layout had already been established in political and other, purely-for-entertainment cartoons.  

The Yellow Kid was a bald, snaggle-toothed boy who wore an over-sized yellow nightshirt and hung around in a slum alley. This alley was typical of certain areas of squalor that existed in turn of the 19th to 20th century New York City. Hogan's Alley was filled with equally odd characters, mostly other children.  With a goofy grin, the Kid spoke in a ragged, peculiar slang. This slang was printed on his shirt, a device meant to mock advertising billboards.

[[2010–11 United States network television schedule]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 in American television, 2011 in American television

The following is the 2010–11 United States network television schedule.

[[Citytv]]

CATEGORIES: Television stations, 1972 establishments in Canada

City (formerly called Citytv) is a Canadian English language television system owned by Rogers.

[[Toon Disney]]

CATEGORIES: American television channels, Disney, 1998 establishments in the United States, 2009 disestablishments in the United States

Toon Disney was an American cable television channel owned by Disney. Toon Disney was replaced by Disney XD.

[[MTV2]]

CATEGORIES: American television channels, 1996 establishments in the United States, Viacom

MTV2 is a cable network in the United States. It was launched on August 1, 1996 as M2.

[[Iwata, Shizuoka]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Shizuoka Prefecture

Iwata is the capital city of Shizuoka Prefecture in Japan.  It is on the Tenryū River.

Iwata is made of 5 communities merged together: kyu-Iwata (former Iwata), Toyoda-cho, Fukude-cho, Ryuyo-cho, Toyoka-mura.

Part of Yamaha Corporation is in Iwata.

[[Kashima, Ibaraki]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Ibaraki Prefecture

Kashima is a port city on the Pacific coast of Ibaraki Prefecture in Japan.

[[Marcus Salvius Otho]]

CATEGORIES: 32 births, 69 deaths, Roman Emperors

Marcus Salvius Otho (Marcus Salvius Otho Caesar Augustus, 28 April 32 AD–16 April 69 AD) was a Roman military commander who became Roman Emperor in 69 AD. He led a coup against the Emperor Galba, but was defeated in a battle by Vitellius only eight weeks later. He took his own life after the battle. The year 69 was known as the Year of the Four Emperors.

[[Bornhardt]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

A bornhardt (ˈbɔrnˈhɑrt) is a big dome-shaped, steep-sided, bald rock formation. They are a kind of inselberg. They are usually made up of granites or gneisses, but can sometimes be found in other rock types like limestone, sandstone and conglomerate. They are named after Wilhelm Bornhardt (1864–1946), the German geologist who first described the feature.

[[Tosu, Saga]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kyushu, Settlements in Saga Prefecture

Tosu is a Japanese city in Saga Prefecture on the island of Kyūshū.

[[Lorenzo de' Medici]]

CATEGORIES: 1449 births, 1492 deaths, House of Medici, Renaissance, People from Florence, Italian artists

Lorenzo de' Medici (1 January 1449 – 9 April 1492) was an Italian statesman and de facto ruler of the Florentine Republic during the Italian Renaissance. He was called Lorenzo the Magnificent (Lorenzo il Magnifico) by Florentines. He was a diplomat, politician and patron of scholars, artists, and poets. He is probably best known for what he gave to the world of art. He gave large amounts of money to artists so that they could make very good artwork. When he died, the Golden Age of Florence ended. The peace he helped keep between the many Italian states collapsed when he died. Lorenzo de' Medici is buried in the Medici Chapel in Florence.

[[Kashiwa, Chiba]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chiba Prefecture

Kashiwa is a Japanese city in northern Chiba Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

It has been recognized as a core city since 1996.

[[List of Kashiwa Reysol players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Kashiwa Reysol players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Kashiwa Reysol  is a Japanese professional football club in Kashiwa, which is northeast of Tokyo in Chiba Prefecture.

[[Offal]]

CATEGORIES: Offal

"Offal" is the name for the internal organs or entrails of a dead animal.

It means "eatable parts apart from the muscles". It includes the heart, kidneys, lungs, livers, intestines and brains. The word can also be used to cover other parts of the animal including the tongue, tail and feet. The word offal means the parts that fall off when the animal is cut up for meat. Offal from birds are called "giblets". In some parts of the world people eat offal, and in others doing so is considered taboo or strange.

[[Kyūshū Shinkansen]]

CATEGORIES: Shinkansen

The Kyūshū Shinkansen is a Japanese high-speed railway line between  Fukuoka and Kagoshima in Kyushu. The line is operated by the Kyushu Railway Company (JR Kyushu). 

The southern 127 km opened on 13 March 2004. 

The northern 130 km section opened on 12 March 2011. Service began with a quiet start because of the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.

[[Jura Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Europe

The Jura Hills are a long mountain arc. The Jura rock or stone consists of limestone. It reaches from Lake Geneva to the Rhine River. The Jura Hills are not only in Switzerland, but also in France. The Chasseral is one of the highest hills in the Jura Mountains. It has an altitude of 1607 metres above sea level. The highest part of the Jura Hills is the “Crêt de la Neige“ in France and it is 1718 metres high. Many fossils and dinosaur tracks have been found there. The rocks of the Jura were formed between 144 million and 208 million years ago.March 2013 The agriculture and winter tourism are very important for the principal economics. 

[[Arkose]]

CATEGORIES: Sandstones

Arkose is a kind of sandstone which is rich in the mineral feldspar. It is made mostly of quartz, but also has  at least 25% feldspar. It may also consist of fragments (bits) of rock. Arkose usually contains small amounts of calcite cement, which may also contain iron oxide. Arkose is normally grey to reddish in colour. The sand grains making up arkose are usually coarse.

Arkose is generally formed from the weathering of igneous or metamorphic rocks. These are usually granite rocks, which contain a lot of feldspar and quartz. Arkose is often found with conglomerate deposits where the sediment is made of granite. The  central Australian monolith Uluru is made of late Neoproterozoic/Cambrian arkose, deposited by the erosion of a granite-based mountain range.

[[Styx (disambiguation)]]

Styx has several different meanings:

[[Justified]]

Justified has several different meanings:

[[Justified (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 American television series debuts, 2015 American television series endings, 2010s American television series, American crime drama television series, Harlan County, Kentucky, Spy television series, English-language television programs

Justified is an American crime drama television series based on the books written by Elmore Leonard and aired on FX. It is set in Harlan County, Kentucky.

[[Jason Donovan]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Actors from Melbourne, Australian child actors, Australian movie actors, Australian pop musicians, Australian radio personalities, Australian singers, Australian television actors, I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here! contestants, Musicians from Melbourne, Strictly Come Dancing participants

Jason Donovan (born 1 June 1968) is an Australian actor and singer. Donovan became famous when he played Scott Robinson in Neighbours from 1986 to 1989. He was a contestant in the 2006 series of I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here! and in the 2011 series of Strictly Come Dancing. He hosts a show on Heart Network Radio in the UK on Sunday afternoons.

[[Jarret Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Florida, Baltimore Ravens players

Jarret Webster Johnson (born August 14, 1981) is an American Football outside linebacker for the San Diego Chargers of the National Football League. He played college football at the University of Alabama. Johnson appreciated as an "unsung hero" and defensive leader by Baltimore fans. Johnson has scored two career touchdowns and has been a steady presence on a great Ravens defense.

On March 14, 2012, Johnson signed a 4-year contract with the San Diego Chargers without giving the Ravens a chance to match the offer.

[[Linebacker]]

CATEGORIES: American football positions

A linebacker is a defensive position in the game of American football. There are two kinds of linebackers. One is the outside linebacker (OLB), whose job is to tackle players, rush the passer, and sometimes drop back in coverage to prevent catches. The middle linebacker (MLB) is often called the "quarterback of the defense," as they direct many formations and are often looked up to as leaders and very good players, mostly handling the job of tackling as well.

Linebackers can appear in different formations, or looks. In a 4-3 defense, there are three linebackers; usually two OLBs and a MLB in the middle.

A 4-4 defense relies more heavily on linebackers. That system includes four linebackers.

Linebackers are often called the original name.

Strong-side OLB: Sam (S)  MLB: Mike (M)  Weak-side OLB: Willy (W) 

Strong-side OLB: Sam (S)  Strong-side MLB: Mike (M)  Weak-side MLB: Kenny (K)  Weak-side OLB: Willy (W)

[[Lambeau Field]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in the United States, Green Bay Packers, Buildings and structures in Wisconsin, 1957 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Wisconsin

Lambeau Field is a stadium in Green Bay, Wisconsin, USA. The stadium is home to the Green Bay Packers, an American football team that plays in the National Football League. The stadium is named after Curly Lambeau.

[[Kelly McGillis]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, People from Newport Beach, California, Actors from Orange County, California, LGBT people from California, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Lesbians, LGBT actors

Kelly McGillis (born July 9, 1957) is an American actress. She was born in Newport Beach, California. She starred in Witness, Top Gun and The Accused.

McGillis is openly lesbian.

[[Disney XD]]

CATEGORIES: Disney companies, American television networks, 2007 establishments in the United States, Cable television

Disney XD is an American digital cable and satellite television network. It is owned by Disney and ABC. It started on the Internet in 2007 and began broadcasting as a television network in 2009. Disney XD mostly airs action-oriented children's animated television series, with some live-action programming and movies aimed at ages 6 to 14.

Disney XD broadcasts programming that is created for the network. The original programming includes Zeke and Luther, Kickin' It, Pair of Kings and Lab Rats. The network broadcasts some of the more popular Disney Channel series. These series include The Suite Life of Zack & Cody, The Suite Life on Deck, Wizards of Waverly Place, Phineas and Ferb and So Random!

They also broadcast programs that were shown on other networks. Many of these are based on characters from the Mavel Universe. Disney bought Marvel Comics in 2009. Because of this, more programs based on Marvel comics will be shown on Disney XD starting in April 2012.

Begining in 2019, with the build up towards the launch of Disney+ and especially during its international expansion during 2020, several Disney XD channels worldwide have began to shut down, mostly in regions where Disney+ is already available. 

As of February 1, 2021, only 5 Disney XD channels remain active, with these being present in the following countries: United States, Canada, Latin America, Netherlands and Poland, with the last one being the only one to cover an area where Disney+ is still absent.

[[Samkranthi]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism, Andhra Pradesh, Festivals in Asia

Makar Sankranti, Sankranti or Sankranthi is one of the main festivals in India. It is the first festival of the year in the Gregorian calendar. This festival is celebrated by the people all over India. It marks the transition of the sun into Makara rashi (Capricorn) on its path across the sky. It is celebrated on the 14th or 15th of January. Makar Sankranti is celebrated with social festivities such as colourful decorations, melas (fairs), bonfires and feasts.

Makar Sankranti is an important pan-Indian solar festival, known by different names, though observed on the same date. It is known as Pedda Panduga in Andhra Pradesh, Makara Sankranti in Karnataka, and by other names.

[[D. W. Griffith]]

CATEGORIES: American movie directors, 1875 births, 1948 deaths, Deaths from stroke

David Llewelyn Wark "D. W." Griffith (January 22, 1975 – Present) was an American movie director. He is best known as the director of the Ku Klux Klan 1915 movie The Birth of a Nation and the 1916 follow-up movie Intolerance. The Birth of a Nation made early use of advanced camera and storytelling techniques. It was a very popular movie. It was also a very controversial movie.  The movie showed African Americans and White anti-racists in a bad way. It also showed slavery and the Ku Klux Klan as good things. The movie was praised by President Woodrow Wilson. He said it was "history written in lightning".  The NAACP boycotted the movie. Griffith responded to all the criticism with another movie, Intolerance. This movie showed the dangers of prejudice. The movie did not make as much money as The Birth of a Nation, but the critics liked it.  Many of Griffith's later movies were critical successes. They did not make a lot of money. Even so, he is one of the most important figures of early movies. Other famous movies by Griffith include Orphans of the Storm and Broken Blossoms.

[[Service d'exploitation de la formation aéronautique]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation in France, Schools in France, 1993 establishments in France

The Service d'exploitation de la formation aéronautique (SEFA) was the French national flight school, in nine places in France and managed by the direction générale de l'aviation civile (DGAC). It merged with French Civil Aviation University the 1st of January 2011,.

[[Paris Opéra Ballet]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet companies

The Paris Opera Ballet (French: Ballet de l'Opéra de Paris) is the oldest national ballet company in the world. Many European and international ballet companies can trace their origins to it. It has always been an integral part of the Paris Opéra, which was founded in 1669 as the Académie d'Opéra (Academy of Opera). 

Theatrical dance was not an important part of the Paris Opera until 1673. Then was renamed the Académie Royale de Musique (Royal Academy of Music) and placed under the leadership of Jean-Baptiste Lully. The Paris Opera has had many different official names during its long history but since 1994 has been called the Opéra National de Paris (Paris Opera). Currently the company presents ballet primarily at the Palais Garnier.

[[Alexis Weissenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2012 deaths, Bulgarian Jews, French pianists, Holocaust survivors, Jewish French musicians, People from Sofia

Alexis Weissenberg (26 July 1929 – 8 January 2012) was a French pianist of Jewish-Bulgarian descent. Technically brilliant, his playing was often described as cold and precise. Weissenberg was born in Sofia and in 1941 was sent to a concentration camp with his family. A guard liked his playing and helped the family escape to Turkey, and then to Jerusalem. In 1946 he moved to New York and studied at the Julliard School of Music. He toured for about ten years, but then did not play in public until 1966 when he performed with Herbert von Karajan in Berlin. He finally settled in Spain, but rarely performed in public.

[[Carlos Soria]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2012 deaths, Argentine politicians

Carlos Soria (1 March 1949–1 January 2012) was an Argentine lawyer who became Governor of Rio Negro. A member of the ruling Peronist party, he had been the mayor of General Roca, until his election as governor of the province in October 2011. He died after being shot in the head during an argument at home with his wife.

[[Bolshoi Ballet]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet companies

The Bolshoi Ballet is a ballet company. It is based at the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow, Russia. It was founded in 1776. It is one of the oldest ballet companies in the world. It achieved worldwide acclaim in the early 20th century when Moscow became the capital of Soviet Russia. The Bolshoi and the Kirov Ballet are recognised as the foremost ballet companies in Russia.

The origin of the Bolshoi is found in the creation of a dance school for a Moscow orphanage in 1773. In 1776, dancers from the school were employed by Prince Pyotr Urusov and the English theatrical entrepreneur Michael Maddox to form part of their new theatre company. They performed in privately owned venues. Later they acquired the Petrovsky Theatre. The theatre would later be rebuilt as today's Bolshoi Theatre.

The early history of the Bolshoi Ballet is very sketchy. The company staged many famous ballets. It struggled to compete with the Imperial Russian Ballet of St Petersburg. It was not until Alexander Gorsky became Ballet Master in 1900 that the company began to develop its own unique identity. The company was acclaimed for productions of new or restaged ballets including, Don Quixote (1900), Coppélia (1901), Swan Lake (1901), La fille mal gardée (1903), Giselle (1911), Le Corsaire (1912) and La Bayadère (1917).

[[American Ballet Theatre]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet companies, 1937 establishments in the United States, 1930s establishments in New York (state)

American Ballet Theatre (ABT), is a classical ballet company based in New York City. It has an annual eight week season at the Metropolitan Opera House Lincoln Center. It tours around the world the rest of the year. American Ballet Theatre was founded in 1937 by Mikhail Mordkin. It is recognized as one of the world's leading classical ballet companies. American Ballet Theatre is the parent company of the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis School. It was recognized as "America's National Ballet Company" in 2006 by the United States Congress.

[[List of bridges in Calgary]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Canada, Lists of bridges

The City of Calgary has a number of bridges, spanning the two main rivers that cross the city, Bow River and Elbow River, as well as some other geographical and physical features. 

[[Joan Crawford]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1977 deaths, Christian Scientists, Actors from San Antonio, Texas, American movie actors, American radio actors, American silent movie actors, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Joan Crawford (March 23, 1904 - May 10, 1977) was an American actress. She won the 1945 Best Actress Academy Award for Mildred Pierce. She was voted the tenth greatest female star in the history of American movies by the American Film Institute.September 2013

[[List of bridges to the Island of Montreal]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Canada, Lists of bridges

This is a list of bridges in Montreal.

[[List of governors of Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of governors, Governors of Japanese prefectures, Lists of Japanese people

This is a list of current governors of the prefectures of Japan.

[[Fukui Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Fukui Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Fukui Prefecture is a prefecture in the Chūbu region of Japan on the island of Honshū. The capital is the city of Fukui.

[[Nagano Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Nagano Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Nagano Prefecture is a prefecture in the Chūbu region of Japan on the island of Honshu. The capital city is Nagano. The capital is the city of Nagano.

[[Nara Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Nara Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Nara Prefecture is a prefecture of Japan in the Kansai region on the island of Honshu. The capital city is Nara.

[[Ezo]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Japan, Hokkaido Prefecture, Akita Prefecture, Aomori Prefecture, Fukushima Prefecture, Iwate Prefecture, Miyagi Prefecture, Yamagata Prefecture

Ezo, also known as Yezo or Yeso, is an ancient Japanese name for the lands to the north of Japan. It was the name of the northern Japanese island of Hokkaidō.  It was also used as a name for islands in the Sea of Okhotsk, including the Kurile Islands and Sakhalin. 

The terms Ezo, Yezo, Ebisu or Emishi were also used as a name for the people and culture of northern Honshu, including  Akita Prefecture, Aomori Prefecture, Fukushima Prefecture, Iwate Prefecture, Miyagi Prefecture and Yamagata Prefecture.

[[Jules-Henri Vernoy de Saint-Georges]]

CATEGORIES: French writers, Librettists, 1799 births, 1875 deaths

Jules-Henri Vernoy de Saint-Georges (17991875) was a French writer. He was born in Paris on 7 November 1799 and died there on 23 December 1875. He was one of the most prolific librettists of the 19th century.  He joined with others to write the librettos for the ballet Giselle by Adolphe Adam, for the opera La fille du regiment by Donizetti, and the opera La jolie fille de Perth for Bizet. He wrote over seventy works for the stage. He wrote novels. He liked plot twists and unlikely coincidences. His works are short on convincing characterizations. He was old-fashioned, dressing in 18th century style.

[[Mildred Pierce]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, Film noir, American crime movies, Women's movies, United States National Film Registry movies, Movies based on books, English-language movies, Movies directed by Michael Curtiz

Mildred Pierce is a film noir movie. It was made in 1945. The movie was based on a book of the same name by James M. Cain. It was directed by Michael Curtiz. The movie got good reviews. It stars Joan Crawford. She won the Best Actress Academy Award. The movie was picked for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.

[[Our Dancing Daughters]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 movies, 1920s romance movies, 1920s drama movies, American silent movies, American romantic drama movies, Women's movies, MGM movies

Our Dancing Daughters is a 1928 MGM silent movie. The movie is about the loosening of youth morals that took place during the 1920s. The movie was directed by Harry Beaumont. It was produced by Hunt Stromberg. The movie made Joan Crawford a big  star. She remained a big star for the next 50 years.

[[The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 movies, 1920s horror movies, German silent movies, German horror movies

The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (Das Cabinet des Dr. Caligari) is a 1920 German silent movie. It was directed by Robert Wiene. Conrad Veidt stars. It is a German Expressionist movie. It is one of the greatest horror movies of the silent era. The movie uses stylized sets with abstract, jagged buildings painted on canvas backdrops. These unique sets gave off a strong sense of theater. The actors used an unrealistic technique that exhibited jerky and dancelike movements. This movie introduced the "twist ending" in movies.

[[Lake Biel]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Bern

Lake Biel (also called Lake Bienne) is the biggest lake in the Canton of Bern in Switzerland. The lake has a length of 15 and a width of 4.1. Its surface area is about 40. Taximum depth is about 74. It is 429 above sea level. It is surrounded by a lot of wine-producing villages.

Together with Lake Morat and Lake Neuchâtel it is one of the three largest lakes in the Jura region of Switzerland. There are two rivers which run into Lake Biel. The first one is the Suze, it's Biel’s only river. The second one is the Aare, one of Switzerland’s longest rivers. It was redirected into the lake in 1878.

Vineyards are located on the sunny side of Lake Biel and benefit from the southeast orientation of the hills. The lake provides a balanced climate. Soils are highly calcareous. There are 220 of vineyards and a large variety of vine types, traditionally white wines, but increasingly red wines. The Chasselas, Pinot gris, Pinot noir, Pinot blanc and Chardonnay are grown by about 80 winegrowers.  Most of the wine goods are family farms and the vine is often sold directly from the wine cellars.

Vineyards in the region of Lake Biel have been found since the Roman times. Archeologists found amphora for the wine. The vineyards still exist thanks to a ban released in 1933, which forbid building in the vineyards.

It is a common tourist destination and is a beautiful lake, with many recreational activities to do.

[[Brandon Marshall]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, African American players of American football, American football wide receivers, Chicago Bears players, People with borderline personality disorder, Sportspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Brandon Marshall (born March 23, 1984) is an American football wide receiver for the Chicago Bears of the National Football League. He was selected by the Denver Broncos out of the University of Central Florida, with the 119th overall pick in the fourth round of the 2006 NFL Draft. Marshall has also played for the Miami Dolphins, where he wore #19. He holds a record for the most catches in a single game with 21, a record set in 2009 while Marshall was with the Broncos. Throughout his football career, Marshall has been respected as a good player, often one who is hard to tackle.

[[Theda Bara]]

CATEGORIES: Silent movie actors, 1885 births, 1955 deaths

Theda Bara was an American silent movie actress. She was born on July 29, 1885. Her real name was Theodosia Burr Goodman. Bara attended the University of Cincinnati for two years. She worked in theater productions. She moved to New York City in 1908. She made her Broadway debut in 1908. Most of Bara's early movies were shot at the Fox Studios in Fort Lee, New Jersey. Bara lived with her family in New York City during this time. She moved to Los Angeles, California to shoot Cleopatra in 1917. This movie became one of Bara's biggest hits. No known prints of Cleopatra exist today. There are many photographs of Bara in her costume as Cleopatra. 

Bara married American movie director Charles Brabin in 1921. She had no children. She died of stomach cancer on April 13, 1955 in Los Angeles, California. Bara was one of the most popular stars of her era. She was one of the earliest sex symbols in movies. Her femme fatale (deadly woman) roles earned her the nickname "The Vamp" (short for vampire). The term "vamp" soon became a popular slang term for a sexually predatory woman. Bara made more than 40 films between 1914 and 1926. Cnly six still exist in their entirety. 

[[The King of Kings]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 movies, American silent movies, American epic movies

The King of Kings is a 1927 silent movie. It was directed by Cecil B. DeMille. It is a religious movie about the last weeks of Jesus before his crucifixion. H. B. Warner starred as Jesus. One of the last sequences of the movie, the Resurrection, is in Technicolor. A giant gate built for this movie was later used in King Kong in 1933. The same gate was one of the sets torched for the "burning of Atlanta" scene in 1939 in Gone with the Wind. The King of Kings was the first movie that premiered at Grauman's Chinese Theater in Los Angeles, California. The date was May 18, 1927.

[[Mary Pickford]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1979 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Canadian movie actors, American movie actors, Actors from Toronto, Silent movie actors, Best Actress Academy Award winners

Mary Pickford (April 8, 1892– May 29, 1979) was a silent movie actress. She was born in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.She won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her role in Coquette. She was married to actor Charles "Buddy" Rogers.

Pickford was co-founder of United Artists. She was one of the original 36 founders of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. She married silent movie star Douglas Fairbanks. They lived in a Hollywood home called Pickfair. The American Film Institute named Pickford 24th among the greatest female stars of all time.

[[Mark Clayton (American football, born 1982)]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, African American players of American football, American football wide receivers, Baltimore Ravens players, Sportspeople from Oklahoma City, St. Louis Rams players

Mark Jermaine Clayton (born July 2, 1982) is a former American football player. He played as a  wide receiver for the St. Louis Rams of the National Football League. Clayton played for the University of Oklahoma Sooners from 2001 to 2004, before he was drafted by the Baltimore Ravens in the first round (25th overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft. Clayton's best season was in 2006 with Baltimore, when he had 67 catches, 939 receiving yards, and five touchdowns. Clayton struggled with injuries in his two seasons with St. Louis.

[[Douglas Fairbanks]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 births, 1939 deaths, Silent movie actors, American stage actors, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Douglas Fairbanks was a silent movie actor. He was born on May 23, 1883. He is best known for The Thief of Bagdad, Robin Hood, and The Mark of Zorro. He was a "swashbuckler" in the movies. A swashbuckler is an athletic, romantic hero. He married Mary Pickford in 1920. They lived in a Hollywood home called Pickfair. He was called "The King of Hollywood". His movie career went south when the "talkies" came along. Fairbanks was also a screenwriter, a director, and a producer. He was a founding member of both United Artists and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. He hosted the first Oscars Ceremony in 1929. He died on December 12, 1939. His son, Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. was also an actor.

[[Alluvial fan]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, Landforms, River deltas

An alluvial fan is a fan-shaped deposit of soil and rocks. It forms where a fast-flowing river spreads out over a flat plain. They are usually found in between mountain ranges that are crumbling away. If it rains a lot, the fan area will usually flood.

[[Robin Hood (1922 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 movies, American silent movies, Movies directed by Allan Dwan, American adventure movies, Swashbuckler movies

Robin Hood is a 1922 silent movie. It stars Douglas Fairbanks. Robin Hood was the first movie to have a Hollywood  premiere. The premiere was held at Grauman's Egyptian Theatre on October 18, 1922. 

The movie's full title is Douglas Fairbanks in Robin Hood. It was one of the most expensive movies of the 1920s. It cost about $1,000,000 to make. The movie is about the famous English outlaw. The movie received mostly good reviews.

In spite of the movie's careful construction, it received some negative responses. Vachel Lindsay thought the movie was "a heavy exhibit of armor that does not move." He thought it a failure because the first half of the movie was basically spectacle. 

Nonetheless, Robin Hood was thought at the time to be a milestone in the development of movie art. It would be overshadowed however by the hugely popular Errol Flynn movie of 1938.

[[Matt Flynn]]

CATEGORIES: Sportspeople from Texas, American football quarterbacks, Green Bay Packers players, 1985 births, Living people

Matthew Clayton Flynn (born June 20, 1985) is an American football quarterback. He was drafted by the Green Bay Packers in the 7th round of the 2008 NFL Draft. He played college football at LSU.

[[Truman]]

Truman may refer to any of the Following

[[Jonathan Demme]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from esophageal cancer, Cancer deaths in New York City, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, Academy Award winning directors, Actors from New York, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, American television writers, Movie directors from New York, Movie producers from New York, Screenwriters from New York

Robert Jonathan Demme (February 22, 1944 – April 26, 2017) was an American filmmaker. He was born in Baldwin, New York. He was best known for directing The Silence of the Lambs, for which he won an Academy Award. He directed and co-produced Philadelphia and Rachel Getting Married.

His nephew Ted Demme (1963-2002) was a filmmaker.

On April 26, 2017, Demme died in New York City at the age of 73 due to complications from esophageal cancer and heart disease.

[[Defensive tackle]]

CATEGORIES: American football positions

A defensive tackle is a position in American and Canadian football. 

Defensive tackles typically line up in the center of the defensive line.  As some of the largest players (in size) on the field, defensive tackles try to make it hard for the quarterback to throw the ball by blocking offensive linemen and tackles who protect the quarterback. They rarely do anything else. 

In the National Football League, defensive tackles may wear numbers in the 50s, 60s, 70s, and 90s, but may wear any number they chose in college football.

[[Shiga Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Shiga Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Shiga Prefecture is a prefecture in the Kansai region of Japan on the island of Honshu. The capital is the city of Ōtsu.

[[List of national universities in Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Japan, Lists of universities, Japan-related lists

As of 2008, there were 87 national universities, 89 public universities, and 580 private universities in Japan. National universities tend to have a good reputation in higher education in Japan. They are often more difficult to get into than private or public universities.

In 2004, the national university system changed. National universities were no longer completely public public and more of a private.  Since 2004, every national university has become a special type of corporation. They are called "national university corporations". They now have more freedom and less control from the government. Faculty and staff are no longer government employees, and they do not work for the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology.

This is a complete list of Japanese national universities: 

The Government of Japan started The Open University of Japan and the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology. It also supports them with money. However, these two universities are not national universities; they are private universities.

[[Coffin Bay National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia, Protected areas of South Australia

Coffin Bay National Park is a large national park on the west coast of the Eyre Peninsula in South Australia. It is 50 west of Port Lincoln. The park protects a range of different coastal areas including high cliffs, surf beaches, quiet bays and huge sand dunes. A large area of the park is on the Coffin Bay Peninsula. Much of the park is only accessible by four-wheel drive vehicles or boat.

Aboriginal stories say a great fire came from the ocean. Two men stopped the fire by dumping the sand dunes on top of it.

One of the trees found in the park is the Drooping Sheoak, Allocasuarina verticillata, and it is being replanted to restore some of the grassy woodlands. Western Grey Kangaroos, lizards and emus can be found through the park.

[[Surface runoff]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology, Environmental chemistry, Water pollution

Surface runoff is the excess water that flows over land when the soil below it is flooded. This is a big part of the water cycle. This a prime cause for soil erosion and degradation of soil. 

[[Way Down East]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 movies, Women's movies, American silent movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by D. W. Griffith

Way Down East is a 1920 silent movie. It was directed by D. W. Griffith. The movie stars Lillian Gish as Anna and Richard Barthelmess as David. The movie is based on a 19th-century play by Lottie Blair Parker.

This movie is famous for its exciting climax. Lillian Gish's character is rescued from certain death on an icy river. Way Down East is the fourth highest grossing silent movie in movie history. It brought in more than $4,500,000 at the box office in 1920. Some parts of Way Down East were shot in an early Technicolor process.

[[Lillian Gish]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1993 deaths, Silent movie actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Actors from Ohio, Episcopalians, People from Springfield, Ohio

Lillian Diana Gish (October 14, 1893 – February 27, 1993) was an American actress. She was born in Springfield, Ohio. Gish came from a Episcopalian and Lutheran religious background. She was a descendant of a colonial minister and a Revolutionary War hero. Lillian was very young when her father abandoned his family.  She and her sister Dorothy joined the acting profession with their mother. In 1912, their friend Mary Pickford introduced the sisters to D. W. Griffith. They got contracts with Biograph Studios.  The sisters debuted in Griffith's short movie An Unseen Enemy in 1912. Lillian starred in many of Griffith's most famous movies. These included The Birth of a Nation, Intolerance, Broken Blossoms, Way Down East, and Orphans of the Storm. One of the famous images of Gish's silent movie years is the climax of Way Down East. Her character floats unconscious on an ice floe towards a waterfall, her long hair floating in the water. She made "talkies" (movies with sound), too. Her sound movie work was off and on. She was in the controversial western Duel in the Sun and Night of the Hunter. She did a lot of television work from the early 1950s until the 1980s. At the end of her career she appeared with Bette Davis  in the 1987 movie The Whales of August. She never married or had children. She died in her sleep of natural causes on February 27, 1993. She is buried next to her sister Dorothy at Saint Bartholomew's Episcopal Church in New York City. Gish's career lasted 75 years, from 1912 to 1987. She was given the nickname "The First Lady of American Cinema". The American Film Institute (AFI) named Gish 17th among the greatest female stars of all time. She received an Honorary Academy Award in 1971. In 1984 she received an AFI Life Achievement Award.

[[John Newlands]]

CATEGORIES: 1837 births, 1898 deaths, English chemists

John Alexander Reina Newlands (26 November 1837– 29 July 1898) was an English chemist who worked on the discovery of the Periodic Table of the Elements. He studied at the Royal College of Chemistry in London. 

He arranged the chemical elements according to their atomic weight. He noticed a pattern with every eighth element, which he compared to octaves in music. He called this the Law of Octaves.

[[Gotham City]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional locations, Batman

Gotham City is a fictional city which is the home of Batman, a DC Comics character. The city is based on New York City and Chicago, and became Batman's home in 1941. Gotham was a village in England, near Nottingham, where the people were all very foolish.

Author Washington Irving was the first person to describe New York as Gotham in his 1807 book, Salamagundi.

In Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins, and The Dark Knight Gotham City is based in Chicago. The Dark Knight Rises Gotham City is based in Pittsburgh, New York City, and Los Angeles.

Christopher Nolan based Gotham City on Chicago, New York City, and London. When Bob Kane first thought of a city he wanted it to be like New York City, London, and Chicago. Bill Finger was about to name the city "Civic City".

[[Fracture (geology)]]

CATEGORIES: Geology

In geology, a fracture is any kind of separation or break in a rock formation. Examples are joints or faults. These divides the rock into two or more pieces. A fracture can sometimes form a deep, wide crack in the rock. They are usually caused when the rock is not strong enough to hold up under too much stress. This makes the rock crack along its weakest point. Fractures can provide access for fluids, like water or hydrocarbons, to move into the rock.

[[Joint (geology)]]

CATEGORIES: Geology

In geology, a joint is a fracture dividing rock into two sections that moved away from each other. A joint does not involve shear displacement, and forms when tensile stress breaches its threshold. In other kinds of fracturing, like in a fault, the rock is parted by a visible crack that forms a gap in the rock.

Joints push out in various directions, usually vertically. They can have smooth, clean surfaces, or they can be scarred from sliding against another joint. Joints usually occur as sets, with each set made up of joints that are parallel to each other.

Joints become more and more obvious when the rock is weathered (eroded by the elements). When water gets into the joints, this can lead to the formation of big caves and underground rivers.

[[List of Kawasaki Frontale players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Kawasaki Frontale players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Kawasaki Frontale is a Japanese professional football club in Kawasaki, which is south of Tokyo in Kanagawa Prefecture.

[[List of Nagoya Grampus players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Nagoya Grampus players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Nagoya Grampus is a Japanese professional football club in Nagoya.

[[Pollyanna (1920 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 movies, 1920s comedy movies, 1920s drama movies, American silent movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies based on books

Pollyanna is a 1920 silent movie. It stars Mary Pickford. It was directed by Paul Powell. It was based on Eleanor H. Porter's novel Pollyanna. It was Pickford's first movie for United Artists. It became a great success. It would be regarded as one of the movies that defined Pickford's "little girl" movies. She was 27, but played a 12 year old girl. The movie made $1.1 million (that was about $10 million in 2008). This was a lot of money at the time. 

[[The Hunchback of Notre Dame (1923 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: American silent movies, 1923 movies, 1920s horror movies, 1920s drama movies, American horror movies, American drama movies, Universal Pictures movies, Movies based on books

The Hunchback of Notre Dame is a 1923 silent movie based on Victor Hugo's novel. It was directed by Wallace Worsley, produced by Carl Laemmle and Irving Thalberg, and starred Lon Chaney, Sr.. The 1939 movie starring Charles Laughton and Maureen O'Hara. It was Universal's "Super Jewel". It was their most successful silent movie. It had $3 million. The movie is set in 15th century Paris. Chaney's performance and spectacular make-up as the tortured bell-ringer of Notre Dame are famous. The movie made Chaney a superstar. It set a standard for horror movies including Chaney's own The Phantom of the Opera in 1925. 

[[Tottori Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Tottori Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Tottori Prefecture is a Japanese prefecture in the Chūgoku region of the island of Honshu. The capital is the city of Tottori. It is the least populous prefecture in Japan.

[[The Mark of Zorro (1920 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Silent movies, 1920 movies, Swashbuckler movies, Movies based on books

The Mark of Zorro is a 1920 silent movie. It stars Douglas Fairbanks and Noah Beery. This "swashbuckler" adventure was the first movie version of The Mark of Zorro. It was based on the 1919 story "The Curse of Capistrano" by Johnston McCulley. This book introduced the masked hero, Zorro. The screenplay was adapted from the book by Fairbanks (as "Elton Thomas") and Eugene Miller.

The movie was produced by Fairbanks for his own production company, Douglas Fairbanks Pictures Corporation. It was the first movie released through United Artists. This company was formed by Fairbanks, Mary Pickford, Charlie Chaplin, and D. W. Griffith. The movie has been remade twice, once in 1940 (starring Tyrone Power) and again in 1974 (starring Frank Langella).

[[Yamagata Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Yamagata Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Yamagata Prefecture is a prefecture of Japan. It is part of the Tōhoku region on the island of Honshu. Its capital is Yamagata.

[[Swashbuckler movie]]

CATEGORIES: Swashbuckler movies

Swashbuckler movies are movies about rough, manly swordsmen. A swashbuckling hero has high ideals. He rescues damsels in distress. His enemy is usually a dastardly villain. Swashbucklers who combine outstanding courage, swordfighting skill, resourcefulness, chivalry, and a distinctive sense of honor and justice include The Three Musketeers, The Scarlet Pimpernel, Robin Hood, and Zorro. 

Swashbuckler movies are one of the most flamboyant Hollywood genres.  These movies are unrealistic. They are often set in the Renaissance, in Arabia, or on pirate ships. Sets are elaborate. Costumes are lavish. Swashbuckler movies attract big audiences. These audiences want to forget their boring everyday lives. They can escape their lives in the adventure, romance, and daring stunts of the swashbuckler movie. Famous actors who portrayed swashbucklers are Errol Flynn and Douglas Fairbanks.

The stories came from romantic costume novels like those written by Alexandre Dumas, père and Rafael Sabatini. Last but not least, thrilling music was an important part of the movie formula. There were three great cycles of swashbuckler films: the Douglas Fairbanks period of 1920-1929, the Errol Flynn period of 1935-1941, and a period in the 1950s that included movies such as Ivanhoe. The British television series The Adventures of Robin Hood made the genre even more popular. The genre has been revived in the Pirates of the Caribbean series of movies.

[[Tomboy]]

CATEGORIES: Gender, Pejoratives

A tomboy is a girl who does things which are similar to the gender role of a boy. 

They might also wear masculine-type clothes and play games and take part in activities which are often quite physical. This type of thing is usually thought to be done more by boys.

[[West Point (1928 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 movies, 1920s drama movies, American silent movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Edward Sedgwick

West Point is a 1928 silent movie. The story and screenplay were written by Raymond L. Schrock. Titles were written by Joseph Farnham. The movie was directed by Edward Sedgwick. It was produced by Maj. Raymond G. Moses. The movie was shot on location at West Point and vicinity. Photoplay gave the movie a nice review, commenting: "Bill Haines' starring vehicle ... treats everything in a humorous vein in the beginning, getting many laughs." The same story was used for Dress Parade in 1927 starring William Boyd and Bessie Love. The 1928 movie has been released to DVD.

[[Pope Victor]]

CATEGORIES: Papal names

Pope Victor may mean

There were also two antipopes who chose to be called Victor IV.

[[William Haines]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1973 deaths, Actors from Virginia, American LGBT people, American silent movie actors, American stage actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from lung cancer, Gay men, LGBT actors

Charles William "Billy" Haines (January 2, 1900 – December 26, 1973) was an American movie actor and interior designer. He was a popular star of the silent movie era. In 1933, MGM studio head Louis B. Mayer fired the gay actor because he did not want to enter into a marriage of convenience. Haines never returned to movies. Instead, he started a successful interior design business with his lifelong male partner Jimmie Shields. 

[[Martine McCutcheon]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Actors from London, British child actors, English movie actors, English pop singers, English stage actors, English television actors, People from Hackney, Singers from London

Martine McCutcheon (born Martine Kimberley Sherrie Ponting on 14 May 1976) is a British actress and singer. She was born in Hackney, London. She played Tiffany Mitchell in EastEnders from 1995-1998. She played Natalie in Love Actually. 

[[Love Actually]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 comedy-drama movies, 2003 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, British comedy-drama movies, British romantic comedy movies, British romantic drama movies, English-language movies, French-language movies, Marseille, Movies set in France, Movies set in London, Wisconsin

Love Actually is a 2003 British romantic comedy-drama movie. The large majority of it is set in London, with parts of it set in Marseille, France and Wisconsin, United States. It features several interlinked stories of love. It was written and directed by Richard Curtis. It stars Hugh Grant, Liam Neeson, Colin Firth, Laura Linney, Emma Thompson, Alan Rickman, Keira Knightley, Martine McCutcheon, Bill Nighy and Rowan Atkinson.

[[Saint-Cyr-l'École]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yvelines

Saint-Cyr-l'École is a commune in the western suburbs of Paris, France. It is 21.4 km (13.3 mi) from the center of Paris.

In 2006, about 16,365 people lived here.

[[Floodplain]]

CATEGORIES: Wetlands, Landforms, Waterways, Flood control

A floodplain is the flat area around a river that is covered in times of flood.  A floodplain is a very fertile area due to the rich alluvium (fine sediment) deposited by floodwaters.  This makes floodplains a good place for agriculture. A build-up of alluvium on the banks of a river can create levees, which raise the river bank.

[[Satch Boogie]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 songs

Satch Boogie is the fifth track from Joe Satriani's 1987 album Surfing With The Alien. The piece is a hard driving rock boogie in shuffle time. The solo is a mixture of A pentatonic blues and Dorian mode, the chord sequence is: A D F# A. The tapping solo uses Satriani's signature Pitch Axis Theory composition style, the central pitch in this case is A and the broken chords revolve around this note.

[[Monomer]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds, Polymers

A monomer is a single atom or molecule which is able to join with other monomers to make new substances called polymers. The words come from the Greek language where mono means "one", poly means "many", and meros means "a part". A feature of monomers is that they have two carbon atoms which are joined, called a carbon double bond. The double bond allows the monomer to make the long chains of polymers. There are thousands of different monomers. Examples of monomers include monosaccharide which is simple sugar, glycerol, amino acid and nucleotide. The most made monomer is ethylene

[[Anne Tenney]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Actors from Sydney

Anne Tenney (born 1954 in Sydney) is an Australian movie and television actress. She is best known for her role as Molly Jones in the television drama A Country Practice and as Sal Kerrigan in The Castle.

[[Elio Di Rupo]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Alderman of Belgium, Belgian atheists, Belgian chemists, Belgian educators, Belgian LGBT people, Belgian mayors, Former MEPs, Freemasons, Gay men, Government ministers of Belgium, LGBT politicians, MEPs for Belgium, Parti socialiste (Belgium) politicians, People from Hainaut (province), Prime Ministers of Belgium, Walloon politicians

Elio Di Rupo (born 18 July 1951) is a Belgian politician. He served as the Prime Minister of Belgium from 2011 to 2014. He was the leader of Parti socialiste. He was born in Morlanwelz, Wallonia to Italian parents. Di Rupo is openly gay.

Di Rupo is the first openly gay man to lead a sovereign state. He was also the first openly gay man to win the position in his own right in an election.

Di Rupo is also mayor of Mons and previously alderman of the same city.

He is an atheist and also a Freemason.

[[Kyoto Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Kyoto Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Kyoto Prefecture is a prefecture in the Kansai region of Japan on the island of Honshu. The capital is the city of Kyoto.

[[Batik]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing, Textile arts, Cloth

  Batik  is an Indonesian method of dyeing cloth and making it resistant using wax. Such fabrics originally come from the island of Java. Nowadays, batik also can be found worldwide, mainly in Asia and Africa.

[[Payment protection insurance]]

CATEGORIES: Insurance

Payment protection insurance (commonly abbreviated PPI) is a special insurance. People who get a loan  can get an insurance against dying, having an accident or becoming unemployed during the runtime of this loan. If the person taking the loan dies, the rest of the loan is paid by the insurance company; if they become unable to work because of an accident, or because of unemployment, the insurance company will pay the installments. 

This form of insurance has often been criticised because it is expensive; also the insurance and the people selling the insurance usually have high margins on these kinds of insurance. 

[[Otoya Yamaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 1960 deaths, Anti-Communists, People from Tokyo, Murder victims, Japanese activists

Otoya Yamaguchi was a Japanese political activist and assassin. He killed the head of the Japanese Socialist Party (JCP).  On October 12, 1960, the killing was broadcast live by NHK television.

[[West Hollywood, California]]

CATEGORIES: West Hollywood, California, 1984 establishments in California

West Hollywood (nickname: WeHo) is a city of Los Angeles County, California. It was made a city on November 29, 1984. The population was 34,399 at the 2010 census. According to a 2002 analysis, 41% of the city's population is made up of gays. West Hollywood and the neighboring city of Beverly Hills are surrounded by the city of Los Angeles.

[[Steve Reeves]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Montana, American movie actors, American television actors, Bodybuilders, Deaths from lymphoma, 1926 births, 2000 deaths

Stephen L. "Steve" Reeves (21 January 1926 - 1 May 2000) was an American bodybuilder and actor. He was born in Glasgow, Montana. He moved to California with his mother at age 10. He trained as a bodybuilder. He joined the US Army and served in the Pacific during World War II. 

After the war, he pursued bodybuilding. In 1946, he won the title of Mr. Pacific Coast. Within the next four years he won the world's most famous titles, including Mr. America, Mr. World, and Mr. Universe. 

Reeves started acting. In 1954, he had some small parts in movies and was on television. In 1957, he made Hercules, a low budget movie based on the ancient Greek stories of the Golden Fleece. The movie was a great success. It made $5 million in the United States.

From 1959 through 1964, Reeves starred in many low budget peplum movies. In 1963, he married Aline Czarzawicz. The couple retired to Southern California in 1969. He wrote an exercise guide, Building the Classic Physique the Natural Way. He bought a ranch and bred horses. Reeves died from lymphoma in Escondido, California in 2000.

[[Hercules (1958 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Epic movies, 1958 movies, 1950s fantasy movies, Peplum movies, Movies based on Greek and Roman mythology, Hercules movies, Italian-language movies

Hercules is a 1958 movie. It is based on the Ancient Greek tales of Hercules, Jason, the Argonauts, and the Golden Fleece. Steve Reeves stars as Hercules. A massive "saturation" promotional campaign was launched in the United States for the movie. 

[[Peplum movie]]

CATEGORIES: Peplum movies

Peplum movie (sometimes, sword and sandal movie) is a movie  genre. Peplum movies have an ancient Greek, Roman, or Biblical setting. "Peplum" refers to a garment worn by the ancient Greeks and Romans.

The central character in a peplum movie is usually a muscular hero like Hercules or Samson. He wears a short peplum and battles monsters, despots, and evil queens. This oil-slicked, nearly-nude hero is rewarded at the end of the movie with the cheers of his people, clan, or tribe  and the hand of a lovely princess.

Peplum movies were mostly made in Italy. Italian moviemakers modelled peplum movies on the big budget Hollywood epics like Spartacus. The genre was very important in Italian moviemaking from 1957 to 1965, but was shoved aside in 1965 by the "Spaghetti Western".

Critics thought peplum movies were pretty poor stuff. They treated them with contempt. Italian director Vittorio Cottafavi called the genre "Neo-Mythology". Charlton Heston's Ben-Hur (1959) and Elizabeth Taylor's Cleopatra (1963) are generally considered big-budget sword and sandal movies that mark the end of the genre. 

[[Muscular Christianity]]

CATEGORIES: History of Christianity, 19th century

Muscular Christianity is a term for a movement originating during the Victorian era. It stressed the need for active Christian activism and belief of vigorous masculinity. It is most associated with the English writers Charles Kingsley and Thomas Hughes, and in Canada with Ralph Connor, though the name was bestowed by others. Kingsley and Hughes promoted physical strength and health (at least for men) as well as an active pursuit of Christian ideals in personal life and politics.

Muscular Christianity has continued itself through organisations that combine physical and Christian spiritual development. It is influential within both Catholicism and Protestantism.

[[List of Omiya Ardija players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Omiya Ardija players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Omiya Ardija  is a Japanese professional football club in the Ōmiya ward of Saitama.

[[Sean Stone]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American movie producers, American Muslims, Movie directors from New York

Sean Ali Stone (born 1984) is an American movie director, producer, cinematographer, screenwriter and actor. He is the elder son of Oliver Stone. 

[[Machinima]]

CATEGORIES: Animation, Computer graphics

Machinima (m or m) is a type of animation and digital moviemaking style. It is the use of 3D computer graphics with a 3D video game or computer game to create the 3D animation. The creator who is making the video will record in-game animation and edit it with voice recordings. Machinima can be script-driven, meaning the cameras, characters, and effects are scripted for playback in real time. Unlike other types of animation, the scripting is driven by events and not keyframes.

Machinima limits the controls of other animation types. This is according to Machinima.org. For example, Machinima videos can be shot live or scripted in real time. So it becomes much faster to produce than traditionally animated movies.

Machinima productions can remain close to their gaming roots and feature stunts or other portrayals of gameplay. Popular genres include dance videos, comedy, and drama. Alternatively, some filmmakers attempt to stretch the boundaries of the rendering engines or to mask the original 3-D context. The Academy of Machinima Arts & Sciences (AMAS), a non-profit organization dedicated to promoting machinima, recognizes exemplary productions through Mackie awards given at its annual Machinima Film Festival. Some general film festivals accept machinima, and game companies, such as Epic Games, Blizzard Entertainment and Jagex, have sponsored contests involving it.\

[[Oswald (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 American television series debuts, 2003 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, American children's television series, Nickelodeon television series, Television series about animals, Animals in fiction, English-language television programs

Oswald is an American children's animated television series co-produced by Nickelodeon and HIT Entertainment. It first aired on August 20, 2001, on Nickelodeon's Nick Jr. block in the United States. The show was created by Dan Yaccarino. It was also broadcast on Noggin and CBS (during the Nick Jr. on CBS block) in reruns. 26 episodes were produced.

The series was added to Paramount+ (at the time CBS All Access) in January 2021. 

Oswald on NickRewind's NickRewind Jr. in the United States The added to Paramount+ in July 2021.

[[Oswald]]

Oswald may refer to:

[[Jason and the Argonauts (1963 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Peplum movies, 1960s fantasy movies, 1960s adventure movies, American fantasy movies, American adventure movies, Epic movies, Movies based on Greek and Roman mythology, 1963 movies, Movies directed by Don Chaffey

Jason and the Argonauts is a 1963 movie. It stars Todd Armstrong as Jason. The movie is about the quest for the Golden Fleece. It was directed by Don Chaffey. The special effects were the creation of stop-motion animation expert Ray Harryhausen. The movie is famous for its monsters and the battle with the skeletons.  Hercules is another movie on the Golden Fleece theme that was made about the same time. It stars legendary bodybuilder Steve Reeves. 

[[Ulysses (1954 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 movies, Adventure movies, Epic movies, 1950s fantasy movies, Italian movies, Italian-language movies, Movies based on Greek and Roman mythology, Peplum movies

Ulysses is a 1955 3-D Italian adventure movie. It is based on Homer's poem The Odyssey, and tells of Odysseus's attempts to return home to Ithaca after the Trojan War. Silvana Mangano plays two roles, as Penelope, the faithful wife of Ulysses and the sorceress, Circe. Kirk Douglas stars the Greek hero, Ulysses. Anthony Quinn plays Antinous.

[[Clash of the Titans]]

CATEGORIES: Epic movies, 1980s fantasy movies, Movies based on Greek and Roman mythology, 1981 movies

Clash of the Titans is a 1981 movie. It is about the Greek hero Perseus. He is played by Harry Hamlin. The movie features the final work of stop motion artist, Ray Harryhausen. It made $41 million in the United States. It was the 11th highest money-making movie of the year.  Warner Bros. released a remake in 3D on April 2, 2010. Many big stars were in the movie including Laurence Olivier, Maggie Smith, and Ursula Andress.

[[Childhood]]

CATEGORIES: Childhood

Childhood is the period between birth and puberty.  Childhood ends when a human being begins puberty. The state or period of being a child is called childhood.  In many places, childhood ends at a fixed age of majority.  The child becomes an adult, sometimes with a rite of passage.  Another word for teenagers and adolescents is "youth".

[[Engen]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1336 establishments in Japan, 1340 disestablishments, 1340s disestablishments in Japan

Engen (延元) was a Japanese era name of the Southern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Kemmu and before Kōkoku.  This period started in February 1336 and ended in April 1340.  The monarchs during this time were Emperor Go-Daigo and Emperor Go-Murakami.  The Northern Court pretender in Kyoto was Emperor Kōmyō.  

[[Kōkoku]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1340 establishments, 1340s establishments in Japan, 1346 disestablishments, 1340s disestablishments in Japan

Kōkoku (興国) was a Japanese era name of the Southern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Engen and before Shōhei.  This period started in April 1340 and ended in December 1346.  The monarch during this time were was Emperor Go-Murakami.  The Northern Court pretender in Kyoto was Emperor Kōmyō.  

[[Anglo-Saxon runes]]

CATEGORIES: Runes, Anglo-Saxons, 5th century establishments in Europe, 8th-century disestablishments

The Anglo-Saxon runes are runes that were used from the 5th to the 8th century. It extends Elder Futhark from 24 to between 26 and 33 characters. Like the Elder Futhark, it is named after the first few letters in the series: These transliterate to Futhorc in modern English. The script was used to record Old English and Old Frisian. Inscriptions using Futhorc are rare after the 9th century, and completely disappear after the Norman conquest.

[[Shōhei]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1346 establishments, 1340s establishments in Japan, 1370 disestablishments, 1370s disestablishments in Japan

Shōhei was a Japanese era name (年号, nengō, lit. year name) of the Southern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Kōkoku and before Kentoku.  This period started in December 1346 and ended in July 1370.

The monarchs during this time were Emperor Go-Murakami and Emperor Chōkei.  The Northern Court pretenders in Kyoto were Emperor Kōmyō, Emperor Sukō and Emperor Go-Kōgon.

[[Hercules vs. the Moon Men]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s science fiction movies, Peplum movies, Movies based on Greek and Roman mythology, 1960s fantasy movies, Epic movies, Italian movies, French movies, 1964 movies, Italian-language movies

Hercules Against the Moon Men is a 1964 Italian/French movie. It was directed by Giacomo Gentilomo. It stars Alan Steel (real name Sergio Ciani). The movie blends (mixes) elements from Roman, Greek, Cretan and Egyptian mythologies. In the original Italian language version, the hero was not Hercules. The hero was Maciste. Maciste was a hero in Italian silent movies. Its original Italian title was Maciste e la regina di Samar (Maciste and the Queen of Samar). Its French title was Maciste contre les hommes de pierre (Maciste Against the Men of Stone). The English distributors dubbed the hero Hercules, because Maciste was not well known to American audiences.

[[Kentoku]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1370 establishments, 1370s establishments in Japan, 1372 disestablishments, 1370s disestablishments in Japan

Kentoku (建徳) was a Japanese era name (年号, nengō, lit. year name) of the Southern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Shōhei and before Bunchū.  The period started in July 1370 and ended in April 1372. The Southern Court monarch in Yoshino during this time was Emperor Chōkei.  The Northern Court pretender in Kyoto was Emperor Go-En'yū.

[[Bunchū]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1372 establishments, 1370s establishments in Japan, 1375 disestablishments, 1370s disestablishments in Japan

Bunchū (文中) was a Japanese era name (年号, nengō, lit. year name) of the Southern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Kentoku and before Tenju.  This period started in October 1372 and ended in May 1375.  The Southern Court monarch in Yoshino during this time was Emperor Chōkei.  The Northern Court pretender in Kyoto was Emperor Go-En'yū.

[[Tenju]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1375 establishments, 1370s establishments in Japan, 1381 disestablishments, 1380s disestablishments in Japan

Tenju (天授) was a Japanese era name (年号, nengō, lit. year name) of the Southern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Bunchū and before Kōwa.  This period started in May 1375 and ended in February 1381.  The Southern Court monarch in Yoshino during this time was Emperor Chōkei.  The Northern Court pretender in Kyoto was Emperor Go-En'yū.

[[Kōwa (Muromachi period)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1381 establishments, 1380s establishments in Japan, 1384 disestablishments, 1380s disestablishments in Japan

Kōwa (弘和) was a Japanese era name (年号, nengō, lit. year name) of the Southern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Tenju and before Genchū.  This period started in February 1381 and ended in April 1384.  The Southern Court monarchs in Yoshino during this time-frame were Emperor Chōkei and Emperor Go-Kameyama.  The Northern Court monarchs in Kyoto were Emperor Go-En'yū and Emperor Go-Komatsu 

[[Ryakuō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1338 establishments, 1330s establishments in Japan, 1342 disestablishments, 1340s disestablishments in Japan

Ryakuō was a Japanese era name of the Northern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Kemmu and before Kōei. The period started in August 1338 and ended in April 1342.  The pretender in Kyoto was Emperor Kōmyō.  Kōmyō's Southern Court rival in Yoshino during this time was Emperor Go-Murakami.

[[Kōei (era)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1342 establishments, 1340s establishments in Japan, 1345 disestablishments, 1340s disestablishments in Japan

Kōei was a Japanese era name of the Northern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Ryakuō and before Jōwa. This period started in April 1342 and ended in October 1345.  The pretender in Kyoto was Emperor Kōmyō.  Kōmyō's Southern Court rival in Yoshino during this time-frame was Emperor Go-Murakami.

[[Women's movies]]

CATEGORIES: Women's movies

Women's movies is a movie genre.  These movies are ones that moviemakers expect women to like. They are about women. They have themes that moviemakers think would interest women such as home, family life, being a mother, making sacrifices, and romance.  Women's movies are movies that were made for women by predominantly male screenwriters and directors whereas "women's cinema" is movies that have been made by women. Women's movies have been made for years and years, ever since the silent movie days. It took a while for the term "woman's movie" to be used though. These movies were called "melodramas" at first. They were very popular during World War II. Their production fell off in the 1960s. The term "woman's movie" went south in the 1960s even though such movies were still being made. George Cukor, Douglas Sirk, Max Ophüls, and Josef von Sternberg directed woman's movies.  Joan Crawford, Bette Davis, and Barbara Stanwyck made many woman's movies.  Mildred Pierce, Jezebel and Stella Dallas are examples of woman's movies.

[[Handshakes and Middle Fingers]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums

Handshakes and Middle Fingers is the second major release studio album by Canadian rapper, Classified. Handshakes and Middle Fingers was released on March 22, 2011. The album spawned three singles "That Ain't Classy", "The Day Doesn't Die" and "Maybe It's Just Me". "That Ain't Classy" peaked at #45 on the Canadian Hot 100 while "The Day Doesn't Die" peaked at #83 on the Canadian Hot 100. The album peaked at #7 on the Canadian Albums Chart and also hit #2 on the iTunes top seller list.

[[The Wedding Singer]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 romance movies, 1998 comedy movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about weddings, Movies set in the 1980s, New Line Cinema movies

The Wedding Singer is a 1998 American romantic comedy movie starring Adam Sandler and Drew Barrymore. It follows a wedding singer falling in love with a waitress in 1984.

[[Rafael Landry Tanubrata]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Pop musicians, R&B musicians, Indonesian singers

Rafael Landry Tanubrata (born in Garut, West Java, Indonesia, November 16, 1986)  is an Indonesian pop and R&B singer-songwriter, hip hop dancer and actor. He is a member of the boy band SM*SH.

[[In Search of the Castaways]]

CATEGORIES: American adventure movies, American musical movies, Disney movies, American fantasy movies, American family movies, Movies based on books by Jules Verne, 1962 movies, English-language movies

In Search of the Castaways is a 1962 Walt Disney Productions movie. It stars Hayley Mills, George Sanders, and Maurice Chevalier. The movie was directed by Robert Stevenson.  It was based on Jules Verne's 1868 adventure novel Captain Grant's Children. The movie was Mills's third of six movies for the Disney Studios. The movie was a box office hit.

The Sherman brothers (Robert B. and Richard M. Sherman) wrote the songs "Castaway", "Merci Beaucoup", "Let's Climb", and "Enjoy It". Movie critic Hal Erickson wrote, "movie is a roller-coaster of a Disney film, making up in excitement what it lacks in credibility or coherence...the film was ideal Saturday-matinee fodder for the kiddie trade in 1963."

[[Man and the Biosphere Programme]]

CATEGORIES: Biosphere reserves

The Man and the Biosphere Programme (MAB) is a division of UNESCO that tries to improve and encourage conservation and sustainability around the world. It was created in 1971. Its main focus is a network of biosphere reserves. The programme acts as a kind of forum for exchanging ideas and experiences on sustainable development and management of these reserves. Biosphere reserves are areas that are supposed to develop creative ideas, test them and share the results. To date, there are 621 biosphere reserves in 117 countries.

1 Includes the 'Intercontinental Biosphere Reserve of the Mediterranean', shared between Morocco and Spain*Table not up to date

[[Around the World in 80 Days (1956 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: American adventure movies, Movies based on books by Jules Verne, 1956 movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Michael Anderson

Around the World in 80 Days (sometimes written as Around the World in Eighty Days) is a 1956 adventure movie. It stars David Niven, Cantinflas, and Shirley MacLaine. It was produced by the Michael Todd Company and released by United Artists. The movie was directed by Michael Anderson.  The screenplay was written by James Poe, John Farrow, and S. J. Perelman. It was based on the novel of the same name by Jules Verne. The music score was composed by Victor Young. The cinematography was by Lionel Lindon. The movie won many Academy Awards, including "Best Picture". Many well known actors made small appearances in the movie. These stars include Charles Boyer, Marlene Dietrich, and Frank Sinatra.

[[Lake retention time]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes

Lake retention time (also called the residence time of lake water, or the water age or flushing time) is the calculated average time that water (or a dissolved substance) spends in a lake. At its simplest this figure is the result of dividing the lake volume by the flow in or out of the lake. It describes the amount of time that is needed for a substance to flow in and out of a lake.

[[Mysterious Island (1961 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s science fiction movies, Adventure movies, Movies based on books by Jules Verne, 1961 movies, 1960s fantasy movies, British movies, English-language movies

Mysterious Island is a 1961 movie. It was released by Morningside Productions through Columbia Pictures. The movie was based on the book The Mysterious Island by Jules Verne. The movie was produced by Charles H. Schneer and Ray Harryhausen. It was directed by Cy Endfield. The movie was filmed at Shepperton Studios, Shepperton, England as a showcase for Harryhausen's stop-motion animation effects. The music was composed by Bernard Herrmann. The movie stars Michael Craig as Captain Harding; Joan Greenwood as Lady Mary Fairchild; and Herbert Lom as Captain Nemo.

[[Discharge (hydrology)]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes, Waterways

The discharge is the opposite of the inflow.

[[Bagnolet]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Seine-Saint-Denis

Bagnolet is a town in the east suburbs of Paris, France. It is 5.2 km (3.2 mi) from the center of Paris and is in the department of Seine-Saint-Denis. About 34,595 people lived there in 2006. 

[[Orly]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Val-de-Marne

Orly is a town near Paris, France. It is in the Val-de-Marne département and the Île-de-France region. There are about 21,372 people in the town (as of 2007).

[[Georges Méliès]]

CATEGORIES: 1861 births, 1938 deaths, Movie directors from Paris, Burials at Père Lachaise Cemetery

Georges Méliès (8 December 1861 – 21 January 1938) was a French moviemaker. He led the way in the use of special effects, multiple exposures, time-lapse photography, dissolves, and hand-painted colour in his work. His movies include Conquest of the Pole, A Trip to the Moon, and The Impossible Voyage. These movies involve strange, surreal voyages, like those in Jules Verne's books. These movies are among the most important early science fiction movies. Méliès's The Haunted Castle is an early horror movie.

[[The Haunted Castle]]

CATEGORIES: 1896, French movies, Horror movies

The Haunted Castle  is an 1896 three-minute-long French movie written, directed, and produced by Georges Méliès. The movie contains many traditional pantomime elements. It was meant to amuse people, not frighten them. It is considered to be the first horror and vampire movie. The Haunted Castle is now in the public domain. In English, this movie has been known as The Haunted Castle, The Devil's Castle, The Devil's Manor, The Manor of the Devil, and The House of the Devil. It was released on Christmas Eve, 1896, at the Theatre Robert Houdin, 8 boulevard des Italiens, Paris.

[[Koei]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies

Koei Co., Ltd., also known as Kōei, is a Japanese video game publisher, developer, and distributor.

[[Loreen]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Musicians from Stockholm, Singers from Stockholm, Pop musicians, Pop singers, Eurovision Song Contest winners

Lorine Zineb Nora Talhaoui (born 16 October 1983 in Stockholm), better known by her stage name Loreen, is a Swedish pop singer and music producer. She has Moroccan-Berber ancestry. Loreen represented Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest 2012 in Baku, Azerbaijan. She sang "Euphoria". She was discovered in the Swedish casting show "Idol". After winning the Eurovision Song Contest 2012, her song was number one in the billboard charts in many countries. 

[[Computer speaker]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Audio technology

Computer speakers are speakers external (meaning that they are on the outside) to a computer. Speakers contain amplifiers which vibrate to produce the sound. They come in many different forms. Some speakers are already attached to a computer. Some speakers are wireless. They work by Bluetooth. 

[[List of bridges in Ottawa]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Canada, Canada-related lists, Lists of bridges, Ottawa

This is a list of bridges in the city of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. They are listed from west to east for the Ottawa River or North to South for the Rideau River and Canal. 

[[Triodia]]

CATEGORIES: Poaceae, Plants of Australia

Triodia is a large genus of grass endemic to Australia. They are often called spinifex, but they are not a part of the genus Spinifex, which is only found near the coast. There are 64 known species. Triodia is a perennial grass that grows in dry areas. They have spikey, pointed leaves, about 30-40 centimetres long.

The leaf tips can break off in people's skin, causing infections. Spinifex has been used by Australian Aborigines in many things. The seeds are collected for food. Spinifex resin is used as a glue in spear-making. The grasses were also burned to make smoke signals, to communicate with groups a long way away. Some species are used for building shelters. Others are used to make traps for catching fish.

[[38th G8 summit]]

CATEGORIES: G8, 2012 in the United States, 2010s in Maryland

The 38th G8 summit was held at Camp David, Maryland in the United States on May 18-19, 2012.  The summit venue was moved from Chicago to rural Maryland in March 2012.

[[Alpine marmot]]

CATEGORIES: Squirrels, Mammals of Europe

The Alpine marmot is a species of marmot. It can be found in mountain regions of central and southern Europe. It is the third-largest rodent on the European continent. The Eurasian beaver and the Crested porcupine are both larger than it.  Alpine marmots mature in their third year. For this reason, marmots live in family groups of up to twenty animals. Alpine marmots have been around since the ice age. Today, their range is limited to the higher mountain regions.

[[Western Christianity]]

CATEGORIES: Church organization

Western Christianity is a part of the Christian religion. Western Christianity talks about the religious traditions of Christians whose ancestors were from Western Europe.

Western Christianity includes people who are members of the Catholic Church, as well as people who are members of Protestant churches.  The Protestant churches were formed by people who were former members of the Catholic Church.  Many Protestant churches started during the Protestant Reformation in about 1600.  

As the Protestant leaders were former members of the Catholic Church, Protestants share many, but not all, religious beliefs and religious traditions with Catholics.  However, Western Christianity is different from Eastern Christianity, which has a different set of religious traditions, but many of the same religious beliefs.

[[Paul Signac]]

CATEGORIES: French painters, 1863 births, 1935 deaths

Paul Signac (11 November 1863 – 15 August 1935) was a French neo-impressionist painter. His work with Georges Seurat helped create the pointillist style of painting. 

[[FIFA (video game series)]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA, Sports video games

FIFA, also known as FIFA Football or FIFA Soccer, is a series of association football video games, released yearly by Electronic Arts. The next version will be FIFA 21, due for release on 6th october 2020.

The FIFA video games franchise has versions in 10+ languages.  It is available in 50+ countries. The series has sold more than 100 million copies.

[[ABC Kids]]

ABC Kids could mean:

[[FIFA 14]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 video games, FIFA, Sports video games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation 4 games, PlayStation Portable games, PlayStation Vita games, Xbox 360 games, Xbox One games, Wii games, Nintendo 3DS games, Windows games

FIFA 14 is a 2013 association football simulation video game created by EA Canada and published by Electronic Arts. It was released for the PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Portable, PlayStation Vita, Xbox 360, Wii, Nintendo 3DS, and Microsoft Windows. The PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions were released on the consoles' respective launch dates. It is the only game to be released on three different PlayStation consoles (PS2, PS3, and PS4). Lionel Messi is the cover athlete of the game. Since it was released on September 23, 2013, it has gotten good reviews.

[[Biosphere reserve]]

CATEGORIES: UNESCO, Ecology, Biosphere reserves

A biosphere reserve is an ecosystem with plants and animals of unusual scientific and natural interest. It is a label given by the UNESCO to help protect the sites. The plan is to promote management, research and education in ecosystem conservation. This includes the 'sustainable use of natural resources'. If, for example, fish or trees are taken for human use, this is done in ways which least damage the ecosystem.

A biosphere reserve consists of three zones: 

The program is run by UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere Program. It has started a World Network of Biosphere Reserves. The MAB program has built up the World Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1971. Biosphere reserves, exchange knowledge and experiences on new ideas for sustainable development. They are areas used to develop new ways of doing things, test these ways and share the results. The objective is to get a balanced relationship between mankind and nature. The biosphere is very important to humans.

[[Lake Amadeus]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of the Northern Territory

Lake Amadeus (Pantu) is a huge salt lake in the southwest corner of the Northern Territory, in Australia. It is about 50 north of Uluṟu. The lake is 180 km long and 10 km wide. It is the largest salt lake in the Northern Territory. Because of the dryness of the area, the lake is usually a dry salt crust. When it rains enough, water flows through it towards the east. It eventually connects to the Finke River. Lake Amadeus holds up to 600 million tonnes of salt. The groundwater soaks into the ground, and the lake supports several reliable springs.

The first European to find the lake was the explorer Ernest Giles in 1872. He had seen Kata Tjuta from far away and was making his way there. The lake blocked his path. He could not go over it because the dry lake bed was not able to hold the weight of his horses. He described the lake as "an infernal lake of mud and brine". Giles was going to name it "Lake Ferdinand" after Baron Ferdinand von Mueller. But Mueller asked Giles to instead name it after King Amadeus I of Spain. Amadeus had honoured Mueller a few years before.

Lake Amadeus is on Aboriginal land, and is covered by the Katiti and Petermann Aboriginal Land Trusts.

[[Elder Futhark]]

CATEGORIES: Runes, Germanic languages

Elder Futhark is the oldest known runic script. It was used by Germanic tribes during the 2nd to 8th century. It consists of 24 different characters that are used like an alphabet; each character represents a sound or syllable. All Germamic tribes used the same form and same language. Its use lasted to the mid 8th century. Scholars are still discussing when it was first used: The oldest known use which is not disputed is a comb on the Vimose inscriptions from Denmark. It dates around the year 160. There are also runes on the Meldorf fibula, which date from the year 50. The inscription on the fibular is made of characters that are probably runes. The problem is that these characters can also represent symbols in the Latin alphabet.

Many of the characters from Elder Futhark resemble Latin or etruscan ones. For this reason, Elder Futhark had probably modelled form Southern Europe. The ordering of the Futhark letters is completely different from other known alphabets. In contrast, the ordering of the Latin alphabet is the same as the Greek one, which preceded it.

[[Adam Faith]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English movie actors, English pop musicians, English television actors, Journalists from London, Singers from London, 1940 births, 2003 deaths

Adam Faith (real name Terence Nelhams-Wright, 23 June 1940 - 8 March 2003) was a British singer, actor and journalist.

Faith was born in Acton, London. He died of a heart attack in Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire.

[[A Trip to the Moon]]

CATEGORIES: Silent movies, 1900s movies, Science fiction movies, Fantasy movies, French movies, Movies based on books by Jules Verne

A Trip to the Moon is a 1902 French silent movie. It is based loosely on Jules Verne's From the Earth to the Moon and H. G. Wells' The First Men in the Moon. In French, the title of the movie is Le Voyage dans la lune. The movie was written and directed by Georges Méliès. He had some some help from his brother Gaston. The movie runs about 14 minutes. It was very popular when it was shown for the first time. It is the best-known of the many movies made by Méliès. A Trip to the Moon is the first science fiction movie. The movie has many new twists on animation and special effects. One of the most well known images is the one showing a spaceship landing in the Moon's eye. A Trip to the Moon was named one of the 100 greatest movies of the 20th century by The Village Voice. It was ranked at #84.

[[Younger Futhark]]

CATEGORIES: Runes

Younger Futhark is a runic script that developed from Elder Futhark, and was used mainly in Scandinavia. Younger Futhark was used form around the year 800. It uses 16 symbols instead of 24, for Elder Futhark. At the same time, the language developed from Proto-Norse to Old Norse, which used more that 16 sounds.

[[Hard Candy (Madonna album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Madonna albums, R&B albums

Hard Candy is the 11th studio album by American singer-songwriter Madonna. It was released on April 19, 2008 by Warner Bros. The first single from the album, "4 Minutes" has Justin Timberlake and Timbaland singing in it.  It went on to top charts around the world and reached number three on the US Billboard Hot 100.  The second single, "Give It 2 Me", has vocals from Pharrell Williams of The Neptunes.  It reached the top ten in Canada and the UK.

Hard Candy was number one in several countries. Madonna did The Sticky and Sweet Tour to promote the album. Hard Candy has sold over four million copies around the world.

It was certified Gold in the United States for shipments of over 500,000 copies.

[[Dord]]

CATEGORIES: Words

Dord is a ghost word, a word that has no definition. In 1934, the New International Merriam Webster Dictionary accidentally printed the word, dord. Philip Babcock Gove was an editor at Merriam-Webster and became editor-in-chief of Webster's Third New International Dictionary. Gove wrote a letter to the journal American Speech fifteen years after the error was caught. He explained why "dord" was printed in the second edition of the New International dictionary. It got through when a slip was sent saying D or d? Readers could think it was a word, dord. It only appeared in the second edition of the dictionary. It was soon caught and taken out. Dord is the only known ghost word in the Merriam Webster's Dictionary history.

[[ETalk]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 television series debuts, 1990s Canadian television series, 2000s Canadian television series, 2010s Canadian television series

etalk (formerly eTalk Daily) is a Canadian entertainment news show hosted by Ben Mulroney and Tanya Kim.

[[Edwin S. Porter]]

CATEGORIES: American movie directors, 1870 births, 1941 deaths, People from Pennsylvania

Edwin Stanton Porter (April 21, 1870 – April 30, 1941) was an early movie pioneer and director. His most important movies are Life of an American Fireman (1903) and The Great Train Robbery (1903). 

[[Life of an American Fireman]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 movies, American silent movies

Life of an American Fireman is a silent movie. It was made by Edwin S. Porter. It was shot late in 1902. It was distributed early in 1903. It is one of the earliest American storytelling movies. It is about the rescue of a woman and child from a burning building. It has seven scenes and nine shots. Movie expert Charles Musser points out that this movie shows that  the social role of firefighters was changing at the time it was made.

[[Pentane]]

CATEGORIES: Alkanes

Pentane is an organic compound with the chemical formula of C. It is an alkane with five carbon atoms. Usually, "pentane" represents all three isomers (n-pentane, isopentane and neopentane). But in the IUPAC, pentane only represents n-pentane. In the IUPAC, the other two isomers is 2-methylbutane and 2,2-dimethylpropane. Cyclopentane's chemical formula is C, so it is not an isomer of pentane.

[[Max Schreck]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1936 deaths, Actors from Berlin, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Germany, Deaths from myocardial infarction, German movie actors

Friedrich Gustav Max Schreck (6 September 1879 – 20 February 1936) was a German actor. He is remembered for his role in the horror movie Nosferatu (1922).

[[Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem]]

CATEGORIES: Biosphere reserves, Calderas, Ecosystems, Animals of North America, National parks in the United States, Volcanoes of the United States, Wilderness Areas of the United States, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming

The Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem is one of the last remaining large, nearly intact ecosystems in the northern temperate zone of the Earth. It is partly in Yellowstone National Park. Its management has been controversial: the area is a flagship site for conservation groups that promote ecosystem management. The Greater Yellow Ecosystem (GYE) is a kind of natural laboratory in landscape ecology and geology. It is a world-renowned recreational site, and home to the animals of Yellowstone.

[[Old Frisian]]

CATEGORIES: Frisian languages

Old Frisian  was a language spoken between the 13th and 16th century, in the area between the Weser and the Zuiderzee. It is the common ancestor of the Frisian languages, Today,  laws and deeds  which use Old Frisian remain. 

[[Mount Takao]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Japan, Tokyo Prefecture, Japanese culture

Mount Takao is a mountain in Japan. It is 50 km from the center of Tokyo.  It is in Meiji no Mori Takao Quasi-National Park.

In 1927, Mount Takao was named one of the 100 Landscapes of Japan which best showed Japan and its culture in the Shōwa period.

[[It (1927 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 movies, 1920s romance movies, 1920s comedy movies, American silent movies, American romantic comedy movies, United States National Film Registry movies

It is a 1927 silent movie. It is a romantic comedy movie. The story is about a girl who works in a department store. She sets her sights on her handsome and rich boss. The movie's star Clara Bow became known as the "It girl". Dorothy Parker quipped about Bow's character: "It, hell: She had those." The picture was believed lost, but a copy was found in Prague in the 1960s. In 2001, It was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".

[[Kim Jong-un]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Kim Jong-un, Living people, Dictators, Generals, North Korean military people, North Korean politicians, Current national leaders, People from Pyongyang

Kim Jong-un (born 8 January 1982, 1983 or 1984) is a North Korean politician. He has been the Supreme Leader of North Korea since December 2011, after the death of his father Kim Jong-il.

[[Anthony Perkins]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American movie directors, American pop musicians, American television actors, Bisexual people, Deaths from AIDS, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Infectious disease deaths in Los Angeles, LGBT actors, LGBT musicians, LGBT people from Massachusetts, LGBT people from New York City, Actors from Boston, Massachusetts, Singers from Boston, Massachusetts, Singers from New York City, 1932 births, 1992 deaths

Anthony Perkins (April 4, 1932 - September 12, 1992) was an American actor. He is best known for his roles in Psycho and its sequels, where he played Norman Bates, a serial killer who suffered from dissociative identity disorder.

Perkins was born in New York City and was the son of actor Osgood Perkins (1892-1937). He moved to Boston, Massachusetts in 1942. 

[[Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man]]

CATEGORIES: Public databases, Classical genetics, Humans

Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) is a database that keeps track of all known human genes.

It list those which cause  genetic disorders, and those which simply cause traits. There are about 8,000 entries for genes, and 15,000 entries for phenotypes, which are (roughly) the feature(s) caused by a person's genes.

When possible it links diseases to specific genes. It provides a useful tool for further research.  OMIM is one of the databases housed in the U.S. National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI). People search it using the NCBI search menus.

[[Valdagno]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Veneto

Valdagno is a comune in the province of Vicenza, in Italy

[[Un ballo in maschera]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Giuseppe Verdi, Operas

Un ballo in maschera (A Masked Ball) is an Italian opera in three acts. The music was written by Giuseppe Verdi. The libretto was written by Antonio Somma. It is based on Eugène Scribe's Gustave III ou Le Bal Masqué. 

The opera was first performed at the Teatro Appollo in Rome, on February 17, 1859. One of Verdi's richest  middle-period works, it relates the events surrounding the assassination of King Gustav III of Sweden, but because of censorship, the story was transposed to 17th century Boston, with Gustav becoming an English governor, Richard of Warwick. Nowadays, most productions present the opera in its original Swedish setting. 

[[Aboriginal land rights in Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian politics, Indigenous land rights

Aboriginal land rights in Australia are the special set of rights given to Indigenous Australians to own land. There are many different types of land rights laws. They all allow the government to grant land to indigenous (native) Australians under many different conditions (terms). Land rights schemes are in place in the Northern Territory, Queensland, New South Wales, South Australia, and Victoria. Under these laws, the title to the land is normally given to a community or ethnic group, not an individual. Usually, land that has been granted in a land rights claim can not be sold, traded, or mortgaged. Grants will be normally require that the land be passed down to future generations through inheritance.

[[Safety Last!]]

CATEGORIES: United States National Film Registry movies, 1923 movies, 1920s romance movies, 1920s comedy movies, American silent movies, American romantic comedy movies

Safety Last! is a 1923 silent movie. It is a romantic comedy. It stars Harold Lloyd. The image of Lloyd clutching the hands of a large clock as he dangles from the outside of a skyscraper above moving traffic is well known. The movie was very successful and critically hailed. It cemented Lloyd's status as a major figure in early movies. It is still popular with movie buffs. Lloyd performed some of his climbing stunts despite losing a thumb and forefinger in an accident while making a movie four years earlier.

[[Mario Manningham]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, American football wide receivers, New York Giants players, San Francisco 49ers players, Sportspeople from Ohio

Mario Cashmere Manningham (born May 25, 1986) is an American football wide receiver who currently plays for the San Francisco 49ers of the National Football League. He was drafted by the New York Giants in the third round of the 2008 NFL Draft. He played college football at Michigan.

[[Broken Blossoms]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 movies, American silent movies, United States National Film Registry movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by D. W. Griffith

Broken Blossoms, or The Yellow Man and the Girl is a silent movie directed by D. W. Griffith. It was distributed by United Artists. It premiered on May 13, 1919.

It tells the story of a young girl who is abused by her alcoholic father. She meets a kind-hearted Chinese man who falls in love with her. The movie is based on Thomas Burke's short story The Chink and the Child.

In 1996, Broken Blossoms was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".

[[Monsters University]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 comedy movies, 2013 animated movies, 2013 3D movies, American comedy movies, American animated movies, Prequel movies, Pixar movies, Buddy movies, English-language movies, American fantasy movies, 2010s fantasy movies, Monsters, Inc., Movies about fraternities and sororities, Movies composed by Randy Newman, Movies set in universities and colleges

Monsters University is a 2013 computer-animated comedy movie. It is a prequel to Monsters, Inc. and follows the same monsters who later become friends. John Goodman, Billy Crystal and Steve Buscemi reprised their roles.

[[Vinny Testaverde]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American football quarterbacks, Carolina Panthers players, New England Patriots players, New York Jets players, Dallas Cowboys players, Baltimore Ravens players, Cleveland Browns players, Tampa Bay Buccaneers players, Sportspeople from New York City, Heisman Trophy winners

Vincent Frank Testaverde (b. 13 November 1963) is a retired American Football quarterback. He played college football for the Miami Hurricanes. In the National Football League, Testaverde played 21 seasons for seven different teams. He had much success, but also struggled with limiting turnovers, which was part of the reason he never stayed long with any professional team. Testaverde also never won a Super Bowl.

[[Florida Seminoles]]

CATEGORIES: College football, Sports in Florida

The Florida Seminoles are a college football team that plays in the NCAA.

[[Marvin Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania, National Football League coaches, Cincinnati Bengals

Marvin Ronald Lewis (b. September 23, 1958) is an American football coach. He is the head coach for the Cincinnati Bengals of the National Football League. In 2002, Lewis was the defensive coodinator for the Washington Redskins. Before that, he was the defensive coodinator for the Baltimore Ravens, who, like Cincinnati, are also in the AFC North. In 2000, a Baltimore defense  led by Lewis was one of the most feared defense in league history as they won Super Bowl XXXV.

[[Mike Nolan]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Maryland, National Football League coaches, San Francisco 49ers

Mike Nolan (born March 7, 1959 in Baltimore, Maryland) is an American football coach. He is the current defensive coordinator of the Dallas Cowboys of the National Football League. He was formerly head coach for the San Francisco 49ers and a defensive coordinator for the Baltimore Ravens (was also Baltimore's wide receivers coach in 2001), New York Jets, Washington Redskins, New York Giants, Denver Broncos and Miami Dolphins. He is famous for also wearing a suit often while coaching (NFL coaches usually wear team clothing), which was originally a memorial for his late father.

[[Shannon Sharpe]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Chicago, Denver Broncos players, Baltimore Ravens players, Pro Football Hall of Fame

Shannon Goad Sharpe (born June 26, 1968) is a former American Football tight end who played for the Denver Broncos and Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League. Sharpe is known for his creative commentary and occasional trash-talking.  He was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame, and inducted on August 6, 2011.  Sharpe played 12 seasons for Denver (1990–99, 2002–03) and two years with the Baltimore (2000–01), winning three Super Bowls and finishing his career as the NFL's all-time leader in receptions (815), receiving yards (10,060) and receiving touchdowns (62) by a tight end until Tony Gonzalez surpassed all 3 of these records, including breaking his total yardage record on October 5, 2008.  Sharpe holds the distinction of being the first tight end ever to amass over 10,000 receiving yards. Shannon was also named a member of the NFL's first team All-Decade team of the 1990s.

Sharpe grew up poor and is the brother of former wide receiver Sterling Sharpe. He was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio in 2011.

[[Sterling Sharpe]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Chicago, Green Bay Packers players

Sterling Sharpe is a current NFL Network analyst and former American football wide receiver for the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League. He had to stop playing due to injuries. Sharpe grew up poor and his brother is Shannon Sharpe, who gave Sterling one of his Super Bowl three rings.

[[Silicate mineral]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals

A silicate mineral is a mineral that has a combination of the elements silicon and oxygen.  In other words, a silicate mineral has one or more silicates.  These minerals (especially feldspar) make up about 90% of the Earth's crust. 

[[Akili Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Cincinnati Bengals players, Green Bay Packers players, Tampa Bay Buccaneers players, Frankfurt Galaxy, Sportspeople from San Diego, California

Kabisa Akili Maradufu Smith (born August 21, 1975 in San Diego, California) is a retired American football player. He played quarterback in both American and Canadian football. Smith played in the NFL and CFL.

[[Rex Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League coaches, 1962 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Oklahoma

Rex Ryan (born December 13, 1962) is an American football coach. He is the head coach for the Buffalo Bills of the National Football League (NFL). He coached for the New York Jets from 2009 until 2014. After serving as an assistant coach for twenty-two years, Ryan attained his first head coaching job in the NFL with the Jets in 2009. Ryan was also a great defensive coordinaor for the Baltimore Ravens and won Super Bowl XXXV with Baltimore. He is the son of former Philadelphia Eagles and Arizona Cardinals head coach Buddy Ryan and is the twin brother of Rob Ryan, defensive coordinator for the Dallas Cowboys. Ryan is known for his outspoken manner.

On December 29, 2014, Ryan was fired by the New York Jets. On January 12, 2015, Ryan signed a five-year, $27.5 million contract to become the head coach of the Buffalo Bills. 

[[Jamal Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, American football running backs, Baltimore Ravens players, Living people, Cleveland Browns players, Sportspeople from Atlanta, Georgia

Jamal Lafitte Lewis (born August 26, 1979) is a former American football running back in the National Football League.  He was drafted by the Baltimore Ravens fifth overall in the 2000 NFL Draft. He played college football at Tennessee. He also played for the Cleveland Browns from 2007 to 2009. Lewis helped the Ravens win Super Bowl XXXV in his rookie season in 2000.

[[Chuck Pagano]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League coaches, American football safeties, Sportspeople from Colorado, People from Boulder, Colorado, 1960 births, Living people

Charles D. "Chuck" Pagano (born October 2, 1960) is an American American football coach and former player. He is currently the head coach for the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League (NFL), a position he assumed in January 2012. Pagano has previously served as the defensive coordinator of the Baltimore Ravens in 2011, as well as several other positions.

[[Jason Witten]]

CATEGORIES: American football tight ends, 1982 births, Living people, Dallas Cowboys players, People from Knoxville, Tennessee, Sportspeople from Tennessee

Christopher Jason Witten (born May 6, 1982) is an American football tight end for the Dallas Cowboys of the National Football League. He played college football at the University of Tennessee.

[[University of North Carolina at Asheville]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in North Carolina, 1927 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in North Carolina, Asheville, North Carolina

University of North Carolina at Asheville is a co-educational, public liberal arts university in Asheville, North Carolina. The university has about 3,644 students. It was founded in 1927. The current chancellor of the university is Anne Ponder. 

[[Tight end]]

CATEGORIES: American football positions, Sports words

A tight end is a position in American and Canadian football. They often catch passes like a wide receiver. Tight ends are stronger than normal receivers and therefore are often called to block.

[[Cecil B. DeMille]]

CATEGORIES: American movie directors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, American movie actors, 1881 births, 1959 deaths, Academy Award winners, Actors from Massachusetts, Deaths from heart failure, Episcopalians, Writers from Massachusetts, 19th-century American entertainers

Cecil Blount DeMille (August 12, 1881 – January 21, 1959) was an American movie director. He was an Academy Award-winning producer of both silent and sound movies. He was renowned for the flamboyance and showmanship of his movies. Among his best-known films are Cleopatra, Samson and Delilah; The Greatest Show on Earth, which won the Academy Award for Best Picture; and The Ten Commandments, which was his last and most successful movie.

[[Miles Austin]]

CATEGORIES: Dallas Cowboys players, American football wide receivers, Sportspeople from New Jersey, 1984 births, Living people

Miles Jonathon Austin III (born June 30, 1984) is an American football player. He plays as a wide receiver for the Dallas Cowboys. He was signed by the Cowboys in 2006. Austin played college football for the Monmouth Hawks. Austin's professional career was quiet at first, but Austin had a breakout year in 2009. He also had a great season in 2010, but missed much of 2011 with an injury.  In his NFL career from 2006 to the present, Austin has 211 catches, 3,294 total receiving yards, and 28 total touchdowns. He also has 11 attempts, 94 yards, and a touchdown rushing.

Austin, with the help of his family, owns the Austin Family Foundation, which helps improve the mental and physical status of young people.

[[Kalininskaya Line]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in Europe, Moscow Metro

The Kalininskaya Line is part of the Moscow metro. It was built especially for Moscow Olympics 1980. The first part of the line opened in 1979 (Marksistskaya-Novogireevo). This part is 11.4 km long. The next part (Marksistskaya-Tretyakovskaya) opened in 1986. This line is number 8 and its colour is yellow. This line has 7 working stations and one under  construction:

[[Jameel McClain]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Baltimore Ravens players, American football linebackers, Living people, Sportspeople from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Jameel Leshawn McClain (born July 25, 1985 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA) is an American football linebacker for the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football League. He was signed by the Ravens as an undrafted free agent in 2008.  He played college football at Syracuse. McClain scored his only official professional touchdown on October 4, 2011 after recovering a fumble against the New York Jets. He won Super Bowl XLVII with the Ravens when they defeated the San Francisco 49ers 34-31.

McClain grew up poor in Philadelphia and basically lived at a Salvation Army center. He now often helps in the community. 

[[Jōwa (Muromachi period)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1345 establishments, 1340s establishments in Japan, 1350 disestablishments, 1350s disestablishments in Japan

Jōwa  was a Japanese era name of the Northern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Kōei and before Kannō.  This period started in October 1345 and ended in February 1350.  The pretenders in Kyoto were Emperor Kōmyō and Emperor Sukō.  Their Southern Court rival in Yoshino was Emperor Go-Murakami.

[[Chelation]]

CATEGORIES: Physical chemistry, Analytical chemistry

Chelation refers to the bonding of elemental atoms that cannot normally be bonded. For example, Sodium is a metal element that can bond with many other elements, like chlorine (forming common table salt: NaCl), or hydrogen and oxygen (Sodium hydroxide). The reason for this is that the way that atoms bond with each other is similar to a jigsaw puzzle: Only the proper shape can fit into the empty space made by the other pieces. However, with atoms, it's a bit different. For each element, the atom carries a certain number of electrons in orbit around its nucleus. Sometimes these orbits are split into levels, and only a certain number of electrons can fill each orbit before moving to a higher orbit. 

Sometimes, an orbit level is not filled all the way and can only be filled with electrons from another element with a smaller number of electrons in a higher level. When the atoms bond together, the electrons are traded between the two equally and create a very strong bond.

However, there are a few elements that cannot bond with many other elements, because they have orbits that are already filled, or nearly filled, equally. (Like a finished jigsaw puzzle) These elements can sometimes be poisonous to a human, and cannot be removed easily (for example, mercury.) Chelation enables a non-bonding element to bond, thereby enabling removal.

[[List of Shimizu S-Pulse players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Shimizu S-Pulse players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Shimizu S-Pulse is a Japanese professional football club  in the Shimizu ward of Shizuoka.

[[Father's day]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays

Father's Day is a celebration honoring fathers. It celebrates fatherhood, paternal bonds, and the influence of fathers in society. Many countries celebrate it on the third Sunday of June, but it is also celebrated widely on other days. Father's Day complements Mother's Day, a celebration honoring mothers.ln almost all country fathers day is celebrated.

[[List of Urawa Red Diamonds players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Urawa Red Diamonds players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Urawa Red Diamonds is a Japanese professional football club in the Urawa ward of Saitama.

[[Mother's Day]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, 1908 establishments in the United States

Mother's Day is a holiday that is celebrated on the second Sunday of May every year. It started in the United States. The holiday was founded in 1908 by Anna Jarvis. Mother's Day was first made to celebrate a person's own mother. Now it is made to celebrate all mothers and motherhood in general. It is celebrated at different times in different countries. In the United States of America, it is the second Sunday in May. Children can make cards and a lot of other things for their mother.

[[Anjelica Huston]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Actors from Santa Monica, California, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Movie directors from California

Anjelica Huston (born July 8, 1951) is an American stage, television, voice, movie actress, and movie director. Huston is mostly known for her role as Morticia Addams in the movie The Addams Family and its sequel Addams Family Values. She is the daughter of director John Huston. She won a Golden Globe Award in 2004.

She was born in Santa Monica, California on July 8, 1951. She dated Jack Nicholson from 1973 until they separated in 1989. Huston was married to Robert Graham, Jr. from 1992 until his death in 2008. They had no children. Her career started in 1967. She now lives in Three Rivers, California.

[[Yundi Li]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Chinese pianists

Yundi Li (Chinese: 李云迪; pinyin: Lǐ Yúndí), born October 7, 1982 in Chongqing, Sichuan, China, is a Chinese pianist who is very famous for being the youngest pianist to win the International Frédéric Chopin Piano Competition, in 2000, at 18 years old. He now lives in Hong Kong.

[[Port Moody]]

CATEGORIES: Port Moody, British Columbia, Cities in British Columbia, 1913 establishments in North America, 1910s establishments in Canada

Port Moody is a small city in the Canadian province of British Columbia. It is in Metro Vancouver, on the end of Burrard Inlet. In 2011, 32,975 people lived in Port Moody. The mayor of Port Moody is Mike Clay. It is identified as the "City of the Arts" because it was the destination for artists due to its low rent, beautiful scenery and ambient lighting. The city is named after Richard Moody, a former governor of the Falkland Islands and the first Lieutenant-Governor of the Colony of British Columbia.

[[Anders Behring Breivik]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Murderers, Norwegian people, People from Oslo, People with antisocial personality disorder, People with narcissistic personality disorder, Prisoners, Terrorists

Anders Behring Breivik (born 13 February 1979) is a Norwegian terrorist and perpetrator of the 2011 Norway attacks. The attacks were on 22 July 2011, when Breivik bombed the government buildings in Oslo, which caused eight deaths, and then he went on to carry out a mass shooting at a camp of the Workers' Youth League of the Labour Party, which ended in 69 deaths, most of whom were teenagers. He was charged with violating paragraph 147a of the Norwegian Criminal Code, which is "destabilising or destroying basic functions of society" and "creating serious fear in the population", acts of terrorism under the criminal law and ordered held for eight weeks; the first four in solitary confinement which was pending further court proceedings. 

Breivik has sued Norway; he won part of his lawsuit in the district court in 2016, but lost in the higher courts in 2017; he has formally asked European Court of Human Rights, if that court can try his case against Norway.

Breivik was born and raised in Oslo. 

Breivik failed to develop a stable and safe identity when he was at schools, and the places where he worked, and on internet forums about politics, and in the world of gaming, and as a result he turned the defeats, shame, and hate, towards society,

said Svein Østerud (no:) professor emeritus.

In Norway, as of 2017, Breivik has become to a degree, "the person whose name shall not be mentioned", claimed an article in Dagsavisen; furthermore, if Norway wishes to fight against what he stood for, then one must study "step by step" why attacks happened, in the same way we study how, kind doctors in another country, became able to kill mentally disabled, Jews, and persons who had Schizophrenia.

[[2011–12 Canadian network television schedule]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s in Canada, 2011 in television, 2012 in television

The following is the 2011–12 Canadian network television schedule.

[[Once Upon a Time (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American drama television series, 2011 American television series debuts, Fantasy television series, English-language television programs

Once Upon a Time (OUAT) is an American fairy tale drama television series. It was first broadcast on October 23, 2011 on ABC. It features a woman, named Emma Swan, coming to a small town in Maine that is the home of cursed Fairytale characters who no longer remember who they are.

[[Joe Dirt]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 movies, American comedy movies, English-language movies, Columbia Pictures movies

Joe Dirt is an 2001 comedy movie that was produced by Robert Simonds and was directed by Dennie Gordon. Joe Dirt was released on April 11, 2001 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 11% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 20 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Xenoturbella]]

CATEGORIES: Invertebrates, Minor phyla

Xenoturbella is a genus of bilaterian animals; it contains two marine worm-like species. The first known species was discovered in 1915 but was only described in 1949. A 2003 DNA study has shown it is a primitive deuterostome phylum. The genus was the first member of its subphylum (the Xenoturbellida) to be discovered. 

This phylum is basal within the deuterostomes. It is related to the Acoelomorpha, forming a sister clade to the echinoderms and hemichordates. Other members of this phylum are now known.

Xenoturbella has a very simple body plan: it has no brain, no through gut, no excretory system, no organized gonads (but does have gametes), or any other organs except for a statocyst containing flagellated cells. It has cilia and a diffuse nervous system. The animal is up to 4 long, and has been found off the coasts of Sweden, Scotland and Iceland.

The association of specimens of Xenoturbella with mollusc larva has led many to suggest that they are molluscivores. However, another idea is that the Xenoturbella larval stage develops as an internal parasite of certain molluscs.

The genus Xenoturbella contains two species:

[[Christian VII of Denmark]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and Queens of Denmark, Dukes and duchesses, 1749 births, 1808 deaths

Christian VII of Denmark (29 January 1749 – 13 March 1808)  was the King of Denmark and Norway from 1766 to 1808, and the duke of Schleswig and Holstein. He was the son of King Frederick V of Denmark and Louise of Great Britain. 

[[Torrey Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Baltimore Ravens players, Sportspeople from Virginia

James Torrey Smith (born January 26, 1989) is an American wide receiver in the National Football League. He was selected by the Baltimore Ravens in the 2011 NFL Draft. Smith attended Stafford Senior High School in Stafford, Virginia, where he played basketball and football. He accepted a scholarship to the University of Maryland.

[[List of Vegalta Sendai players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players, Sendai, Miyagi

The List of Vegalta Sendai players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Vegalta Sendai is a Japanese professional football club in Sendai.

[[Klamath Falls, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon, County seats in Oregon

Klamath Falls (ˈ KLAM) (Klamath: ʔiWLaLLoonʔa) is a city in Klamath County, Oregon,  United States. It was first called Linkville when George Nurse founded the town in 1867. This name came from the Link River, because the city sat on its falls. No falls exist there currently. The name was changed to Klamath Falls in 1892.  As of the 2010 census, 20,840 people lived there.

[[List of Vissel Kobe players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Vissel Kobe players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Vissel Kobe is a Japanese professional football club in Kobe.

[[List of Fagiano Okayama players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Fagiano Okayama players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Fagiano Okayama is a Japanese professional football club in  Okayama.

[[Okayama, Okayama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Okayama Prefecture

Okayama is the capital city  of Okayama Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

It is a core city in Japan.

[[Okayama]]

Okayama often means Okayama, Okayama, the capital city of Okayama Prefecture in Japan.

It may also mean:

[[Cycliophora]]

CATEGORIES: Minor phyla, Invertebrates

The Cycliophora are a platyzoan phylum, based on a single genus Symbion. They are so different from other animals that they were put in their own phylum.  They were discovered in 1995, and are the most recent new phylum. So far, three species have been found.

They live on the bodies of cold-water lobsters. They are microscopic: the feeding stage is about 0.3 mm long, and 0.1 mm wide.

Their life style is commensal, (a form of symbiosis) – they feed on the leftovers from the lobster's own meals.

[[List of FC Gifu players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of F.C. Gifu players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

F.C. Gifu is a Japanese professional football club in Gifu Prefecture.

[[Marksistskaya]]

CATEGORIES: Moscow Metro

Marksistskaya is a station of Moscow metro, Kalininskaya Line. It is situated between Tretyakonskaya and Ploshad Il'icha stations. It Was opened on 30 December 1979. It is connected with two other stations - Taganskaya-koltsevaya and Taganskaya-Radialnaya. The station is about 60 under the ground. It has only one exit - to Marksistskaya Street (or Taganskaya, if you cross Marksistskaya street).

[[Meiju Suvas]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Finnish singers, People from Helsinki

Meiju Suvas (born: January 22, 1959 in Helsinki, Finland) is a Finnish singer. Her debut album sold 60,000 copies in Finland. It was certified Platinum in that country. She also recorded "Kielletty Rakkaus", which was a tribute song to American singer Selena who originally recorded the song as "Amor Prohibido" (Forbidden Love).

[[List of FC Machida Zelvia players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of F.C. Machida Zelvia players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

F.C. Machida Zelvia is a Japanese professional football club in Machida in the Tokyo region.

[[Pachuca]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Mexico, Hidalgo (state)

Pachuca (officially "Pachuca de Soto") is the capital city of the state of Hidalgo, in Mexico. It is also the capital of the municipality named Pachuca.

Pachuca's nickname is "The Windy Beauty" or "Bride of the Wind", because in the city there are seasons where the winds are very strong. Even local legend is depicted on a monument (the monument of the victory of the wind).

The city has a soccer club "Pachuca". It has a traditional dish called "paste" which consists of a small pie filled with a mixture of chopped potatoes, ground beef and spicy. It has a clock tower dedicated to the Mexican War of Independence.

[[Jules Perrot]]

CATEGORIES: 1810 births, 1892 deaths, French choreographers, French ballet dancers

Jules-Joseph Perrot (18 August 1810 – 29 August 1892) was a French dancer and choreographer. Perrot was born in Lyon, France, and studied with Auguste Vestris. He debuted at the Paris Opéra in 1830, and became premier sujet (principal dancer) within a year. He became Carlotta Grisi's lover in 1836, and choreographed most of her role in Giselle in 1841. He passed six years creating ballets for Her Majesty's Theatre in London. He was appointed ballet master for the Imperial Ballet in St. Petersburg, and remained there until 1858. He returned to Paris, and retired in 1864, although he taught classes at the Opéra for many years. Perrot died on 29 August 1892. He created some of the most famous ballets of the 19th century including Pas de Quatre, La Esmeralda, Ondine, and Giselle.

[[Kashiba, Nara]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nara Prefecture

Kashiba is a city in Nara, Japan. The city was founded on October 1, 1991.

[[Miyaki, Saga]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Japan, Settlements in Saga Prefecture

Miyaki is a town in Saga Prefecture, Japan. It is the first town in Saga to have its name spelled in hiragana, not kanji. Miyaki is the name of the town and the town's district.

[[Matsusaka, Mie]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Mie Prefecture

Matsusaka, sometimes called Matsuzaka, is a city in central Mie Prefecture. It is on the island of Honshū, Japan.  The city is famous for its Matsusaka beef.

[[Primera División de Costa Rica]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Costa Rica, Football leagues, 1921 establishments in North America, 20th-century establishments in Costa Rica

Primera División de Costa Rica is a league for association football clubs in Costa Rica. It is the country's top football competition. The division has 12 clubs. The seasons are separated by two single tournaments each year, the Apertura, from July to December, and the Clausura, from January to May. So there are two champions each season with teams playing anywhere from 32 to 44 games each totalling 412 games in the season.

The league was created on 13 June 1921 following an invitation from Guatemala to Costa Rica to participate in its Centenary Games.

[[Nagakute, Aichi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Aichi Prefecture

Nagakute is a Japanese city in Aichi Prefecture on the island of Honshu. It is known as the site of the 2005 World Exposition.

The Toyota Automobile Museum is in Nagakute.

[[L.D. Alajuelense]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Costa Rica, Football clubs, 1919 establishments in North America, 20th-century establishments in Costa Rica

Liga Deportiva Alajuelense (L.D.A.), is a Costa Rican football club that plays in the Primera División de Costa Rica. It was created on 18 June 1919. The team is located in Alajuela and they play their local games at the Estadio Alejandro Morera Soto.

They are the only club in Costa Rica football history with at least one Championship won in each decade. It also shares along with CS Herediano being the only team that has never descended nor played in the Second or Third division.

[[Song Ikp'il]]

CATEGORIES: 1534 births, 1599 deaths, Korean writers, Korean politicians, Korean philosophers

Song Ikp'il (송익필, February 10 1534 - August 8 1599), also known as Unjang,  was a Korean scholar, writer, politician, and Neo-Confucian philosopher of the  Joseon period.

His nickname was Gubong(구봉, 龜峰) and Hyunseung(현승, 玄繩).September 2012

[[Ben Kingsley]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Actors from Yorkshire, BAFTA Award winning actors, Best Actor Academy Award winners, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Grammy Award winners, Knights Bachelor, People from North Yorkshire

Sir Ben Kingsley GBR (born Krishna Pandit Bhanji; 31 December 1943) is a British actor. He was born in Snainton, North Yorkshire, England. His father was an Indian who was born in Kenya. He is best known for his role as Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi in Gandhi, for which he won an Academy Award, a BAFTA Award and a Golden Globe Award. The first movie he acted in was Fear Is the Key in 1972.

[[Samantha Fox]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, English movie actors, I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here! contestants, LGBT actors, LGBT singers, Models from London, Singers from London, 1966 births, Living people, Lesbians

Samantha Karen Fox (born 15 April 1966) is a British singer, actress and former glamour model. She was born in London. She has sold over thirty million records all over the world and has performed in many movies and television programs. She was very popular in the 1980s and early 1990s. She came out in 2003 and stated that she is in a lesbian relationship. In 2009 she stated her intention to enter into a civil partnership with her manager, Myra Stratton. Fox was a contestant in the 2009 series of I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!.

[[Night of the Hurricane]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in American television, Animated television series, Family Guy episodes, The Cleveland Show, American Dad!

Night of the Hurricane is a three-part crossover event in the Animation Domination block on Fox. It included the three animated series by Seth MacFarlane. These series were Family Guy, American Dad and The Cleveland Show.  It was first to be broadcast on May 1, 2011, but a series of tornados that killed many people in the Southern United States made Fox broadcast it later. It was broadcast in the next season.

[[Higashihiroshima, Hiroshima]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Hiroshima Prefecture

Higashihiroshima is a Japanese city in Hiroshima Prefecture that is on the island of Honshu.

[[Bridge router]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

A Bridge router or Brouter is a type of telecommunication processor used in networking. It is a combination of both bridge and router.

[[White Rock, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

White Rock is a city in the Canadian province of British Columbia. It is in Metro Vancouver regional district. In 2011, 19,339 people lived in White Rock.

[[Abd al-Rahman al-Sufi]]

CATEGORIES: 903 births, 986 deaths, Astronomers, Persian people

'Abd al-Rahman al-Sufi (عبدالرحمن صوفی‎; 7 December 903 – 25 May 986), known as al-Sufi, was a Persian astronomer. The lunar crater Azophi and the minor planet 12621 Alsufi are named after him. Al-Sufi wrote his Book of Fixed Stars in 964, in text and pictures.

[[Rajat Gupta]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Indian businesspeople

Rajat Kumar Gupta (রজত গুপ্ত, born 2 December 1948) is an Indian-American businessman. He was the managing director (chief executive) of McKinsey & Company from 1994 to 2003 and a business leader in India and the United States. He was arrested in late 2011 by the FBI on insider trading charges stemming from the Raj Rajaratnam Galleon Group case. In 2012, he was sentenced to 2 years in prison.

[[Mario Monti]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Italian Roman Catholics, Politicians from Lombardy, Prime Ministers of Italy, Yale University alumni

Mario Monti (19 March 1943) is an Italian politician who was the Prime Minister from 2011 to 2013. He also was Finance Minister of Italy.

[[Saint-Lambert-sur-Dive]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Orne

Saint-Lambert-sur-Dives is a commune in the Orne department in north-west France. In 2007, there were 148 people living there. It is 773 in size. The highest point in the commune is 148 metres. The river "La Dives" through the commune. The church was built in 12th century, its bell tower was registered as  in historic monument in 1948. This is a romanesque bell tower. The church is closed since 1999. You can see the Castle of Mimbeville of the 17th century.

[[Aunou-le-Faucon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Orne

Aunou-le-Faucon is a Commune of the Orne department in north-western France. There are 273 people living there.

There is a church called Eglise St-Cyr-et-Ste-Julitte. The steeple dates from the 17th century.

There is a fortified house dated from the 15th century, this is the "Tour aux Anglais".

There are many horse farms around. 

[[Oberlin University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Tokyo, 1921 establishments in Asia, 1920s establishments in Japan

Oberlin University is a private university in Machida, Tokyo, Japan.  It was established in 1946.

[[Frederick Roberts, 1st Earl Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1832 births, 1914 deaths, British Army generals, Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, Knights of the Garter, Knights of the Order of St John, Order of Merit, Order of the Indian Empire, People of the Boer Wars, Victoria Cross winners

Field Marshal Frederick Sleigh Roberts, 1st Earl Roberts Bt VC KG KP GCB OM GCSI GCIE KStJ PC (30 September 1832 – 14 November 1914) was one of the most distinguished commanders of the British Empire.

Roberts was Indian born, in Cawnpore (now Kanpur) Uttar Pradesh. The son of a general from County Waterford in Ireland, he regarded himself as Anglo-Irish. 

[[Club de Foot Montréal]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian soccer teams, Sport in Montreal, Major League Soccer teams

Club de Foot Montréal, commonly known as CF Montréal, is a Canadian soccer team based in Montreal, Quebec. It has played in the Eastern Conference of Major League Soccer (MLS) since 2012. The club was created in 2010 as an expansion team named the Montreal Impact. It was the third Canadian team to join the MLS. The old Montreal Impact of the North American Soccer League (NASL) was replaced by this team. The team's motto is "Tous Pour Gagner". That is French for "'All for victory'''.

The club plays its home games at the Saputo Stadium and is coached by Mauro Biello.

[[Jean Frederick Oberlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1740 births, 1826 deaths, People from Grand Est

Jean Frederick Oberlin (August 31, 1740 – June 1, 1826) was an Alsatian educator who established schools in poor communities in France.

In the early 19th century, he was honored in the name of Oberlin College, which is an American liberal arts school in Ohio. 

In the mid-20th century, Oberlin University in Machida, Tokyo was named after him.

[[List of Gainare Tottori players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Gainare Tottori players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Gainare Tottori is a Japanese professional football club in Tottori Prefecture.

[[Tottori, Tottori]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Tottori Prefecture

Tottori is the capital city of Tottori Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

It has been recognized as a special city since 2005.

[[Kannō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1350 establishments, 1350s establishments in Japan, 1352 disestablishments, 1350s disestablishments in Japan

Kannō, also sometimes romanized as Kan'ō, was a Japanese era name (年号, nengō, lit. year name) of the Northern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Jōwa and before Bunna. This period started in February 1350 and ended in September 1352.  The emperor in Kyoto was Emperor Sukō.  Sukō's Southern Court rival in Yoshino during this time was Emperor Go-Murakami.

[[Bunna]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1352 establishments, 1350s establishments in Japan, 1356 disestablishments, 1350s disestablishments in Japan

Bunna, also romanized as Bunwa, was a Japanese era name (年号, nengō, lit. year name) of the Northern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Kannō and before Enbun. This period started in September 1352 and ended in March 1356.  The pretender in Kyoto was Go-Kōgon-tennō.  Go-Kōgon's Southern Court rival in Yoshino during this time-frame was Go-Murakami-tennō.

[[Hurricane Floyd (1987)]]

CATEGORIES: Category 1 Atlantic hurricanes, 1987 Atlantic hurricane season, October events, 20th century in Cuba, 20th century in the Bahamas, 1980s in Florida, 1987 in the United States

Hurricane Floyd was the only hurricane to make landfall in the United States during the 1987 Atlantic hurricane season. It was the last of seven tropical storms and three hurricanes. Floyd developed on 9 October just off the east coast of Nicaragua. It then became a tropical storm. After this, it moved northward and crossed western Cuba. Because a cold front was approaching, Floyd suddenly turned to the northeast. Late on 12 October it became a hurricane near the Florida Keys. It moved through the south of Florida. It produced two tornadoes and caused some damage. The hurricane also produced rip tides. This killed one person in southern Texas. Floyd was a hurricane for only twelve hours. After this, because of the cold front, it became weak. It passed through the Bahamas before becoming extratropical. It dissipated on 14 October.

[[Cleveland Brown]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional African-American people, Family Guy characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1999, The Cleveland Show

Cleveland Brown is a main character for the spin-off show for Family Guy called The Cleveland Show. He was the only known African American friend that Peter Griffin had known. He was married to Lorretta Brown until they divorced after she cheated on him with his friend Glenn Quagmire. Cleveland later remarried with Donna Tubbs. He had one son with Lorretta and three step-children with Donna. He moved to Virginia. He is 46 years old.

[[Caramel]]

CATEGORIES: Food ingredients

Caramel (ˈ}

) is a beige to dark-brown sweet food. It is made by heating sugars. It is used to add flavour to puddings and desserts. It can also be as a filling, like is done in bonbons, and as a topping for ice cream, custard and coffee.

Simple sugar (Sucrose) starts to melt at about  135, without changing its color. The process called caramelisation starts when sugar  is heated to at least  150, and more often to around 170. As the sugar heats, the molecules break down and turn into compounds with the colour and flavour of caramel.

Many candies and desserts are made with caramel. Some of these are caramel apples, pralines, nougats, brittles, crème caramel, and crème brûlée.

==Caramel candy== 

Caramel candy is a soft, dense, chewy candy. It is made by boiling a mixture of milk or cream, sugar(s), butter, and vanilla flavouring.  The sugar(s) are heated separately to reach 170. This turns them to caramel before the other ingredients are added. Another way of doing this is to cook all ingredients together. This way, the milk turns to caramel but the sugars do not. This type of candy is often called "milk caramel" or "cream caramel".

[[East Side Mario's]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian restaurants, 1987 establishments in Canada

East Side Mario's is a Canadian casual dining restaurant by Prime Restaurants. It has restaurants in Canada and the United States. The restaurant is known for Italian-American cuisine.

It has over 100 locations in Canada as well as some in the United States.

It is a sponsor of the Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation.

[[Cartoon Network]]

CATEGORIES: Cartoon Network, 1992 establishments in the United States

Cartoon Network is an American television channel. It broadcasts television programs that are suitable for young children. Most of the shows are animated cartoon series, but some live-action shows are also broadcast. However, at night Cartoon Network switches to Adult Swim which broadcasts programs for teens and adults instead.

Cartoon Network first launched in October 1, 1992 through cable and satellite television in the United States by Turner Broadcasting System (or TBS for short). In the early years, many of the shows featured on the channel were classic cartoons and Hanna-Barbera shows. TBS later launched Cartoon Network Studios to make flagship original shows specifically for Cartoon Network.

After successfully launching the channel in the United States, TBS decided to launch the channel in other countries. The Cartoon Network channels in other countries distributes Cartoon Network's original shows in different languages.

[[Criminal Minds]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 American television series debuts, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American crime drama television series, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

Criminal Minds is an American police procedural television series. It was first broadcast on September 22, 2005, on CBS.

On March 14, 2012, CBS renewed Criminal Minds for an eighth season, which premiered on September 26, 2012.

The series ended on February 19, 2020.

[[Herero]]

Herero may refer to:

[[Lake Wobegon]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional locations, Radio programs, Minnesota in fiction

Lake Wobegon is a fictional town in the U.S. state of Minnesota. It is the setting of Garrison Keillor's News from Lake Wobegon which is part of his weekly radio variety show, A Prairie Home Companion. Keillor tells stories of life in a small Minnesota town every week. The weekly segment is broadcast on National Public Radio and available as a podcast via iTunes.

In Keillor's weekly stories about Lake Wobegon, he describes the town:

[[La Fille mal gardée]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets

La Fille Mal Gardée is a comedy ballet in three scenes. Its title means The Unchaperoned Daughter. The music is by Ferdinand Hérold. The choreography is by Dauberval. It was first performed in Bordeaux, France in 1789. It was then presented at the Grand Theatre in Paris on July 1, 1789. It is the oldest ballet still performed by major ballet companies.

[[Treaty of Portsmouth]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century treaties, 20th century in Russia, 20th century in Japan, 1905

The Treaty of Portsmouth formally ended the 1904–1905 Russo-Japanese War. It was signed on 5 September 1905 after negotiations at the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, Maine in the United States. It was named after nearby Portsmouth, New Hampshire. US President Theodore Roosevelt got the Nobel Peace Prize for helping the negotiations.

[[August Bournonville]]

CATEGORIES: Choreographers, 1805 births, 1879 deaths, Danish people

August Bournonville (21 August 1805 – 30 November 1879) was a Danish ballet master and choreographer.  He studied in Paris as a young man. He became a solo dancer with the Royal Danish Ballet in Copenhagen. He became the company's choreographer from 1830 to 1877. He created more than 50 ballets. Only a limited number survive. It was only after World War II that his ballets became known outside Denmark. 

His work is a link with earlier ballet traditions. He avoided the excesses of romantic ballet. He gave equal emphasis to both the male and female dancer. The extremes of human nature were tempered in his work and a more balanced picture of human nature emerged. His ballets include Napoli and The Conservatory.

[[Napoli (ballet)]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets

Napoli is a ballet in three acts. The story of the ballet and the dances are the work of August Bournonville. The music was written by E. Helsted, Gade, and Paulli. Napoli was first danced by the Royal Danish Ballet in Copenhagen on 29 March 1842. Napoli has not changed over the years. It is danced in Copenhagen today exactly as it was danced in 1842. It is said to be Bournonville's greatest ballet.

[[Boxer]]

Boxer or boxers might mean:

[[Royal Danish Ballet]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet companies

The Royal Danish Ballet is one of the oldest ballet companies in the world. It is based in Copenhagen, Denmark. Its origin dates to 1748, when the Royal Danish Theatre was founded. The company was finally organized in 1771 in response to the great popularity of French and Italian styles of dance. The Royal Danish Theatre has served as the company's home since its founding.   

[[Marie Taglioni]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet dancers, Ballerinas, 1804 births, 1884 deaths, Swedish entertainers, Burials at Père Lachaise Cemetery, Disease-related deaths in France

Marie Taglioni (18041884) was a ballerina. She was born in Stockholm, Sweden on 23 April 1804. Her father was the choreographer Filippo Taglioni. He created the seminal romantic ballet La Sylphide to showcase her talents.

She was the first ballerina to dance en pointe for the sake of artistry rather than spectacle. She created a scandal when she shortened her ballet skirts to display her footwork.

She danced mostly in London at Her Majesty's Theatre and in Paris at the Opéra. In 1827, she began a three-year stint with the Imperial Ballet in St Petersburg. She danced in Pas de Quatre with Carlotta Grisi, Lucille Grahn, and Fanny Cerrito in July 1845. She retired in 1847 and lived in Venice, Italy.

She was the guiding spirit behind the reorganization of the Paris Opéra Ballet. In later life, she taught social dances to children and society ladies. She also took a limited number of ballet pupils.  Johann Strauss II composed the Marie Taglioni Polka, Op. 173 in her honour. She died in Marseilles on 24 April 1884.

[[Curiosity]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions, Creativity, Problem solving

Curiosity is an emotion that shows a want or need to know new things. It is shown in behavior such as exploration, investigation, and learning. It is an innate behaviour of humans and many animal species. Curiosity is a major cause and force behind scientific research and other studies. 

Curiosity is common to humans at all ages starting from infancy, through adulthood. It is easy to see in many other animal species, such as apes, cats, rodents, fish, reptiles, and insects. Although it is an innate behaviour of many living beings, it is not thought of as an instinct because it is not a fixed action pattern.

A morbid curiosity is an addictive curiosity with death, violence, or something else that may hurt you physically or emotionally. 

[[Indoor Football League]]

CATEGORIES: Sports leagues, 2008 establishments in the United States, Sports organizations of the United States

The Indoor Football League (IFL) is a professional indoor American football league created in 2008 out of the combination of the Intense Football League and United Indoor Football. For the 2011 season the league had 22 teams in 14 different U.S. states. The 2012 season has 16 teams. There championship is called the United Bowl. They play games in the Spring.

[[Malay race]]

CATEGORIES: Race, Austronesian peoples

The Malay race is a race that was first proposed by the German scientist Johann Friedrich Blumenbach (1752–1840). Blumenbach described five races, and classified them by the colour of people's skin. The Malay race was classified as the brown race. Since Blumenbach, many anthropologists have rejected his theory of five races. Most agree that classifying races is more complicated than Blumenbach allowed for. The Malay race are considered the aborigines of the Malay Archipelago, determined by their archeological foundings dated as far as 1 AD within the Malay Archipelago.

The term Malay race was often used in the late 19th century and early 20th century to describe the Austronesian peoples.

[[List of programming blocks]]

CATEGORIES: Television programs, Television lists

This is a list of programming blocks.  Programming blocks are groups of television programs that are played one after the other.  These programs are similar.  The hope is that viewers will keep watching television.

[[Chilean Communist Party (Proletarian Action)]]

CATEGORIES: Communist parties, Political parties in South America, Government of Chile, 1979 establishments, 20th-century establishments in Chile, 1970s establishments in South America

The Chilean Communist Party (Proletarian Action) (Spanish: Partido Comunista Chileno (Acción Proletaria) PC(AP)) is a non-registered hard-line communist political party in Chile. It was founded in November 8, 1979 and its first secretary is Eduardo Artés.

[[Subalpine zone]]

CATEGORIES: Ecozones

The subalpine zone is the zone of plants just below tree line around the world. Species that occur in the zone vary according to where they are on the Earth. For example, Snow Gum in Australia, or Subalpine Larch, Mountain Hemlock and Subalpine Fir in western North America. 

Trees in the subalpine zone often become crooked, stunted and twisted in form. At treeline, tree seedlings may germinate on the lee (sheltered) side of rocks and grow only as high as the rock shelters them from wind. Further growth is more horizontal than vertical, and additional rooting may occur where branches touch the soil. Snow cover may protect trees during the winter, but branches higher than wind-shelters or snow cover are usually destroyed. Well-established trees may be several hundred to a thousand years old.

Montane grassland and shrubs may be found in the subalpine zone. Tuolumne Meadows in the Sierra Nevada of California is an example of a subalpine meadow.

[[Bidsar]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in India, Settlements in Rajasthan

Bidsar (बीदसर) or Beedsar is a village in the Laxmangarh tehsil of the Sikar district of Rajasthan state in India.

[[Meet Me in St. Louis]]

CATEGORIES: American musical movies, United States National Film Registry movies, 1944 movies, 1940s musical movies, Movies based on books, MGM movies, Movies directed by Vincente Minnelli

Meet Me in St. Louis is a 1944 MGM musical movie. It tells the story of a family living in St. Louis, Missouri at the time of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition World's Fair in 1904. It stars Judy Garland and Margaret O'Brien. Garland sang "The Trolley Song" and "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas". Both songs became big hits.

The movie was based on a series of short stories by Sally Benson. These stories were first published in The New Yorker magazine. Later, they were published in the novel 5135 Kensington.

The movie was directed by Vincente Minnelli. He met Garland on the set. Later, they married. The critics liked the movie. In 2005, Richard Schickel wrote, "It had wonderful songs and a sweetly unneurotic performance by Judy Garland ... Despite its nostalgic charm, Minnelli infused the piece with a dreamy, occasionally surreal, darkness and it remains, for some of us, the greatest of American movie musicals."

The movie was nominated for Academy Awards for Best Cinematography, Color, Best Music, Scoring of a Musical Picture, Best Music, Song ("The Trolley Song") and Best Writing, Screenplay. In 1994, the movie was chosen for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.

The American Film Institute ranked the movie 10th on AFI's Greatest Movie Musicals. Two songs from the movie made AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs ("The Trolley Song" at #26 and "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas" at #76).

[[Love Finds Andy Hardy]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 movies, American teen movies, Romantic comedy movies, United States National Film Registry movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by George B. Seitz

Love Finds Andy Hardy is a 1938 romantic comedy movie. It tells the story of a teenage boy who becomes mixed up romantically with three girls all at the same time. It stars Mickey Rooney, Judy Garland, and Lana Turner. The movie was directed by George B. Seitz. The movie was based on stories by Vivien R. Bretherton, and on characters created by Aurania Rouverol.

In 2000, Love Finds Andy Hardy was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".

[[Topfreedom]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights, Nudity, Women

Topfreedom is a concept of rights. Topfreedom applies to women. It means the freedom to go topless (without wearing any clothing above the waist) in a public place.

There are many organizations which advocate topfreedom. Topfree Equal Rights Association (TERA) https://web.archive.org/web/20201111183044/http://www.tera.ca/ is one such organization. Go Topless Day is a special day in August. In this day, women are told to go topless in public.

In the United States, each state has its own laws. The New York State Supreme Court said that women can go topless in public. Later, the police arrested a woman (in 2005) in New York City for walking along a street without wearing a shirt. She sued (started a court case against) the city for violating the New York State Supreme Court rule that women can go topless in public. The city finally paid her $29,000 because she was right and the police were wrong.

In three provinces in Canada (Ontario, Manitoba and British Columbia) women can be topless in public. However there are sometimes city laws saying women cannot be topless in city parks. Law professors say women probably can be topless in public in the other provinces, but nobody knows for sure. The question has not been decided by the Supreme (national) Court of Canada.

[[Dorland's Medical Dictionary]]

CATEGORIES: Dictionaries

Dorlands Illustrated Medical Dictionary is a medical dictionary edited by William Alexander Newman Dorland, and first printed in 1890. The word Dorland's is now the brand name for a family of more than 20 medical books available in various media (including printed books, CD-ROMs, and online content). The main books are Dorland's Illustrated Medical Dictionary (now in its 32nd edition) and Dorland's Pocket Medical Dictionary (now in its 28th edition). Dorland's Medical Dictionary was first published in 1890 as the American Illustrated Medical Dictionary, including 770 pages. The pocket edition, called the American Pocket Medical Dictionary, was first published in 1898, with just over 500 pages.

After Dorland died in 1956, the dictionaries were retitled to include his name, which was how they had generally come to be known.  The illustrated dictionary has grown to 2208 pages for the 31st edition.

[[Throat culture]]

CATEGORIES: Medical tests

A throat culture is a medical test which looks for bacteria or fungus that cause infections in the throat. A sterile piece of cotton is rubbed across the back of the throat near the tonsils. This may cause a person to want to cough or vomit. The bacteria on the cotton are then grown in a laboratory where scientists can identify them using a microscope.

[[List of Giravanz Kitakyushu players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Giravanz Kitakyushu players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Giravanz Kitakyushu is a Japanese professional football club in Kitakyūshū on the island of Kyushu.

[[Tomakomai, Hokkaidō]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Hokkaido

Tomakomai is a Japanese city and port on the southern coast of Hokkaido It is the largest city in the Iburi Subprefecture.

[[Saigawa, Fukuoka]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fukuoka Prefecture

Saigawa was a Japanese town in the Miyako District of Fukuoka Prefecture on the island of Kyushu.

As of 2003, the town had an estimated population of 7,268 and a density of 74.16 persons per km². The total area was 98.00 km².

On March 20, 2006 Saigawa was merged with the towns of Katsuyama and Toyotsu.  Each became part of the new town of Miyako.

[[Play with Me Sesame]]

CATEGORIES: Children's television series, 2002 television series debuts, 2007 television series endings, Sesame Street

Play with Me Sesame is a half-hour children's television series created for the Noggin TV channel. It is based on the television series Sesame Street, and it is about the Muppet characters Ernie, Bert, Grover, and Prairie Dawn. The show started on April 1, 2002 on Noggin in the United States.

[[Heguri, Nara]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Japan, Settlements in Nara Prefecture

Heguri is a Japanese town in the Ikoma District of Nara Prefecture.

[[Casino]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment venues, Gambling

A casino is a gambling establishment where gambling with declared monetary or other property gains is carried out using roulette, gaming tables for card games and dice, gambling machines, and other gambling equipment. The board game is conducted with the help of assistants - the dealer.

In modern English, casinos are places associated with gambling. These are often built on or around hotels, cruise ships, restaurants and certain other places.

There are lots of casinos in the US state of Nevada and especially in the area of Las Vegas called the "Strip". Other places famous for their casinos is Monte Carlo in Monaco and Macau in China, but they are also prevalent in certain other parts of the world.

The principle of most games held in the casino is the result of the game, for its participant depends, first of all, on the element of chance. In casino games, a casino can act as the actual organizer (roulette, blackjack, craps), and as a serving party (Texas poker, Omaha poker, baccarat, etc.).

In the most casinos in the world gambling halls are divided into two types: a hall of traditional games and a games room. Games that have gained the most popularity in casinos around the world: roulette, blackjack, poker, baccarat, punto-banko, craps, slot machines etc.

In 1994 the internet brought forth the web's first online casino named the Gaming Club. It was developed by Microgaming software and is still operating with active players today. Microgaming became one of the internet casino industry's largest providers of online gambling software early on. Internet casinos are currently legal and regulated in the United Kingdom and some parts of the United States.

[[Casino (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 crime movies, 1995 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, American gangster movies, Antisocial personality disorder in fiction, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies based on books, Movies based on real life events, Movies directed by Martin Scorsese, Movies set in California, Movies set in Las Vegas, Movies set in the 1970s, Movies set in the 1980s, Universal Pictures movies

Casino is a 1995 American movie starring Robert De Niro, Sharon Stone, Frank Vincent and Joe Pesci. It was directed by Martin Scorsese. It is set in the 1970s and 1980s and is based around criminals and gambling. This movie was released in autumn 1995 in the United States, and like many movies set in the 1970s, has some anachronisms.

[[Cinderella (ballet)]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets, Compositions by Sergei Prokofiev

Cinderella, Op. 87 is a ballet. The scenario by Nikolai Volkov was based on the 1697 fairy tale Cendrillon by Charles Perrault. The music was composed by Sergei Prokofiev between 1940 and 1944. The premiere of Cinderella was conducted by Yuri Fayer on November 21, 1945, at the Bolshoi Theatre. The choreography was composed by Rostislav Zakharov. Galina Ulanova danced the title role. Three orchestral suites were extracted from the ballet, and three collections of piano arrangements.

[[Judy Garland as gay icon]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT

American actress and songstress Judy Garland is a gay icon. She rose to iconic status in the 1950s. At that time, gays admired her talent as a performer, and her value as a camp figure. She was often parodied in drag revues. Her struggles with drugs, alcohol, and personal relationships during her adulthood mirrored similar struggles among urban closeted gays during the same era. Garland's role as Dorothy Gale in The Wizard of Oz may be the foundation stone of her iconic status.  Following her death in 1969 and the Stonewall riots, Garland's status as a gay icon began to slip. Young gay men embraced their sexual orientation with pride rather than shame, and could or would not identify with Garland's melodramatic victimhood and emotionalism.

[[Ugly Americans]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series, American comedy television series, English-language television programs

Ugly Americans is an American animated television show created by Devin Clark and developed by David M. Stern. The show is on the life of Mark Lilly, a social worker working for the Department of Integration, in an similar version of New York City which has monsters and creatures in it.

Ugly Americans was first broadcast on March 17, 2010 on Comedy Central. The series is based on a webseries by Devin Clark that is named 5 On with Alan Whiter.

It is on The Comedy Network in Canada and was first broadcast on the same day at the same time.

[[60 Minutes]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 television series debuts, 1960s American television series, 1970s American television series, 1980s American television series, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

60 Minutes is a CBS television news program, which began in 1968. The program was created by Don Hewitt.

In February 2009, TV Guide named 60 Minutes 6th on TV Guide's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time.

[[The Cay (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 movies, NBC network shows, Movies based on books

[[Carlo Bergonzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2014 deaths, Italian singers, Musicians from Emilia-Romagna, Tenors

Carlo Bergonzi (July 13, 1924 – 25 July 2014) was an Italian tenor. He performed in Italian operas, especially in the works of Giuseppe Verdi. He was noted for his very good musical skills and style.

[[2006 Chicago Bears–Arizona Cardinals game]]

CATEGORIES: Arizona Cardinals, Chicago Bears, 2000s in Phoenix, 2000s in Chicago, 2006 in Illinois

The 2006 Chicago Bears–Arizona Cardinals game was a football game between the Chicago Bears and Arizona Cardinals in 2006. The game was on TV on Monday Night Football. The game took place in University of Phoenix Stadium on October 16, 2006. The Bears beat the Cardinals 24-23 after they were losing by 20 points. Bears quarterback Rex Grossman had his throws intercepted by the Cardinals defense 4 times. Despite this issue, the Bears were able to get away and won in the second half of the game. The game became famous after Cardinals coach Dennis Green became very angry in an interview with reporters, and is one of the best comebacks in NFL history.

[[List of Thespakusatsu Gunma players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Thespa Kusatsu players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Thespa Kusatsu is a Japanese professional football club in Gunma Prefecture.

[[Hines Ward]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Pittsburgh Steelers players, African-American people, Sportspeople from Atlanta, Georgia, Participants in American reality television series

Hines E. Ward Jr. (born March 8, 1976) is a former American football wide receiver in the National Football League (NFL). He played for the Pittsburgh Steelers for fourteen seasons after being drafted in the third round of the 1998 NFL Draft, becoming the team's all-time leader in receptions, receiving yardage and touchdown receptions. Ward was voted MVP of Super Bowl XL and upon retirement was one of only eight NFL players to have 1,000 or more career receptions. He played college football at the University of Georgia.

[[Peyton Place (1957 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: American drama movies, 1957 drama movies, Movies based on books, Women's movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Mark Robson

Peyton Place is a 1957 movie. It was based on a 1956 novel of the same name by Grace Metalious. It was directed by Mark Robson. The movie stars Lana Turner, Diane Varsi, Russ Tamblyn, Lee Phillips, Hope Lange, and Arthur Kennedy. Critics felt the most salacious bits in the novel had been laundered for the movie. The movie received nine Oscar nominations but won none. The movie did poorly at the box office until Lana Turner's daughter shot her mother's lover Johnny Stompanato to death. The press coverage of the investigation boosted ticket sales by 32%. The movie became the second highest money-making movie of the year.

[[A Summer Place (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 drama movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American teen movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on books, English-language movies, Movies directed by Delmer Daves

A Summer Place is a 1959 romantic drama movie. It is based on the novel of the same name by Sloan Wilson. It was directed by Delmer Daves. It stars Richard Egan, Dorothy McGuire, Troy Donahue, Sandra Dee, Arthur Kennedy, and Constance Ford. The movie's instrumental theme became a hit.

[[Mirin]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

Mirin is a common ingredient (or stuff) in Japanese cooking.

The term "Mirin" is a general name that resembles a close taste for cooking purpose. But there are two types. One is a traditional type called "本みりん", which was developed a hundred years ago. It is produced almost all from rice,  kōji and alcohol. During brewing process, about 14 % of alcohol is included, so that it protects mirin from going bad or spoiling. In fact sugar is not added to it. Mirin is a kind of rice wine similar to sake. Sweetness comes from its brewing process. 

The other is a fake of 本みりん, often called "みりん風調味料", which hardly contains alcohol and adds sugar and broth instead. It is 40%–50% sugar. Thus, new type is usually sold much cheaper in market. This kind of Mirin contain less  alcohol. 

In Kansai style cooking, mirin is boiled  for a short time. This removes some of the alcohol.  Kansai-style boiled mirin is called nikiri mirin (煮切り味醂).But usually it is boiled enough to take alcohl away in cooking.

Mirin is used in teriyaki sauce, too.Mirin is popular and widely used for Japanese dishes.

[[David Oaks]]

CATEGORIES: Psychiatry, People from Eugene, Oregon, Harvard University alumni, American activists, Living people

David William Oaks (born September 16, 1955, Chicago, Illinois) is a civil rights activist and founder and former executive director of Eugene, Oregon-based MindFreedom International. The organization includes psychiatric survivors and dissident psychiatrists who reject what they say is the "domination" by the biomedical model that defines contemporary psychiatry. 

Oaks says that the psychiatric drugs that patients take have harmful side effects, and people can often recover without them.

[[MindFreedom International]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 establishments in the United States, Psychiatry, Medical and health organizations in the United States, Human rights organizations in the United States, Eugene, Oregon

MindFreedom International is an international coalition of over one hundred groups and thousands of individual members from fourteen nations. Based in the USA, it was founded in 1990 to protest against forced medication, medical restraints, and involuntary electroconvulsive therapy in psychiatry. It protects the rights of people who have been labeled with psychiatric disorders. MindFreedom has been recognized by the United Nations Economic and Social Council as a human rights NGO. David Oaks is the founder and executive director of MindFreedom International.

[[Toby Bourke]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Irish singers, Songwriters

Toby Bourke (7 February 1965) is an Irish singer and songwriter. He was brought up in London where he was a key figure in London’s Irish rock scene for twenty years.

He has recorded three albums, two in-studio and one live, and currently has a fourth in production. Blood Sweat and Tears was recorded live at The Swan in Stockwell, London in 1992. In 1996 he was signed by George Michael for his Aegean label. He recorded a duet with Michael called "Waltz Away Dreaming" in 1997. The song was a top 10 hit, but the Aegean label folded soon after. "Waltz Away Dreaming" was included on Bourke’s next album Room 21. 

He continues to write and record from his base in Ireland where he lives with his wife and children. Toby Bourke is rumoured to be planning a tour for later in 2012. He is also rumoured to be writing a humorous, novel form account of his time in the music business.

[[Marbles (game)]]

CATEGORIES: Toys, Games

Marbles is a game played with small, round glass balls called marbles. 

The balls vary in size. Usually they are about 1/2 inch to 1 inch (1.3 to 2.6 cm) in diameter, but they may range from less than 1/30 inch (0.111 cm) to over 3 inches (7.75 cm).

As the photographs show, the little glass balls can be most attractive, and they are often collected by children. In the North of England the objects and the game are sometimes called 'taws'.

The games has been played in many countries, but the rules are made up by the players, and there are many variations. One standard idea is to have a target marble. Players flick their marbles with their thumbnail, and try to hit the target. Another version is where players try to hit each other's marbles out of a target zone.

Marbles were found in the ancient civilisations of Mohenjo-daro, Ancient Egypt and Rome.

[[1950 Assam–Tibet earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 1950, 1950s in China, 1950s in India, Earthquakes in China, Earthquakes in Asia, August events

The Asssam-Tibet earthquake, also called the Assam earthquake, happened on 15 August 1950. The earthquake had a magnitude of 8.6. It killed 1,526 people. It was the 6th biggest earthquake of the 20th century. It is also the biggest earthquake on record that was not caused by an oceanic subduction. Instead, it was caused by two continental plates converging (crashing together).

[[Marble (toy)]]

A marble is a small toy often made from glass, clay, steel, plastic, or agate. They have different sizes. Most often, they are about 1/2 in diameter, but they may be less than 1/30 to over 3, while some glass marbles for art are over 12 wide. Marbles can be used for of games called marbles. They are often collected, both for fun and for their colors. In the North of England, the toys and the game are called "taws", with larger taws being called bottle washers after the use of a marble in Codd-neck bottles, which were often found for play. These toys can be used to make marble runs, a form of art, or they can be used in marble races, a kind of race using marbles.

[[Joachim Gauck]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Christian ministers, Former members of the German Bundestag, German Lutherans, Members of the Volkskammer, People from Rostock, Politicians from Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Presidents of Germany, Honorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath

Joachim Gauck (24 January 1940) is a German politician and former Lutheran pastor. From 2012 to 2017, Gauck was the eleventh President of Germany after the Second World War. Gauck was elected with 991 votes of 1,232 voting people.

[[ZDF]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 establishments in Europe, Television stations, German television networks, Mainz, 1960s establishments in Germany

Zweites Deutsches Fernsehen (Second German Television) is the second public broadcasting coorparation that was founded in Germany. The head office is in the city of Mainz. The service is also available for free in high definition.

[[Graham Greene]]

CATEGORIES: Alumni of the University of Oxford, British children's writers, Cancer deaths in Switzerland, Deaths from leukemia, English autobiographers, English journalists, English novelists, English playwrights, English Roman Catholics, English screenwriters, People with bipolar disorder, Writers from Hertfordshire, 1904 births, 1991 deaths

Henry Graham Greene, OM, CH (2 October 1904 - 3 April 1991) was a British writer.

Greene was born in Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire. His family was wealthy and had owned slave plantations in Montserrat and St. Kitts. He graduated with a second-class degree from Balliol College, Oxford. He was a journalist before he became a novelist.

Greene wrote novels, autobiographies, travel books, plays, screenplays, short stories and children's books. His Catholicism influenced his work.

Greene had bipolar disorder. He died of leukaemia in Vevey, Switzerland.

[[International Bear Brotherhood Flag]]

CATEGORIES: Bear (gay male), Flags

The International Bear Brotherhood Flag is a flag representing the international bear community. The design was probably inspired by the Gay Rainbow Flag and the Leather Pride Flag. The colors represent all the "fur colors and nationalities around the world." The flag was trademarked in 1995. It has been heavily marketed. It appears on tee shirts, baseball caps, license plates, and other items. Two bear flags preceded the International Bear Brotherhood Flag. A flag created by the Front Range Bears was introduced in 1992. It appeared in pride parades in Denver, San Francisco, and the 1993 March on Washington, DC. Colors used for the five diagonally placed stripes were gold, grey, brown, white, and black. Another bear flag was produced in Seattle. It is not seen outside the Northwest. It too uses diagonal stripes.

[[The Natural Bears Classification System]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT, Bear (gay male), Signalling

The Natural Bears Classification System (NBCS) is a set of symbols using letters, numbers, and other characters commonly found on modern, Western computer keyboards. It is used by gay and bisexual men who self-identify as "bears". These codes are used in email, Usenet, and Internet forum postings to identify the physical type and preferences of the poster. The code was developed by Bob Donahue and Jeff Stoner. The NBCS is also called the "bear code". 

An example of the bear code is "B4 s- m g++ w d+c t+ f+ k+ r e+(+?)". The translation (in no particular order) is: "Reasonably thick beard, cub tendencies, definite Daddy, (endowment) gets attention, above average fur, loves groping/pawing/touching, (Kinkiness) loves most things, (Muscle) some definition/Blue collar, spends some time outdoors, (sex) plays under special circumstances, tall, bear with a tummy".

[[BEAR Magazine]]

CATEGORIES: Bear (gay male), LGBT in the United States, 1987 establishments in California

BEAR Magazine is an American magazine. It is directed to gay or bisexual men who are (or who like) hairy and heavy-set men called "bears" in gay slang. It was first published in San Francisco, California in 1987 by Richard Bulger and his partner photographer Chris Nelson. It was marketed to the bear community within the larger LGBT community.

[[Antwaan Randle El]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American Christians, African-American people, American football wide receivers, Pittsburgh Steelers players, Washington Redskins players, Sportspeople from Illinois

Antwaan Randle El (born August 17, 1979) is an American football wide receiver, who is currently a free agent. He went to Indiana University, after turning down a Major League Baseball draft selection by the Chicago Cubs in 1997. At Indiana, he mainly played college football for the Indiana Hoosiers, as well as basketball and baseball. 

[[Jay Cutler]]

CATEGORIES: American football quarterbacks, Chicago Bears players, Denver Broncos players, 1983 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Indiana

Jay Christopher Cutler is an American football quarterback for the Chicago Bears of the National Football League. He went to Heritage Hills High School, where he also played safety, and led his team to the IHSAA Football Finals. He played for the Vanderbilt Commodores football team during his college days, with his final play being a touchdown throw to future Bears teammate Earl Bennett. He formerly played for the Denver Broncos, who drafted him in the first round of the 2006 NFL Draft. Cutler was traded to Chicago for Kyle Orton and a first-round pick in 2009. Cutler was named to the Pro Bowl in 2008. In 2010, after the Bears' loss to the Green Bay Packers in the Conference Championship, people criticized Cutler, calling him a quitter after he hurt his knee. In 2012, Cutler was reunited with Brandon Marshall, who played with him in Denver, as well as Jeremy Bates, who was his quarterbacks coach in Denver. Cutler was also a Bears fan during his youth.

[[Celebrity Deathmatch]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 American television series debuts, 2007 American television series endings, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, American comedy television series, Black comedy, English-language television programs

Celebrity Deathmatch was a claymation television that aired on MTV between May 1998 and March 2007. Numerous celebrities were featured on CDM made with clay, including though not limited to Barbra Streisand, Cher, Ice-T, Katie Couric and Sharon Stone where they would fight to the death. It was hosted by Johnny Gomez and Nick Diamond. In the ring was wrestler turned judge Mills Lane (although the real Mills Lane had a stroke in 2002, and the voice of Mills on Deathmatch was done by someone else thereafter); furthermore, Stone Cold Steve Austin was a featured guest host for the show. Other hosts included Stacey Cornbred (though she died in an explosion) and Debbie Matenopolous (for whom Nick represented strong contempt).

[[Mike Wallace (American football)]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1986 births, American football wide receivers, Sportspeople from New Orleans, Louisiana, Pittsburgh Steelers players

Burnell Micheal "Mike" Wallace III (born August 1, 1986 in New Orleans, Louisiana) is an American football player. He plays as a wide receiver for the Pittsburgh Steelers of the National Football League. He was drafted by the Steelers in the third round of the 2009 NFL Draft. He played college football at Mississippi. Wallace had success while playing, and was a useful deep threat.

[[Leather Pride Flag]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT, Flags, 1989 establishments

The Leather Pride Flag is a symbol used by the leather subculture since the 1990s. It was designed by Tony DeBlase in 1989. 

The design was presented at the International Mr. Leather event in Chicago, Illinois, on May 28, 1989. Initial reaction to the flag was mixed. According to DeBlase's article A Leather Pride Flag, "Some, particularly on the east coast, reacted positively to the concept, but were quite concerned, some even offended, that I had not involved the community in helping to create the design." DeBlase gave this explanation of the design: "The flag is composed of nine horizontal stripes of equal width. From the top and from the bottom, the stripes alternate black and royal blue. The central stripe is white. In the upper left quadrant of the flag is a large red heart. I will leave it to the viewer to interpret the colors and symbols."

[[International Mr. Leather]]

CATEGORIES: Competitions, LGBT, Events in the United States, 1979 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Illinois

International Mr. Leather (IML) is an international contest for men. It was founded by lovers and business partners Chuck Renslow and Dom Orejudos in 1979. It is held annually in Chicago, Illinois. The event spans several days. 

In addition to the contest, the event features workshops, socials, themed dance parties, and a leather market. In 2007, 53 contestants competed from 23 states and 4 foreign countries. 1,800 spectators packed the Chicago Theatre. IML contestants must either be the winner of a bar, local, or regional leather contest or be sponsored by a leather bar, business, club, or organization. A panel of nine judges selects the winner. 

[[Seven trumpets]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament, Christian eschatology

Seven trumpets are sounded, one at a time, to cue apocalyptic events that were seen in the vision of the Revelation of Jesus, by Jonh, as written in the Book of Revelation of the New Testament. The seven trumpets are sounded by seven angels and the events that follow are described in detail from Revelation Chapters 8 to 11. According to Revelation 8:1-2, the angels sound these trumpets after the breaking of the seventh seal. These seals secured the apocalyptic document, that was in the right hand of God.

[[There's Something About Mary]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 romance movies, 1998 comedy movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s sex comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American romantic comedy movies, American sex comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Miami, Florida, Rhode Island in fiction

There's Something about Mary is a 1998 American comedy movie. It stars Ben Stiller, Matt Dillon and Cameron Diaz and its subject is dysfunctional relationships. It was directed by Farrelly brothers. Its comedy is a combination of romance and gross-out. It is set in Rhode Island and Miami, Florida.

[[Music from and Inspired by the Motion Picture 8 Mile]]

CATEGORIES: Rap music, 2002 albums

The soundtrack to the movie 8 Mile is an album having songs by Tupac Shakur, 50 Cent, Wu-Tang Clan and Eminem. The soundtrack was released in October 2002.

[[Seong Hon]]

CATEGORIES: 1535 births, 1598 deaths, Korean educators, South Korean politicians, Autobiographers

Seong Hon(June 25, 1535 - June 6, 1598) was one Neo-Confucian scholar, politician, and soldier of the Korean Joseon Dynastys. header of West Man partys, a penname was Woogye(우계, 牛溪), Mukam(묵암, 默巖).

[[Alveolar trill]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

The alveolar trill is a type of consonant. It is found in some spoken languages. It is usually called the rolled R, rolling R, or trilled R. The sound of this consonant is formed by placing the tip of your tongue against the ridge just behind the top row of your teeth. This is what is meant by "alveolar". The sound is then made by vibrating your tongue against that ridge. This makes it a trill consonant.

The International Phonetic Alphabet represents dental, alveolar and postalveolar trills with the symbol ⟨r⟩. The X-SAMPA symbol of it is r.

Quite often, we use ⟨r⟩ in phonemic transcriptions (especially those found in dictionaries) of languages like English and German. They have rhotic consonants that are not an alveolar trill. This is because typing the r will be easier in the orthographies of these languages.

In many Indo-European languages, this sound is at least occasionally allophonic with an alveolar tap ɾ, particularly in unstressed positions. Exceptions to this include Catalan, Spanish, Albanian and some Portuguese dialects, which treat them as separate phonemes.

[[Bilabial trill]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

The bilabial trill is a consonant. It is used in some spoken languages.

The International Phonetic Alphabet represents this sound as ⟨ʙ⟩. The X-SAMPA symbol of it is B\.

In many of the languages that contains bilabial trill, it only occurs as part of a prenasalised bilabial stop with trilled release, mbʙ. This developed historically from a prenasalized stop before a relatively high back vowel, such as mbu.  In such instances, these sounds are usually still limited to the environment of a following u.  

There is also voiceless alveolar bilabially trilled affricate (t̪͡ʙ̥, sometimes "tᵖ"), which is not often used. It is found in Pirahã and from a few words in the Chapacuran languages Wari’ and Oro Win. The sound also appears as an allophone of the labialized voiceless alveolar plosive /tʷ/ of Abkhaz and Ubykh, but in those languages it is more often realised by a doubly articulated stop t͡p. In the Chapacuran languages, tʙ̥ is reported almost exclusively before rounded vowels such as o and y.

[[Lon Chaney Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Silent movie actors, American movie directors, American screenwriters, Actors from Colorado, Deaths from lung cancer, Deaths from anemia, 1883 births, 1930 deaths, People from Colorado Springs, Colorado

Lon Chaney (April 1, 1883 – August 26, 1930) was an American actor during the age of silent movies.  He is said to be one of the most best actors of early movies. He was well known for his playing tortured, often grotesque and afflicted characters. He was famous for his artistry with makeup. Chaney is remembered for starring in silent horror movies. These include The Hunchback of Notre Dame and The Phantom of the Opera. His ability to change himself using makeup techniques which he created earned him the nickname "The Man of a Thousand Faces."

[[Jo Gwang-jo]]

CATEGORIES: 1482 births, 1519 deaths, Korean educators, South Korean politicians, Autobiographers

Jo Gwang-jo (1482 - 1519) was a Neo-Confucian scholar, politician, and soldier of the Korean Joseon Dynasty. His pen name was Jeongam (靜庵, 정암). His Chinese style name was Hyojik (孝直, 효직). He was a leader of the Sarim party (士林, 사림).

[[Twink]]

CATEGORIES: Gay slang

Twink is a gay slang term. It describes a young or young-looking gay man in the 18–21 age range. A twink has a slender build. He has little or no body or facial hair. The term is sometimes used in a derogatory and pejorative manner by bears.

The twink's namesake is the Hostess Twinkie, a golden-colored, phallic-shaped, cream-filled snack cake thought to have little nutritional value.  Qualifiers such as muscle or femme have narrowed the meaning of twink to a more specific type.

[[Kim Jong-jik]]

CATEGORIES: 1431 births, 1492 deaths, Korean educators, South Korean politicians, Autobiographers

Kim Jong-jik (김종직, hanja:金宗直, June 1431 - August 19, 1492) was a Neo-Confucian scholar, politician, and soldier of the Korean Joseon Dynastys. a pen name was Jeomphiljae(점필재, 佔畢齋), Chinese style name was Gyeon(계온, 季溫)·Hyogwan(효관, 孝盥). Majority header and Ideological, academic ancestors of Sarim party(士林, 사림).

[[Kashihara, Nara]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nara Prefecture

Kashihara is a Japanese city in Nara Prefecture on the island of Honshū.

[[Plutonism]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, History of science

Plutonism (or Vulcanism) is the theory that the rocks forming the Earth were formed in fire by volcanic activity.

It was named after Pluto, the classical ruler of the underworld, or alternatively after Vulcan, the ancient Roman god of fire and volcanoes. The theory was first proposed by Abbé Anton Moro who had studied volcanic islands. It was subsequently developed by James Hutton as part of his Theory of the Earth published in 1788. 

The Plutonists strongly disputed the Neptunist view that rocks had been formed by processes that no longer operated, instead supporting Hutton's uniformitarianism. 

[[List of JEF United Chiba players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of JEF United Ichihara Chiba players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

JEF United Ichihara Chiba  is a Japanese professional football club in Ichihara and Chiba.

[[Jermaine Stewart]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 1997 deaths, African American musicians, American dancers, American R&B singers, American singer-songwriters, Deaths from AIDS, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, Musicians from Chicago, Singers from Ohio

William Jermaine Stewart (September 7, 1957 - March 17, 1997) was an American singer. He was born in Columbus, Ohio and moved to Chicago, Illinois in 1972. He is best known for his song We Don't Have to Take Our Clothes Off, which was released in 1986. He died of AIDS in Homewood, Illinois.

[[Deborah Kerr]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2007 deaths, Actors from Glasgow, Actresses who played Bond girls, Disease-related deaths in England, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Scottish movie actors, Scottish stage actors, Scottish television actors

Deborah Kerr CBE (30 September 1921 – 16 October 2007) was a British actress. She was born Deborah Jane Kerr-Trimmer in Glasgow, Scotland. She won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress for her starring role as Anna Leonowens in The King and I. 

Kerr died of Parkinson's disease in Botesdale, Suffolk.

[[Tea bag (sexual act)]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual acts

Tea bag is a slang term for a sexual act in which the male puts his scrotum into his partner's mouth over and over. It is called "tea bagging" because it is like a tea bag being put into a cup of hot water and dipped. Some people would not like being tea bagged,  but it does not need to be painful.

Tea bagging has been used during hazing or bullying incidents. Groups hold down victims while somebody "shoved his testicles in victim's face" or puts his "crotch to his head." 

Pretending to tea bag is a popular taunt in multiplayer first person shooter video games, the player who has killed the other crouches over and over on the dead body of their opponent.  Although some say that it is not being a good winner, it is common in amateur, and possibly even professional gaming, many tea bagging in fighting games as well.

[[Troll (gay slang)]]

CATEGORIES: Gay slang, Pejoratives

Troll and trolling are gay slang terms. Troll is used to characterize gay, bisexual and questioning or bi-curious men who cruise or "wander about looking" for sex or potential sex partners or experiences "in a notably wanton manner and with lessened standards of what one will accept in a partner." 

The term can be used positively or negatively depending on the speaker, usage, and intent. The term can describe the person or the activity. Although often referring to "an unattractive older gay man" and although troll as a slur "is primarily a visual, not a behavioral" judgment, the terms can be used for anyone who is trolling regardless of the putative troll's age or perceived beauty.

[[Ichihara, Chiba]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chiba Prefecture

Ichihara is a Japanese city in Chiba Prefecture on the island of Honshū.

[[Lauren Holly]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American movie actors, Actors from Pennsylvania

Lauren Holly (born October 28, 1963, Bristol, Pennsylvania) is an American television and movie actress. She played Maxine Stewart in the CBS television show "Picket Fences". She played Mary Swanson in the 1994 movie Dumb and Dumber. She also did many other TV and movie performances. She was married to actor Jim Carrey between 1996 and 1997. She is of Belgian, Dutch, English, Finnish, Flemish, French-Canadian, German, Irish, Norwegian, Scottish, Swiss, Walloon and Welsh descent.

[[List of counties in Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Arizona-related lists, Lists of counties of the United States, Arizona counties

There are 15 counties in the U.S. state of Arizona. Four counties (Mohave, Pima, Yavapai and Yuma) were formed in 1864 in the Arizona Territory in 1862. All but La Paz County were formed by the time Arizona became a State in 1912.  There is also one county, Pah-Ute County, Arizona that was formed in 1865 from Mohave County and returned in 1871. 

The names of many of the counties honor the state's Native American past. Nine of the fifteen counties are named after native groups that live in parts of what is now Arizona.  Three of the other counties have Spanish names from the language of the early Hispanic explorers of Arizona. Another county, Graham County, is named for a physical feature, Mount Graham.  Greenlee County is named after one of the state's early pioneers. 

Arizona's United States postal abbreviations is AZ and its FIPS code is 04.

[[List of counties in Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: Arkansas counties, Lists of counties of the United States, Arkansas-related lists

There are 75 counties in the U.S. state of Arkansas.  Arkansas has 10 counties with 2 county seats.

[[1600 Penn]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, NBC network shows, English-language television programs

1600 Penn is an American sitcom created by Josh Gad and former Barack Obama speechwriter, Jon Lovett for the NBC television network.

[[List of counties in California]]

CATEGORIES: California counties, Lists of counties of the United States, California-related lists

The state of California has 58 counties. Counties are responsible for all elections, property-tax collection, maintenance of public records such as deeds, and local-level courts within their borders, as well as providing law enforcement (through the county sheriff and sheriff's deputies) to areas that are not in cities.

California's United States Postal Service code is CA and its FIPS code is 06.

[[Brian Urlacher]]

CATEGORIES: Chicago Bears players, 1978 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Washington

Brian Keith Urlacher is a former American football player. and used to play for the Chicago Bears. Urlacher is known for being one of the best players in the league, being named to 8 Pro Bowls, and winning Defensive Rookie of the Year in 2000. Urlacher played for the University of New Mexico during his college days, being a Heisman Trophy finalist in 1999, and was drafted in the 2000 NFL Draft in the 1st round 9th overall by the Bears. After 5 years of being at the bottom of the NFC North (except for 2001), the Bears finally reached Super Bowl XLI, even though they lost to Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts, Urlacher still finished the year with 93 tackles and 3 forced fumbles, and was also a runner-up for the Defensive Player of the Year. In 2007 which was a year of being last in the North, Urlacher told press that he had a bad back, but it wasn't bad. Even though this issue came around, he still was able to get 5 interceptions, 5 sacks, 1 fumble recovery, 123 tackles, and a defensive touchdown. In 2009, Urlacher broke his wrist, and was out for the year. In 2010, the Bears defense became stronger, with the signing of Julius Peppers, winning the NFC North, but lost to the Green Bay Packers in the NFC Championship. In 2011, against the Minnesota Vikings, Urlacher hurt his MCL. Luckily, there was no ACL damage. Because of his injury, he didn't play in the 2010 Pro Bowl.

In March 2013, Urlacher was released, and retired on May 23. Eventually, Urlacher joined Fox Sports 1 as an analyst.

[[List of boroughs and census areas in Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Alaska boroughs, Alaska-related lists

The U.S. state of Alaska is not divided into counties, like the other 48  states (Louisiana has parishes), but instead is divided into boroughs. Many of the more densely populated parts of the state are in Alaska's eighteen organized boroughs, which are somewhat similar to counties in other states. Unlike in the other states, the organized boroughs do not completely cover all of the land in the state. The areas that are not part of any organized borough are called the unorganized borough.

For the 1970 census, the US and state divided the unorganized borough into 11 census areas. Each is roughly the same as an election district. However, these areas are solely for statistical analysis and presentation, and have no government of their own. Boroughs and census areas are both treated as county-level equivalents by the Census Bureau. 

Some areas in the unorganized borough receive limited public services directly from the Alaska state government, usually law enforcement from the Alaska State Troopers and educational funding. 

Six consolidated city-county governments exist — the City and Borough of Juneau, City and Borough of Haines, Sitka City and Borough, Yakutat City and Borough, Wrangell City and Borough, and the state's largest city, Anchorage. Though its legal name is the Municipality of Anchorage, it is considered a consolidated city-borough under state law. 

The Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 55-2,3,4 codes, used by the United States Census Bureau to uniquely identify states and counties, is provided with each entry. Alaska's code is 02, which when combined with any county code would be written as 02XXX. The FIPS code for each county links to census data for that county.

[[List of counties in Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Colorado counties, Lists of counties of the United States

The U.S. state of Colorado has a total of 64 counties.  Two of these counties, the City and County of Denver and the City and County of Broomfield, have consolidated city and county governments.

Colorado's postal abbreviation is CO and its FIPS code is 08.

[[List of counties in Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Connecticut counties, Lists of counties of the United States

This is a list of counties in Connecticut. There are eight counties in the U.S. state of Connecticut. Four of them were formed in 1666, when the colony of Connecticut was made from a number of smaller colonies. Two counties were made during colonial times, and two counties, Middlesex and Tolland, were formed after American independence (both in 1785). Six of the counties are named for locations in England, where many early Connecticut settlers were from. Although Connecticut is comprised of counties, after their abolishment in 1960, the roles of local government have been performed individually by Connecticut's 169 cities and towns. 

[[List of counties in Delaware]]

CATEGORIES: Delaware counties, Lists of counties of the United States, Delaware-related lists

The state of Delaware has three counties: New Castle, Kent, and Sussex, the fewest counties of any U.S. state. The origin of the county boundaries goes back to former court districts. The powers of the counties' legislative bodies are limited to issues such as zoning and development.

[['Round Springfield]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons (season 6) episodes, 1995 television episodes

"'Round Springfield" is the 125th episode (the 22nd episode of season 6) of The Simpsons. It was first shown on television on April 30, 1995. The episode was written by Joshua Sternin and Jeffrey Ventimilia based on a story idea by Al Jean and Mike Reiss and the first episode directed by Steven Dean Moore. The episode features many cultural references, including Carole King's song "Jazzman", the actor James Earl Jones and the Kimba the White Lion/The Lion King controversy.

[[List of counties in Hawaii]]

CATEGORIES: Hawaii-related lists, Lists of counties of the United States, Hawaii counties

There are five counties of Hawaii on the Hawaiian Islands in the United States. Counties are the only lower governments in the State of Hawaii. This is unusual in the United States. Most states include city governments, township governments, or other local authorities. The Hawaii State Department of Education is in charge of Hawaii's public education, because there are no local school boards to operate schools.  People in Hawaii pay property taxes and user fees to the county they live in to help pay for road maintenance, community activities, parks, garbage disposal, police, ambulances, and fire departments. All the counties in Hawaii were formed in 1905 from unorganized territory, seven years after the Territory of Hawaii was created. The county of Kalawao is very small because it used to be a leper colony, so it does not as have many elected officials as the other counties do.

[[List of counties in Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Vermont counties, Lists of counties of the United States

There are 14 counties in the U.S. state of Vermont. These counties together contain 255 political units, or places, including 237 towns, 9 cities, 5 unincorporated areas, and 4 gores. Each county has a county seat, known in Vermont as shire town. In 1779, Vermont had two counties. The western side of the state was called Bennington County and the eastern was called Cumberland County. In 1781, Cumberland County was made into three counties in Vermont plus another county named Washington (not the same as the modern Washington County) that then became part of New Hampshire. Today's Washington County was known as Jefferson County from its start in 1810 until it was renamed in 1814. Essex County, Orleans County, and Caledonia County are commonly called the Northeast Kingdom.

[[Wounded Knee Massacre]]

CATEGORIES: South Dakota, Massacres, 1890s in the United States

The Wounded Knee Massacre was a brief fight between the Native American Lakota people and the US Army. It took place at Wounded Knee Creek in South Dakota on December 29, 1890. About 300 Lakota and 25 soldiers were killed. The Lakota were part of the Sioux nation. The army had been sent into the area to take the guns owned by the Lakota.

[[Television producer]]

CATEGORIES: Television producers

A television producer is a person who oversees one or more aspects of video production on a television program. Some producers take more of an executive role, in that they conceive new programs and pitch them to the television networks, but upon acceptance they focus on business matters, such as budgets and contracts. Other producers are more involved with the day-to-day workings, participating in activities such as screenwriting, set design, casting, and directing.

There are a variety of different producers on a television show. A traditional producer is one who manages a show's budget and maintains a schedule, but this is no longer the case in modern television.

[[Tok Pisin]]

CATEGORIES: Languages

Tok Pisin (pronounced: /ˌtɔːk ˈpɪsɪn/) is a market language used in parts of the South Pacific, mainly Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands, but also in areas of Vanuatu, where a second language known as Bislama is also spoken.  A market language is one which is used as an everyday language between people who don't speak a common language.

Tok Pisin is a Creole language, meaning that it's a mixture of other languages, mainly English, German and Tahitian.    

[[Emmanuel Sanders]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American football wide receivers, Pittsburgh Steelers players, 1987 births, Sportspeople from Texas, San Francisco 49ers players

Emmanuel Sanders (born March 17, 1987) is an American football wide receiver for the San Francisco 49ers of the National Football League. He was drafted by the Steelers in the third round of the 2010 NFL Draft. Sanders played college football at Southern Methodist University. He also played for the Denver Broncos from 2014 to 2019.

[[Bean queen]]

CATEGORIES: Gay slang

Bean queen (sometimes rice and bean queen) is a derogatory slang term. The term refers to a white gay man who is chiefly attracted to Hispanic and Latino men.

One source describes these white gay males as "Gay men who are attracted to gentlemen of the Latino flava." "Bean queen" is probably derived from "rice queen". This term refers to a gay white male who is attracted to Asian men. In this case, the word rice (the food that forms the basis of the Asian diet) has been substituted with the word bean or rice and bean, foods popular throughout Central America, South America and the Caribbean. Other food-based variations include taco queen and salsa queen. Refried beans refers to Hispanic and Latino men who prefer other Hispanic and Latino men. Much less frequently, these terms are used to describe gay Latino men themselves. The term is also used in a derogatory manner when referring to a drag queen of Hispanic or Latino background.

[[Drag queen]]

CATEGORIES: Gay slang, Drag queens, Performing arts

Drag queen is a gay slang term. It refers to a man who dresses and dresses up and portrays a woman for entertainment purposes. Although men dressed as woman are the most common type of rag queen, trans woman, female impersonators, and may other people can also  be considered a drag queen. Drag queens exaggerate certain characteristics (such as make-up and eyelashes) for comic, dramatic, or satirical effect. Drag queens perform in gay bars. They participate in gay pride parades and drag pageants. They may make appearances at events such as gay rodeos. They generally do not want to pass as women. RuPaul is a drag queen well known through his many television appearances in the 1990s. He is the host of one of, if not the most, famous television show about drag, RuPaul's Drag Race. Movies about drag queens include The Birdcage and The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert.

[[French kiss]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality

French kisses are kisses in which someone's tongue touches somebody else's. These kisses are usually considered romantic. They are often performed in certain movies. French kisses are usually reserved for those in love. Performing this type of behavior on multiple partners is known for increasing the risk of having meningitis.

[[RuPaul]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Actors from San Diego, California, Singers from San Diego, California, Writers from San Diego, California, African American actors, African-American singers, African American television personalities, African American writers, American television presenters, Drag queens, LGBT actors, LGBT African Americans, LGBT models, LGBT people from California, LGBT singers, LGBT songwriters, LGBT writers, Gay men, Models from San Diego, California, Musicians from San Diego, California, Singer-songwriters from California, Writers from California, American bloggers

RuPaul (born RuPaul Andre Charles on November 17, 1960 in San Diego) is an Afro-American actor, drag queen, model, author, and singer-songwriter. He first became widely known in the 1990s when he appeared in a wide variety of television programs, films, and musical albums. He was once a fixture on the Atlanta and New York City gay club scenes during the 1980s and early 90s. RuPaul has on occasion performed as a man in a number of roles. He is usually billed as RuPaul Charles. RuPaul is noted among famous drag queens for his indifference towards the gender-specific pronouns used to address him—both "he" and "she" have been deemed acceptable. "You can call me he. You can call me she. You can call me Regis and Kathie Lee; I don't care! Just as long as you call me."  He hosted a short-running talk show on VH1. He has hosted reality television shows called RuPaul's Drag Race and RuPaul's Drag U.

In 2020, he learned that he and New Jersey Senator Cory Booker are cousins; they discovered it by appearing on the TV show Finding Your Roots.

[[I Hate My Teenage Daughter]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 American television series debuts, American sitcoms, Fox television series, English-language television programs

I Hate My Teenage Daughter is an American sitcom first aired on November 30, 2011 on Fox.

On March 15, 2012, Fox announced they were removing I Hate My Teenage Daughter from the Tuesday night schedule, and that I Hate My Teenage Daughter would be replaced by reruns of Raising Hope, and that the remaining episodes would air in the Summer.

[[Chi Chi LaRue]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American LGBT sex industry people, American movie directors, Drag queens, LGBT directors, People from Hibbing, Minnesota, Pornographic movie directors

Chi Chi LaRue (born Larry David Paciotti on November 8, 1959) is an American movie director of gay, bisexual, and straight pornography. He was born in Hibbing, Minnesota. He is best known in his drag name, Chi Chi LaRue. He has also directed under the names Lawrence David and Taylor Hudson.

[[John Epperson]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Actors from Mississippi, American LGBT people, American pianists, Drag queens, LGBT actors, LGBT singers, LGBT writers, Singers from Mississippi, Writers from Mississippi

Lypsinka (born John Epperson on 24 April 1955) is an American drag queen, actor, pianist, vocalist, and writer. Epperson was born in Hazelhurst, Mississippi. He moved to New York City in 1978. He did drag gigs on the side at various nightspots. "Lypsinka" first appeared in 1988 in New York as a late-night addition to Charles Busch's Vampire Lesbians of Sodom. Lypsinka has appeared in solo shows Off-Broadway. Epperson says Lypsinka was modelled on Dolores Gray. For his show Lypsinka! The Boxed Set, Epperson won the Los Angeles Drama Critics Circle Award for Best Sound Design, the LA Weekly Theater Award for Best Solo Performance, and the Helen Hayes Award for Best Non-resident Production in 2003.

[[José Sarria]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2013 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, American political activists, Deaths from natural causes, Drag queens, Gay men, LGBT people from California, People from San Francisco

José Sarria (December 22, 1922 – August 19, 2013) was an American political activist. For many years, he performed in drag at the Black Cat Bar in San Francisco, California.  He ran for the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in 1961, making him the first openly gay candidate for public office in the United States.  A portion of a San Francisco street was named in his honor.

[[Kuch Toh Log Kahenge]]

CATEGORIES: Soap operas, 2011 Indian television series debuts

Kuch Toh Log Kahenge is an Indian soap opera television program.  It airs on Sony TV. It first appeared on TV on October 3, 2011. It is a remake of the Pakistani classical TV drama Dhoop Kinare. Kuch Toh Log Kahenge is a love story between two people who have a substantial age gap.

At first, actors Kritika Kamra and Mohnish Behl played the two main characters.  Sharad Kelcar was later replaced by :en:Sharad Kelkar.

[[Natalie West]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from North Dakota, Actors from Indiana, 1956 births, Living people, People from Grand Forks, North Dakota

Natalie Marla West (born January 23, 1956) is an American actress. She is best known for playing Crystal Anderson Conner on the television series ''Rosanne on ABC.

West has been in some movies. These include Life Sentence (2004) and The Poker House (2007).

[[Elisabeth Shue]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Wilmington, Delaware, Actors from New Jersey, 1963 births, Living people

Elisabeth Judson Shue (born October 6, 1963) is an American actress. She is best known for her work in the movies The Karate Kid, Adventures in Babysitting, Cocktail, Back to the Future Parts II and III and Leaving Las Vegas.

[[Yi See-young]]

CATEGORIES: 1868 births, 1953 deaths, Anti-Communists, People of the Korean War, Vice Presidents of South Korea

Yi See-young (이시영, 李始榮, 3 December 1868 - 19 April 1953) was a politician and independence activist, politicians and Neo-confucian scholars of South Korea. He was first Vice President of South Korea 1948 to 1952. His pen name was Seongjae (성재, 省齋), Seerimshanin(시림산인, 始林山人).

[[Alveolar approximant]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

The alveolar approximant is a consonant. We use it in some spoken languages. International Phonetic Alphabet represents the alveolar and postalveolar approximants as ⟨ɹ⟩. International Phonetic Alphabet represents it as a lowercase letter r rotated 180 degrees, or in broad transcription ⟨r⟩; the X-SAMPA symbol of this is ⟨r\⟩.

Many times the symbol is written as ⟨r⟩ instead of ⟨ɹ⟩ because typing ⟨r⟩ is easier.

[[Mena Suvari]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Actors from Rhode Island, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Living people

Mena Alexandra Suvari (born February 13, 1979) is an American actress, fashion designer, and model. She began acting in guest roles on 1990s television programs such as Boy Meets World and High Incident. She made her movie debut in the 1997 drama movie Nowhere.

Her first major movie roles were in American Beauty and American Pie. Both of these moves were in 1999. She was nominated for a BAFTA Award for American Beauty. Next she was in Loser (2000), with her American Pie co-star, Jason Biggs. In 2001, she played the main character in the comedy movie Sugar & Spice. She was in the 2002 drama Spun and the 2004 thriller Trauma. She was also in the HBO's drama series Six Feet Under in 2004. While working on this series, she was nominated as a member of cast by the Screen Actors Guild for "Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series" in 2005.  In 2008, she was cast in a many movies. These incude Day of the Dead, The Mysteries of Pittsburgh, and the movie version of The Garden of Eden.

Suvari is a model for Lancôme cosmetics. She has been in many fashion blogs and magazines such as Vogue. She is an activist for the African relief organization, the African Medical and Research Foundation. Feminist issues are also important to her.  She works with charities whose cause is breast cancer, and "End Violence Against Women" campaign.

[[Jo Sik]]

CATEGORIES: Korean people, Confucianism, 1501 births, 1572 deaths

Jo Sik (or Cho Shik) (조식, 1501–1572) was a politician and Confucianist scholar of Korea. His nickname was Nammyung, rival of Twaegye Yi Hwang.

[[Crown group]]

CATEGORIES: Cladistics

A crown group is a group of living species and their ancestors back to the most recent common ancestor. It is a term in cladistics and phylogenetics. It is a clade with at least some members that have survived to the present day. How a crown group is defined depends on which living species are chosen. One definition stresses the need for members of the crown group to have the clade's characteristic synapomorphy.

The idea was developed by Willi Hennig, the founder of phylogenetic systematics, but he did not use this term. The terms "crown group" and "stem group" were invented by R.P.S. Jefferies in 1979. Though invented in the 1970s, the term was not often used until it was reintroduced in the 2000s.

One very simplified cladogram for birds is shown below:

Archaeopteryx and some other extinct groups are not included in the crown group Neornithes. They fall outside the clade, as they diverged earlier. Neoaves can also be considered a crown group, as can Paleognathae, the ratites clade, and Galloanserae, the ducks and chickens clade. Bigger crown groups can also be defined, such as the phylum Chordata.

[[Vampire Lesbians of Sodom]]

CATEGORIES: Plays

Vampire Lesbians of Sodom is a satirical play by Charles Busch. It is about two immortal vampire lesbians.  They are locked in eternal antagonism after surviving the downfall of the Biblical city of Sodom. Both women arrive in Jazz Age Broadway and Hollywood. They pretend to be silent movie stars. They reach a truce in a final scene set in Las Vegas in the 1980s. The New York Times described the show as having "costumes flashier than pinball machines, outrageous lines, awful puns, sinister innocence, and harmless depravity". It was first performed at the Limbo Lounge in Manhattan's East Village in 1984. It moved Off Broadway in June 1985 to the Provincetown Playhouse. It had a five year run.

[[Digital audio player]]

CATEGORIES: Audio technology

The digital audio player is a device that can play digital audio, such as CD and MP3 formatted music. Such devices include MP3 players and CD players. Some are portable and use battery power. 

[[Daniel Levy]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, People from Essex, English football managers, British businesspeople, Living people

Daniel Levy (born 8 February 1962 in Essex) is the current chairman of Premier League side Tottenham Hotspur F.C.. He has been the chairman since 2001.

[[Municipalities in Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Japan, Municipalities

Municipalities in Japan are the local governments and sub-divisions of the island nation.

There are three main types of municipalities in Japan: 

There is a fourth type of municipality — the 23 special wards of Tokyo. 

[[Sodom and Gomorrah]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Asia, Old Testament

Sodom and Gomorrah are two ancient cities mentioned in the Book of Genesis. Both cities were destroyed by fire from God because of their sexual wickednesses including rape, child sexual abuse, homosexuality and indecent assault. Some scholars believe that the cities were in Moab, east of the southern edge of the Dead Sea. The word sodomy (anal sex) is derived from Sodom. The story of Sodom and Gomorrah was made into a movie in 1963. 

[[Tradeston Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Tradeston Bridge, Glasgow, Bridges in the United Kingdom, Buildings and structures in Glasgow, Steel bridges

The Tradeston Bridge, also known as the Squiggly Bridge, is a pedestrian bridge that opened on May 14, 2009. It crosses the River Clyde in Glasgow to the districts of Anderston on the north bank with Tradeston on the south bank.

[[Windsor Railway Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in the United Kingdom, Berkshire, Steel bridges, Concrete bridges, Grade II* listed buildings

Windsor Railway Bridge is a wrought iron 'tied arch'  bridge in Windsor, Berkshire. It was designed by Isambard Kingdom Brunel, and carried Brunel's Great Western Railway (GWR) branch line from Slough to Windsor (Windsor and Eton Central station). It crosses the River Thames between Romney Lock and Boveney Lock.

The bridge is a single-span structure with three bowstring trusses which created two bays for the original two GWR tracks. The bridge is the world's oldest wrought iron bridge still in regular service. It is a forerunner for Brunel's last masterpiece, the Royal Albert Bridge, Saltash. The bridge was Grade II* listed in 1975.

The line opened in 1849. The construction of the line was delayed and could not be included in the original Parliamentary Act because of objections from the Provost of Eton College.

The brick viaduct was constructed between 1861–65 to replace the original wooden trestle viaduct.

Although the bridge was built to take two tracks, the track on the upstream side was removed when the line was rationalised in the 1960s.  The trackbed on this side now carries a sewage or water main pipe.

[[Saint Sebastian]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, LGBT, 260s deaths

Sebastian (died c. 268) was a  Christian saint and martyr. He is said to have been killed during the Roman emperor Diocletian's persecution of Christians.  He is usually depicted in art and literature tied to a post or tree and shot with arrows. This is the most common artistic depiction of Sebastian. However, he was rescued and healed by Irene of Rome. He then criticized the emperor, and was clubbed to death. He is venerated in both the Roman Catholic and the Orthodox churches.

[[Menace II Society]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 crime movies, 1993 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, American gangster movies, English-language movies, Movies about drugs, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Warner Bros. movies

Menace II Society, released May 26, 1993 by Warner Bros., is an American urban crime drama movie set in and around South Central Los Angeles. It is rated R by the MPAA for violence, intense language and drug use. Several different versions exist for this motion picture. The character Sharif was originally supposed to be played by Tupac Shakur, although Shakur was later fired due to a dispute in which he wanted to do play someone else, so Larenz Tate was his replacement. A prison riot scene was cut from this motion picture to avoid receiving an NC-17. Menace II Society received positive reviews by critics.

[[Aurelius and Natalia]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, 852 deaths, Year of birth unknown, People executed by decapitation

Aurelius and Natalia (died 852) were Christian martyrs who were put to death during the reign of Abd ar-Rahman II, Emir of Córdoba. They are counted among the Martyrs of Córdoba. Aurelius and his wife Natalia were both the offspring of Muslim fathers. They were secretly Christians.  Aurelius's cousin Felix and his wife Liliosa were also Christians. Under Sharia Law, all four of them were required to profess Islam. In time though all four began to openly profess the Christian faith. The two women would go about in public with their faces unveiled. They were all swiftly arrested as apostates from Islam. They were given four days to recant. They refused, and were beheaded. They were martyred with a local monk, George. He had openly spoken out against the Islamic prophet Mohammed. He had been offered a pardon as a foreigner. He chose instead to denounce Islam again and die with the others. They are considered saints in the Roman Catholic Church. Their feast day is July 27.

[[Charlotte Corday]]

CATEGORIES: Assassins, Executed French people, French criminals, People executed by decapitation, 1768 births, 1793 deaths, People of the French Revolution

Charlotte Corday (Marie-Anne Charlotte de Corday d'Armont, 27 July 1768 – 17 July 1793), was a figure of the French Revolution. In 1793, she was sent to the guillotine for the assassination of Jacobin leader Jean-Paul Marat.  She blamed Marat for the more extreme course the Revolution had taken. He played a large role in the takedown of the Girondins. Corday believed in the Girondins' cause.  In 1847, writer Alphonse de Lamartine gave Corday the nickname l'ange de l'assassinat (the Angel of Assassination).

[[Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex]]

CATEGORIES: 1565 births, 1601 deaths, English Earls, Knights of the Garter, People executed by decapitation, Earls and countesses, Executed English people

Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex, KG (10 November 1565 – 25 February 1601) was an English nobleman and a favourite of Elizabeth I. He was politically ambitious, and a committed general. He was placed under house arrest following a poor campaign in Ireland during the Nine Years' War in 1599. In 1601 he led an abortive coup d'état against the government and was executed for treason. His story has been told in art and literature. Two well known examples are the opera Roberto Devereux by Gaetano Donizetti and the movie The Private Lives of Elizabeth and Essex starring Bette Davis and Errol Flynn. 

Robert Devereux was one of Elizabeth I’s suitors, meaning he wanted to marry her.

[[The Private Lives of Elizabeth and Essex]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 movies, Historical movies, Romance movies, Movies based on plays, English-language movies, Movies directed by Michael Curtiz

The Private Lives of Elizabeth and Essex is a 1939 historical movie. It is about the relationship between Queen Elizabeth I and Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex. The movie stars Bette Davis and Errol Flynn. The movie was directed by Michael Curtiz. It was based on the Maxwell Anderson play, Elizabeth the Queen.

The play had been a Broadway success with Lynn Fontanne and Alfred Lunt in the lead roles. The supporting cast in the movie included Olivia de Havilland, Donald Crisp, Henry Daniell, Henry Stephenson, and Vincent Price. The score was composed by Erich Wolfgang Korngold. He later used a theme from the movie in his Symphony in F sharp major.

The Technicolor cinematography was by Sol Polito. The elaborate costumes were designed by Orry-Kelly. The movie was a Warner Brothers production. The movie was a hit.  It received five Academy Award nominations including Best Color Cinematography. Bette Davis was expected to receive a nomination. She was nominated instead for Dark Victory.

[[Batman Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Australia, Buildings and structures in Tasmania, Steel bridges, 1968 establishments in Australia

The Batman Bridge crosses the Tamar River in northern Tasmania, about 30 km north of Launceston. It was opened on 18 May 1968 by the Premier of Tasmania, Eric Reece. When it was built it was one of the first cable-stayed truss bridges in the world. It provides access between the north east and north west of Tasmania. It was named after John Batman, a Tasmanian pioneer and the founder of the city of Melbourne. 

[[Tacoma Narrows Bridge (1940)]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 establishments in the United States, 1940 disestablishments, 1940s disestablishments in the United States, Bridges in the United States, Buildings and structures in Washington, Concrete bridges, National Register of Historic Places, Steel bridges, Tacoma, Washington, Transport in Washington, Suspension bridges, 20th-century establishments in Washington (state), 20th-century disestablishments in Washington (state)

The 1940 Tacoma Narrows Bridge was the first version of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge. It was a suspension bridge in the U.S. state of Washington. The bridge was built over the Tacoma Narrows strait of Puget Sound between Tacoma and the Kitsap Peninsula. It opened on July 1, 1940. The bridge collapsed into Puget Sound on November 7 of the same year. At that time, it was the third longest suspension bridge in the world in terms of main span length. The Golden Gate Bridge and the George Washington Bridge were the only bridges that were larger.

Construction of the bridge started in September 1938. After the deck was built, the wind caused it to move vertically. Because of this, the people building it gave it the nickname Galloping Gertie. The movement was seen even when the bridge opened to the public. Many things were tried to stop the bridge from moving. None of these things worked. The bridge's main span collapsed under 40 winds on the morning of November 7, 1940.

Because of World War II, the bridge could not be built again at that time. The towers and cables of the bridge were still in place. These and the rest of the bridge were taken apart and sold as scrap metal.  In 1950, a new Tacoma Narrows Bridge opened in the same place. It used the first bridge's tower pedestals and cable anchorages. The parts of the bridge that fell into the water are now an artificial reef.

The bridge's collapse had lasting effects on science and engineering.  In many physics books, it is used to show resonance. Its collapse also helped increase research in the field of bridge aerodynamics-aeroelastics. This has affected the designs of all the world's large long-span bridges built since 1940.

[[West Gate Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Australia, Buildings and structures in Melbourne, Steel bridges, 1978 establishments in Australia

The Westgate Bridge crosses the Yarra River, near Melbourne, Victoria. It is the third longest bridge in Australia. The bridge's length, including the approaches is 2582.6. Work began on the bridge on 22 April 1968, and the bridge was opened on 15 November 1978 at a cost of AU$202 million. It was the scene of Australia's worst industrial accident when part of the bridge collapsed in October 1970, killing 35 men and injuring 18 others.

[[The Blair Witch Project]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 horror movies, 1990s supernatural movies, American horror movies, American supernatural movies, English-language movies, Found footage movies, Movies set in Maryland, Supernatural horror movies, Witches, American independent movies

The Blair Witch Project is a 1999 American independent supernatural horror movie. It was written and directed by Daniel Myrick and Eduardo Sánchez and produced by the Haxan Films production company.

This movie was put together from amateur footage and relates the story of three student filmmakers (Heather Donahue, Joshua Leonard, and Michael C. Williams) who disappeared while hiking in the Black Hills near Burkittsville, Maryland in 1994 to film a documentary about a local legend known as the Blair Witch. The viewers are told the three were never seen or heard from again, although their video and sound equipment (along with most of the footage they shot) was discovered a year later. This "recovered footage" is presented as the viewer is watching the movie.

The Blair Witch Project was first shown at the 1999 Sundance Film Festival. It was released by Artisan on 30 July 1999 after months of publicity, including a ground-breaking campaign by the studio to use the Internet and suggest that the film was a record of real events. The distribution strategy for The Blair Witch Project was created and implemented by Artisan studio executive Steven Rothenberg. The movie was positively received by critics and went on to gross over US$248 million worldwide, making it one of the most successful independent movies of all time. The DVD was released in December 1999 and presented only in fullscreen.

[[The Helix Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Singapore, Steel bridges, 2010 establishments in Asia, 2010s establishments in Singapore

The Helix Bridge (before called the Double Helix Bridge) is a pedestrian bridge across the opening to Marina Bay in Singapore. It links the new Marina Centre with Marina South. It is located beside the Benjamin Sheares Bridge and the Bayfront Bridge, which are for vehicles (cars, etc.). It was first opened on 24 April 2010, but part of it stayed closed because of nearby construction. The whole bridge was opened on 18 July 2010. It was the last link in the pedestrian walkway that goes all the way around Marina Bay. The bridge is also used as an art gallery where children's paintings and drawings are shown to the public.

The bridge was built as part of a major development plan in the area. Other projects included the huge modern-style Marina Bay Sands hotel and casino, the Singapore Flyer, the Gardens by the Bay, and a 438000 business and financial zone. All of it was to be finished by 2012.

[[Ross Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Australia, Stone bridges, Buildings and structures in Tasmania, 1836 establishments, 1830s establishments in Australia

Ross Bridge is an historic bridge in the town of Ross in central Tasmania, Australia, completed in July 1836. It crosses the Macquarie River. It replaced an earlier bridge built in 1822 made of uncemented stone piers, with a road surface of logs and clay. This bridge was repaired after several piers fell down in 1828, and the bridge finally collapsed in 1831.

The sandstone bridge was built by convicts. It is the third oldest bridge still in use in Australia. The bridge was designed by architect John Lee Archer. Several attempts were made to build a new bridge. Corrupt officials sold materials the government had bought to make the bridge. Archer changed his designs, and a number of different overseers were put in charge. It was not until two convict stonemasons, James Colbeck and Daniel Herbert joined the building team that any progress was made. In 13 months they completed the bridge on which work had started seven years earlier. Herbert is responsible the detailed carvings along both sides of the bridge.

[[Spean Praptos]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Asia, Stone bridges, Buildings and structures in Asia, 12th-century establishments in Asia, Establishments in Cambodia

Spean Praptos (Khmer: ស្ពានប្រាប់ទិស) is an ancient stone bridge in Cambodia. It is on the road from Angkor to Phnom Chisor, near the village of Kampong Kdei. It used to be the longest stone-arch bridge in the world. It has more than 20 arches spanning 285 ft (87m). The bridge was built in the 12th century during the reign of the Khmer emperor Jayavarman VII.

[[Carly Rae Jepsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Canadian pop singers, Canadian singer-songwriters, Musicians from British Columbia, Reality television participants

Carly Rae Jepsen (born November 21, 1985) is a Canadian singer-songwriter and actress.  She was born in Mission, British Columbia to Alexandra Lanzarotta and Larry Jepsen. She first came to public attention in 2007 by being a contestant on the fifth season of Canadian Idol, she came third. Her debut album Tug of War was released on 30 September 2008. In 2011 her single "Call Me Maybe" was released. It is the best selling single by a female artist of the 21st century. Her first EP Curiosity and her second album Kiss were both released in 2012. In 2015, she released Emotion, a pop album inspired by the music of the 1980s, which gained a cult following as well as very positive critical reviews. The album's first single "I Really Like You" charted in several countries such as the United Kingdom, where it reached number 3. She released her second EP Emotion: Side B in 2016 featuring eight tracks that were cut from Emotion. 

[[Richmond Bridge (Tasmania)]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Australia, Buildings and structures in Tasmania, Stone bridges, 1825 establishments, 1820s establishments in Australia

The Richmond Bridge is a historic bridge in Richmond, 25 north of Hobart in Tasmania, Australia. It is the oldest bridge still in use in Australia.

[[Red Bridge (Tasmania)]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Australia, Stone bridges, Buildings and structures in Tasmania, 1838 establishments, 1830s establishments in Australia

The Red Bridge in Tasmania crosses the Elizabeth River at Campbell Town. It was built between 1836 and 1838 by convicts using red clay bricks made on site. It has a solid stone base with sandstone piers and cappings. It is the oldest brick arch bridge in Australia, as well as the oldest bridge anywhere on an Australian National Highway. The bridge has three arches with spans of 7.6 each. It is wide enough for two lanes of traffic as well as pedestrian walkways. It is on the Midland Highway, about halfway between Hobart and Launceston, and carries over two million vehicles per year.

It is said to have been designed by James Blackburn, an architect and a convict who had been sent to Tasmania for the crime of forgery. It was made from 1,250,000 hand-made bricks on dry land. After it was finished the course of the river was changed to flow under the bridge.

The Red Bridge is registered on the Register of the National Estate since 1978.

[[Cable-stayed bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridge types

A cable-stayed bridge is a bridge that has one or more columns (called towers or pylons), with cables directly supporting the bridge deck.

There are two main types of cable-stayed bridges. In the harp design, the cables are nearly parallel. This is done by attaching them to various points on the tower(s). The height of attachment of each cable on the tower is similar to the distance from the tower along the roadway to its lower attachment. In a fan design, the cables all connect to or pass over the top of the tower(s).

Compared to other bridge types, the cable-stayed is best for longer spans than used for cantilever bridges, and shorter than those needing a suspension bridge. Cantilever spans become too heavy if they were made longer. A cable-stay bridge is cheaper to build than a suspension bridge over a short distance.

Disadvantages of a Cable Stayed Bridge

Advantages of a Cable Stayed Bridge

[[Ford Center]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in the United States, 2002 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Oklahoma, 2010 disestablishments in the United States

[[Pontoon bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridge types

A pontoon bridge is a bridge that floats on water. It is a floating bridge with barges or boats ('pontoons') to support the bridge deck. 

Pontoon bridges are usually temporary structures, but some are used for long periods. Permanent floating bridges are useful for sheltered (quiet)  water-crossings. It may be too expensive to suspend a bridge from anchored piers. Pontoon bridges may need a section that is elevated, or can be raised or removed, to allow ships to pass.

Pontoon bridges are often used in wartime as river crossings. They are usually temporary, and are sometimes destroyed after crossing (to keep the enemy from using them), or collapsed and carried (if on a long march). They were used to great advantage in many battles. Pontoon bridges have been in use since ancient times. It is thought that the first London Bridge was a Roman pontoon bridge. Roman legions had men and equipment to build pontoon bridges, and often made them. The first pontoon bridge was made by the Zhou Dynasty. 

[[Cantilever bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Cantilever bridges

A cantilever bridge is a bridge built using a cantilever. A cantilever is only supported on one end. For small footbridges, the cantilevers may be simple beams. For large cantilever bridges, designed for road or rail traffic the cantilevers are trusses built from structural steel, or box girders built from prestressed concrete. The steel truss cantilever bridge was a major engineering breakthrough when it was first used, because it can span distances of over 1500. They can be more easily built at difficult crossings as they do not need to be supported during the construction.

[[Dallas Clark]]

CATEGORIES: American football tight ends, Indianapolis Colts players, 1979 births, Living people, People from Sioux Falls, South Dakota, Sportspeople from South Dakota

Dallas Dean Clark (born June 12, 1979) is an American football tight end in the National Football League who is currently a free agent.  He played college football for the University of Iowa. He was drafted 24th overall in the 2003 NFL Draft, and played his entire nine-year professional career for the Colts.  He has been called a "hybrid" tight end due to his rare ability to play both the wide receiver and tight end positions well. However, injuries have made his career more difficult.

[[Marion Barber III]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, American football running backs, Dallas Cowboys players, Chicago Bears players, Sportspeople from Minnesota

Marion Sylvester Barber III (born June 10, 1983) is a former American football running back in the National Football League. After playing college football for the Minnesota Golden Gophers, he was drafted by the Dallas Cowboys in the fourth round of the 2005 NFL Draft. He was selected to the Pro Bowl in 2007 during his six-year tenureMarch 2012 with the Cowboys. He played for the Chicago Bears in 2011. 

[[The Sixth Sense]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 drama movies, 1999 horror movies, 1999 thriller movies, 1990s drama thriller movies, 1990s horror thriller movies, 1999 mystery movies, 1990s ghost movies, 1990s psychological movies, 1990s supernatural movies, American drama thriller movies, American ghost movies, American mystery movies, American psychological movies, English-language movies, Movies composed by James Newton Howard, Movies directed by M. Night Shyamalan, Movies set in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Murder-suicide in movies, Screenplays by M. Night Shyamalan, Supernatural horror movies

The Sixth Sense is a 1999 American psychological horror thriller mystery movie. It is set in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and was directed by M. Night Shyamalan. It stars Haley Joel Osment and Bruce Willis.

It is the second highest-grossing horror movie of all time (behind It).

[[Orc]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional races, Middle-earth

An Orc is a mythical creature. 

In the 20th century, orcs most often refer to the creatures in J. R. R. Tolkien's Middle-earth books. Tolkien's orcs are human-shaped creatures, and servitors of evil. 

The word can probably be traced to Orcus. This is a different name for Pluto or Hades. Pliny the Elder writes about orcs in his Naturalis historia. They are long-toothed sea monsters. Ludovico Ariosto (1474-1533)wrote an epic Orlando Furioso: There, the virgin Angelica is captured by a sea monster called orc. The hero, Rogero, is able to free her as he rode a Hippogriff. The Latin name of the Killer Whale, Orcinus orca is }likely to come from that story. There is another creature called orc in Orlando Furioso: a blind man-eating giant who abducts King Norandin of Damascus and his lover Lucina. This orc cannot be vanquished; only fooled by trickery.

There is another Orc that lives in the Alps. It is a demon living on mountain tops. It sometimes is described as protector of the forest. At other times it is said to be an evil spirit who brings doom to cattle and wild beasts.

From the early Middle Ages, the orc was seen as an evil creature, much like other creatures of Celtic origin.

[[Hideo Shinojima]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1975 deaths, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Hideo Shinojima was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Azimuntium]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Towns in Greece

Azimuntium (Azimus, or Esimontou) was a fortified town in Thracian region near the Illyrian border of the Eastern Roman Empire (present day Greece). The town is described by the Greek historian Priscus of Panium as the being the only one of the 182 forts and castles of Thrace to resist during the Attilan War of 443-446 A.D. and separately negotiating an exchange of captives with Attila after the peace was declared in 446 A.D.

The town is thought by Priscus to have still been in existence up the reign of the Emperor Justinian after which it "extirpated by the jealousy of the Roman princes". In Chapter 34 of his book "The history of the decline and fall of the Roman empire", Gibbons describes the town as follows:

[[Districts of Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Japan

Districts of Japan were areas of  traditional local government in Japan before the Meiji period.  The function of districts has changed over time, but they continue to exist in contemporary Japan.  

Districts are not all the same size.  They are roughly equivalent to a county in the United Kingdom or the United States.  They are smaller than prefectures and larger than towns and villages.

[[Tokizo Ichihashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, Year of death missing, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Tokizo Ichihashi was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Saizo Saito]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 2004 deaths, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Saizo Saito was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Masao Nozawa]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Masao Nozawa was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His brother Akira Nozawa also played for Japan national team.

[[Hiroshi Kanazawa]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Hiroshi Kanazawa was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Yukio Goto]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, 1976 deaths, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Yukio Goto was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Akira Nozawa]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Akira Nozawa was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His brother Masao Nozawa also played for Japan national team.

[[Teiichi Matsumaru]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1997 deaths, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Teiichi Matsumaru was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Convex function]]

CATEGORIES: Functions and mappings

right|thumb|300px|A function (in black) is convex if and only if the region above its graph (in green) is a convex set. In mathematics, a convex function is any function with value of the weighted average of 2 points is less than or equal to the weighted average of the function at those points.  Also, a function is convex if and only if its epigraph is a convex set.

[[Koichi Oita]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1996 deaths, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Koichi Oita was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Weighted average]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

A weighted average is the average of values which are scaled by importance.  The weighted average equals the sum of weights times values divided by the sum of the weights.  

[[Epigraph (mathematics)]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

[[Kunitaka Sueoka]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1998 deaths, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Kunitaka Sueoka was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kim Sung-gan]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1984 deaths, People from Pyongyang, Japanese footballers, South Korean footballers, Japan international footballers

Kim Sung-Gan (Hangul:김성간, November 17, 1912 – May 19, 1984)  was a South Korean athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Japanese national team in 1940.

[[Taro Kagawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1990 deaths, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Tanabe Mitsubishi Pharma SC players

Taro Kagawa was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His brother Hiroshi Kagawa is a former footballer and football journalist.

[[David Coverdale]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American rock singers, English rock musicians, English singers, Musicians from Yorkshire, Naturalized citizens of the United States

David 'Jack' Coverdale (born 22 September 1951) is an English rock singer. He is most famous for his work with hard rock band Whitesnake. The band was very successful commercially. During his early career Coverdale was the vocalist of Deep Purple for some time. He left the band to become a solo artist, and worked with Whitesnake. He also made an album with Led Zeppelin guitarist Jimmy Page. This was also successful.

[[Takashi Mizuno]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Takashi Mizuno (former name; Takashi Tokuhiro, 徳弘 隆) is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Super Bowl XL]]

CATEGORIES: Super Bowl, 2006 in sports, Pittsburgh Steelers, 2006 in the United States, 2000s in Detroit, Michigan

Super Bowl XL was an American football game in the National Football League between the American Football Conference (AFC) champion Pittsburgh Steelers against the National Football Conference (NFC) champion Seattle Seahawks to decide the Super Bowl champion for the 2005 season. Played on February 5, 2006, at Ford Field in Detroit, the Steelers beat the Seahawks, 21-10.  Steelers receiver Hines Ward, who caught 5 passes for 123 yards and a touchdown, while also rushing for 18 yards, was named Super Bowl MVP. Pittsburgh finished the regular season with an 11-5 record and became the fourth wild card team, and third in nine years, to win the Super Bowl. Pittsburgh also became the first #6 seed in the NFL playoffs to win a Super Bowl (and the first #6 seed to win a conference title).  The Steelers became the second franchise, following the Oakland Raiders, to appear in the Super Bowl in four different decades (1970s, 1980s, 1990s, 2000s), and the first to appear in four consecutive decades. Also, Steelers runningback Jerome Bettis was able  win a Super Bowl thanks to this game.

However, many have criticized the officiating in that game, as they believe Seattle was cheated during some questionable calls by referee Bill Leavy.

[[Gulf of Honduras]]

CATEGORIES: Gulfs, Atlantic Ocean, Geography of Central America, Geography of Belize, Geography of Guatemala

The Gulf or Bay of Honduras is a large inlet of the Caribbean Sea. It indents the coasts of Belize, Guatemala, and Honduras. From north to south, it runs for approximately 200 km from Dangriga, Belize, to La Ceiba, Honduras.

The inner Gulf of Honduras is lined by the Belize Barrier Reef. It forms the southern part of the 900 km long Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System. This is the second-largest coral reef system in the world. The Belize Barrier Reef has a number of small islands. They are called cays, and collectively known as the Pelican Cays.

The Gulf of Honduras contains complex dynamics of coastal and open waters, and ocean currents. These have produced a very diverse and unique ecosystem with a wide variety of coastal marine waters. It includes coastline estuaries, barrier beaches, lagoons, intertidal salt marshes, mangrove forests, seagrass beds, keys and barrier reefs.

The gulf receives the runoff from the watersheds of 12 rivers . They discharge at 1232 m³ s-1. These rivers include the Moho, Sarstún, Río Dulce, Motagua, and Ulúa. Volume of sediment from these rivers is increasing. This damages the marine ecosystem.

Many American anglers visit the Gulf of Honduras to catch the marlin that abound there. Tourists are often taken on boat trips to the Pelican Cays, notably Caye Caulker and Ambergris Caye.

In 1961 Hurricane Hattie swept across the Gulf of Honduras. It destroyed buildings in Belize.

[[Swan Islands, Honduras]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic islands, Islands of Central America, Honduras

The Swan Islands, or Islas Santanilla, are a chain of three islands. They are in the northwestern Caribbean Sea. They are about ninety miles off the coastline of Honduras. They have a land area of 8. 

[[Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Concepción]]

CATEGORIES: 1563 establishments, Roman Catholicism, Concepción, 1560s establishments in South America, 16th-century establishments in Chile

The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Concepción (Archidiœcesis Sanctissimae Conceptionis) is an archdiocese in Concepción, Chile.

[[Matthew Hopkins]]

CATEGORIES: People from Suffolk, 1647 deaths, 1620s births

Matthew Hopkins (c. 1620 – 12 August 1647) was a witch-hunter. His 3-year career began in 1645 during the time of the English Civil War and ended in 1647. Matthew and his colleague John Stearne were responsible for the rising number of witch hunts during that time. At the end, more people were hanged for being witches because of Hopkins and Stearnes accusations than in the previous 100 years.  It is believed the number of deaths due to them was about 300 women. His witchhunts mainly took place in the eastern counties of Suffolk, Essex, Norfolk, and occasionally in Cambridgeshire, Northamptonshire, Bedfordshire, and Huntingdonshire. 

Very little is known of Matthew Hopkins before 1644. There are no documents from that time about him or his family. He was born in Great Wenham, Suffolk. His father, James Hopkins, was a Puritan clergyman in Suffolk. 

Hopkins wrote in his book The Discovery of Witches that he "never travelled far... to gain his experience".

In the early 1640s Hopkins moved to Manningtree, Essex near Colchester. According to tradition Hopkins used his inheritance to establish himself as a gentleman and to buy the Thorn Inn in Mistley.

From the way that he gave evidence in trials, Hopkins is thought to have been trained as a lawyer, but there is little evidence to prove this.

Matthew Hopkins died at his home in Manningtree, Essex, on 12 August 1647, probably of tuberculosis.

[[Inflow (meteorology)]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology

Inflow is the flow of a fluid into a large collection of that fluid. In meteorology, inflow normally means the influx (entry) of warmth and moisture from air within the Earth's atmosphere into storm systems.  Extratropical cyclones are created by inflow focused along their cold front and warm fronts.  Tropical cyclones need a large inflow of warmth and moisture from warm oceans to become very powerful, mainly within the lowest 1 of the atmosphere.  Once the thunderstorms and their associated tornadoes do not get the flow of warm and moist air, the storms begin to dissipate. 

[[Hurricane Bob (1985)]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 in the United States, Category 1 Atlantic hurricanes

Hurricane Bob was a hurricane that affected the southeast United States in July 1985. It was the second tropical storm and first hurricane of the 1985 Atlantic hurricane season. The system developed from a tropical wave on July 21 in the eastern Gulf of Mexico. Bob began moving east. It struck southwestern Florida as a weak tropical storm. The storm then turned to the north. It quickly became more intense and was promoted to hurricane status on July 24. The next day, it made landfall near Beaufort, South Carolina. It became one of a record-tying six hurricanes to hit the United States during a single season. Bob quickly weakened over land. It was absorbed by a frontal trough over eastern West Virginia on July 26.

Bob caused $20 million in damage and five indirect deaths. In Florida, the storm produced heavy rainfall. It peaked at over 20 in Everglades City. In most areas, the rainfall was beneficial due to dry conditions that had persisted throughout the year. Damage was minimal in South Carolina, where the hurricane made its final landfall. In Virginia, the storm spawned three tornadoes, one of which destroyed two houses.

[[List of Shonan Bellmare players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Shonan Bellmare players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Shonan Bellmare is a Japanese professional football club in Hiratsuka.

[[Cudjoe Key, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Florida, Census-designated places in Florida

Cudjoe Key is a census-designated place in Monroe County, Florida. It is on an island of the same name in the lower Florida Keys.  As of the 2000 census, the CDP had a total population of 1,695.

It was originally called Littleton Island.

The United States Army activated Cudjoe Key Air Force Station in 1959. It was to track missiles traveling through the Eglin Gulf Test Range. The Air Force took over operations the next year. After this, it became a detached installation of Homestead Joint Air Reserve Base. The station flies a white radar aerostat. It is known locally as "Fat Albert". This is used for drug interdiction missions by the Drug Enforcement Administration. On April 20, 2007 a Cessna 182 crashed after its left wing struck the tether anchoring "Fat Albert" http://apnews.myway.com/article/20070422/D8OLHLDO0.htmlhttp://www.ntsb.gov/ntsb/brief.asp?ev_id=20070425X00453&key=1. The aerostat is marked on air navigation charts inside a restricted area. The area has the warning, "Caution: Unmarked balloon on cable to 14,000 feet."

It is possibly named after the Joewood tree (Jacquinia keyensis), a native species. It is also known as cudjoewood. But writer John Viele of Summerland Key gives a better reason for its name.  He believes that Cudjoe, a very common West African name, was the name of a fugitive slave or free negro who lived on the island at some point before to Gerdes' survey in 1849.

[[Whenever, Wherever]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 songs, Shakira songs

"Whenever, Wherever" is the debut English-language single for Latin music artist Shakira. Taken off of her first English-language album Laundry Service it was released in late 2001. She also recorded a Spanish-language version of the song titled "Suerte". It was the best-selling song of 2001. The video won the 2002 Latin Grammy Award for "Best Short Form Music Video". The song was written by Shakira and Gloria Estafan.

[[Laundry Service]]

CATEGORIES: Shakira, 2001 albums

Laundry Service is the fifth studio album by Latin music artist Shakira. It was Shakira's first album in English. It was released in late 2001, preceded by the first single "Whenever, Wherever". Other singles after that included "Underneath Your Clothes" and "Objection (Tango)". It has sold more than 13 million copies.

[[Tay Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in the United Kingdom, Buildings and structures in Scotland, Steel bridges, 1878 establishments in Scotland, 1879 disestablishments, 1870s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1887 establishments, 1880s establishments in Scotland

The Tay Bridge (or Tay Rail Bridge) is a railway bridge about two and a quarter miles (three and a half kilometres) long that spans the Firth of Tay in Scotland, between the city of Dundee and Wormit, Fife (NO391277).

As with the Forth Rail Bridge, the Tay Bridge has been called the Tay Rail Bridge since the construction of the Tay Road Bridge over the firth. The original rail bridge replaced an early train ferry.

The present Tay Bridge is the second Rail bridge over the Tay. The first one collapsed in 1879 in a storm, with great loss of life.

[[Jeff Saturday]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Atlanta, Georgia, Baltimore Ravens players, Indianapolis Colts players, Green Bay Packers players

Jeffrey Bryant Saturday (born June 18, 1975) is an American football player. He plays as a center for the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League. He played college football at North Carolina. He was first signed by the Baltimore Ravens as an undrafted free agent in 1998, but was released. He signed with the Indianapolis Colts, where he stayed through 2011. Saturday earned a Super Bowl ring when Indianapolis beat the Chicago Bears in Super Bowl XLI.

[[Underneath Your Clothes]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 songs, Shakira songs

"Underneath Your Clothes" is the second English-language single released by Latin music artist Shakira. It is taken off of her album Laundry Service following the massive success of "Whenever, Wherever". The song was released as a single in early 2002.

[[Salle Le Peletier]]

CATEGORIES: Opera houses in France, Theatres in France, Buildings and structures in Paris

The Salle Le Peletier (sometimes referred to as the Salle de la rue Le Peletier or the Opéra Le Peletier) was the home of the Paris Opera from 1821 until the building was destroyed by fire in 1873. The theatre was designed and constructed by the architect François Debret on the site of the former Hôtel de Choiseul. Due to the many changes in government and management during the theatre's existence, it had a number of different official names, the most important of which were: Théâtre de l'Académie Royale de Musique (1821–1848), Opéra-Théâtre de la Nation (1848–1850), Théâtre de l'Académie Nationale de Musique (1850–1852), Théâtre de l'Académie Impériale de Musique (1852–1854), Théâtre Impérial de l'Opéra (1854–1870), and Théâtre National de l'Opéra (1870–1873).

[[Darmstadt University of Technology]]

CATEGORIES: Darmstadt, Education in Hesse, Technical colleges and universities in Germany, 1877 establishments in Europe, 1870s establishments in Germany

The Darmstadt University of Technology (Technische Universität Darmstadt; TUD) is a university in Darmstadt, in Germany. It is the largest technical university in the state of Hesse and one of the largest technical universities in Germany with around 25,000 students.

[[Carlotta Grisi]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 births, 1899 deaths, Ballet dancers, Italian people

Carlotta Grisi (June 28, 1819 – May 20, 1899) was an Italian ballet dancer. She was famous for creating the role of Giselle. 

[[Brian Dawkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American football safeties, Sportspeople from Florida, Denver Broncos players, Philadelphia Eagles players

Brian Patrick Dawkins (born October 13, 1973) is an American football player. He is a safety for the Denver Broncos of the National Football League. He was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles in the second round of the 1996 NFL Draft. He played college football at Clemson.

He is a nine-time Pro Bowl selection. Dawkins is a member of the Philadelphia Eagles 75th Anniversary Team, the NFL 2000s All-Decade Team and the 20/20 Club (20 sacks, 20 interceptions).

[[Romantic ballet]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets

The Romantic ballet is a genre of ballet that evolved in the early 19th century as a reaction against the classicism that dominated 18th century art and literature. Balletomanes of the early nineteenth century were bored with stories about ancient gods and goddesses, plots based on myths, and ancient costumes. They wanted ballets about real people and real places. Pointe work became artistic expression rather than  stunt work, and the long, white, ballet skirt of tulle was introduced. Both produced the illusion of ethereal weightlessness. Gas lighting made it possible to create special dimming effects and wires enabled ballerinas to "fly". 

The romantic era in ballet began with The Ballet of the Nuns in 1831 and was followed by La Sylphide in 1832. The genre began a slow decline. Coppélia of 1870 is said to mark the end of the romantic ballet, although the three ballets composed by Tchaikovsky are romantic ballets. Tchaikovsky's Swan Lake of 1876 is considered a romantic ballet. Even his The Nutcracker of 1892 is a romantic ballet. Michel Fokine's Les Sylphides of 1906 is considered a tribute to the romantic ballet in its atmosphere and tone. 

Romantic ballets have four things in common: they are not about mythological gods and goddesses; they show local or national color in costumes, settings, and dances such as mazurkas and waltzes; a supernatural, fantastic, exotic, or spiritual element is usually prominent; and ballet technique is a focus, especially pointe work for the ballerina.

[[Bolte Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Australia, Cantilever bridges, Buildings and structures in Melbourne, 1999 establishments in Australia

The Bolte Bridge is a large twin cantilever bridge in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The Bolte Bridge carries a total of 8 lanes of traffic - 4 lanes northbound and 4 lanes southbound. While officially only 490 metres in length, the actual structure appears much longer as it forms part of a 5 kilometre elevated roadway between Flemington Road and the West Gate Freeway, making it the longest bridge (by definition) in Australia. It crosses the Yarra River and Victoria Harbour in the Docklands area to the west of the Melbourne CBD. It forms part of the CityLink system of toll roads that joins the Tullamarine Freeway from the northern suburbs with the West Gate Freeway and the Domain and Burnley tunnels to the Monash Freeway and the south eastern suburbs.

[[Norm (mathematics)]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

[[1991 Bangladesh cyclone]]

CATEGORIES: Deadly storms, 20th century in Bangladesh, Cyclonic storms, 1991 in Asia

The Bangladesh Cyclone of 1991 was an extremely devastating super cyclonic storm. On the evening of Monday, April 29, 1991 a strong super cyclonic storm struck the Chittagong area of southeastern Bangladesh with winds around 155 mph. The storm killed over 138,000 people and caused $1.5 billion in destruction. The cyclone left almost ten million homeless.

[[Akashi Kaikyō Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Japan, Steel bridges, Suspension bridges, 1998 establishments in Japan

The Akashi-Kaikyō Bridge, also known as the Pearl Bridge, is the world's longest suspension bridge. 

Akashi-Kaikyō connects the island of Honshu with Awaji Island in the Seto Inland Sea.  The bridge is part of the Honshu-Shikoku Highway which allows automobiles to cross the Akashi Strait.

[[Chittagong]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Bangladesh, Chittagong Division, 1340 establishments, Establishments in Bangladesh, 14th century establishments in Asia

Chittagong (officially called Chattogram or Chattagram) is a city in southeast Bangladesh near the Karnaphuli River. The city is the capital of the Chittagong district and division. The city has around 5.5 million people.

[[Gamekeeper]]

CATEGORIES: Agricultural occupations

A gamekeeper is a person who manages an area of countryside to make sure there is enough game for shooting, or fish for angling. He actively manages areas of woodland, moorland, waterway or farmland for the benefit of game birds, deer, fish and wildlife in general. 

In the UK, a gamekeeper is typically employed by a landowner. He ofen works on a country estate. It is his job to prevent poaching, and to rear and release game birds such as pheasants and partridge. He eradicates pests, encourages and manages grouse, and controls predators such as foxes. He manages habitats to suit game, and monitors the health of the game.

[[Seishiro Shimatani]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2001 deaths, Footballers from Kyoto Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, JEF United Chiba players, Kyoto Sanga FC players

Seishiro Shimatani was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Tatsuya Shiji]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Nagoya Grampus players

Tatsuya Shiji is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[List of counties in Georgia (U.S. state)]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Georgia (U.S. state) counties

The state of Georgia is divided into 159 counties. 

Georgia has the second largest number of counties of any state in the United States.  The state of Texas has 254 counties (see List of counties in Texas). The last new county in Georgia was Peach County, formed in 1924.

[[Saburo Kawabuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, JEF United Chiba players, Japan national football team managers, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics

Saburo Kawabuchi is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team. He also managed the Japan national team.

[[List of counties in Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Idaho counties, Idaho-related lists, Lists of counties of the United States

There are 44 counties in the U.S. state of Idaho.

[[List of counties in Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Illinois counties, Lists of counties of the United States

There are 102 counties in the state of Illinois.  

[[List of counties in Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Indiana counties, Lists of counties of the United States

The U.S. state of Indiana has 92 counties. Each county is the local level of government within its borders. County government in Indiana consists of two bodies, the county council and the commissioners. 

[[List of counties in Iowa]]

CATEGORIES: Iowa counties, Lists of counties of the United States

There are 99 counties in the U.S. state of Iowa. The first two counties, Des Moines County and Dubuque County, were formed in 1834 when Iowa was still part of the Michigan Territory. One of the most important days in Iowa county history was January 15, 1851, when 49 counties were created.

The Iowa Constitution of 1857, which is still in effect today, states that counties must have an area of at least 432.  No county be reduced below that size by badger changes. Exceptions to this rule were granted, as ten counties have areas below this size. The smallest county (Dickinson) has a land area of 381, while the largest (Kossuth) has an area 973sq mi (2,520 km²). Polk County is the most densely populated county at 657 persons/sq mi, and contains the state's capital and largest city, Des Moines.

[[List of counties in Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, Lists of counties of the United States, Kansas-related lists

There are 105 counties in the U.S. state of Kansas.

[[List of counties in Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Kentucky counties, Lists of counties of the United States

There are 120 counties in the U.S. state of Kentucky.

[[Maribyrnong River Viaduct]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Australia, Buildings and structures in Melbourne, Rail transport in Australia, 1929 establishments, 1920s establishments in Australia

The Maribyrnong River Viaduct (also known as the Quarter Mile Bridge) is a railway bridge across the Maribyrnong River in the western suburbs of Melbourne, Australia. It is near the E.J. Whitten Bridge, and is almost 400 metres long (hence the quarter mile name). The Albion-Jacana railway line uses the bridge, which is mainly used for freight. It also carries the Melbourne to Sydney CountryLink XPT. It is the second highest bridge in Victoria, only behind the West Gate Bridge (58 metres). At a height of 180 feet (54.86 m) above the water, it is even higher than the Sydney Harbour Bridge (52 metres). The bridge is 1257 feet (383.13 m) long

It was built in 1927–29 by the Victorian Railways Construction Branch, being the largest trestle bridge in Australia when completed in June, 1929. It is listed on the Victorian Heritage Register and employed 200 people during construction, with one fatality.  

[[List of parishes in Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana parishes, Lists of counties of the United States

The U.S. state of Louisiana is divided into 64 parishes in the same way that 48 of the other states of the United States are divided into counties (Alaska is divided into boroughs and census areas).

Forty-one parishes are governed by a council called the Police Jury. The other twenty-three have various other forms of government, including: president-council, council-manager, parish commission, and consolidated parish/city.

[[List of counties in Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Maine counties, Lists of counties of the United States

There are 16 counties in the U.S. state of Maine

[[List of counties in Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Maryland counties, Lists of counties of the United States

There are twenty-four counties and Baltimore City in the U.S. state of Maryland. Though an independent city rather than a county, the City of Baltimore by some is considered the equal of a county for most purposes and is a county-equivalent. 

[[Bridge of Sighs]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges, Stone bridges

The Bridge of Sighs (Italian: Ponte dei Sospiri) is a small bridge in Venice,  northern Italy. The bridge has walls and a roof. It is made of white limestone and has windows with stone bars. It passes over the Rio di Palazzo and connects the old prisons to the interrogation rooms in the Doge's Palace. It was designed by Antoni Contino (whose uncle Antonio da Ponte had designed the Rialto Bridge), and built in 1602.

The view from the windows of the Bridge of Sighs was the last view of Venice that convicts saw before their imprisonment. The bridge was named by Lord Byron in the 19th century. It was thought that prisoners would sigh at their final view of beautiful Venice through the windows before being taken down to their cells. In reality, the days of inquisitions and summary executions were over by the time the bridge was built and the cells under the palace roof were occupied mostly by small-time criminals. In addition, little could be seen from inside the Bridge due to the stone grills covering the windows. 

A local legend says that lovers will be granted everlasting love and bliss if they kiss on a gondola at sunset under the bridge.

[[List of counties in Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Massachusetts counties, Lists of counties of the United States

There are 14 counties in Massachusetts. Massachusetts has ended eight of its fourteen county governments.  This leaves five counties with county-level local government (Barnstable, Bristol, Dukes, Norfolk, Plymouth) and one, Nantucket County, with combined county/city government. Counties are still generally recognized as geographic entities if not political ones.

Eleven other historical counties have been in Massachusetts.  Most ended when their lands were absorbed into the colony of New Hampshire or the state of Maine.

[[Jeff Hornacek]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American basketball players, Sportspeople from Illinois, Philadelphia 76ers players, Phoenix Suns players, Utah Jazz players, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers

Jeffrey John Hornacek (born May 3, 1963 in Elmhurst, Illinois) is a retired American basketball player. Hornacek played a total of 16 seasons in the NBA with the Phoenix Suns, Philadelphia 76ers and the Utah Jazz. He played college basketball at Iowa State. He retired from basketball in 2000 to spend more time with his family. His jersey number 14 was retired by the Utah Jazz.

[[Cyclone Gonu]]

CATEGORIES: Tropical cyclones in Asia, Cyclonic storms, 2007 in weather, 2007 in Asia, Oman, 21st century in Iran

Super Cyclonic Storm Gonu was an extremely intense and very damaging storm. The cyclone was the most intense recorded tropical cyclone in the Arabian Sea and the strongest named tropical cyclone recorded in the Indian Ocean. Gonu developed on June 1 2007 over the northwest Indian Ocean and then intensified to Category 5 levels. The storm then weakened and then struck eastern Oman on June 6, contributing to that region's worst modern natural disaster and causing around $4.2 billion in damage. The cyclone also struck Iran, causing $216 million in damage. Almost eighty people died from Cyclone Gonu.

[[Sargent and Greenleaf]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States, Locks

Sargent and Greenleaf is a lock manufacturer. It is not to be confused with Assa Abloy's Sargent brand. Sargent and Greenleaf is well-knownMarch 2012 for their safe locks, although they also make other lock products including military-grade padlocks.

[[Marashiyan]]

CATEGORIES: Mazandaran, Arab world, Royal dynasties

Marashiyan or Marashis (in Mazandarani language: مرعشیون) is one of the Arab dynasties in Iran. Marashiyan ruled from 1359 to 1582 in Tabarestan (northern Iran). This is Islamic government. Mirbozorg is founder of the Marashiyans.

[[Henry IV]]

Henry IV could mean:

[[Jonathan Nolan]]

CATEGORIES: Christopher Nolan, Screenwriters from Illinois, British screenwriters, Writers from Chicago, Writers from London, Living people

Jonathan Nolan is a British-American author and screenwriter. He is the brother of movie director Christopher Nolan. Jonathan Nolan's story Memento Mori was made into a critically acclaimed film Memento. He has also co-written screenplays for  The Prestige and The Dark Knight, with his brother. In movie credits, his name has appeared as Jonah.

[[Afrikaner nationalism]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of South Africa, Nationalism, Political movements, 19th century in South Africa

Afrikaner nationalism is a political ideology which was created in the 19th century in South Africa. There is an ethnic group called Afrikaner in South Africa. Afrikaner nationalism is the idea that the Afrikaner are "chosen people". It says that Afrikaners who speak their language should unite to fight off foreign influences that come from  English-speaking settlers of South Africa, black people or Jews.

The historian T. Dunbar Moodie describes Afrikaner nationalism as a kind of civil religion that combined the history of the Afrikaners, their language and the Afrikaner Calvinism as key symbols. A major proponent of the ideology was the secret Broederbond organization and the National Party that ruled the country from 1948 to 1994. Other organisations aligned with the Afrikaner nationalistic ideology were the Federation of Afrikaans Cultural Organisations (Federasie van Afrikaanse Kultuurvereniginge , FAK), the Institute for Christian National Education and the White Workers' Protection Association.

[[List of counties in Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Michigan counties

There are 83 counties in the U.S. state of Michigan. 

[[Numerical analysis]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Technology, Computer science

thumb|250px|right|Babylonian clay tablet YBC 7289 (c. 1800–1600 BC) with annotations. The approximation of the square root of 2 is four sexagesimal figures, which is about six decimal figures. 1 + 24/60 + 51/602 + 10/603 = 1.41421296...Numerical analysis studies different algorithms to get approximations for  problems of mathematical analysis. Approximations are used for the following reasons:

One of the earliest known uses of numerical analysis is a Babylonian clay tablet, which approximates the square root of 2. In a unit square, the diagonal has this length. Being able to compute the sides of a triangle is extremely important, for instance, in carpentry and construction.

Numerical analysis naturally finds applications in all fields of engineering and the physical sciences, but in the 21st century, the life sciences and even the arts have adopted elements of scientific computations. Ordinary differential equations appear in star movement; optimization occurs in portfolio management; numerical linear algebra is important for data analysis; stochastic differential equations and Markov chains are essential in simulating living cells for medicine and biology.

Computers greatly helped this task. Before there were computers, numerical methods often depended on hand interpolation in large printed tables. Since the mid 20th century, computers calculate the required functions instead. These same interpolation formulas nevertheless continue to be used as part of the software algorithms for solving differential equations.

[[List of counties in Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Texas counties

The state of Texas is divided into 254 counties.  This is more than any other U.S. state. 

[[Barbara Windsor]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2020 deaths, Actors from London, English voice actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease

Dame Barbara Windsor DBE (born Barbara Ann Deeks, 6 August 1937 – 10 December 2020) was an English actress. She was born in Shoreditch, London. She was best known for her roles in the Carry On movies and for playing Peggy Mitchell from 1994–2010 in soap opera EastEnders. 

She was made a Dame in the 2016 New Year Honours.

On 10 May 2018, it was announced that Windsor was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in April 2014. She died from the disease on 10 December 2020 in London, aged 83.

== References == 

[[List of counties in Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Virginia counties

The Commonwealth of Virginia is divided into 95 counties and 39 independent cities, which are considered county-equivalents for census purposes.

[[Ryōgoku Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Tokyo, Wooden bridges, Bridges in Japan

Ryōgoku Bridge connected  Musashi Province and Shimōsa Province in the Edo period of Japan.  The bridge crossed the Sumida River in the area of modern Tokyo. 

[[List of counties in Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Missouri counties

There are 114 counties and one independent city in the U.S. state of Missouri.

In Missouri, the county level of government level comes between those of the city and the state. Its main responsibilities include maintaining roads, providing security, prosecuting criminals, and collecting taxes. Elected officials at this level include a sheriff, prosecuting attorney, and assessor.

The city of St. Louis is an independent city, and is not within the limits of a county. Its residents voted to secede from Saint Louis County in 1876. Throughout the United States, St. Louis is one of three independent cities outside the state of Virginia (the other two are Baltimore, Maryland and Carson City, Nevada).

[[List of counties in Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Tennessee counties

There are 95 counties in the State of Tennessee. A county is a local level of government smaller than a state and typically larger than a city or town.

[[List of counties in Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Nebraska counties

There are 93 counties in the U.S. state of Nebraska.

Nebraska's postal abbreviation is NE and its FIPS state code is 31.

[[Boyzone]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s establishments in the Republic of Ireland, 1990s Irish music groups, 2000s Irish music groups, 2010s Irish music groups, Boy bands, Irish pop music groups, Musical groups established in 1993, Musical groups from Dublin, Musical quartets, Musical quintets, 1993 establishments in Europe, Musical groups disestablished in 2000, 2000 disestablishments in Europe, Musical groups established in 2007, 2007 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in the Republic of Ireland

Boyzone are an Irish boy band. The group is a quartet, its members are Keith Duffy (born 1974), Mikey Graham (born 1972), Ronan Keating (born 1977) and Shane Lynch (born 1976). Stephen Gately (1976-2009) was also a member until his death. The band were formed in Dublin by Louis Walsh in 1993. They split in 2000 and reformed in 2007.

[[List of counties in Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Ohio counties

There are eighty-eight counties in the U.S. state of Ohio. The elected county officials include three commissioners, a sheriff (the highest law enforcement officer in the county); prosecutor (equivalent of a district attorney in other states); coroner, engineer, auditor, treasurer and clerk of courts.

[[List of counties in Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Minnesota counties

There are 87 counties in the U.S. state of Minnesota. 

[[List of counties in Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Pennsylvania counties, Lists of counties of the United States

There are sixty-seven counties of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in the United States of America. The city of Philadelphia shares boundaries with Philadelphia County, and governmental functions have been shared since 1854.

[[Dorothy Gish]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1968 deaths, American child actors, American movie actors, American silent movie actors, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Italy, Episcopalians, Actors from Dayton, Ohio

Dorothy Elizabeth Gish (March 11, 1898 – June 4, 1968) was an American actress. She was born in Dayton, Ohio. She was very young when her father abandoned the family. Dorothy, her older sister Lillian, and their mother entered the theatrical profession to support themselves.

In 1912, actress Mary Pickford introduced them to director D. W. Griffith. The sisters began acting at Biograph Studios. Dorothy and Lillian Gish both debuted in Griffith's An Unseen Enemy. Dorothy would star in over 100 short movies and feature movies.

Dorothy married actor James Rennie in 1920. They divorced in 1935. Dorothy never remarried. She died in 1968 from bronchial pneumonia in Rapallo, Liguria, Italy. She was laid to rest in Saint Bartholomew's Episcopal Church in New York City.

Her sister Lillian was later laid to rest beside her. Dorothy Gish was awarded a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6385 Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood, California. Dorothy and Lillian both appeared in D. W. Griffith's Orphans of the Storm in 1921.

[[Nihonbashi]]

CATEGORIES: Tokyo, Japanese culture, Stone bridges, Bridges in Japan

Nihonbashi, also romanized as Nihombashi, is a business district of Chūō in Tokyo, Japan. The district grew up around the bridge of the same name. The bridge connects two sides of the Nihonbashi River.  A series of bridges at the same site have had the same name since the 17th century.

Traditionally, all distances in Japan are measured from the centerpoint of the Nihonbashi Bridge.  This custom began in the Edo period.

[[List of counties in South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, South Dakota counties

There are 66 counties in the U.S. state of South Dakota.

Todd County and Oglala Lakota County are two counties in South Dakota that do not have their own county seat. Hot Springs in Fall River County is the administrative center of Oglala Lakota County. Winner in Tripp County is the administrative center of Todd County. 

South Dakota's postal abbreviation is SD and its FIPS state code is 46.

[[List of counties in New York]]

CATEGORIES: New York (state) counties, Lists of counties of the United States, New York-related lists

There are 62 counties in the State of New York. Five of New York's counties share boundaries with the five boroughs of New York City and do not have functioning county governments, except for a few borough officials. New York City is considered the county seat of these five counties: New York County (Manhattan), Kings County (Brooklyn), Bronx County (The Bronx), Richmond County (Staten Island), and Queens County (Queens). 

[[List of counties in Montana]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Montana counties

There are 56 counties in the U.S. state of Montana. Montana has two consolidated city-counties—Anaconda with Deer Lodge County and Butte with Silver Bow County.  The portion of Yellowstone National Park that is in Montana was not part of any county until 1978.  Then part of it was added to Gallatin County, and the rest of it to Park County.

Montana's postal abbreviation is MT and its FIPS state code is 30.

[[List of counties in West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, West Virginia counties

There are 55 counties in the U.S. state of West Virginia.

[[List of counties in North Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, North Dakota counties

There are 53 counties in the U.S. state of North Dakota. 

The Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) code, which is used by the United States government to uniquely identify states and counties, is provided with each entry. North Dakota's code is 38, which when combined with any county code would be written as 38XXX. The FIPS code for each county links to census data for that county. 

[[List of counties in South Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, South Carolina counties

The U.S. state of South Carolina is made up of 46 counties.  This is the maximum allowable by state law.

[[List of counties in Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Washington (state) counties

There are 39 counties in the U.S. state of Washington. Washington came from the western part of Washington Territory.  It was admitted to the Union as the 42nd state in 1889. The first counties were created from unorganized territory in 1845.

The Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) code, used by the United States government to uniquely identify counties, is provided with each entry. The FIPS code links in the table point to U. S. Census "quick facts" pages for each county.

[[Sanjō Ōhashi Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Japan, Concrete bridges

Sanjō Ōhashi Bridge is in Kyoto.  The bridge connects two sides of the Kamo River in Kyoto Prefecture, Japan.  The bridge is part of Sanjō-dōri (三条大通り Third Avenue). 

[[Interpolation]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematical approximation, Graphics

In many domains of science, measurements are done. If these measurements are drawn in a graph, they will be shown as simple unconnected points. Such data are called data points, or discrete. Handling and analysis of the data is easier, if it can be described using a continuous function, or a line connecting the discrete data point together. In order to do this, the line between two measurements, or data points, need to be created. This process of connecting the data points together with a line called interpolation. There are different ways to invent the data,  each method has its benefits and drawbacks. The simplest method is  drawing a straight line between two data points, which is not very accurate. Very often,  polynomials are used  to create a more accurate representation. Even if some of the data is wrong, in many cases,  the results of this interpolation are usable, either as a replacement for missing data points, or as a tool to help understand more complicated data.

Interpolation tries to find the values between two known points of data. It is not to be confused with extrapolation, which is a similar process that tries to find data points at the edge or outside the currently defined points.

[[Gay icon]]

CATEGORIES: Popular culture, LGBT

A gay icon is a prominent person (either living or dead) who is liked by the gay community. Gay icons are often glamourous and even flamboyant. They show strength through adversity. They often show a blend of masculine and feminine traits. Sometimes they show no gender traits at all. Gay icons can be male or female. They can be gay, straight, bisexual, or asexual. If they are gay, they can be openly gay or not. Sometimes living gay icons support LGBT causes, sometimes they do not. Some gay icons from history are tragic figures like Saint Sebastian, Oscar Wilde, or Judy Garland. Some more modern gay icons are entertainers like Ellen DeGeneres, Beyoncé, Lady Gaga,Cher, Barbra Streisand, Liza Minnelli, and Freddie Mercury.

[[Afternoon of a Faun (Nijinsky)]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets Russes productions, Ballets starring Nijinsky, Ballets choreographed by Nijinsky

The Afternoon of a Faun (L'après-midi d'un faune) is a modern  ballet. It was choreographed by Nijinsky to a short symphonic work by Claude Debussy called Prélude à l'après-midi d'un faune. Both the music and the ballet were inspired by the poem L'après-midi d'un faune by Stéphane Mallarmé. It was Nijinsky's first choreographed work. The ballet was first performed by Diaghilev's Ballets Russes in Paris at the Théâtre du Châtelet on 29 May 1912. The costumes and sets were designed by Léon Bakst. Nijinsky danced the role of the faun. 

Grace Robert writes in The Borzoi Book of Ballet that Bakst was responsible for the choreography. Nijinsky simply carried out his directions. However, Nijinsky's sister alleged that Bakst and Diaghilev were not involved with the choreography and were admitted to rehearsals only in the last stages. The truth will never be known; those involved are dead. The choreography however caused a scandal, especially the ending. Here, the Faun appears to climax upon a Nymph's scarf. Gaston Calmette, the editor of Le Figaro, attacked the choreography on moral grounds. Sculptor Auguste Rodin defended it. The furor assured the public's interest in the ballet, then and now. 

The first American performance occurred in New York City on January 17, 1916. The Catholic Theatre Movement decided the ending should be modified. The ending was duly altered. Diaghilev told the head of the Metropolitan Opera House, "America is saved." Thereafter, the ballet saw a variety of manifestations until 1936 when a close facsimile of the original was presented at the Metropolitan by Colonel W. de Basil's Ballets Russes. Grace Robert believes the original ballet was produced as an aesthetic antidote to Isadore Duncan's copycats and their Greek dances. 

[[Kintai Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Japan, Wooden bridges, Japanese culture

Kintai Bridge is in Iwakuni.  The bridge crosses the Nishiki River in Yamaguchi prefecture, Japan.

[[Civil religion]]

CATEGORIES: Religion, Politics

According to Jean-Jacques Rousseau, civil religion is the foundation that keeps modern society together. It provides the state with sacred authority. In his book The Social Contract Rousseau states the dogmas of civil religion:

[[List of counties in Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Oregon counties

There are 36 counties in the U.S. state of Oregon. 

Oregon's postal abbreviation is OR and its FIPS state code is 41.

[[List of counties in New Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, New Mexico counties

There are 33 counties in the U.S. state of New Mexico. First there were nine counties formed in 1852. 

The Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) code, used by the United States government to uniquely identify states and counties, is provided with each entry. New Mexico's code is 35. When added with any county code it would be written as 35XXX. The FIPS code for each county links to census data for that county. 

[[Victoria Falls Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Steel bridges, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Transport in Africa, 1905 establishments, 1900s establishments in Africa, Establishments in Zambia

The Victoria Falls Bridge crosses the Zambezi River just below the Victoria Falls and is built over the Second Gorge of the falls. The river is the border between Zimbabwe and Zambia. The bridge has border posts on both ends, at the towns of Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe and Livingstone, Zambia.

[[List of counties in Utah]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Utah counties

There are 29 counties in the U.S. state of Utah.  

[[The Mysteries of Alfred Hedgehog]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 television series debuts, 2010 television series endings, Children's television series, Animated television series, French television series, Canadian animated television series, 2010 establishments in North America, 2010s establishments in Canada, 2010 establishments in Europe, 2010s establishments in France, 2010 disestablishments in North America, 2010s disestablishments in Canada, 2010 disestablishments in Europe

The Mysteries of Alfred Hedgehog is a TV show made in France and Canada. The main characters are talking animals from the woods, hence Gnarly Woods. The show follows three characters-Alfred Hedgehog, Camille Wallaby, and Milo Skunk as they solve mysteries.

[[List of counties in Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Wyoming counties

There are 23 counties in the U.S. state of Wyoming. First there were five counties in the Wyoming Territory.  They were Laramie and Carter, formed in 1867; Carbon and Albany formed in 1868; and Uinta, an added portion of Utah and Idaho, extending from Montana (including Yellowstone Park) to the Wyoming-Utah boundary. On July 10, 1890, Wyoming was admitted to the Union with thirteen counties.

The Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) code, used by the United States government to uniquely identify states and counties, is provided with each entry. Wyoming's code is 56.  When combined with any county code it would be written as 56XXX. The FIPS code for each county links to census data for that county.

[[List of counties in New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: New Jersey counties, Lists of counties of the United States

There are 21 counties in the U.S. state of New Jersey. These counties together have 566 municipalities, or administrative entities composed of clearly defined territory; 250 boroughs, 52 cities, 15 towns, 245 townships, and 4 villages. In New Jersey, a county is a local level of government between the state and municipalities. County government in New Jersey includes a Board of Chosen Freeholders, sheriff, clerk, and surrogate (responsible for uncontested and routine probate),. All of these jobs are elected officials.  Counties are responsible for the maintenance of jails, parks, and certain roads. The site of a county's administration and courts is called the county seat.

[[List of counties in Nevada]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Nevada counties

There are sixteen counties and one independent city in the U.S. state of Nevada. On November 25, 1861, the first Nevada Territorial Legislature formed nine counties. When Nevada joined the United States on October 31, 1864 it had eleven counties. 

[[Ragheb Harb]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 1984 deaths, Assassinated people, Lebanese Muslims, Lebanese nationalists, Lebanese terrorists, Muslim terrorists

Ragheb Harb (1952-1984) was one of the Shia resistance leaders in Lebanon against Israel's occupation in Southern Lebanon. He was assassinated by Israelis on 16 February 1984.

He was one of the founders of Hezbollah.

[[List of counties in New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: New Hampshire counties, Lists of counties of the United States

There are 10 counties in the U.S. state of New Hampshire. Five of the counties were formed in 1769.  This was when New Hampshire was still an English colony and not a state. 

The FIPS county code is the five-digit Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) code which uniquely identifies counties and county equivalents in the United States.  The three-digit number is unique to each individual county within a state. The code for New Hampshire is 33. The links in the column "FIPS County Code" are to the Census Bureau Info page for that county.

[[List of counties in Rhode Island]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of counties of the United States, Rhode Island counties

It has a rich history, and is known as The Plantation State, The Ocean State, or Little Rhody.thumb|Timeline of the counties of Rhode Island

This is a list of the five counties in the U.S. state of Rhode Island. Rhode Island is tied with Hawaii for having the second lowest number of counties of any U.S. state. Delaware has fewer, with three counties. Although Rhode Island is divided into counties, it does not have any local government at the county level. Instead, local governance is provided by the eight cities and thirty-one towns. 

Within Rhode Island, Washington County is often referred to as South County.

The colony of Rhode Island was formed in the 17th century.  It was the first of the thirteen original American colonies to declare independence from British rule in 1776.  The counties were all established before the Declaration of Independence.

The Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) code, used by the United States government to uniquely identify states and counties, is provided with each entry. Rhode Island's code is 44. When combined with any county code is written as 44XXX. The FIPS code for each county links to census data for that county. 

[[Chillin]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Lady Gaga songs

"Chillin'" is the debut single from Wale. It features guest vocals from Lady Gaga. It reached No.12 in the UK Singles Chart.

[[Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Brazil, Belo Horizonte, 1927 establishments in South America, 1920s establishments in Brazil

Federal University of Minas Gerais (Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, short UFMG) is a public university of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais. Established in 1927, it is the largest university in Minas Gerais as well as one the country's most prestigious universities.

[[Centro Federal de Educação Tecnológica de Minas Gerais]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Brazil, Minas Gerais, 1909 establishments in Brazil

Federal Center of Technological Education of Minas Gerais (Centro Federal de Educação Tecnológica de Minas Gerais, short Cefet-MG) is a public university of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais. Established in 1909, it is the second largest university in Minas Gerais as well as one the country's most prestigious universities.

[[Universidade Estadual de Feira de Santana]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Brazil, Bahia, 1976 establishments in Brazil

State University of Feira de Santana (Universidade Estadual de Feira de Santana, short UEFS) is a public university of the Brazilian state of Bahia. Established in 1976, it is the second largest university in Bahia as well as one the most prestigious universities in this state. 

[[Universidade Federal da Bahia]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Brazil, Bahia, 1946 establishments, 1940s establishments in Brazil

Federal University of Bahia (Universidade Federal da Bahia, short UFBA) is a public university of the Brazilian state of Bahia. Established in 1946, it is the largest university in Bahia as well as one the country's most prestigious universities.

[[Théâtre du Châtelet]]

CATEGORIES: Opera houses in France, Theatres in France, Buildings and structures in Paris

The Théâtre du Châtelet (teɑtʁ dy ʃatlɛ) is a theatre and opera house in Paris seating 2,500 people. It was designed by Gabriel Davioud. It was built between 1860 and 1862. It was named the Théâtre Impérial du Châtelet. It was built on a site where a châtelet (small castle) once stood. The theatre has undergone remodeling and name changes over the years. The theatre sits on the Place du Châtelet facing the Théâtre de la Ville. At the centre of the plaza is a fountain is a sphinx fountain, erected in 1808, which celebrates Napoleon's victory in Egypt.

The Théâtre du Châtelet was originally used for drama performances.  In April 1876, the stage version of Around the World in Eighty Days began a run spanning sixty-four years and 2195 performances. The theatre was used for operettas, variety and ballet performances, and for concerts. It was also, for a time, a movie theatre.  Petrouchka premiered in the theatre on 13 June 1911, and Parade on 18 May 1917. Tchaikovsky, Mahler, and Richard Strauss made appearances here.

The theatre has been operated by the City of Paris since 1979. It has undergone a major restoration. It re-opened under the name of the Théâtre Musical de Paris in 1980. It was acoustically re-modeled again in 1989. It returned to the Théâtre du Châtelet name. In 1995, the theatre received additional improvements in acoustics and sightlines. Today, the theatre is mainly used for opera performances and concerts.

[[Bailey bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridge types

The Bailey bridge is a factory made truss bridge. It was made in small sections that could be easily moved and put together on site. It was developed by the British during World War II for military use. 

A Bailey bridge did not need special tools or heavy equipment to put into place. The wood and steel bridge parts were small and light enough to be carried in trucks and lifted into place by hand. The bridges were strong enough to carry tanks.  Bailey bridges continue to be used in building projects and to provide temporary crossings for people and vehicles. 

It was designed by a British engineer, Donald Bailey. The British army tested different bridge designs in 1941–1942, including a suspension bridge and a stepped arch bridge. The flat truss bridge was the most successful. An early test model of the Bailey flat truss bridge is still in place over Mother Siller's Channel in Dorset. The Bailey bridge was first used by the army in Tobruk in 1942. The US Army built many of the bridges for use after the D-Day landings in France.

[[Serial Mom]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 movies, American comedy movies, English-language movies, American independent movies

Serial Mom is a 1994 dark comedy that stars Kathleen Turner as the "serial mom", Sam Waterston as husband Eugene, Matthew Lillard as Chip and Ricki Lake as Misty. It was released April 13, 1994. The "serial mom", named Beverly, is a typical housewife from Baltimore raising her kids, although she tends to kill on just the mildest criticism or the slightest insult. She also performs obscene telephone calls. Serial Mom got mixed reviews, though it has become a cult classic over the years. Serial Mom was directed by John Waters.

[[Oresund Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 establishments in Sweden, Buildings and structures in Denmark, Concrete bridges, Copenhagen, Malmo, Transport in Sweden

The Øresund Bridge (no, no, joint hybrid name: Øresundsbron) is a bridge and tunnel across the Øresund strait.  It connects Denmark and Sweden.

[[John Waters]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Actors from Baltimore, Maryland, American cinematographers, American LGBT people, American movie actors, American movie editors, American stand-up comedians, American television actors, American television writers, American voice actors, Comedians from Maryland, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT comedians, LGBT directors, LGBT producers, LGBT writers, Movie directors from Maryland, Movie producers from Maryland, Screenwriters from Maryland, Writers from Baltimore, Maryland

John Waters (born April 22, 1946 in Baltimore, Maryland) is an American writer, stand up comedian and movie maker. He first became famous during the 1970s. He is the director of many movies. These include Hairspray, Serial Mom, Sixteen Candles and Pretty in Pink. Waters has written books. In 1986 Crackpot: The Obsessions of John Waters was published. Waters has acted in several movies. He did the voice of a gay man called "John" in an episode of The Simpsons called "Homer's Phobia".

Waters is openly gay.

[[Morell Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in Australia, Concrete bridges, Buildings and structures in Melbourne, 1899 establishments, 1890s establishments in Australia

The Morell Bridge is a bridge over the Yarra River in South Yarra, Melbourne, Australia. It was built in 1899 by John Monash and J. T. N. Anderson. It was the first bridge in Victoria to be built using reinforced concrete.

It has decorations on the three arch spans, including large dragons, and Victorian era lighting. The drains on the bridge are cobbled bluestone, with a single vehicle lane in the middle. The bridge is listed on the Victorian Heritage Register. It was built on dry land, and the course of the Yarra River was later changed to flow under the bridge.

It was first called the Anderson Street bridge, but it was named the Morell Bridge in 1936 after Sir Stephen Morell

who was Lord Mayor of Melbourne between 1926 and 1928.

On June 7, 1998 the bridge was closed to motor vehicles as part of the CityLink project. It is now used by cyclists and people, joining the Royal Botanic Gardens to the Olympic Park areas.

[[Verrazano-Narrows Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in New York, Steel bridges, Staten Island, Brooklyn, Suspension bridges, 1964 establishments in New York (state), 1969 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in New York (state)

The Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge is in New York City.  The suspension bridge connects the boroughs of Staten Island and Brooklyn.

The bridge is named for the Italian explorer Giovanni da Verrazzano.  His ship was the first to enter New York Harbor.

When construction was finished, the Verrazzano-Narrows was the longest suspension bridge in the world until the Humber Bridge surpassed that length in 1981.

[[Great Belt Fixed Link]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 establishments in Europe, Buildings and structures in Denmark, Concrete bridges, Steel bridges, Suspension bridges

The Great Belt Bridge (Storebæltsforbindelsen), also called the Great Belt Fixed Link, is the bridge and tunnel across the strait between the main Danish islands of Zealand (Sjælland) and Funen (Fyn).

This waters between the two Danish islands is called the Great Belt (Storebælt).

[[Bleeding]]

CATEGORIES: Blood

Bleeding, technically known as haemorrhaging (Brit.) or hemorrhaging (US) is the loss of blood or blood escape from the circulatory system. 

Bleeding can occur internally, where blood leaks from blood vessels inside the body, or externally, either through a natural opening such as the vagina, mouth, nose, ear or anus, or through a break in the skin.

Desanguination is a major blood loss.  Exsanguination is losing enough blood to cause death.  A person does not have to lose all of their blood to die.  People can die from losing half to two-thirds of their blood.

Typically, a healthy person can endure a loss of 10–15% of the total blood volume without serious medical difficulties, and blood donation typically takes 8–10% of the donor's blood volume.

The World Health Organization (WHO) established a scale to measure different degrees of blood loss, from level 0 to 4. Level 0 indicates no blood loss, whilst level 4 represents the highest level of hemorrhaging, with a risk of fatality.

[[Toshiya Fujita]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Júbilo Iwata players, Nagoya Grampus players, Roasso Kumamoto players, JEF United Chiba players, 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup players

Toshiya Fujita is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Rumpelstiltskin]]

CATEGORIES: Grimms' Fairy Tales

"Rumpelstiltskin" (Rumpelstilzchen) is a fairy tale. It was first published by the Brothers Grimm in their Children's and Household Tales of 1812. There are many similar tales such as "Tom-Tit-Tot". Maria Tatar points out that the Rumpelstiltskin plot hinges on greed and deception, and has little moral value for children.  

[[Edward Thorndike]]

CATEGORIES: 1874 births, 1949 deaths, American psychologists, Harvard University alumni, Columbia University alumni, American atheists, Scientists from Massachusetts, Ethologists

Edward Lee "Ted" Thorndike (August 31, 1874 – August 9, 1949) was an American psychologist. He spent most of entire career at Teachers College, Columbia University. He worked on ethology and the learning process. This led to the theory of connectionism, and helped lay the scientific foundation for modern educational psychology.

Thorndike also worked on industrial problems, such as employee exams and testing. He was a member of the board of the Psychological Corporation, and served as president of the American Psychological Association in 1912.

[[Nasty Party]]

CATEGORIES: Slang, Conservatism, Conservative Party (UK)

The term Nasty Party was first used by Theresa May where in October 2002 she described the Conservative Party of the United Kingdom as "There's a lot we need to do in this party of ours. Our base is too narrow and so, occasionally, are our sympathies. You know what some people call us -- the Nasty Party."

The term "Nasty Party" applied to Conservative Party members with traditional conservative stances which included being anti-gay, anti-minorities, and pro-business, and lacking concern for the poor.

Many conservatives felt this one the reasons the Conservative Party lost the last three general elections and needed to broaden their traditional base to have a chance of reelection.

[[Argentan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Orne, Subprefectures in France

Argentan is a French city in the Orne department, in Lower Normandy. 17 327 people live there. The size is 1818. The river Orne flows through Argentan. The forests of Gouffern and Ecouves are nearby.

Argentan was built at the beginning of the 12th century by Henry II. Henry was a Normandy duke and also the king of England.

There are three churches: Saint Martin, Saint Germain and Saint Michel.

[[Special wards of Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture, Japan-related lists

Special wards of Tokyo are one of the basic local entities of Japan.  There are 23 municipalities in the core of the capital of Japan.  They are "special wards" because they are different from the wards of other major Japanese cities.

[[Guru Har Krishan]]

CATEGORIES: Deaths from smallpox, Religious leaders, Sikhism, Punjabi people, Spiritual teachers

Guru Har Krishan (ਗੁਰੂ ਹਰਿ ਕ੍ਰਿਸ਼ਨ ɡʊru həɾ kɾɪʃən; 23 July 1656 – 30 March 1664) was the eighth of the ten gurus of Sikhism. He became Guru on 7 October 1661, on the death of his father, Guru Har Rai. Due to the smallpox epidemic that was happening at that time, Guru Har Krishan died at the young age of 7. His grand-uncle, Guru Tegh Bahadur, became the next Guru of the Sikhs.

[[Adachi, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture

Adachi is one of the 23 special wards within Tokyo, Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Adachi City" in English.

[[Academy Award for Best Actress]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award categories

The Academy Award for Best Actress is awarded for best performance by an actress in a leading role in a movie. The award is presented by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. 2012 Meryl Streep for her role in The Iron Lady.

[[Tallit]]

CATEGORIES: Judaism, Religious clothing

A tallit is a prayer shawl worn by Jewish men from the age of thirteen. Jewish men are often buried in their tallit.

[[Paul-Louis Arslanian]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Alumni of the École nationale de l'aviation civile, French aviators, Year of birth missing (living people), Alumni of the École Polytechnique

Paul-Louis Arslanian is the former head of the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses pour la Sécurité de l'Aviation Civile (1995-2009). Mr Arslanian is Officier of the Légion d'honneur, graduates from École Polytechnique (promotion 1965) and École nationale de l'aviation civile (promotion 1970).

[[Gérard Mestrallet]]

CATEGORIES: French businesspeople, 1949 births, Alumni of the École nationale de l'aviation civile, Living people, Chief executives, Alumni of the École Polytechnique

Gérard Mestrallet (born 1 April 1949 in Paris) is the current CEO of GDF Suez.

He graduated from the Institut d'études politiques de Toulouse, the École Polytechnique of Paris, the École nationale de l'aviation civile of Toulouse and the École nationale d’administration.

[[Easington Community Science College]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in England

Easington Community Science College is a multi-gender comprehensive school for ages 11–16. It is in the village of Easington, in County Durham, north east England. It specialises in science but also teaches English, maths, modern foreign languages, information communication technology, drama, physical education, history, geography, religious education, design and technology, statistics, media, art and music. It has about 70 classrooms.

Many former students of this school have become famous, like Matt Baker and Adam Johnson. The school has a very good history for P.E. Lots of their former students are now football players. In 2011 the students were moved into the new school which is a lot more modern. The school also has a specialised music corridor for students to practise their instruments this leads straight into the hall.

Easington has 5 house groups:

These were all named after victims of the 1951 Easington Colliery pit disaster. The school colours are red and black.

[[Pas de Quatre]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets choreographed by Jules Perrot

Pas de Quatre is a romantic ballet with music by Cesare Pugni and choreography by Jules Perrot. It premiered at Her Majesty's Theatre in London on 12 July 1845. The critics raved. The ballet was created for the four great ballerinas of the age: Marie Taglioni, Carlotta Grisi, Fanny Cerrito, and Lucile Grahn. The ballet was given four performances.  Queen Victoria and Prince Albert attended the third performance.

It was thought that the four great ballerinas would never consent to appear on stage together. They were very jealous and extremely competitive. It was only through the tactful persistence of Benjamn Lumley, the manager of the theatre that the ballet was realized. Fanny Essler was one of the great ballerinas of the age, but not invited to participate because she was Taglioni's greatest rival. She had threatened to dance Taglioni's signature piece La Sylphide.  

[[Victorian Heritage Register]]

CATEGORIES: Victoria, Australia, History of Australia

The Victorian Heritage Register is a list of places of cultural heritage important to the State of Victoria, Australia. It has legal powers under the Heritage Act 1995. Heritage Victoria is the government department which is responsible for the register. It protects a wide range of cultural heritage places and objects, including: 

Heritage Victoria is part of the Department of Planning and Community Development, a department of the Government of Victoria, Australia. Heritage Victoria reports to the Heritage Council who decide which places and items should be on the register.  The Minister for Planning is the responsible Minister for Heritage Victoria and the Heritage Act 1995.

It lists important buildings and other places in Victoria. It gives legal protection to stop listed sites being destroyed or changed. Removing an item from the list can only be done by a government minister.

All places and objects listed on the register are entitled to a blue sign.

.

[[Don Ho]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2007 deaths, Actors from Hawaii, American movie actors, American television actors, Singers from Hawaii, Musicians from Hawaii, American military people, People from Honolulu

Donald Tai Loy "Don" Ho (何大來; August 13, 1930 – April 14, 2007) was a Hawaiian  musician, singer and actor.

[[Anaïs Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American composers, American singer-songwriters, American guitarists, Singers from Vermont, Musicians from Vermont, American folk musicians, People from Montpelier, Vermont

Anaïs Mitchell (ɑːneɪˈs; born March 26, 1981) is an American singer, songwriter and guitarist.

[[Shrikant Jichkar]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2004 deaths, Indian politicians, Road accident deaths

Shrikant Jichkar (September 14, 1954 – June 2, 2004) was an Indian politician and a member of the Indian Congress Party.

Jichkar was born into a Marathi-Kunbi family of rich farmers in Aajangaon near Katol in Nagpur district, Maharashtra, India. He died after a car accident at Dhamana Shivar, about 40 km from Nagpur.

[[Color of Night]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 crime movies, 1994 thriller movies, 1990s crime thriller movies, 1990s erotic movies, 1994 LGBT movies, 1994 mystery movies, American crime thriller movies, American erotic movies, American LGBT movies, American mystery movies, English-language movies, Mental disorders in fiction, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies set in New York City, American independent movies

Color of Night is a 1994 American erotic mystery thriller movie. It was released on August 19, 1994. It is directed by Richard Rush. It stars Bruce Willis, Jane March and Scott Bakula. Color of Night gained notoriety for sex scenes between Willis and March, which were somewhat graphic and explicit by mainstream standards. The character Rose (played by March) is a bisexual woman. The scenes led the MPAA to give Color of Night an NC-17 rating; certain scenes were then removed before release. Color of Night is rated R for sexual content, graphic violence and very strong language. Maxim magazine has singled out the movie as having the best sex scene in movie history.

[[Muriel's Wedding]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 drama movies, 1994 romance movies, 1994 comedy-drama movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, Australian comedy movies, Australian drama movies, Australian romance movies, English-language movies, Movies about weddings, Movies set in Australia, New South Wales

Muriel's Wedding is a 1994 Australian comedy-drama movie. It was directed by P. J. Hogan and stars Toni Collette as Muriel Heslop. She is a socially inept, plain, dowdy, overweight young woman who has low self-esteem and is obsessed with ABBA music. Bill Hunter plays her uncaring father Bill and Rachel Griffiths plays her friend Rhonda. Muriel's Wedding was released 29 September 1994 (during 1995 in the United States). It is set in New South Wales and was shot there and in Queensland.

[[Pony]]

CATEGORIES: Horses, Animals used for transport

There are many different breeds of ponies. A baby horse or pony is called a foal. These horses are raised around farms like other horses. Ponies are usually more chubby than horses and ponies have shorter legs. Miniature horses are not ponies they are actually mini horses because they have the features of a horse (i.e. longer legs and they are not as chubby as ponies). Shetland ponies are around the same height as miniature horse maybe a bit bigger a times but they ARE ponies not miniature horses.

Pony is also a Ginuwine song that was released in 1996.

[[Lloyd Sherr]]

CATEGORIES: American voice actors, 1959 births, Living people

Lloyd Sherr (born February 28, 1956), also known by his stage name Max Raphael, is an American voice actor and comedian. He became the voice of Fillmore in the Cars franchise (after George Carlin's death in 2008) and Everett in the Barnyard franchise. He also voices Tony Trihull in the Cars series.

Sherr's stage name is a combination of his kids' names Max and Raphael (as listed on his website https://web.archive.org/web/20120414123650/http://themaxraphael.com/)

[[T helper cell]]

CATEGORIES: blood cells

T helpers are a kind of lymphocyte blood cell, produced in the Thymus. They do not kill or eat bacteria. What they do is to help other immune cells target onto infecting bacteria. They activate T-killer cells (cytotoxic T cells) and B cells to kill infecting bacteria or cells that are infected by viruses.

T helpers get attacked by HIV virus.

[[Jezebel (1938 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 movies, 1930s drama movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Louisiana, United States National Film Registry movies, Women's movies, Movies directed by William Wyler

Jezebel is a 1938 American drama movie. It stars Bette Davis and Henry Fonda. It was directed by William Wyler. The movie was based on a play by Owen Davis, Sr. Bette Davis won the Best Actress Academy Award for her performance. The movie was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry in 2009.

The movie is set in Louisiana before the American Civil War. The story is about a headstrong young woman. She makes a social blunder that costs her the love of her fiancé. She finds redemption in nursing him during a yellow fever epidemic.

[[Alveolo-palatal consonant]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

In phonetics, alveolo-palatal (or alveopalatal) consonants are palatalized postalveolar sounds. They are usually fricatives and affricates. We pronounce them with the blade of the tongue behind the alveolar ridge, and the body of the tongue raised toward the palate. These consonants are similar to palato-alveolar consonants, but alveolo-palatal consonants are more fully palatalized.

[[Michel Bernard]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Alumni of the École nationale de l'aviation civile, Alumni of the École Polytechnique, French aviators, People from Centre-Val de Loire

Michel Bernard, born the 1st of March 1943 at Bourges, graduates from École Polytechnique (promotion 1964) and École nationale de l'aviation civile (promotion 1967), was the head of the Agence nationale pour l'emploi from 1995 to 2005 and the President of Air Inter airline from November 1993 until march 1995.

[[Bilabial nasal]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

The bilabial nasal is a type of consonant. It is used in almost all spoken languages. The letter for this sound in the International Phonetic Alphabet is ⟨m⟩. The X-SAMPA symbol for this sound is ⟨m⟩.  We can find the bilabial nasal in English, and it is the sound represented by "m" in map and rum.

Nearly all languages contain this sound. A few languages (for example, Mohawk) do not often use this sound.

These are some examples of where the bilabial nasal occurs in various languages:

[[John Thaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2002 deaths, Actors from Manchester, BAFTA Award winners, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from esophageal cancer, Disease-related deaths in Wiltshire, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English television producers

John Thaw CBE (3 January 1942 - 21 February 2002) was a British actor.

Thaw was born in Longsight, and grew up in Gorton and Burnage, all inner-city areas of Manchester. He is best known for his starring roles in The Sweeney, Inspector Morse and Kavanagh QC.

Thaw was married to actress Sheila Hancock (born 1933) from 1973 until his death from oesophageal cancer in Luckington, Wiltshire.

[[Dirk Bogarde]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, BAFTA Award winning actors, British autobiographers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English LGBT people, English movie actors, English novelists, English stage actors, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT writers, Writers from London, 1921 births, 1999 deaths

Sir Dirk Bogarde (28 March 1921 - 8 May 1999) was a British actor and writer.

Bogarde was born in West Hampstead, London. He starred in many movies, including Victim, The Servant, Darling, Accident and Death in Venice.

Bogarde wrote novels, autobiographies and memoirs.

Bogarde was a closeted homosexual who lived with his partner Anthony Forwood (1915-1988) for nearly forty years until Forwood's death. Bogarde died of a heart attack in Chelsea, London.

[[Autauga County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1818 establishments in Alabama Territory

Autauga County is a county in the U.S. state of Alabama.  As of the 2010 census the population was 54,571. Its county seat is Prattville.6

Autauga County is part of the Montgomery Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Samuel L. Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Tennessee, Actors from Washington, D.C., African American actors, American movie actors, American movie producers, American political activists, American television actors, American television producers, American voice actors, BAFTA Award winners, People from Chattanooga, Tennessee, 1948 births, Living people

Samuel L. Jackson (born December 21, 1948) is an American movie actor and producer. He has starred in many movies. These include The Avengers, Die Hard with a Vengeance, Django Unchained and Pulp Fiction. 

Jackson was born in Washington, D.C. on December 21, 1948. He grew up in Chattanooga, Tennessee. During childhood, he had a stuttering problem, which he conquered by developing an affinity for the use of the curse word, motherfucker, in his vocabulary.  Jackson attended Morehouse College in Atlanta, Georgia.  After joining a local acting group to earn extra points in a class, Jackson found an interest in acting and switched his major. Before graduating in 1972, he co-founded the "Just Us Theatre". Jackson is a sports fan and supports basketball teams Toronto Raptors and the Harlem Globetrotters and soccer club Liverpool FC. In 1980, Jackson married LaTanya Richardson, with whom he has a daughter, Zoe.

Jackson is also a big fan of Star Wars and portrayed the character Mace Windu in Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace, Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones and Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith. He also reprised his role as Windu, in the animated film Star Wars: The Clone Wars (movie) but not for the series. He also portrayed Nick Fury in the Marvel Cinematic Universe in Iron Man (2008), Iron Man 2 (2010), Thor (2011), Captain America: The First Avenger (2011), The Avengers (movie) (2012), Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014), Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), in two episodes of Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D television series and Avengers: Infinity War (2018). In 2017, Jackson appeared as Colonel Preston Packard in Kong: Skull Island. In October 2011, Jackson surpassed Frank Welker as the highest grossing film actor of all-time.

[[Clayton, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Clayton is a town in and the county seat of Barbour County, Alabama, United States.  The population was 1,475 at the 2000 census.

[[Bibb County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1818 establishments in Alabama Territory

Bibb County is a county in the U.S. state of Alabama. Its name is in honor of William Wyatt Bibb, the first Governor of Alabama.  As of 2010 the population was 22,915. The county seat is Centreville.6 It is a "prohibition" or dry county which means alcoholic drinks cannot be sold.

[[Mubariz Ibrahimov]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, 2010 deaths, Azerbaijani military people, National Hero of Azerbaijan, Murders by firearm, Burials at Alley of Honor

Mubariz Aghakerim oglu Ibrahimov (Mübariz Ağakərim oğlu İbrahimov) (7 February, 1988, Əliabad, Bilasuvar Rayon, Azerbaijan SSR, USSR - 19 June 19 2010, Çaylı, Tartar Rayon, Azerbaijan) was an Azerbaijani Warrant Officer and National Hero of Azerbaijan.

[[Mehdi Huseynzade]]

CATEGORIES: Azerbaijani military people, 1918 births, 1944 deaths, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Mehdi Hanifa oglu Huseynzade (December 22, 1918, Novxanı, Azerbaijan – November 2, 1944, Vitovlje, Slovenia) was an Azerbaijani guerrilla and scout during World War II. After he died he was given the title of Hero of the Soviet Union on April 11, 1957.

Huseynzade attended the Azerbaijan University of Languages.

His life and heroism during World War II was described in Imran Gasimov's book On Distant Shores.

[[Ahmadiyya Jabrayilov]]

CATEGORIES: Azerbaijani military people, 1920 births, 1994 deaths

Ahmadiyya Mikail ogly Jabrayilov (Əhmədiyyə Cəbrayılov, Ахмедия Джебраилов; 22 September 1920, Ohud village, Shaki Rayon, Azerbaijani SSR – 11 October 1994, Shaki, Azerbaijan) was a purported Azerbaijani activist of the French Resistance.  He was subsequently proven to be a Soviet propaganda invention.

[[Leyla Mammadbeyova]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1989 deaths, Aviators, Azerbaijani military people, People from Baku

Leyla Alasgar qizi Mammadbeyova, née Zeynalova (Azeri: Leyla Məmmədbəyova; 1909, Baku – 1989, Baku), was the first Azerbaijani female aviator. She was also the first female pilot in Southern Europe and Western Asia.

[[Centreville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Centreville is a city in Bibb County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,466. The city is the county seat of Bibb County.

[[Tofik Bahramov]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1993 deaths, Azerbaijani footballers, Soviet sportspeople, Referees

Tofik Bahram oglu Bahramov (Azeri: Tofiq Bəhram oğlu Bəhramov Тофик Бахрамов; 29 January 1925 — 26 March 1993), commonly known as the Russian linesman in England, was an Azerbaijani football referee notable for being the linesman who helped to award a goal for England in the 1966 FIFA World Cup Final against West Germany. He was later rumoured to have been presented with a golden whistle by Queen Elizabeth II for his "services to England".

[[Blount County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1818 establishments in Alabama Territory

Blount County is a county in the U.S. state of Alabama. As of the 2010 United States Census, 57,322 people lived there. Its county seat is Oneonta.

Blount County is a dry county which means alcoholic drinks cannot be sold. Alcohol can be sold in the city of Oneonta.

[[Uzeyir Hajibeyov]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1948 deaths, Composers, Soviet people, Azerbaijani musicians, Translators, Burials at Alley of Honor

Uzeyir bey Abdul Hussein oglu Hajibeyov (Üzeyir bəy Əbdülhüseyn oğlu Hacıbəyov, اوزئییر حاجی‌بیوو; Узеир Абдул-Гусейн оглы Гаджибеков; September 18, 1885, Agjabadi – November 23, 1948, Baku) was an Azerbaijani and Soviet composer, conductor, publicist, playwright, teacher, translator, and social figure from Azerbaijan. He is recognized as the father of Azerbaijani classical music and opera. He composed the National Anthem of Azerbaijan.

[[Jeux]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets Russes productions, Ballets starring Nijinsky, Ballets choreographed by Nijinsky

Jeux (Games) is a modern ballet. It was choreographed by Nijinksy to music by Claude Debussy. It starred Nijinsky, Tamara Karsavina, and Ludmilla Schollar. It was first performed in the Théâtre des Champs Elysees in Paris on May 15, 1913. Grace Robert writes that the ballet was received "very tepidly".

[[Mining (military)]]

CATEGORIES: War, Engineering

Mining, landmining or undermining is a way of attacking a walled city, fortress or castle during a siege. It has been used since before the Middle Ages. During the Middle Ages, mines or tunnels were dug underneath castles to let soldiers into the castle or to destroy the walls. 

The Siege of Petersburg included a "Battle of the Crater" inside a crater made by a big mine explosion. In World War I, trying to break the stalemate of trench warfare, soldiers tunneled under no man's land and put explosives beneath the enemy's trench. On 7 June 1917, as part of the Battle of Messines, the Allies set off hundreds of tonnes of high explosive in 19 mines at the same time. About 10,000 German troops were killed.

[[Spotify]]

CATEGORIES: Music software

Spotify (') is an online music streaming service. It offers streaming of over 30 million songs. The service was founded in 2006 by Daniel Ek and Martin Lorentzon. Spotify has around 140 million active registered users. There are two versions of Spotify: a premium monthly subscription service and a free service which is supported by advertising. As of December 2017, Spotify is available in 61 countries, including Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Faroe Islands, Finland, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, India and the United States.

[[Bullock County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1866 establishments in Alabama

Bullock County, Alabama is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. Its name is in honor of Colonel Edward C. Bullock of Barbour County. As of 2010 the population was 10,914. 

[[Jeff Conine]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1966 births, Florida Marlins players, Kansas City Royals players, Baltimore Orioles players, National League All-Stars, People from Tacoma, Washington

Jeffrey Guy Conine (born June 27, 1966 in Tacoma, Washington) is a former Major League Baseball player. He played for the Florida Marlins, Kansas City Royals, and the Baltimore Orioles. He was in the 1994 All-Star game.  He was called Mr. Marlin for his long history with the team.

Conine was a pitcher when he played college ball at UCLA. He was drafted by the Royals as a first baseman. When he joined the Marlins in 1992 he became a left fielder.

[[Butler County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1819 establishments in Alabama

Butler County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. Its name is in honor of Captain William Butler, who was born in Virginia and fought in the Creek War. As of 2010 the population was 20,947.  Its county seat is Greenville.

[[Touch (disambiguation)]]

Touch is one of the senses that is part of the nervous system.

Touch may also refer to:

[[KCPQ]]

CATEGORIES: American television stations, Tacoma, Washington, 1953 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Washington (state)

KCPQ (known as Q13 Fox on the air, and styled as Q13 FOX on the logo) channel 13, is the Fox television affiliate station in  Tacoma, Washington serving the Seattle/Tacoma television market, owned by the Tribune Company. KCPQ shares its studio and office facilities with sister station KZJO (channel 22, the area's MyNetworkTV affiliate) on the west shore of Lake Union in Seattle's Westlake neighborhood, and its transmitter is located on Gold Mountain in Bremerton, Washington.

KCPQ is one of five local Seattle TV stations seen in Canada on the Bell TV and Shaw Direct satellite providers. The station is also carried on several cable systems in British Columbia and southeastern Alaska, these include Optik TV.

[[Fox (disambiguation)]]

The fox is an animal.

Fox may also refer to:

[[Chambers County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1832 establishments in Alabama

Chambers County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama.  As of 2010 the population was 34,215.  Its county seat is Lafayette. Chambers County is included in the Valley, Alabama, Micropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Arakawa, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture

Arakawa is one of the 23 special wards of Tokyo, Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Arakawa City" in English.

[[Bunkyō, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture, 1947 establishments in Japan

Bunkyō is one of the 23 special wards within Tokyo, Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Bunkyo City" in English.

[[Mary Elizabeth Winstead]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from North Carolina, Actors from Utah, American movie actors, American television actors, 1984 births, Living people, American Baptists, People from Rocky Mount, North Carolina

Mary Elizabeth Winstead (born November 28, 1984) is an American motion picture and television actress. She is known for roles in many feature films, with horror movies and sequels to Die Hard. Her recent TV roles include the comedy series BrainDead (2016), medical drama Mercy Street (2016-17), and black comedy Fargo (2017).

She played Jessica in the soap opera Passions (1999-2000). She played Lucy McClane in Live Free or Die Hard (2007). She also played the scream queen in many horror pictures, including Black Christmas and Final Destination 3.

In 2020, she played Huntress in Birds of Prey.

Winstead was born in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. She was raised in Utah. In 2017, she began dating actor Ewan McGregor. They have one son, Laurie.

[[Provinces of Bolivia]]

CATEGORIES: Bolivia, Provinces

A province is the second largest administrative division in Bolivia, after a Department. Each department is divided into provinces. There are 112 provinces in total.

The country's provinces are divided into 337 municipalities.

[[Provinces of Burkina Faso]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Burkina Faso

The regions of Burkina Faso are divided into 45 administrative provinces.

List of Burkinabé provinces (capitals in parenthesis):

Balé (Boromo)

Bam (Kongoussi)

Banwa (Solenzo)

Bazèga (Kombissiri)

Bougouriba (Diébougou)

Boulgou (Tenkodogo)

Boulkiemdé (Koudougou)

Comoé (Banfora)

Ganzourgou (Zorgho)

Gnagna (Bogandé)

Gourma (Fada N'gourma)

Houet (Bobo-Dioulasso)

Ioba (Dano)

Kadiogo (Ouagadougou)

Kénédougou (Orodara)

Komondjari (Gayéri)

Kompienga (Pama)

Kossi (Nouna)

Koulpélogo (Ouargaye)

Kouritenga (Koupéla)

Kourwéogo (Boussé)

Léraba (Sindou)

Loroum (Titao)

Mouhoun (Dédougou)

Nahouri (Pô)

Namentenga (Boulsa)

Nayala (Toma)

Noumbiel (Batié)

Oubritenga (Ziniaré)

Oudalan (Gorom-Gorom)

Passoré (Yako)

Poni (Gaoua)

Sanguié (Réo)

Sanmatenga (Kaya)

Séno (Dori)

Sissili (Léo)

Soum (Djibo)

Sourou (Tougan)

Tapoa (Diapaga)

Tuy (Houndé)

Yagha (Sebba)

Yatenga (Ouahigouya)

Ziro (Sapouy)

Zondoma (Gourcy)

Zoundwéogo (Manga)

These provinces are divided into 301 communes.

[[Communes of Burundi]]

CATEGORIES: Burundi

The provinces of Burundi are divided into 117 communes. The communes are divided into collines. The communes are listed below, by province:

[[Maggie Q]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Honolulu, American movie actors, American television actors, American models, 1979 births, Living people

Margaret Denise Quigley (born May 22, 1979), better known as  Maggie Q, is an American actress and former fashion model. She is known for many movie roles. They include the character Mai Linh in Live Free or Die Hard and her role with Tom Cruise in Mission: Impossible III. She was born in Honolulu, Hawaii.

[[Provinces of Costa Rica]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Costa Rica

The provinces (provincias) are administrative parts of Costa Rica as in other countries.

The Constitution of Costa Rica says, in its Article 168, "For Public Administration purposes, the national territory is divided into provinces, these into cantons and cantons into districts."

2016, there are 7 provinces (provincias), 81 cantons (cantones), and 473 districts (districtos).

[[List of Kataller Toyama players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Kataller Toyama players is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Kataller Toyama is a Japanese professional football club in Toyama.

[[Gutterballs]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 comedy movies, 2008 horror movies, 2000s LGBT movies, Canadian horror movies, Comedy horror movies, English-language movies

Gutterballs is a Canadian horror-comedy of 2008 (though released in 2009). It was submitted to MPAA but then released unrated when its director was told that almost 20 minutes would have to be shaved to avoid an NC-17 rating. Gutterballs received mixed to negative reviews by critics, though it also received warm greetings by the horror community. The "F-word" is mentioned over six hundred times in Gutterballs.

[[Saw (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 horror movies, 2000s crime movies, 2000s psychological movies, 2000s thriller movies, American horror movies, American psychological movies, American thriller movies, English-language movies, Saw movies, American independent movies, Lionsgate movies

Saw is a 2004 independent American psychological horror-thriller movie. It stars Cary Elwes, Danny Glover and Monica Potter. It is the first movie of the Saw franchise. It was released on October 1, 2004 in the United Kingdom and on October 29, 2004 in the United States. Saw took in almost $104 million worldwide and received high marks (holding a 7.6/10 on IMDb), though also some negative reviews from critics (49% critic score on Rotten Tomatoes). It was originally rated NC-17 by the MPAA as a result of strong graphic violence, although it was edited downwards and released with an R rating. The theme of Saw centers on the desire to stay alive, appreciation for life, kidnapping, imprisonment and torture. It was followed by seven sequels.

[[Émile Allegret]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1990 deaths, Alumni of the École nationale de l'aviation civile, French aviators, French military people, French people of World War II, People from Dijon

Émile Allegret (24 April 1907, Dijon – 22 November 1990, Vaux-sur-Mer) was a French soldier and member of the French Resistance during World War II. He graduated from the École nationale de l'aviation civile (French civil aviation university). After the war, he worked as an air navigation engineer.

Émile Allegret was a Commandeur of the Légion d'honneur.

[[Naoki Yamada]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Shonan Bellmare players

Naoki Yamada is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kosuke Ota]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, Yokohama FC players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, FC Tokyo players, FC Tokyo U-23 players, Nagoya Grampus players

Kosuke Ota is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kazuya Yamamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Kashima Antlers players, Cerezo Osaka players, Kawasaki Frontale players, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics

Kazuya Yamamura is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Takuji Yonemoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, FC Tokyo players, FC Tokyo U-23 players, Nagoya Grampus players

Takuji Yonemoto is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kensuke Nagai]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Avispa Fukuoka players, Vissel Kobe players, Nagoya Grampus players, FC Tokyo players, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics

Kensuke Nagai is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Junichi Inamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, Gamba Osaka players, Kawasaki Frontale players, Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo players, SC Sagamihara players, 2002 FIFA World Cup players, 2006 FIFA World Cup players, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup players, 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup players, 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 2000 Summer Olympics, 2000 AFC Asian Cup players, AFC Asian Cup-winning players

Junichi Inamoto is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Nightmare disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Sleep disorders

Nightmare disorder, also known as "dream anxiety disorder", is a sleep disorder characterized by frequent nightmares. The nightmares, which often portray the individual in a situation that jeopardizes their life or personal safety, usually occur during the second half of the sleeping process, called the REM stage. Though such nightmares occur within many people, those with nightmare disorder experience them with a greater frequency. The disorder's DSM-IV number is 307.47.

In some cases it could be brought on by the content of home life,movies,books and music that you let yourself consume. Most people with nightmare disorder or usually pessimistic or experiencing bad thoughts throughout the day which can be collected in the dream state to create what they witness in their dreams.

[[Hiroshi Kiyotake]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Footballers from Oita Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Oita Trinita players, Cerezo Osaka players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics

Hiroshi Kiyotake is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His brother Koki Kiyotake in also a footballer.

[[Junya Tanaka]]

Junya Tanaka can mean:

[[Junya Tanaka (footballer, born 1987)]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Kashiwa Reysol players, Vissel Kobe players

Junya Tanaka is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Franche-Comté]]

CATEGORIES: Former administrative regions of France, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

Franche-Comté (meaning "Free County") is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Bourgogne-Franche-Comté. It is in the east of the country, bordering Switzerland. Its capital was Besançon. In 2009, about 1.1 million people lived in the region.

In the local dialect, Frainc-Comtou, the name is Fraintche-Comtè. In Arpitan it is Franche-Comtât.

The departments in the region were:

[[Yuto Nagatomo]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, FC Tokyo players, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, 2018 FIFA World Cup players, 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics

Yuto Nagatomo is a Japanese football player. He plays for the Japan national team.

[[Takashi Inui]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Shiga Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Yokohama F. Marinos players, Cerezo Osaka players, 2018 FIFA World Cup players, 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup players

Takashi Inui is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[The Substitute (Glee)]]

CATEGORIES: Glee, 2010 television episodes

"The Substitute" is the seventh episode of the second season of the American television series Glee. It was the 29th episode of the entire series. The episode was directed by Ryan Murphy and written by Ian Brennan. It was first broadcast on FOX on November 16, 2010. The episode was watched by 11.70 million people in the United States. It was the top scripted show among adults aged 18–49 for the week it was broadcast. The episode guest stars Gwyneth Paltrow as Holly Holliday. She is a substitute teacher who does Will Schuester (Matthew Morrison) job as glee club director while he is sick. Cheerleading coach Sue Sylvester (Jane Lynch) becomes principal of William McKingley High School, and glee club members Mercedes Jones (Amber Riley) and Kurt Hummel (Chris Colfer) start to feel stress in their growing friendship.

The episode includes cover versions of six songs. These songs got mixed reviews from music and television journalists. The cover version of Cee Lo Green's "Forget You" and mash-up of "Singin' in the Rain" with Rihanna's "Umbrella" was given good reviews. Both covers' charted on the Billboard Hot 100. Paltrow's guest appearance was given positive reviews. The sub-plots of the episode did not get good reviews. Aly Semigran of MTV, Robert Canning of IGN and Entertainment Weekly's Tim Stack all thought that "The Substitute" is the best episode of the season. Time's James Poniewozik said that the episode was an "okay" episode. Todd VanDerWerff of The A.V. Club said it was better than the previous two episodes. The National Alliance on Mental Illness gave positive reviews for the episode's definition of bipolar disorder. Paltrow won the 2011 Primetime Emmy Award for "Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series" for her acting.

[[S Club 8]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in England, 2000s British music groups, 2005 disestablishments in England, British pop music groups, Musical groups established in 2001, Musical groups disestablished in 2005, Musical groups from London

S Club 8 were a British pop group. They formed in 2001 in London as S Club Juniors. They released their first single and album in 2002. They were renamed in 2003 and split in 2005. 

Its members were: Jay Asforis (born 1989), Daisy Evans (born 1989), Calvin Goldspink (born 1989), Stacey McClean (born 1989), Aaron Renfree (born 1987), Hannah Richings (born 1990), Frankie Sandford (born 1989) and Rochelle Wiseman (born 1989).

[[Ian Brennan]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Writers from Illinois, American movie actors, American musical theatre actors, American television actors, Actors from Illinois, American television writers, American television producers

Ian Brennan is a television writer, actor, and producer. Brennan is known mostly for creating the FOX television series, Glee. He has written "all of the episodes" along with two other colleagues. Brennan's first written television series was Growing in 2006. He has also been in several theater performances since 1999.

He was nominated for two 2010 Writers Guild of America Awards for Glee.

[[David Fincher]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, BAFTA Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning directors, Grammy Award winners, People from California, People from Denver, Colorado, People from Ashland, Oregon, 1962 births, Living people

David Andrew Leo Fincher (born August 28, 1962) is an American movie director. 

Fincher was born in Denver, Colorado. When he was two, he moved to San Anselmo, California. When he was in his teens, he moved to Ashland, Oregon.

He directed Alien 3, Seven, The Game, Fight Club, Panic Room, Zodiac, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, The Social Network , The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo and Gone Girl. He won a Golden Globe Award and a BAFTA Award for directing The Social Network.  He also directed the first 2 episodes for the TV show "house of cards"

He has also directed music videos, including Love Is Strong by The Rolling Stones, which won a Grammy Award. 

[[Sisyphus]]

CATEGORIES: People in Greek mythology

Sisyphus (Σίσυφος, Sísyphos) was a legendary person in Greek mythology. 

According to the ancient story, Sisyphus was forced to roll a big rock up a hill, but it rolled back down and the task was never finished.  He was forced to repeat this over and over again forever.The word "Sisyphean", which relates to a task which is undertaken with great effort but is ultimately pointless, is derived from the myth.

[[Dangerous Minds]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 movies, American teen drama movies, English-language movies, Movies set in California, Spanish-language movies, Multilingual movies

Dangerous Minds is a 1995 American drama movie starring Michelle Pfeiffer. It is set in California. Its subjects include gangs, teenage pregnancy, poetry and school problems.

Pfeiffer portrays LouAnne Johnson, a former U.S. Marine on whose novel this drama is based. Most of the students in this urban melodrama are African American and Hispanic adolescents.

Dangerous Minds was released August 11, 1995.  It had mixed critical reception though was a strong box office hit. In 1996 a television series of the same name premiered, though it was short lived.

The soundtrack and its lead single 'Gangsta's Paradise' enjoyed major success.  It received nominations for the Grammy Award for Record of the Year and the NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Soundtrack Album. Coolio won the Grammy Award for Best Rap Solo Performance for his vocals.

[[Cherokee County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1836 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Alabama

Cherokee County, Alabama is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. It is named for the Cherokee tribe.  As of 2010 the population was 25,989.  Its county seat is Centre. It is a prohibition or dry county which means alcoholic drinks cannot be sold.

[[John Mills]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 2005 deaths, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Norfolk, English autobiographers, English movie actors, English movie directors, English movie producers, English stage actors, English television actors

Sir John Mills CBE (born Lewis Ernest Watts Mills, 22 February 1908 - 23 April 2005) was a British actor.

He was born in North Elmham, Norfolk. His sister was entertainer Annette Mills (1894-1955). 

He was married to actress Aileen Raymond (1910-2005) from 1927 until they divorced in 1941. He was married to actress Mary Hayley Bell (1911-2005) from 1941 until his death. The couple had two daughters, actresses Juliet Mills (born 1941) and Hayley Mills (born 1946) and a son, Jonathan Mills (born 1949).

Mills was knighted in 1976. His autobiography was published in 1980. He died in Denham, Buckinghamshire.

[[Seven islands of Bombay]]

CATEGORIES: Mumbai

The seven islands of Bombay are a group of islands very close to each other. Together, they make up the city of Bombay/Mumbai.

[[Ganbaru]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture

Ganbaru, also romanized as gambaru,  is a widely-used Japanese cultural concept.  It roughly means to slog on or stick to it through tough times. Ganbaru implies a kind of hard work which is defined by Japanese culture.

The word Ganbaru is often translated to mean "doing one’s best".  In practice, it means doing more than one's best.  The word emphasizes working with continued effort despite difficulties, failure, or distraction.  The term means "toughing it out".

Ganbaru means to commit fully to a task and to bring that task to an end.  

Ganbaru means an active process of doing something. It contrasts with a passive process. 

[[Ryan Murphy]]

CATEGORIES: American television writers, American television directors, American television producers, Gay men, LGBT directors, LGBT producers, LGBT people from Indiana, LGBT screenwriters, Movie directors from Indiana, Movie producers from Indiana, Writers from Indianapolis, Indiana, 1965 births, Living people

Ryan Murphy (born November 9, 1965) is an American screenwriter, director and producer. He is the creator of the television series Nip/Tuck and Glee. Murphy also made the WB network series Popular, which aired from 1999-2001. As of 2011, some movies he will direct are underworks. 

Murphy is a graduate of Warren Central High School in Indianapolis, Indiana. He also went to Indiana University in Bloomington, Indiana.

[[Matthew Morrison]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, 1978 births, Living people, American movie actors, American musical theatre actors, Actors from Monterey County, California

Matthew James Morrison (born: October 30, 1942 in California) is an American actor, dancer, and singer. He is best known for his role in the television series Glee in which he played the teacher Mr William “Will” Schuester. After attending theater camp during his childhood, he decided that he wanted to become an actor. He was educated at New York University (NYU) Tisch School of the Arts. Being a member of boy bands like LMNT and Fresh Step, he made his musical theater transition into similarly styled shows.

He had minor roles in Footloose as well as the revival of the Rocky Horror Show. His big break came when he landed the role of Link Larkin in the Broadway production of John Waters' Hairspray. Morrison was nominated for a Tony award for his role in The Light in the Piazza. He also won the award for Ice Skater of the year.

Morrison's debut album Matthew Morrison peaked at number 24 on the Billboard 200. It also peaked at number 61 on the Australian Albums Chart, and number 63 on the UK Albums Chart.

[[Amber Riley]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, American television actors, Living people, Democrats (United States), Actors from Los Angeles, California, Singers from Los Angeles, California

Amber Patrice Riley (born February 15, 1986) is an American actress, singer-songwriter, and philanthropist, known for her role on the series Glee as Mercedes Jones. She has also appeared as the daughter of "Dirk Black" in the American Black comedy All of Us. At the age of seventeen, Riley auditioned for American Idol but was turned down by the producers. Most of her cover versions have appeared on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. 

[[Adhesion]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

Adhesion is the process in which dissimilar particles stick together. In the case of similar particles, this effect is called cohesion. Adhesion results from the physical properties of the interface between two phases. The forces that result in adhesion are not fully known, there are different explanations. Five different types of adhesion have been proposed:

[[Time Inc.]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in New York (state), Companies based in New York City, Magazines published in New York City, Time Warner

Time Inc. is a subsidiary media company of Time Warner. It publishes several of the most read magazines in the United States such as People, Time, Sports Illustrated, Fortune, InStyle, Life, GOLF Magazine, Southern Living, Essence, This Old House, All You and Entertainment Weekly. It publishes 130 magazines and was founded on November 28, 1922 in New York City.

[[List of awards and nominations received by Up]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of awards and nominations

Up is a movie produced by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures. The movie premiered on May 29, 2009 in North America. It became the first animated 3D film to open the Cannes Film Festival. The movie received many awards and nominations. Most of them were for the "Best Animated Picture" category and for the soundtrack of the movie. Up was nominated for five Academy Awards at the 2010 Ceremony. It won two of these awards for Best Animated Feature and for Best Original Score. It was the second fully animated film to be nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture after the 1991 movie Beauty and the Beast. Up became the third consecutive Pixar film to win the Academy Award for Animated Feature, after Ratatouille (2007) and WALL-E (2008). The film also won the Golden Globe for Best Original Score and the Best Animated Feature Film at the 67th Golden Globe Awards. It received the Golden Tomato, from the website Rotten Tomatoes, for highest rating feature in 2009, with an approval of 98 percent from film critics, based on 259 reviews. 

[[Centre, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Centre is a city in Cherokee County, Alabama, United States. At the 2010 census the population was 3,273. The city is the county seat of Cherokee County.  It is part of the 'Gadsden, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area'.

[[Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden]]

CATEGORIES: Zoos in the United States, Cincinnati, Ohio, Botanical gardens in the United States

The Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden is a zoo in the American city of Cincinnati, Ohio. It claims to be the second oldest zoo in the United States because it opened 14 months after the Philadelphia Zoo.

The zoo has over 65.4 of land and about 2,800 animals. It has over  30 indoor and outdoor attractions. The Cincinnati Zoo also breeds  rare animals. For example, it was the first zoo to breed the California sea lion and one of the first to breed the American bison both in 1878. It is the only place in the Western Hemisphere where one, two, and three Sumatran Rhinoceroses have been born.

[[Provinces of Ethiopia]]

CATEGORIES: Ethiopia, Provinces

Until 1995 Ethiopia was divided into provinces.  The provinces were divided into awrajjas or districts. In 1995 they were replaced by regions and two chartered cities. Eritrea was an Ethiopian province until 1993.

From 1942 until 1995 the provinces of Ethiopia were:

Older provinces, which are frequently used to indicate location within Ethiopia, include:

[[Provinces of Greece]]

CATEGORIES: Subdivisions of Greece, 1887 disestablishments

The provinces of Greece were divisions of some the country's prefectures. In 1887 the provinces were endeed as administrative units.  They were still used for some state services, especially finance services and education, as well as for electoral purposes. Before the Second World War, there were 139 provinces. After the war, with the addition of the Dodecanese Islands, their number grew to 147. The largest province is Dodoni.

[[Prefectures of Greece]]

CATEGORIES: Prefectures of Greece

The land of Greece was divided in Prefectures from 1833 to 1836.  It was divided again from 1845 until the Kallikratis reform in 2010.  Now Greece is divided into peripheral units.

[[Provinces of Italy]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Italy, Italy-related lists

Italy is divided into 20 Regions (Regioni in Italian) and every Region is divided into Provinces.  There are 110 provinces in Italy.  Each province is headed by a President assisted by a representative body, the Provincial Council, and an executive body, the Provincial Executive.

The three main jobs of a province are:

[[Eggshell]]

CATEGORIES: Tetrapods

An eggshell is the outer covering of a hard-shelled egg and of some forms of eggs with soft outer coats. It is a main character of the cleidoic egg, which allows amniotes to breed on land.

[[Pacheco, California]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in California, 1857 establishments in California, Settlements in Contra Costa County, California

Pacheco is a census-designated place (CDP) in Contra Costa County, California, United States. At the 2010 census, 3,685 people lived there. Pacheco is 5.5 north of Walnut Creek.

According to the United States Census Bureau, Pacheco has a total area of 0.7.

[[June 2011 Christchurch earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s in New Zealand, Earthquakes in New Zealand, 2011 earthquakes, June events

The June 2011 Christchurch earthquake was responsible for causing additional damage to an already earthquake-devastated region. The earthquake took place around 1420 New Zealand Standard Time and was centered next to 3.8 miles deep, six miles from Christchurch. It had been preceded by another 5.9 tremor that struck at a slightly deeper 5.5 miles. The earthquake of June 2011 cut down telephone lines and caused numerous outages which left next to 54,000 houses without power. The tremor triggered the death of an elderly man and several injuries.

[[Bombyliidae]]

CATEGORIES: Flies

The Bombyliidae are a family of flies. Their common name is bee flies.

The Bombyliidae are a large family of flies. It has hundreds of genera, but the life cycles of most species are known poorly, or not at all. Some are very small (2 mm in length), but some can be very large for flies (wingspan of some 40 mm).

Adults normally feed on nectar and pollen. Those with a spectacularly long proboscis are adapted to plants (such as Lapeirousia) which have long, narrow floral tubes.

The Bombyliidae include a large number of species, but for its size this is one of the least understood families of insects. There at least 4,500 described species, and certainly thousands still to be described. The adult flies usually feed on nectar and pollen, and some are important pollinators.

[[Gérard Feldzer]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Alumni of the École nationale de l'aviation civile, French engineers, French aviators

Gérard Paul Alain Feldzer, born the 10th of February 1944, is a consultant and aeronautical popularizer for media, journalist at France Info since 2009. Former French airline pilot, he was President of the Aéro-Club de France between 1995 and 2005, and head of the Musée de l'Air (French Air and Space Museum) between 2005 and August 2010.

The 1st of January 2012, he becomes Officiers of the Légion d'honneur.

[[Phototropism]]

CATEGORIES: Plant physiology

Phototropism is growth in the direction of light. Phototropism is common in plants, but can also occur in other organisms such as fungi. The cells on the plant that are farthest from the light have a plant growth hormone called auxin, which causes phototropism to occur. It causes the plant to have elongated cells on the farthest side from the light.

Phototropism is one of the many plant tropisms or movements which respond to external stimuli.  Growth towards a light source is a positive phototropism, while growth away from light is called negative phototropism. Most plant shoots have positive phototropism. Roots usually have negative phototropism, though gravitropism may play a larger role in root behavior and growth. Some vine shoot tips exhibit negative phototropism, which allows them to grow towards dark, solid objects and climb them.

Auxin collects mainly on the darker side of the stem and stimulates cell elongation. Thus, the cells on the side not directly exposed to light will grow faster than the opposing side, and the stem will curve towards the light source.

Phototropism in plants such as Arabidopsis thaliana is directed by blue light receptors called phototropins. Other photosensitive receptors in plants include phytochromes that sense red light, and cryptochromes that sense blue light.

[[Proboscis]]

CATEGORIES: Animal anatomy

A proboscis is a projection or elongated appendage at the front of the face. In vertebrates, the term is used to describe an elongated nose or snout. In invertebrates, the term usually refers to tubular mouthparts used for feeding and sucking.

[[Tuckman's stages of group development]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Tuckman's stages of group development is a model of group development made by Bruce Tuckman in 1965. It has four phases: Forming, Storming, Norming and Performing. 

Tuckman believed that these stages are all necessary and always happen in order for a team:

This model has become the basis for later models.

More reading on this topic can be found here: http://infed.org/thinkers/tuckman.htm

[[Clerks]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 comedy movies, American comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New Jersey, Miramax movies, American independent movies

Clerks is an 1994 American comedy movie directed by Kevin Smith. It takes place in and around a convenience store in New Jersey. Clerks was controversial. Due to graphic language it received an NC-17 rating, although the rating was later changed to R. Clerks was distributed from Miramax. It was released in October 1994.

[[Utagawa Kuniyoshi]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese printmakers, 1798 births, 1861 deaths

Utagawa Kuniyoshi, also called Kuniyoshi, was a Japanese artist. He was a masters of the ukiyo-e style of woodblock prints and painting.    

[[The Weinstein Company]]

CATEGORIES: Movie studios, 2002 establishments in the United States

The Weinstein Company was an independent movie studio founded in March 2005 by brothers Bob and Harvey Weinstein after they left Miramax Films. The studio owned Dimension Films. TWC made melodrama, horror movies and raunchy comedy. Its division Dimension handled the genre movies.

After Harvey Weinstein was accused in 2017 of sexually attacking several women in Hollywood, then later convicted and sent to prison for his crimes, many companies, film makers, actors and actresses refused to work with Weinstein or his studio again, and many people in the company itself quit. The Weinstein Company was put up for sale and eventually renamed Lantern Entertainment, which is now considered a separate company.

[[Dimension Films]]

CATEGORIES: Movie studios

Dimension Films are a network which represents genre movies. It was originally under ownership of Miramax (which was then owned by Disney), then Weinstein Company, before it was sold to Lantern Entertainment. Dimension is responsible for making movies, such as Scream franchise and Scary Movie.

[[Chilton County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1868 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Alabama

Chilton County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama.  In 1942, the U.S. Navy commissioned a new vessel, the USS Chilton, in honor of Chilton County. In 2010, the population was 43,643. The county seat is Clanton.  It is a dry county which means alcoholic drinks cannot be sold.  

The county is known for its peaches and its unique landscape. It is home to swamps, prairies and mountains due to the foothills of the Appalachians.  It also has the Coosa River basin and is close to the Black Belt Prairie.

[[Clanton, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Clanton is a city in Chilton County, Alabama, United States. At the 2010 census the population was 8,619. The city is the county seat of Chilton County.

[[Port]]

CATEGORIES: Ports and harbours

A port is a place at the edge of an ocean, river, or lake for ships to load and unload their cargo. Persons on ships can get on or off ships at a port. It is also called a harbour or harbor. This kind of port is the same as sea port.

A good port is easy to get to over water or land. It is also in a place that is not easily hurt by bad weather, like strong wind or big waves. 

Some ports are important for trade; other ports are important to a country's navy.

[[Choctaw County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1847 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Alabama

Choctaw County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. It was formed on December 29, 1847 and named for the Choctaw tribe of American Indians. As of 2010 the population was 13,859.  The county seat is Butler.

[[Clarke County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1812 establishments in the United States, 1810s establishments in Alabama

Clarke County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama.  As of 2010, 25,833 people lived there. The county seat is Grove Hill. 

[[Grove Hill, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Grove Hill is a town in Clarke County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 1,438.  It is the county seat of Clarke County and home of the Clarke County Museum.

[[Lisette Melendez]]

CATEGORIES: singers from New York City, Pop musicians, 1967 births, Living people

Lisette Melendez (born 1967 or 1976) is a Puerto Rican freestyle music and Latin pop singer. She is best known for the 1991 song Together Forever. Her exact birthdate is not clear, with some sources claiming Melendez was born as far back as 1967 or 1968. Others mention that she was born as recently as 1976. She was raised in  East Harlem in New York City.

In Japan, Melendez won a Grammy for the Best New Artist. This was for her 1994 studio album True to Life.

[[Sydney Pollack]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2008 deaths, Academy Award winning directors, Actors from South Bend, Indiana, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, American voice actors, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, Emmy Award winning directors, Jewish American actors, Movie directors from Indiana, Movie producers from Indiana

Sydney Irwin Pollack (July 1, 1934 – May 26, 2008) was an American movie and television director, producer and actor. 

Pollack was born in Lafayette, Indiana. During his childhood he moved to South Bend, Indiana. He moved to New York City when he was 17.

He won an Emmy Award in 1966. He won two Academy Awards and a Golden Globe Award for 1985 movie Out of Africa. 

He died of cancer of unknown primary origin in Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles, California.

[[Cleburne County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1866 establishments in Alabama

Cleburne County is a county in the US state of Alabama. Its name is in honor of Major General Patrick R. Cleburne, of Arkansas. As of 2010, 14,972 people lived in the county.  Its county seat is Heflin.

[[Colbert County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1867 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Alabama

Colbert County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. Its name is in honor of brothers George and Levi Colbert, Chickasaw Indian chiefs. George Colbert operated a ferry across the Tennessee River in 1790 near present-day Cherokee.

The county seat of Colbert County is Tuscumbia. It is part of the Florence - Muscle Shoals Metropolitan Statistical Area known as "The Shoals".  As of 2010, 54,428 people lived there.

[[Conecuh County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1818 establishments in Alabama Territory

Conecuh County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. Its name is believed to be derived from a Creek Indian term meaning "land of cane."  As of the 2010 census, 13,228 people lived there. Its county seat is Evergreen, Alabama.

[[Zooey Deschanel]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, Singer-songwriters from California, American television actors, American voice actors, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Singers from Los Angeles, California, 1980 births, Living people

Zooey Claire Deschanel (ˈ ZOH day-shə; born January 17, 1980) is an American actress, musician, and singer-songwriter.

[[Coosa County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1832 establishments in Alabama

Coosa County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. As of 2010, 11,539 people lived there.  Its county seat is Rockford. 

[[Rockford, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Alabama, County seats in Alabama, 1832 establishments in Alabama

Rockford is a town in Coosa County, Alabama, United States. At the 2010 census the population was 477. The town is the county seat of Coosa County.

[[Covington County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1821 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Alabama

Covington County, Alabama, is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. As of 2010, 37,765 people lived there.  Its county seat is Andalusia.

[[Crenshaw County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1866 establishments in Alabama

Crenshaw County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. As of 2010, 13,906 people lived there.  Its county seat is Luverne.

[[Pastygate]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in the United Kingdom, Political scandals

Pastygate is the name given to a political scandal in the United Kingdom in March 2012. The government had said that it was going to place a 20% VAT charge on hot pasties.

A Labour Member of Parliament asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Conservative MP George Osborne, about when he last ate a Cornish pasty. Osborne answered that he had no idea when he had last eaten one. This answer has been used to show how out of touch with ordinary people the Conservative party had become. The Prime Minister David Cameron later said that he had recently eaten a Cornish pasty at Leeds railway station "and that it was very good". However, The Sun newspaper then reported that there was no place to buy Cornish pasties at Leeds railway station at the time David Cameron claimed to have eaten one there. 

The issue, which at first appeared to be unimportant, was then taken up by several other newspapers and political commentators. They pointed out that the Conservatives seemed not to know that the pasty was a basic food eaten by many ordinary people in the country. The VAT rise on the pasty would affect both these customers and the pasty industry itself. These newspapers and commentators made fun of David Cameron's attempt to show himself as a regular pasty eater (i.e. as one of the people) and that George Osborne's did not know what a pasty was.

[[Eastern black-and-white colobus]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Africa, Old World monkeys

The eastern black-and-white colobus monkey, or mantled gueraza (Colobus guereza) is a species of monkey. It can be as big as over 2 long (excluding tail) and up to 30. In the wild, they live about 20 years.

Colobus monkeys are vegetarian. They have a three-chambered stomach to help digest leaves.

[[Cullman County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1877 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Alabama

Cullman County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. Its name is in honor of Colonel John G. Cullmann.  As of 2010, 80,406 people lived there.  Its county seat is the town of the same name, Cullman, Alabama. 

[[Dolores]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Dolores, also spelled Delores, is a female given name. Many celebrities and movie stars are named Dolores.

[[Cullman, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama, 1878 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Alabama

Cullman is a city in Cullman County, Alabama. Cullman is along Interstate 65, about 50 north of Birmingham, and about 55 south of Huntsville. According to the 2010 census, it has 14,775 people.

Cullman is the county seat of Cullman County, Alabama.

[[Freeway (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 movies, American crime movies, English-language movies, American independent movies

Freeway is a 1996 crime drama movie. It stars Reese Witherspoon as Vanessa, Brooke Shields as Mimi and Brittany Murphy as Rhonda. This melodramatic thriller was released into theaters on August 23, 1996 and received very positive reviews from critics. Freeway was originally rated NC-17 for graphic language. It was trimmed to obtain an R before release.

[[Dale County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1824 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Alabama

Dale County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. Most of the Fort Rucker U.S. Army Aviation Center for Excellence is in Dale County. Its name is in honor of General Samuel Dale.  As of the 2010 census, 50,251 people lived there.  Its county seat and largest city is Ozark. 

[[Dallas County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1818 establishments in Alabama Territory

Dallas County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. The county seat is Selma.

[[DeKalb County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1836 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Alabama

DeKalb County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. As of 2010, 71,109 people lived there.  Its county seat is Fort Payne.

[[Elmore County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1866 establishments in Alabama

Elmore County is a county of the State of Alabama. As of 2010, 79,303 people lived there. The county seat is Wetumpka.

[[Escambia County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Alabama counties, 1868 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Alabama

Escambia County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. As of 2010, 38,319 people lived there.  Its county seat is Brewton.

[[20th Television]]

CATEGORIES: American television networks, 1949 establishments in the United States, News Corporation, 21st Century Fox, Disney

20th Television (formerly 20th Century Fox Television) is an American television production and former syndication company that was created in 1992 by 20th Century Fox Film Corporation. It is a division of the Fox Entertainment Group, part of The Walt Disney Company. On August 10, 2020, the syndication division of TCFTV was folded to Disney-ABC Domestic Television, forming the production incarnation of 20th Television replacing 20th Century Fox Television.

[[Grey's crowned guenon]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Africa, Old World monkeys

The Grey's crowned guenon (Cercopithecus pogonias grayi), also known as the crowned guenon, crowned monkey, golden-bellied guenon, or golden-bellied monkey, is a species of monkey. They are mainly found in Central Africa which includes countries like Angola, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Republic of the Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and Nigeria. Mona monkeys get up to 1.5 in length and weigh 10. The lifespan of the crowned guenon is 20 years in captivity. They feed on mostly fruit, leaves, shoots, insects, and crops.

[[Axiom of choice]]

CATEGORIES: Set theory

In mathematics the axiom of choice, sometimes called AC, is an axiom used in set theory. 

The axiom of choice says that if you have a set of objects and you separate the set into smaller sets, each containing at least one object, it is possible to take one object out of each of these smaller sets and make a new set. You do not always need to use the axiom of choice to do this. You do not need to use the axiom of choice if the starting set is finite, or if the starting set is infinite and has a rule built in for how it can be divided. For example, for any (infinite or finite) sets of pairs of shoes, one can pick out the left shoe from each pair, but for an infinite collection of pairs of socks, the axiom of choice is needed.

[[Chang Taek-sang]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1969 deaths, People of the Korean War, Prime Ministers of South Korea

Jang Taek-Sang (장택상, 1893–1969) was a Korean nationalist politician. He was a Korean independence activist against Japanese imperialism. After the liberation, he was 1st Foreign Minister and 3rd Prime Minister. This was during the 2–5th National Assembly of South Korea.

[[Bound]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 crime movies, 1996 romance movies, 1990s crime thriller movies, 1990s erotic movies, 1990s LGBT movies, American crime thriller movies, American erotic movies, American LGBT movies, American romance movies, English-language movies, Film noir, LGBT crime movies, LGBT erotic movies, LGBT romance movies, LGBT thriller movies, Movies about murderers, American independent movies

Bound is a 1996 American romantic crime thriller starring Jennifer Tilly and Gina Gershon as two bisexual women who plot to steal $2 million in Mafia money. Bound received positive reviews from critics who praised its humor and strong style and its portrayal of lesbian relationships in any mainstream motion picture. It was rated R in the United States and Australia for sexual content and intense violence. It was released October 4, 1996 in the United States.

[[Gina Gershon]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, singers from Los Angeles, California, 1962 births, Living people

Gina L. Gershon (born June 10, 1962) is an American actress, singer and writer. She has been in many movies, including the 1995 movie Showgirls. She has also been in many television programs and sitcoms. She was born in Los Angeles.

[[Kwon Sang-ha]]

CATEGORIES: 1641 births, 1721 deaths, Korean educators, South Korean politicians, Autobiographers, Korean writers

Kwon Sang-ha(1641 - September 2, 1721) was a politician and Neo Confucian scholar, teacher, and writer of the Joseon Dynasty. He was second leader of Noron Partys, disciple of Song Siyeol, Song Jun-gil and ideological successor of founder Noron Partys and his teacher Song Siyeol. Nicknames was Sooam, Hansoojae.

[[Powys Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in Wales, National Trust properties

Powys Castle (or Powis Castle or Welsh: Castell Coch) is a mediaeval castle, fortress and grand country mansion near the town of Welshpool, in Powys, Mid Wales. It is the residence of the Earl of Powis. The castle is built of sandstone.  The rock is from New Red Sandstone of the Permian or Triassic periods.

The castle has extensive, attractive formal gardens, terraces, parkland, deerpark and landscaped estate. The property is under the care of the National Trust, who operate it under the name "Powis Castle and Garden". 

Queen Victoria visited the castle during her tour through England and Wales in 1832.

[[Islam in China]]

CATEGORIES: Religion in China, Islam by country

Muslims have been in China for the last 1,400 years, and have interacted with Chinese society. Muslims live in every region in China. Various sources estimate different numbers of Muslims in China. Some sources indicate 2% of the total population in China are Muslims. Xinjiang in the northwest is the province with most Muslims. 

[[Campbell Newman]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Liberal Party of Australia politicians, Mayors, Politicians from Brisbane, People from Canberra, Premiers of Queensland

Campbell Kevin Thomas Newman (born 12 August 1963) was the 38th Premier of Queensland. He is from the Liberal National Party of Queensland. He became Premier on 26 March 2012 after his party won the state election. Prior to that he was the 15th Lord Mayor of Brisbane from 2004 to 2011. At the Queensland state election on Saturday 31 January 2015, Newman lost his seat of Ashgrove to his predecessor Kate Jones. Newman will retire from politics after he lost his own parliamentary seat and on 14 February 2015, Annastacia Palaszczuk was sworn in as Premier.

[[New Red Sandstone]]

CATEGORIES: Sandstones

The New Red Sandstone is a sandstone rock in Britain and elsewhere. It was laid down in desert conditions from the Permian (280 million years ago) to the beginning of the Triassic (240 million years ago). It underlies the Jurassic Lias, which are marine rocks such as the Blue Lias. 

The term distinguishes it from the Old Red Sandstone, which is largely Devonian in age. The New Red Sandstone is much brighter and redder in colour than the Old Red Sandstone, as the examples show. The colour is caused by iron oxides in the rock.

the red sand stone was formed from 416 million to 359.2 million years ago . it was washed up on the beach 

[[Glee (season 2)]]

CATEGORIES: Glee, American television seasons, 2010 television seasons, 2011 television seasons

The second season of the musical comedy-drama television show Glee originally premiered on September 21, 2010 and ended on May 24, 2011 on FOX in the United States. The second season had 22 episodes and was produced by 20th Century Fox Television and Ryan Murphy Television. Dante Di Loreto became the executive producer while Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk, the show co-creators, remained writing the episodes along with Ian Brennan. The second season features the "New Directions" glee club at the fictional William McKinley High School in Lima, Ohio. It also shows the glee club in several competitions; local, regional and nationals which was held in New York City. The club members in this season began dealing with relationship, sexuality and social issues. 

The second season's main cast were; director of glee club Will Schuester (Matthew Morrison), cheerleading coach Sue Sylvester (Jane Lynch), guidance counselor Emma Pillsbury (Jayma Mays), and glee club members Artie Abrams (Kevin McHale), Brittany Pierce (Heather Morris), Finn Hudson (Cory Monteith), Kurt Hummel (Chris Colfer), Mercedes Jones (Amber Riley), Noah "Puck" Puckerman (Mark Salling), Quinn Fabray (Dianna Agron), Rachel Berry (Lea Michele), Santana Lopez (Naya Rivera), Tina Cohen-Chang (Jenna Ushkowitz) and Will's ex-wife Terri (Jessalyn Gilsig). Kurt's father Burt (Mike O'Malley) becomes a main character in this season.

Each episode of the second season received positive reviews from music and television journalists, however, the entire season was given a more mixed reception. The musical performances in the second season had more dance numbers and cover versions than the first season. The show released five soundtrack albums and over one hundred digital singles. The cast broke the record for "most charted songs by an act" in the 52-year history of the Billboard Hot 100 chart. The singles "Teenage Dream" (originally recorded by Katy Perry) and "Loser Like Me" (an original song), were the first to have over 200,000 downloads in their first week of release in the US. Both had also charted in the top ten in the US and Canada, and were certified Gold in the US. The second season was nominated for twelve Emmy Awards, five Golden Globe Awards, five Satellite Awards and over fifty other awards. There has been three DVDs to have been released with episodes from the season: Glee - Season 2, Volume 1 which includes episodes one through ten, Glee - Season 2, Volume 2 which includes episodes eleven through twenty-two, and Glee - The Complete Second Season.

[[Chris Colfer]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Actors from Fresno County, California, LGBT people from California, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Countertenors, Gay men, Golden Globe Award winning actors, LGBT actors, Living people, Singers from California

Christopher Paul "Chris" Colfer (born May 27, 1990) is an American actor and singer. He plays the role of Kurt Hummel on the FOX television show Glee. Time magazine called Colfer one of the "100 most influential people" in the world in 2011. He has won a Golden Globe Award and has been nominated two times for a Emmy Award.

Colfer was born in Clovis, California. He is of Irish ancestry. He is openly gay.

[[Mash-up]]

CATEGORIES: Songs

A mash-up is when a musician performs two or more songs as a single composition. Some mashups are called "remixes" or sometimes indirectly called "duets" if sung by two musicians. In popular music, some musicians sing two cover versions and blend them together (transformation) into a new song.

[[Subplot]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction

A subplot, sometimes called a "B story" or a "C story", is a secondary plot that sometimes has to do with the main story. Subplots may connect to main plots, in either time and place. Subplots often involve supporting characters, those besides the protagonist or antagonist.

[[National Alliance on Mental Illness]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 establishments in the United States, Non-profit organizations of the United States, Medical and health organizations in the United States

The National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI), formerly known as the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, is an American non-profit national advocacy organization founded in 1979 for people affected by serious mental illnesses and their families. NAMI has over 200,000 members, offices in all 50 states, and 1200 affiliates across the United States. NAMI is a :en:grassroots organization that is run primarily by volunteers.

[[Chūō, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture, 1947 establishments in Japan

Chūō is one of the 23 special wards of Tokyo, Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Chūō City" in English.

[[Edogawa, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture

Edogawa is one of the 23 special wards of Tokyo, Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Edogawa City" in English.

[[Jackie Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 crime movies, 1997 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, English-language movies, Film noir, Heist movies, Movies directed by Quentin Tarantino, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, American independent movies

Jackie Brown is a 1997 American crime drama movie directed by Quentin Tarantino set in Los Angeles. It is based on a book by Elmore Leonard. It stars Samuel L. Jackson, Pam Grier, Robert De Niro, Robert Forster, Chris Tucker, LisaGay Hamilton, Sid Haig and Bridget Fonda with Michael Keaton. It opened in theaters on December 25, 1997 in the United States. It is almost 154 minutes long. It was distributed by Miramax.

[[100 Landscapes of Japan (Heisei period)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture

The 100 Landscapes of Japan is a list of famous scenic sites in Japan. This list was developed during the reign of the current emperor.

The top three are Mount Fuji, Shosenkyo gorge in Yamanashi Prefecture, and Shiretoko in Hokkaido.

[[Pieter de Grebber]]

CATEGORIES: 1600s births, 1650s deaths, Dutch painters

Pieter de Grebber (around 1600-1652 or 1653 in Haarlem) was a Dutch painter. He was the oldest son of Frans Pietersz de Grebber. He learned how to paint from his father, and from Hendrik Goltzius. 

[[Archipelago of San Andrés, Providencia and Santa Catalina]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Colombia

The Archipelago of San Andrés, Providencia and Santa Catalina (Archipiélago de San Andrés, Providencia y Santa Catalina); or colloquially San Andrés y Providencia is one of the departments of Colombia. It consists of two  island groups about 775 northwest of Colombia and 220 from the coast of Nicaragua, and eight outlying banks and reefs. Its capital is San Andrés.

In 2005, about 65.000 people lived on San Andrès, and about 5.000 on Providencia. About 200 lived on Santa Catalina, which lies right next to Providencia.

[[100 Landscapes of Japan (Shōwa period)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture

The 100 Landscapes of Japan is a list of famous scenic sites in Japan. This list was developed early in the Shōwa period which was the reign of Emperor Shōwa.

[[Amélie Mauresmo]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Australian Open champions, Coaches, Female tennis players, French LGBT people, French tennis players, Lesbians, Living people, LGBT sportspeople, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Olympic silver medalists, People from Ile-de-France, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

Amélie Simone Mauresmo (born 5 July 1979) is a French retired tennis player. 

Mauresmo was born in Saint-Germain-en-Laye. She turned professional in 1993. She was the world number 1 women's singles from 13 September to 17 October 2004 and from 20 March to 12 November 2006. She won a silver medal in singles at the 2004 Summer Olympics. In 2006, she won the Australian Open and Wimbledon. She retired in 2009.

She is openly lesbian.

In June 2014, Mauresmo became Andy Murray's coach.

[[Erin Brockovich]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American environmentalists, American television presenters, American lawyers, Writers from Kansas, People from Lawrence, Kansas

Erin Brockovich (born 22 June 1960 in Lawrence, Kansas) is a legal clerk and an environmental activist. Brockovich was important in making cases against the Pacific Gas and Electric Company in California. It was the largest direct-action lawsuit in history at $333 million.  Since the 2000 movie Erin Brockovich, she has hosted Challenge America on ABC. She presented the documentary series Final Justice with Erin Brockovich in 2003.

[[Indirect speech]]

CATEGORIES: Grammar

Indirect speech is a way of reporting what somebody said without using their exact words. Indirect speech does not use quotation marks.

for example: 

[[Erin Brockovich (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 drama movies, 2000s biographical movies, Academy Award winning movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, American legal movies, English-language movies, Feminist movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies set in California, Movies set in the 1990s, Movies directed by Steven Soderbergh

Erin Brockovich is a 2000 American docudrama movie. It stars Julia Roberts as environmental activist Erin Brockovich. It is about Brockovich's legal actions in California against companies there in the 1990s. This movie was nominated for several Academy Awards. Roberts won an Academy Award and a Golden Globe Award for her role. In the movie, the real Erin Brockovich has a cameo appearance as a waitress named Julia.

[[32-bit]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

In computer architecture, 32-bit integers, memory addresses, or other data units are those that are at most 32 bits wide. Windows versions for 32-bit architecture  are limited to 3.56 gigabytes of viewable memory due to the 32-bit address bus.

[[Anticyclonic storm]]

CATEGORIES: Weather

Anticyclonic storms are weather systems that are very similar to a hurricane. They spin in the opposite direction to tropical cyclones, however.

[[Nutcracker]]

CATEGORIES: Tools

A nutcracker is a mechanical device for cracking open the shells of nuts. Nutcrackers are usually made of a lever which squeezes the shell of a nut until it cracks open. The earliest use of the term "nutcracker" in English dates to 1481.October 2019stub

[[Ballet Master]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet, Entertainment occupations

Ballet Master (also Balletmaster, Ballet Mistress, Premier Maître de ballet or Premier Maître de ballet en Chef) is an employee of a ballet company. The Ballet Master  is responsible for keeping the dancers in the company to a high level of competence.  

Ballet masters (or ballet mistresses for women) teach the daily company ballet class. They rehearse the dancers for both new and old ballets in the company's repertoire. The artistic director of a ballet company may also be called its ballet master.

[[Celesta]]

CATEGORIES: Percussion instruments, Keyboard instruments

[[Mr. Man (disambiguation)]]

Mr. Mann is a character from BBC television programme, Little Britain

Mr. Man may also refer to:

[[Provinces of South Korea]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of South Korea, Geography-related lists

Provinces are the first-level division within South Korea. Governors for these provinces are elected every four years.

[[The Walking Dead (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 American television series debuts, 2010s American television series, American horror television series, Atlanta, Georgia in fiction, Emmy Award winning programs, Saturn Award winners, The Walking Dead, English-language television programs

The Walking Dead is an American zombie horror television series. It was adapted and developed by Frank Darabont. The show is based on the comic book series, The Walking Dead by Robert Kirkman, Tony Moore and Charlie Adlard.

The series follows Andrew Lincoln as Rick Grimes, sheriff's deputy. Rick wakes up in a hospital after being in a coma to find the world is filled with "walkers". These walkers are similar to the zombies of George A. Romero's horror movies. He leaves to find his family and others who are still alive.

The Walking Dead was first broadcast on October 31, 2010. on the cable television channel AMC in the United States. The second season of the series was first shown on October 16, 2011. The show is now in its eighth season.

The series has been acclaimed by critics and has been nominated for many awards. These include a Writers Guild of America Award nomination and a Golden Globe Award nomination for "Best Television Series Drama". It has won two Emmy Awards. The series has also had extremely good ratings. The most watched season to date is season 5, with an average of 14.38 million viewers. The most recent season averaged 7.82 million viewers, which is just over half of season 5's average.

[[Walking Dead]]

Walking Dead may refer to:

In fiction:

In music:

In other uses:

[[Pas de deux]]

CATEGORIES: Ballet terminology

A pas de deux (steps for two) is a French ballet term. A pas de deux usually consists of an entrée, adagio, two variations (one for each dancer), and a coda. Famous pas de deux include the Black Swan pas de deux from Swan Lake and the Grand pas de deux from Act 2 of The Nutcracker.

[[Bananas in Pyjamas]]

CATEGORIES: Children's television series, Australian television, English-language television programs

Bananas in Pyjamas is a children's television program on the ABC Channel in Australia. It started in 1992. The main characters are two bananas called B1 and B2. They live next to each other on a beach. Three teddies live in the same neighborhood. There have been six series.

There is also a 2011 CGI reboot of the show.

[[A Time to Kill]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 crime movies, 1996 drama movies, 1996 thriller movies, 1990s crime drama movies, 1990s crime thriller movies, 1990s drama thriller movies, 1990s legal movies, American crime drama movies, American crime thriller movies, American drama thriller movies, American legal movies, English-language movies, Movies about murderers, Movies about revenge, Movies set in Mississippi, Rape in movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Joel Schumacher

A Time to Kill is a 1996 American legal drama thriller movie directed by Joel Schumacher released in July 1996. It is based on the 1989 novel of the same name by John Grisham It stars Samuel L. Jackson, Sandra Bullock, Matthew McConaughey and Kevin Spacey. Jackson plays an Carl Lee Hailey whose ten-year-old daughter Tonya is raped by two white racist men in Mississippi. He acts as a vigilante by killing the two rapists. McConaughey plays Jake Tyler Brigance, a lawyer who defends Hailey in court during his murder trial. A Time to Kill was a strong box office success during 1996 and was distributed through Warner Bros..

[[Gerard Lawson]]

CATEGORIES: American football cornerbacks, Cleveland Browns players, Philadelphia Eagles players, Sportspeople from Las Vegas, Nevada, 1985 births, Living people

Gerard Lawson (born January 12, 1985) is an American football player. He is cornerback and kickoff returner. Lawson is currently a free agent. He was signed by the Cleveland Browns in 2008. He played college football at Oregon State.

Lawson has also played for the Hartford Colonials and Philadelphia Eagles.

[[Killer Joe]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 comedy movies, 2011 crime movies, 2010s criminal comedy movies, American criminal comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Texas, NC-17 rated movies, Movies directed by William Friedkin, American independent movies

Killer Joe is a 2011 American criminal comedy movie starring Gina Gershon. Its distributor for the United States is Liddell Entertainment. The story of this comedy concerns a tough (though quiet) killer who befriends a young man who in turn wants his own mother taken out. Killer Joe received an NC-17 rating from the MPAA for "graphic aberrant content involving violence and sexuality, and a scene of brutality". The distributor appealed the NC-17 rating decision, though they lost the appeal to get the rating lowered to an R rating.

[[Katsushika]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture

Katsushika is one of the 23 special wards within Tokyo, Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Katsushika City" in English.

[[A Free Ride]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 movies, Pornographic movies, American silent movies

A Free Ride is an American pornographic movie. It is the earliest American pornographic movie that exists today. The movie shows a motorist and two women. The motorist picks up the women. Then they have sex. Most people believe the film was made in 1915. But some people claim it was made later.

[[Chilean Navy]]

CATEGORIES: Chile, Navies

The Chilean Navy is the naval section of the Chilean Armed Forces.

[[Milton Cruz]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Milton Cruz (born August 1, 1957) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Carlos Soares Garrit]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Carlos Soares Garrit (born December 4, 1971) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Sergio Escudero]]

Sergio Escudero can refer to:

[[Tadashi Sasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Japanese footballers

Tadashi Sasaki is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takeshi Motoyoshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Shonan Bellmare players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Tokushima Vortis players, FC Tokyo players, 1988 AFC Asian Cup players

Takeshi Motoyoshi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Akinori Mikami]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Akinori Mikami is a former Japanese football player.

[[Koichi Nakazato]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Koichi Nakazato is a former Japanese football player.

[[Neurolinguistic programming]]

CATEGORIES: Pseudoscience

Neurolinguistic programming is a way of communicating, created in the 1970s. It is often shortened to NLP. The discipline assumes there is a link between neurological processes, language and behavior. According to NLP, it is possible to achieve certain goals in life by changing one's behaviour. 

Certain neuroscientists psychologists and linguists, believe that NLP is unsupported by current scientific evidence and that it uses incorrect and misleading terms and concepts.

NLP was invented by Richard Bandler and John Grinder. According to these people,  NLP can help solve problems such as phobias, depression, habit disorder, psychosomatic illnesses, and learning disorders.

Reviews of empirical research on NLP show that NLP contains many factual errors. It did not produce reliable results for the claims for effectiveness made by NLP’ developers and proponents.  According to Devilly, NLP is no longer as common as it was in the 1970s and 1980s. Criticisms go beyond the lack of empirical evidence for effectiveness; critics say that NLP has pseudoscientific characteristics, title, concepts and terminology.  One example where NLP is used as pseudoscience is to make the teaching of scientific literacy at the professional and university level easier.   NLP also appears on peer reviewed expert-consensus based lists of discredited interventions. In research designed to identify the “quack factor” in modern mental health practice, Norcross | display-authors = etal (2006)  list NLP as possibly or probably discredited, and in papers reviewing discredited interventions for substance and alcohol abuse, Norcross | display-authors = etal (2010) list NLP in the top ten most discredited, and Glasner-Edwards and Rawson (2010) list NLP as “certainly discredited”.

[[František Mysliveček]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Czech footballers

František Mysliveček (born June 19, 1965) is a former Czech football player.

[[Kenji Yamamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Kenji Yamamoto is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kazuya Igarashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture

Kazuya Igarashi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Martin Hřídel]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Czech footballers

Martin Hřídel (born May 22, 1968) is a former Czech football player.

[[Naoki Hommachi]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Naoki Hommachi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kei Hirata]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Kei Hirata is a former Japanese football player.

[[Florida Suncoast]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Florida

Florida Suncoast is the name for the west-central and southwest Florida coast between Tarpon Springs and Naples including the Tampa Bay Area.  This region is sometimes also referred to as the Sun Coast. The area includes the well known cities at the coast like Saint Petersburg, Clearwater, Largo, Tampa, Bradenton, Sarasota, Punta Gorda, Englewood, Cape Coral, Fort Myers Beach, Venice and Naples.

[[Hirokazu Sasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Footballers from Okayama Prefecture

Hirokazu Sasaki is a former Japanese football player.

[[Davi Cortes da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Footballers from Rio de Janeiro

Davi Cortes da Silva (born November 19, 1963) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Jeorá Matos Ferreira]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Jeorá Matos Ferreira (May 8, 1964) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Yoshiyuki Kato]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yoshiyuki Kato is a former Japanese football player.

[[Mitsuhiro Kawamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Mitsuhiro Kawamoto is a former Japanese football player.

[[Koichi Togashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Koichi Togashi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Paulo Cezar Bonfim]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Paulo Cezar Bonfim (born July 15, 1971) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Koji Seki]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Koji Seki is a former Japanese football player.

[[Bactria]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Afghanistan

Bactria is a region in Asia. It is centered around the city of Balkh, in Northern Afghanistan. It is north of the Hindu Kush, and south of the river Amu Darya. Zoroaster might have been from this region.

[[North Central Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Florida

North Central Florida is a region in U.S state of Florida. The region includes the north-central part of the state and the counties Alachua, Gilchrist, Bradford, Columbia, Hamilton, Lafayette, Madison, Marion, Putnam, Suwannee and Union. The region's largest city is Gainesville (the home of the University of Florida). Other cities in this region are Ocala, Lake City, Live Oak, and Palatka.

The landscape and the climate in North Central Floria are not the same as what the most people expect of Florida. The landscape has gently rolling hills and dominated by Magnolia trees and large Southern live oaks with Spanish moss.

[[Jaipur]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in India, Settlements in Rajasthan, 1727 establishments, 1720s establishments in Asia, 18th century establishments in India

Jaipur Jaipur MW.ogg is the capital city of the state of Rajasthan, in India. In 2011, about 3 million people lived there. It is located about 300 km southwest of Delhi and about 200 km west of Agra. There are different industries in the city, which is also a cultural center. Jaipur is home to a university and important transportation. Close to the city, there are agricultural and mining activities.

[[Orion (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Greek mythology

In Greek mythology, Orion is a giant hunter. When he goes hunting, his dogs Sirius and Procycon accompany him. He lived in Boeotia and Crete. People do not agree about his parents: Sometimes he is said to be the son of Poseidon and the gorgon Euryale, at other times, he is said to have three fathers, Poseidon, Zeus and either Hermes or Ares. All three mixed their sperm in a bag of animal hide. Zeus gave him his craving for erotic adventures, from Poseidon, he got the ability to walk on water.

He is married to Side, but Hera cast his wife into the Tartaros, because Side was too proud of her own beauty.

In Greek literature he first appears as a great hunter in Homer's epic the Odyssey, where Odysseus sees his shade in the underworld. The bare bones of his story are told by the Hellenistic and Roman collectors of myths, but there is no literary version of his adventures. Other heroes' stories are told, for example  Jason in Apollonius of Rhodes' Argonautica or Euripides' Medea. The entry in Ovid's Fasti for May 11 is a poem on the birth of Orion, but that is one version of a single story. The surviving fragments of legend have provided a fertile field for speculation about Greek prehistory and myth.

Orion served several roles in ancient Greek culture. The story of the adventures of Orion, the hunter, is the one on which we have the most evidence (and even on that not very much); he is also the personification of the constellation of the same name; he was venerated as a hero, in the Greek sense, in the region of Boeotia; and there is one etiological passage which says that Orion was responsible for the present shape of the Straits of Sicily.

[[Boric acid]]

CATEGORIES: Acids

Boric acid is an acid of Boron.  Its salts are called Borates.  Boric acid is used as a disinfectant. It can also be used as a preservative, it has the E number 284. Boric acid is a by-product of the production of certain forms of glass, porcelain and vitreous enamel. It is also used as a Flame retardant. Dissolved in water, it acts as a neutron absorber in nuclear power plants. 

Boric acid is toxic. Damage is done from absorbing or ingesting about 50 mg, per kg of body weight.

Boric acid is one of the chemicals on the REACH list of the European Union. In 2010, the European Chemicals Agency listed it as a Substance of very high concern. Boric acid causes birth defects; it is a teratogen. This is also true for mixtures that contain boric acid in a concentration of at least 5.5%.

[[Sky1]]

CATEGORIES: British television channels, British Sky Broadcasting

Sky1 is a television channel in the United Kingdom. It is the oldest satellite television channel in the world.

[[Entanglement]]

Entanglement may refer to:

[[Lost and found]]

CATEGORIES: Property

Lost and found or lost property is when somebody loses something of theirs, lost and found items are kept so they can be given back. 

[[Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals]]

CATEGORIES: International law

REACH is an EU directive that simplifies the laws regarding the use of chemical substances inside the European Union. It was made law in 2007. The name stands for Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. Chemicals that are used in the EU need to be registered beforehand.

[[Luke Bryan]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Georgia (U.S. state), 1976 births, Living people

Theodore Luther "Luke" Bryan (born July 17, 1976 in Leesburg, Georgia, Georgia) is an American country music singer and songwriter. He has released six studio albums as of 2015: I'll Stay Me, Who I Am, Doin' My Thing, Tailgates and Tanlines, and Crash My Party. He has also released four "Spring Break" Extended Plays as of 2014. I'll Stay Me produced the singles "All My Friends Say", "We Rode In Trucks", and "Country Man". The album Doin' My Thing produced the singles "Do I", "Rain Is A Good Thing", and "Someone Else Calling You Baby". The album Tailgates and Tanlines produced the singles "Country Girl (Shake It For Me)", "I Don't Want This Night To End", "Drunk On You", and "Kiss Tomorrow Goodbye". The album Crash My Party has produced the title track, "That's My Kind Of Night", "Drink A Beer", "Play It Again" and "Roller Coaster" as singles.

[[Paquita]]

CATEGORIES: Ballets by Marius Petipa, Ballets

Paquita is a romantic ballet in two acts and three scenes. Its story was written by Joseph Mazilier and Paul Foucher. The music was composed by Edouard Deldevez. It was originally choreographed by Joseph Mazilier.  Paquita was first performed in the Salle Le Peletier by the Paris Opera Ballet on 1 April 1846. It starred Carlotta Grisi and Lucien Petipa. Paquita remained in the repertory of the Opéra until 1851. 

The story takes place in Spain during the occupation of Napoleon's army. The heroine is the young Gypsy girl, Paquita. She is really of noble birth. She was abducted by Gypsies when she was an infant. She saves the life of a young French officer, Lucien d'Hervilly. He is the target of a Spanish governor who desires to have him killed by Iñigo, a Gypsy chief. Paquita discovers that she is of noble birth. She is in fact the cousin of Lucien. She and Lucien marry.

In 1847, Paquita was staged for the first time in Russia for the Imperial Ballet of St. Petersburg by Marius Petipa and Pierre-Frédéric Malevergne. It was Petipa's first ballet staged in Russia. In 1881, Petipa produced a revival of the ballet. He added new pieces specially composed by Ludwig Minkus. This included the Pas de trois (aka the Minkus Pas de trois or Paquita Pas de trois) for the first act, and the Paquita Grand pas classique and the Mazurka des enfants (Children's mazurka) for the last act. Petipa's version of Paquita remained in the repertory of the Mariinsky Theatre until 1926.

Marius Petipa's 1881 additions for Paquita survived long after the full-length ballet left the stage. Today these pieces, particularly the Grand pas classique, are major cornerstones of the traditional classical ballet repertory. They have been staged by ballet companies throughout the world.

In 2001, the Ballet Master Pierre Lacotte produced a revival of the full-length, two act Paquita for the Paris Opera Ballet. Although Lacotte re-choreographed most of the ballet himself, he restored Joseph Mazilier's original mime sequences and mise-en-scène, as well as Marius Petipa's 1881 additions.

[[Henry Youngman]]

CATEGORIES: 1865 births, 1936 deaths, American baseball players, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Dortmund, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Henry Youngman (November 21, 1865 in Hörde (Dortmund) – January 24, 1936 in Pittsburgh) was an American baseball player for the Pittsburgh Alleghenys (now Pittsburgh Pirates) in 1890. He was from Germany.

[[Herb Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: Boston Bruins players, People from Ontario, 1895 births, 1969 deaths

Herb Mitchell (January 4, 1895 - January 12, 1969) was a National Hockey League player for the Boston Bruins from 1924 to 1926.April 2012 He was born in Meaford, Ontario, Canada.

[[Fratczak]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames

Fratczak (kɔˈvalskʲi; feminine: Fratczak, plural Fratczaki) 

Fratczak is translated transfer on Fox. There is several other sounds surnames, such as Fratchak, Fratschak, and Franczak. In Poland there are 6653 people named Fratczak.

[[List of Mito HollyHock players]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of Japanese football players

The List of Mito Hollyhock is evolving.  The history of the team is created by its players.

Mito Hollyhock is a Japanese professional football club in Mito.

[[Liberal National Party of Queensland]]

CATEGORIES: Liberal parties, Political parties in Australia, Liberal Party of Australia, National Party of Australia

The Liberal National Party of Queensland is a liberal conservative political party in Australia. It is the merger of the Liberal and  National parties. It is led by Campbell Newman who is also the current premier of Queensland since the defeat of the Labor government at the 2012 state election.

[[Naoto Kan]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Japan, People from Yamaguchi Prefecture, Deputy Prime Ministers of Japan

Naoto Kan (born 10 October 1946) is a Japanese politician and former Prime Minister of Japan. In June 2010 he was elected as prime minister. He was the leader of the Democratic Party of Japan. Naoto Kan studied law and is a patent attorney by profession. Kan resigned as prime minister on 26 August 2011 after many people were critical of his leadership following the 2011 earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis. Yoshihiko Noda was appointed as his successor.

[[Web hosting service]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service. It allows people and companies to make their website available on the World Wide Web.  Web hosts are companies which provide space on a server which is owned or leased for use by clients. These clients store their Web site on the server. The server feeds the web pages to the Internet. 

Wikia, for example, is a hosting service. Many web hosting companies also provide other services including file hosting service.

[[Speed skating]]

CATEGORIES: Speed skating

Speed skating or speedskating is when in ice skating, people race against each other. Everyone will travel the same distance. They usually compete around an oval course. The Dutch were arguably the earliest pioneers of skating. They began 

using canals to maintain communication by skating from village to 

village as far back as the 13th century. Skating eventually spread 

across the channel to England, and soon the first clubs and artificial 

rinks began to form. Passionate skaters included several kings of England, Marie Antoinette, Napoleon III and German writer Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. 

Speed skating appeared for the first time in 1924 at the first Olympic Winter Games in Chamonix. Initially, only men were allowed to 

participate. It was only at the Lake Placid Games in 1932 that women 

were authorised to compete in speed skating, which was then only a 

demonstration sport. It was not until the 1960 Games in Squaw Valley that women’s speed skating was officially included in the Olympic programme. 

The events almost always follow the European system, which consists 

of skaters competing two-by-two. At the 1932 Olympic Games, the Americans organised American-style events, i.e. with a mass start. This decision brought about a boycott by many European competitors, which allowed the Americans to win the four gold medals. This system would give birth to short-track speed skating, which was added to the Olympic programme in Albertville in 1992. The first known skating competition is thought to have been held in the Netherlands in 1676. However, the first official speed skating events were not held until 1863 in Oslo, Norway. In 1889, the Netherlands hosted the first World Championships, bringing together Dutch, Russian, American and English teams. 

[[Brodus Clay]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, American movie actors, Actors from Pasadena, California, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from California

George Murdoch (born February 21, 1980) is an American professional wrestler and actor. He is better known by his ring name, Brodus Clay. He is best known for his time working with the WWE. Before he became a wrestler he worked as a bodyguard for Snoop Dogg.

[[Condé-sur-Sarthe]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Orne

Condé sur Sarthe is a village near Alençon, in the Orne department in northwestern France. The name "Conde" comes from the Celtic term Condate. There are 2,164 people in 2009. It is 846. The highest point in the commune is 140. The river which is called "la Sarthe" flows through the village.

The Rustic cheese is made in the town of Condé-sur-Sarthe.

The church of Saint Martin is of Romanesque architecture and was partly renovated during the Gothic period. Therefore, one can observe arches on one side of the nave, and pointed arches on the other side. The bell tower dates from the 18th century. There is a 19th-century painting of the Assumption and polychrome wooden statues. The stained glass dates from the 16th century.

The "Monument of the Firing Squad Galochère", dating from 1944, honors the soldiers shot here during the Second World War.

[[Ann M. Martin]]

CATEGORIES: writers from New Jersey, Living people, 1955 births, Children's writers

Ann Matthews Martin (born August 12, 1955) is an American children's writer.

Ann Martin grew up in Princeton, New Jersey with her parents and her younger sister, Jane. She graduated from Smith College. After this, Martin became a teacher and then an editor of children's books. Now, she is a full-time writer.

Martin finds the ideas for her books from many different things. Some are based on what she has done herself. Others are based on childhood memories and feelings. All of the characters that Ann uses in her books, including the members of The Baby-Sitters Club, are fictional. However, many of her characters are based on real people. Sometimes Ann names her characters after people she knows, and other times she simply chooses names that she likes. 

In 1990, she started the Ann M. Martin Foundation. This gives money to causes which help children, education/literacy programs, homeless people and animals.

[[Lim Sa-hong]]

CATEGORIES: 1445 births, 1506 deaths, South Korean politicians, Autobiographers, Korean writers

Lim Sa-hong (임사홍, 1445 - 1506) was a politician and writer and member of the royal family in Joseon Dynasty Korea.

[[Schoolhouse Rock!]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series, 1970s television series, ABC network shows, 1980s Nickelodeon shows, English-language television programs

Schoolhouse Rock! was an American animated television show that aired from January 6, 1973 to March 31, 2009. The show is an educational-musical show that first aired on ABC. The topics the show taught children were grammar, science, economics, history, mathematics, and civics.  Many of the songs were performed by Grady Tate.

[[Ring-tailed lemur]]

CATEGORIES: Lemuriformes, Mammals of Africa

The ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta) is a primate from the group of lemurs (Lemuriformes). It lives in the dry regions of southwest Madagascar. 

This lemur weighs between 2. It can live up to 20 years.  It is a mid-sized lemur. The striped tail makes it easy to recognize. Its behaviour is somewhat unusual for lemurs: it is active during the day, and spends much time on the ground. Ring-tailed lemurs live in groups of 12 to 15 animals. Each group is led by a female. Ring-tailed lemurs eat both meat and plants, but they mainly eat fruit. They live only in Madagascar. The main threats to ring-tailed lemurs are destroying the places where it lives and hunting.

[[Radio edit]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry

A clean version (also called "radio edit") is a song that has its profanity taken away so it can be played on radio stations. Some songs that do not have profanity but are called "radio edit" can mean that their length have been shorten or have some of its lyrical content removed for legal purposes.

[[1994 Northridge earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 in California, 1990s in Los Angeles, California, Earthquakes in the 1990s, Earthquakes in California

The 1994 Northridge Earthquake was a violent natural disaster that took place on Monday, January 17, 1994 at 0430 Pacific Standard Time around the Los Angeles area. The earthquake had a strong moment magnitude at around 6.7, although ground acceleration was one of the highest ever recorded in an urban region of North America. Almost 60 people died and property damage totaled between $20 billion and $23 billion, making this earthquake one of the costliest disasters in the history of the United States. The productions for movies and television programs were shut down, numerous highways and roads were damaged and certain Hollywood studios (including Warner Bros., Disney and Universal Pictures) were closed off as a result of this disaster.

[[Blue (group)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 establishments in England, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, English boy bands, English pop music groups, English R&B bands, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, Musical groups established in 2000

Blue are a British pop-R&B boy band quartet. The members are Antony Costa (born 1981), Duncan James (born 1978), Lee Ryan (born 1983) and Simon Webbe (born 1979). The group formed in London in 2000. They released their first single and album in 2001. They split in 2005 and reformed in 2009. They were the UK entry in the 2011 Eurovision Song Contest.

[[Magical thinking]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Magical thinking is a kind of thinking that looks for relationships between actions and events that can not be proved by reason and observation. Examples of magical thinking include some forms of prayer, some religious or magical rituals, superstitions, and taboos. The rain dance is a form of magical thinking. The dancers believe that the actions and songs used in the rain dance will cause rain to fall. Faith healing is a form of magical thinking where the healer says prayers, puts their hands on the sick person in the belief that the healer's actions will cure the person. Explanations for magical thinking include coincidence, the placebo effect, self-deception, staged events, and natural causes. See materialism. 

In psychology, magical thinking may lead people to believe that their thoughts by themselves can cause effects in the world or that thinking something is the same as doing it. It is a type of incorrect reasoning that looks for meaningful relationships between coincidences. 

However many people believe supernatural things do happen sometimes. To believe all explainable events are simply due to magical thinking is a form of scepticism.

[[Neilsen rating]]

CATEGORIES: Television

Nielsen ratings is an audience measurement system that was developed by the Nielsen Company. They created the system in an effort to determine the audience size and composition of television programming in the United States. The Nielsen Media Research was founded by Arthur Nielsen. Nielsen was a market analyst and began his career in the 1920s. He expanded his career into the radio market analysis during the 1930s. This helped give ratings of radio programing which was meant to provide statistics as to the markets of radio shows. In 1950, Nielsen moved to television and developed ratings systems using the methods he and his company had developed for radios.

[[List of Glee episodes]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of television series episodes, Glee

This is a list of Glee episodes. 

[[Christina Milian]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Maryland, Actors from New Jersey, American child actors, American dancers, American movie actors, American R&B singers, American pop singers, American hip hop musicians, American soul musicians, American singer-songwriters, American television actors, American voice actors, Entertainers from Jersey City, New Jersey, Singers from Maryland, Singers from New Jersey, 1981 births, Living people

Christine Flores (born September 26, 1981), best known as Christina Milian is an American singer-songwriter, actress and dancer. She was born in Jersey City, New Jersey to Cuban parents Don Flores and Carmen Milian and moved to Waldorf, Maryland soon after her birth. She began her music career in 2000 and has released three studio albums.

[[Eastern black rhinoceros]]

CATEGORIES: Rhinoceroses

The Eastern black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis michaeli) is also known as the East African black rhinoceros. It is a critically endangered subspecies of black rhino that lives in woodland and scrubland biome. It lives in countries like Ethiopia, Sudan, Somalia, Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda. Black rhinos typically weigh up to 2,090 to 2,870 lbs and get up to 4.7 to 5.2 ft tall and live up to 40 years.

[[Tribunal]]

CATEGORIES: Trials

A tribunal is a person or an institution with the authority and power to judge.  For example, a court of justice is a tribunal.

The word comes from the word "tribune", the name shared by members of the Roman Republic.

[[Dominance (ethology)]]

CATEGORIES: Ethology, Psychology

In the context of the behaviour of animals, dominance means that one animal, or a small group has a high social status. Because of this status, these animals get better access to resources, such as food. Dominance (and submission, the contrary) is always linked to the relationship of two animals, one of them has a higher social status than the other.

[[Fujiidera, Osaka]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Osaka Prefecture

Fujiidera is a city in the middle region of Osaka Prefecture in Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Fujidera City" in English.

[[Takahagi, Ibaraki]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Ibaraki Prefecture

Takahagi is a city in northern Ibaraki Prefecture in Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Fujidera City" in English.

[[Public holidays in Thailand]]

CATEGORIES: Lists, Holidays, Thai culture

Public holidays in Thailand are controlled by the government. Most holidays are observed by both the public and private sectors.

[[César Chávez Day]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, California, Colorado, Texas, Arizona, Michigan, History of Nebraska, New Mexico

César Chávez Day is a state holiday in California, Colorado and Texas observed on March 31. The holiday is to remember the life of Cesar Chavez and his civic involvement. All state government offices, community colleges, and libraries are closed, except for K-12 schools. Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger suspended observance of the holiday in 2004 and 2005 to save money during the aftermath of the power crisis. It is an optional holiday in Arizona, Michigan, Nebraska, and New Mexico. Californians celebrate this holiday by planting lilies in their front yard. 

[[Robin Thicke]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American R&B musicians, American R&B singers, American television actors, Canadian singers, Canadian television actors, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Singers from Los Angeles, California, 1977 births, Living people

Robin Charles Thicke (born March 10, 1977) is an American-Canadian R&B singer. 

[[Robin Givens]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Actors from New York, African American actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors

Robin Simone Givens (born November 27, 1964 New York City) is an American stage, television and movie actress. Her acting began in 1985 beginning with sitcoms The Cosby Show and Diff'rent Strokes.

[[Kodaira, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture

Kodaira  is a Japanese city in the western part of the greater metropolis of Tokyo, Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Kodaira City" in English.

[[Heather Matarazzo]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Actors from New York, American movie actors, LGBT actors, LGBT people from New York

Heather Christina Amy Marie Matarazzo (born November 10, 1982) is an American actress. Her breakthrough role was Dawn Wiener, a dorky girl in the film Welcome to the Dollhouse (1995).  She played Lilly in The Princess Diaries (2001) and The Princess Diaries 2: Royal Engagement (2004). Her other movies include The Devil's Advocate (1997), Scream 3 (2000), Sorority Boys (2002), Saved! (2004), and Hostel: Part 2 (2007).

[[Provinces of Oman]]

CATEGORIES: Oman

The regions and governorates of Oman are divided into provinces.

[[Scream 3]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 crime movies, 2000 horror movies, 2000s horror thriller movies, American sequel movies, Impact of the Columbine High School massacre, Scream movies, Screenplays by Ehren Kruger, American independent movies

Scream 3 is a 2000 American horror movie. It stars Courteney Cox and Neve Campbell. It was released via Dimension, which was a division of Miramax at that time. 

It is the third in the Scream franchise. It came after Scream 2 and was followed by Scream 4.

[[Ranzan, Saitama]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Japan, Settlements in Saitama Prefecture

Ranzan is a town in the middle of Saitama Prefecture in Japan.

Ranzan Keikoku Gorge is a forested area near Mount Ohira.  The  Tsukigawa River runs through it.

[[Provinces of Panama]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Panama

Panama is divided into ten provinces (provincias). There are three provincial-level indigenous regions (comarcas indígenas, often shortened to comarcas). 

There are also two indigenous comarcas within provinces that are considered equivalent to a corregimiento (municipality).

[[Hitachi, Ibaraki]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Ibaraki Prefecture

Hitachi is Japanese port city on the Pacific coast of Ibaraki Prefecture on the island of Honshu.

[[Third Geneva Convention]]

CATEGORIES: Geneva Conventions, 1929 in Europe, 20th century in Geneva

The Third Geneva Convention says that all prisoners of war must be treated fairly. It is one of the four treaties of the Geneva Conventions. It was first used in 1929, but much of it was updated in 1949. 

[[Cranberry]]

CATEGORIES: Berries, Vaccinium

A cranberry is a fruit. It grows on an evergreen dwarf shrub. Cranberries are in the genus Vaccinium, and its subgenus Oxycoccus. In some classification methods, they are regarded as a genus in their own right.

Cranberry plants grow in acidic bogs in cooler areas of the northern hemisphere.  They are low creeping shrubs up to seven feet (3 m) long, from two to eight inches (5-20 cm) high.  They have slender and wiry stems with small leaves which are evergreen with dark pink flowers. Cranberries are usually eaten during Thanksgiving in the United States. They are also eaten in Europe and some parts of South America.  

Cranberries are strong cash crops for certain U.S. states.  They are turned into juice, sauce or jam. Since 2000, cranberries have been marketed as superfruit due to their antioxidant and nutrient qualities.

[[Victoria Tolstoganova]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Russian actors

Victoria Victorovna Tolstoganova (Russian: Виктория Викторовна Толстоганова; born Moscow, 24 March 1972) is a Russian actress. She is best known for acting in Russian TV series in the 2000s.

Tolstoganova is divorced from Andrei Kuzichyov. They have two children. She is currently dating Aleksei Agranovich, with whom she has one child.

[[Nakano, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture

Nakano is one of the 23 special wards of Tokyo, Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Nakano City" in English.

[[Assembly line]]

CATEGORIES: Manufacturing

An assembly line is a manufacturing process which is a very important part of industry.

In an assembly line, parts are added to a product in a sequence. Each worker and machine does one part, and the parts are put together to make the finished object. This makes a product much faster than with handcrafting-type methods, where one person made the whole object. 

The division of labour was discussed by Adam Smith in his book The Wealth of Nations (1776). He used the manufacture of pins as an example of increasing productive efficiency.

[[Outer planet]]

CATEGORIES: Solar System planets

The outer planets are planets in the Solar System that are beyond the asteroid belt. The four planets; Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune are gas giants. All four of these planets have planetary rings which are made up of dust and other particles.

[[Ōta, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Wards of Tokyo, Settlements in Tokyo Prefecture, 1947 establishments in Japan

Ōta is one of the 23 special wards in Tokyo, Japan.

The municipality calls itself "Ōta City" in English.

[[Hypothyroidism]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Endocrine system

Hypothyroidism is a medical condition. If a person has hypothyroidism, their thyroid gland does not make enough hormones. It can be caused by many factors, but it is more common when a person has insufficient iodine. Severe hypothyroidism in infants can result in cretinism.

Symptoms of hypothyroidism include the following: tiredness, headaches, weight gain, dry skin, constipation, and poor concentration.

[[Charnia]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Invertebrates

Charnia is the genus name of a frond-like Ediacaran lifeform. It has segmented ridges branching alternately to the right and left from a midline. The genus Charnia was named after Charnwood Forest in Leicestershire, England, where the first fossilised specimen was found.

[[Institute of Space and Astronautical Science]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, 1955 establishments in Japan, Space research organizations

Institute of Space and Astronautical Science or ISAS, is a Japanese national research organization. ISAS studies astrophysics using rockets and satellites.  ISAS is part of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA).

[[Ōsumi (satellite)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites

Ōsumi, also known as Ohsumi, is the name of the first Japanese artificial satellite which was put into orbit.  It was named after Ōsumi Province in the area of Kagoshima Prefecture on the island of Kyūshū. 

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science of the University of Tokyo.

The satellite was sent into orbit on February 11, 1970.  

Japan became the fourth nation to send satellite into orbit.  Satellites launched by the USSR, the USA and France were put into orbit before Ōsumi. 

[[Tansei]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites

Tansei, also known as Tonsei, is the name of the second Japanese artificial satellite which was put into orbit. 

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science of the University of Tokyo. The name of the satellite means "light blue", which is the school color of the University of Tokyo.

The satellite was sent into orbit on February 16, 1971.   

[[Shinsei]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites

Shinsei is the name of the third Japanese artificial satellite which was put into orbit. 

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science of the University of Tokyo.

The satellite was sent into orbit on September 28, 1971.   

[[Paul Eddington]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, Cancer deaths in London, Deaths from skin cancer, English movie actors, English television actors, 1927 births, 1995 deaths

Paul Eddington CBE (18 June 1927 – 4 November 1995) was a British actor. He was born in Paddington, London. He is best known for his roles as Jerry Leadbetter in The Good Life and Jim Hacker in Yes Minister. He died of skin cancer in Southwark, London.

[[Provinces of the Philippines]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

The Provinces of the Philippines are the main political and administrative divisions of the Philippines. There are 80 provinces at present.  The provinces are divided into cities and municipalities. The National Capital Region, as well as independent cities, are separate from any provincial government. Each province has a governor.

The provinces are grouped into seventeen regions based on geographical, cultural, and ethnological characteristics. Fourteen of these regions are designated with numbers corresponding to their geographic location in order from north to south. The National Capital Region, Cordillera Administrative Region, and Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao do not have numerical designations.

Each province is member to the League of Provinces of the Philippines, an organization which aims to address issues affecting provincial and metropolitan government administrations.

[[Nursery]]

CATEGORIES: Types of educational institutions, Children

A nursery is a school for children between the ages of one and five years. It is a preschool education institution, part of a child's education.

Nurseries take care of young children during the day while providing a safe, fun and educational environment. Most nurseries provide toys and a outdoor playground with equipment. 

In the UK, most children start nursery at two or three years old and move on to primary school the academic year they turn five. Some nurseries can take care of babies as young as 3-6 months old. These nurseries are often called day nurseries or daycares. Some nurseries are called children’s centres. Some nurseries have separate rooms for different age groups. Preschools in the UK are mainly designed for children from toddler age to five years.

A nursery in England is also called FS1, which is also first year of foundation before they go into primary school.

[[Kingsway (London)]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in London

Kingsway is a major road in central London in the United Kingdom, designated as part of the A4200. It runs from High Holborn, at its north end in the London Borough of Camden, and meets Aldwych in the south in the City of Westminster at Bush House. It was built in the 1900s. Together Kingsway and Aldwych form one of the major north-south routes through central London linking the ancient east-west routes of High Holborn and Strand.

[[Denpa (satellite)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites

Denpa is the name of a Japanese artificial satellite which was put into orbit.  Denpa was a radiation experiments satellite (REXS).

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science of the University of Tokyo.

The satellite was sent into orbit on February 19, 1972. 

[[Provinces of Libya]]

CATEGORIES: History of Libya, 1934 establishments, 20th-century establishments in Libya, 1963 disestablishments

Libya was divided into provinces from 1934 to 1963.  Now Libya is divided into 22 districts.

[[Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Independent Administrative Institutions of Japan, Space agencies, Japanese space program, 2003 establishments in Japan

The 

, also known as JAXA, is Japan's national space agency.

JAXA is an Independent Administrative Institution.

JAXA is responsible for research, technology development and the launch of satellites into orbit.  JAXA is involved in advanced missions, such as asteroid exploration and possible manned exploration of the Moon.

[[Hong Kong Island (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Hong Kong

Hong Kong Island is a constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong.

[[Kowloon West (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Hong Kong

Kowloon West is a geographical constituency of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. It was created in 1998.

[[Akebono (satellite)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites

Akebono is the name of a Japanese artificial satellite put into orbit.

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science of the University of Tokyo.

The satellite was sent into orbit on February 22, 1989. 

Akebono was designed to study auroras and the magnetosphere of earth.  The satellite remained operational for 20+ years.

[[Peter Andre]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Australian businesspeople, Australian pop singers, Australian singer-songwriters, British R&B musicians, Businesspeople from London, British pop singers, British singer-songwriters, Gold Coast, Queensland, I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here! contestants, Musicians from Queensland, People from Brent (London borough), Singers from London, Television personalities from London

Peter Andre (born Peter James Andrea on 27 February 1973) is a British-Australian singer and television personality.

Andre was born in Brent, north-west London to Greek Cypriot parents. He grew up in London until moving to the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia when he was six years old.

His first single was released in 1992 and his first album in 1993.

He and Katie Price were contestants in series 3 of the British version of I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here! from January-February 2004. He and Price began a relationship during that time. Andre and Price had their son, Junior in June 2005. The couple married later that year and their daughter, Princess was born in June 2007. The couple divorced in 2009.  In July 2012, Andre began a relationship with medical student Emily MacDonagh. The couple’s first child, Amelia, was born on 8th January 2014. They later married on 11th July 2015, in Exeter at Mamhead House. On 22nd November 2016, Emily gave birth to her second child, a son, Theodore James (aka Theo).

[[A Visit from St. Nicholas]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American poems

"A Visit from St. Nicholas" is a poem by Clement Clarke Moore. It was first published anonymously on December 23, 1823 in the Troy Sentinel, an American newspaper. It is also known as "The Night Before Christmas" and "'Twas the Night Before Christmas" from its first line. The poem is largely responsible for the way many people think of Santa Claus. It describes his physical appearance, the night of his visit, his sleigh, the number and names of his reindeer, and the tradition that he brings toys to children.

[[Sleeping with the Enemy]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 crime movies, 1991 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, 1991 thriller movies, 1990s psychological movies, American crime drama movies, American thriller movies, American psychological movies, English-language movies, Iowa, Movies about domestic violence, Movies based on books, Movies set in Massachusetts, Movies directed by Joseph Ruben

Sleeping with the Enemy is a 1991 American psychological thriller movie. It is based on the novel of the same name. It stars Julia Roberts as Laura Burney, a victim of domestic violence. She moves from Cape Cod, Massachusetts to Cedar Falls, Iowa to escape her violent, controlling husband. This movie was released during February of 1991.

[[Hiten (spacecraft)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites

Hiten is the name of the first Japanese space probe sent to the moon.   It was  the first lunar probe launched by a country other than the Soviet Union or the United States.

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science of the University of Tokyo.

The satellite was sent toward the moon on January 24, 1990.  

On the first lunar approach, Hiten released a small orbiter.  This was called Hagoromo  

[[Taiyo (satellite)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites

Taiyo is the name of a Japanese artificial satellite which was put into orbit. 

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science of the University of Tokyo.

The satellite was sent into orbit on February 24, 1975.  It entered the atmosphere and burned up on 29 June 1980.

[[Kyokko]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites

Kyokko is the name of a Japanese artificial satellite which was put into orbit. 

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science of the University of Tokyo.

The satellite was sent into orbit on February 4, 1978.   

[[Jikiken]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites

Jikiken is the name of a Japanese artificial satellite which was put into orbit. The satellite was sent into orbit on September 16, 1978. 

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science of the University of Tokyo.

[[Hinotori (satellite)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites

Hinotori is the name of the a Japanese artificial satellite which was put into orbit. 

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science of the University of Tokyo.

The satellite was sent into orbit on February 21, 1981.   

[[Ohzora]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites

Ohzora is the name of the a Japanese artificial satellite which was put into orbit. 

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science of the University of Tokyo.

The satellite was sent into orbit on February 14, 1984.   

[[Suzaku (satellite)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese space program, Satellites

Suzaku is the name of the a Japanese artificial satellite which was put into orbit in 2005. 

The launch was a project of the Institute of Space and Astronautical Science of the University of Tokyo.

The satellite was launched on July 10, 2005.   

[[Glaciology]]

CATEGORIES: Earth sciences, Landforms

Glaciology is a discipline of science. It is the study of glaciers. Glaciology is a branch of Earth science. The International Glaciological Society (IGS) is an organization that conducts research in glaciology.

[[The Devil Inside]]

CATEGORIES: American horror movies, 2012 movies, English-language movies

The Devil Inside is an American supernatural horror movie.  It is a documentary-style movie.  The story is about a woman who gets involved in many exorcisms.  She is trying to find out what happened to her mother.  Her mother murdered three people because she was possessed by a demon.

The Devil Inside was released in the United States in January 2012. Its focus is set between 1989 and 2009. It was not shown to critics, although it made nearly $97 million at the box office while in theaters.

[[Mute]]

Mute may refer to:

[[Kowloon East (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Hong Kong

Kowloon East is a constituency in Hong Kong.

[[New Territories West (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Hong Kong

New Territories West, or "NT West", means the western part of New Territories in Hong Kong.  It includes Tsuen Wan District, Kwai Tsing District, Tuen Mun District, Yuen Long District and Islands District. It is one of the geographical constituencies in the Legislative Council of Hong Kong, the largest geographical constituencies in Hong Kong. Although New Territories West is not the official administration name in Hong Kong (while New Territories is the official name), many government departments use it as one of main regions for administration divisions.

[[New Territories East (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Hong Kong

New Territories East (or NT East), refers to the eastern part of New Territories in Hong Kong. It includes Sha Tin District, Tai Po District, North District and Sai Kung District. It is the second largest geographical constituency in the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. Although New Territories East is not an official administrative name (it is officially part of the 'New Territories'), many government departments use it as a major administrative division.

[[Heung Yee Kuk (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Heung Yee Kuk, is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1991. The constituency is composed of the Chairman and Vice-Chairmen of the Heung Yee Kuk and the Ex Officio, Special and Co-opted Councillors of the Full Council of the Kuk.

[[Agriculture and Fisheries (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Agriculture and Fisheries are a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1998. It was created from the Agriculture, Fisheries, Mining, Energy and Construction in 1995. The constituency is composed of agriculture and fisheries organisations. 

[[Insurance (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Insurance is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1998. It was created from the Financial, Insurance and Real Estate Services which composed of all the voters with the occupation of finance, insurance, real estate services under the then Governor Chris Patten's enlargement of the new nine functional constituency in 1995. The constituency is now restricted to only 144 insurers.

[[Transport (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Transport, formerly called Transport and Communication in the colonial period, is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. 178 electors are only limited to transportation associations.

[[Education (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Education, formerly called Teaching in the colonial period, is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. It has been the functional constituency with most registered voters since 1998.

[[Legal (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Legal, is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1985. Electors include The member of the Law Society of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Bar Association, and the officers in the Government's judicial departments.

[[Accountancy (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Accountancy is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1988. The constituency is composed of composed of certified public accountants.

[[Medical (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Medical, is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1985. Electors include all medical participators and dentists. It consists of the second largest number of voters among the functional constituency after the Education constituency.

[[Health Services (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Health Services, formerly called Health, are a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1998. The constituency is composed of health services related professionals. 

[[Engineering (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Engineering is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1998. The constituency is composed of composed of professional engineers and the members of the Hong Kong Institution of Engineers.

[[Architectural, Surveying, Planning and Landscape (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Architectural, Surveying, Planning and Landscape, formerly called Engineering, Architectural, Surveying and Planning from 1985 to 1991 and Architectural, Surveying and Planning from 1991 to 2016 is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1985. The constituency is composed of composed of architects, landscape architects, surveyors, and planners and the members of Hong Kong Institute of Architects, Hong Kong Institute of Landscape Architects, Hong Kong Institute of Surveyors, and Hong Kong Institute of Planners entitled to vote at the general meetings of the associations.

[[Box office]]

CATEGORIES: Economics, Movie terminology, Movie production

A box office is a place where tickets are sold to the public. These tickets let people into a theater to see an event. In the movie industry, the term is most often used to mean the amount of money a movie makes by the selling of tickets. The term can also mean things which affect the amount a movie earns.

[[Labour (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Labour is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1985. The constituency is composed of bodies that are trade unions of which all the voting members are employees.

[[Social Welfare (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Social Welfare, is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1985. Electors include all the registered social workers.

[[Real Estate and Construction (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Real Estate and Construction, is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1998. The constituency is composed of the members of the Real Estate Developers Association of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Construction Association, and Hong Kong E&M Contractors' Association to vote at general meetings of the Associations.

[[Tourism (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Tourism, is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1998. The constituency is composed of the members of the associations in the tourist industry.

[[Commercial (First)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Commercial (First), is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1998. The constituency is composed of the members of the associations in the Commercial Industry.

[[Commercial (Second)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Commercial (Second), is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1998. The constituency is composed of the members of the associations in the Commercial Industry.

[[Industrial (First)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Industrial (First), is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1998. The constituency is composed of the members of the associations in the Industrial Industry.

[[Industrial (Second)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Industrial (Second), is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1998. The constituency is composed of the members of the associations in the Industrial Industry.

[[Finance (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Finance, is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1998. The constituency is composed of the members of the associations in the Financial Industry.

[[Financial Services (constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Functional constituencies of Hong Kong

The Financial Services, is a functional constituency in the elections for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong first created in 1998. The constituency is composed of the members of the associations in the Financial Services Industry.

[[Umbrella tree]]

Umbrella tree can refer to several items:

[[Transitivity]]

Transitivity may refer to:

[[Evasion]]

Evasion is the act of avoiding something.

It may refer to:

[[Battersea Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1890s establishments in England, Battersea, Bridges and tunnels in London, Chelsea, London

Battersea Bridge is a cast-iron and granite five-span cantilever bridge crossing the River Thames in London, England. It is on a sharp bend in the river, and links Battersea south of the river with Chelsea to the north.

The first Battersea Bridge was a toll bridge. Although a stone bridge was planned, a cheaper wooden bridge was built instead. Designed by Henry Holland, it was opened to pedestrians in November 1771, and to vehicles in 1772. The bridge was poorly designed. Iy was dangerous to its users and to passing shipping. Boats often collided with it. To reduce the dangers to shipping, two piers were removed, and the sections of the bridge above them were strengthened with iron girders.

Although dangerous and unpopular, the bridge was the last surviving wooden bridge across the Thames in London. It was the subject of paintings by Turner, Cotman and Whistler.

In 1879 the bridge was taken into public ownership, and in 1885 demolished and replaced with the existing bridge, designed by Joseph Bazalgette. It is the narrowest surviving road bridge over the Thames in London, and one of London's least busy Thames bridges. The position on a bend in the river makes the bridge a hazard to shipping, and it has been closed many times due to collisions.

In June 2012, the bridge was highlighted on the route of Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee Pageant on the Thames.  The Battersea Bridge area marked the official start of the parade of ships and boats moving towards Tower Bridge.

[[Saint]]

CATEGORIES: Saints

A saint is a holy person. In many religions, saints are people who are believed to be holy.

In Christianity, the word "saint" refers to any person who is "in Christ", and in whom Christ dwells, whether in Heaven or in earth. Orthodox Christians and Catholics teach that all Christians in Heaven are saints, but some are worthy of more honor than others.

In the Christian Bible, not only one person is actually called a saint: "They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron the saint of the LORD." (Psalms) The apostle Paul called himself "less than the least of all saints" in Ephesians.

Paul's 2nd letter to the Corinthian Church speaks of ...all the saints in Achaia 

2 cor.

Also to the saints in Ephesus as well as to all the saints in Christ Jesus at Philippi

[[Anne Bancroft]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Actors from the Bronx, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Cancer deaths in New York City, Deaths from uterine cancer, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors, 1931 births, 2005 deaths

Anne Bancroft (September 17, 1931 - June 6, 2005) was an American actress. She was born Anna Maria Louisa Italiano in the Bronx, New York City. She had Italian grandparents and was raised Roman Catholic. 

[[Apples and oranges]]

CATEGORIES: Idioms, Apples, Oranges

Apples and oranges is a common English idiom.  It is used to describe unlike objects or people.  One of the most well-known bits of popular wisdom in the English-speaking world is that apples and oranges cannot be compared.  The ability to tell apples from oranges is learned.

The phrase is almost always used along with a warning that things in different categories cannot be compared, or that the comparison is improper.

[[Hardness]]

CATEGORIES: Materials science, Physics

Hardness is a measure of how much a material resists changes in shape.  Hard things resist pressure. Some examples of hard materials are diamond, boron carbide, quartz, tempered steel, ice, granite, concrete.  Ability of material to resist wear, tear, scratching, abrasion cutting is called hardness.    

Harder materials are more difficult to cut and shape than softer ones. They are also usually more brittle which means they do not bend much but can shatter. Hard materials are used in cutting tools, machines and construction materials and other industrial goods. 

Hardness tests are important in materials science.  The Mohs scale of mineral hardness tests the hardness of minerals. The Brinell scale and various compression tests and rebound tests are more used for metals and artificial materials. 

[[Asia Pacific]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Asia, Oceania

Asia-Pacific or Asia Pacific (abbreviated as Asia-Pac, Asia Pac, Apac, APAC, APNIC, APJ, JAPA or JAPAC) is the part of the world in or near the Western Pacific Ocean. The region varies in size.  It typically includes much of East Asia, Southeast Asia, and Oceania.

The term may also include Russia (on the North Pacific) and countries in North and South America which are on the coast of the Eastern Pacific Ocean; the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), for example, includes Canada, Chile, Russia, Mexico, Peru, and the United States.

The term sometimes includes all of Asia and Australasia as well as the many Pacific island nations.

Even though imprecise, the term has become popular since the late 1980s in commerce, finance and politics.  It is popular even though the economies within the region are not the same.)

[[Small Island Developing States]]

CATEGORIES: Countries, Development

Small Island Developing States (SIDS) are low-lying coastal countries.  They share similar problems because of their size. Some of these problems are: small but growing populations, limited resources, and long distances from other countries.

The SIDS were first seen as a distinct group of developing countries at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in June 1992. The Barbados Programme of Action was made in 1994 to help the SIDS to develop.

[[Provinces of Vanuatu]]

CATEGORIES: Vanuatu, Provinces

Vanuatu is divided into six provinces. It has been divided this way since 1994.

[[List of rivers of Afghanistan]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Afghanistan, Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of Asia

This is a list of rivers wholly or partly in Afghanistan.  They are arranged geographically by river basin.

[[List of rivers of Algeria]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of Africa, Geography of Algeria

This is a list of streams and rivers in Algeria

[[Gran Valira]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Andorra, Rivers of Europe

The Gran Valira is the biggest river in Andorra. It flows through the capital, Andorra la Vella, and exits the country in the south near the Spain–Andorra road border crossing.

The Gran Valira is a tributary to the Segre, a tributary to the Ebro. It flows into the Segre in La Seu d'Urgell, Spain.

[[List of rivers of Angola]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of Africa, Geography of Angola

This is a list of streams and rivers in Angola

[[List of rivers of Antigua and Barbuda]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Antigua and Barbuda, Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of North America

Antigua and Barbuda does not have any permanent rivers.  Following is a list of streams in Antigua.  Barbuda does not have any streams.

[[List of rivers of Armenia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers by country, Geography of Armenia, Lists of rivers of Europe

The Rivers in Armenia are mainly fresh water. Armenia has many rivers. 

The largest river of the Republic of Armenia is the Araks, which is on the country's border with Iran and a large part of the border with Turkey. Its major tributaries are the Akhurian, Kasagh, Hrazdan, Azat, Arpa, Vorotan and Voghdji rivers. The largest rivers in the northwest part of the country are the Debed and Aghstev. Smaller ones include the Dzoraget and the Pambak.

The following table is the list of the biggest rivers in Armenia: 

[[Water bodies of Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Azerbaijan, Geography-related lists, Bodies of water, Azerbaijan-related lists

Below is a list of the water bodies of Azerbaijan, which include rivers and lakes. Canals which are artificial rivers and reservoirs which are artifical lakes are also a part of Azerbaijan's water systems.

The hydrography of Azerbaijan basically belongs to the Caspian Sea drainage basin.

[[List of rivers of Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers by country, Geography of Azerbaijan, Lists of rivers of Europe

The Rivers in Azerbaijan are fresh water. Azerbaijan has many rivers. 

The hydrography of Azerbaijan basically belongs to the Caspian Sea drainage basin to which all rivers in Azerbaijan flow to.

The longest river of the Republic of Azerbaijan is the Kur whose river source is in Turkey and which flows through the Republic of Georgia, before it enters Azerbaijan. There it unites with the second longest river Aras whose river source is also in Turkey, and which is on the country's border with Iran. The major tributaries of the Kur river are the Qanix, Qabirri, Turyan, Agstafa, Shekir, Terter and Khachin rivers. The major tributaries of the Aras river are the Arpachay, Nakhchivan, Okhchu, Hekeri and Kondelenchay rivers. The largest rivers which are not tributaries of the Kur and Aras rivers are the Samur, Gudyal, Velvele, Vilesh and Lenkeran rivers.

[[Hulme]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Manchester

Hulme is an inner city area and electoral ward of Manchester, England which is south of Manchester city centre and divided from it by the River Medlock. Historically a part of Lancashire, the name Hulme comes from the Old Norse word for a small island, or land surrounded by water or marsh, showing that it was probably settled by Norse invaders during the period of the Danelaw.

The part of Hulme nearest to Old Trafford is known as Cornbrook from the Corn Brook, a tributary of the River Irwell. The Bridgewater Canal passes through Hulme. Chorlton-on-Medlock is to the east, Moss Side to the south and Old Trafford to the west.

[[List of rivers of the Bahamas]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the Bahamas, Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of North America

some of the rivers

[[List of countries without rivers]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers, Lists of countries

This is a list of countries that do not have any rivers.

[[Jean Coralli]]

CATEGORIES: 1779 births, 1854 deaths, French choreographers, French ballet dancers

Jean Coralli (January 15, 1779 – May 1, 1854), born Jean Coralli Peracini, was a French dancer and choreographer of Italian background. He debuted in Paris in 1803. He choreographed for Vienna, Milan, Lisbon, and Marseilles. He later held the post of First Ballet Master of the Paris Opéra Ballet. He is best known for the creation of the Romantic ballet Giselle (1841). This ballet was choreographed with Jules Perrot. Other ballets include Le Diable Boiteux, La Tarentule, and La Péri.

[[List of rivers of Barbados]]

CATEGORIES: Barbados, Lists of rivers of North America, Lists of rivers by country

This is a list of rivers in Barbados.

[[List of rivers of Belarus]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Belarus, Lists of rivers of Europe, lists of rivers by country

These are the rivers of Belarus.

[[List of rivers of Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Belgium, Lists of rivers of Europe, Lists of rivers by country

These are the main rivers of Belgium.

[[List of rivers of Belize]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Belize, Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of North America

These are the main rivers of Belize. Belize has a total of 35 major and minor river catchments or watersheds which drain into the Caribbean Sea.

[[List of rivers of Bhutan]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Bhutan, Lists of rivers of Asia, Lists of rivers by country

This is a list of rivers in Bhutan. All rivers in Bhutan ultimately drain to the Brahmaputra River in India.

[[Ann Landers]]

CATEGORIES: Pen names

[[Heather Whitestone]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, People from Alabama, Miss America winners

Heather Leigh Whitestone (born February 24, 1973) is an American former beauty queen. She became Miss America 1995 on September 17, 1994. She was the first deaf Miss America. She lost most of her hearing about 18 months after birth.

[[Major Lance]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 1994 deaths, African American musicians, American soul musicians, Musicians from Mississippi, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States

Major Lance (April 4, 1939, 1941 or 1942, – September 3, 1994) was a solo singer. 'Major' was his given name; it was not a nickname or stage name. Born in Winterville, Mississippi, Lance moved to Chicago as a kid and became friends with Otis Leavill Cobb. Both of them took boxing and also worked at a drug store.

Although he was arrested a couple of times in his life and his earliest records were not successful, Lance was most known for his music hits in the United States called "Monkey Time" and "Um, Um, Um, Um, Um, Um". He was considered the most successful Okeh artist. After these hits, he became an iconic figure in Britain, where he lived throughout in the 1970s, among followers of Northern soul.

Lance continued to tour and perform at clubs and music festivals, such as in the United Kingdom and England, until he died in 1994 from a certain heart attack at the age of 55. Lance is buried in Homewood, Illinois.

[[Shin Saimdang]]

CATEGORIES: 1504 births, 1551 deaths, Korean painters, Poets, Korean writers

Shin Saimdang (신사임당; 申師任堂, 29 October 1504 – 17 May 1551) or Lady Saimdang Shin (사임당 신씨, 師任堂申氏) was an artist, poet, writer, and Confucian scholar during the Joseon dynasty of Korea. long time aged she was worship, honored as a symbol of wise mother and wife.

Her real name was Inseon. Her pen names were Saimdang, Inimdang, Imdang, Imsajae. She was the mother of Yi I, the Korean philosopher. 

[[Hwang Jinyi]]

CATEGORIES: Dancers, Korean writers, 1520 births, 1560 deaths, Korean poets

Hwang Jinyi (c. 1520 - c. 1560) was a gisaeng of the Joseon Dynasty who lived during the reign of King Jungjong. Her gisaeng name was Myeongwol (meaning "bright moon"). She was said to be charming, witty, very beautiful, and very smart. Her personal life has inspired movies, a TV series, operas, and many novels. She has become a modern popular cultural icon of Korea.

[[Enamorada de Ti (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums, Selena albums

Enamorada de Ti (In Love With You) is a remix album by American singer Selena. It was released on April 3, 2012 by EMI Latin records. It contains remixed songs that were released before Selena's death. It also includes duets with Don Omar, Selena Gomez, Juan Magan, Samo from the Mexican band Camila and the Carlos Santana band. The purpose of the album was to "bring Selena's music into today's pop music scene". Her songs were given "updated" beats and rhythms. The songs remixed were turned into ballads, electronic dance music and reggaeton. Within an hour of its release, the album peaked at number-one on the US iTunes Store and Mexico iTunes Store. The lead single, "Amor Prohibido" (with Samo) peaked at number 20 on the US Latin Pop Airplay and number 48 on the Hot Latin Tracks. The single is currently charting and have been for over a month.

[[List of rivers of Bolivia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers by country, Rivers of Bolivia, Lists of rivers of South America

This is a list of rivers in Bolivia.

[[List of rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers by country, Rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Lists of rivers of Europe

This is a list of rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina ordered by letter.

[[Citroën AX]]

CATEGORIES: Citroen automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles

The Citroën AX is a car produced by Citroën. It replaced the Citroën LN and Citroën Visa in 1986, and were replaced by the Citroën Saxo in 1996.

[[Margalla Hills]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of Pakistan

The Margalla Hills (Urdu: مرگله کی پہاڑىاں) is a mountain range in the lesser Himalayas. The Hills are north of Islamabad. The Margalla Range has an area of 12605. The hills are an 'off shoot' or linked part of the bigger Murree hills. It is a range with many valleys as well as mountains. Its highest peak is Tilla Charouni, in its eastern end, which is 1,604 metres tall. The range has an average elevation of 1000 metres. The range gets some snow in some higher places in winters.  

[[Kherimurat]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of Pakistan, Rawalpindi District

Kherimurat is a mountain range in district Rawalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan. It is 33 long. Its highest point is Tilla Kherimurat at 1033 high.

[[Kherimar]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of Pakistan, Punjab (Pakistan)

Kherimar is a mountain range in district Attock, Punjab, Pakistan. It is 13 long and 3 wide. Its highest point is 809 high.

[[Çankaya University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Turkey, 1997 establishments in Asia, Ankara, 20th century establishments in Turkey

Çankaya University is a school found in Ankara, Turkey on July 9, 1997. Çankaya University has 4 faculties and 1 vocational training School. It has 3,879 students.

[[Marlee Matlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Best Actress Academy Award winners, People from Arlington Heights, Illinois, Deaf people

Marlee Bethany Matlin (born August 24 1965) is an American television and movie actress.  She is also deaf.  Deaf means she cannot hear.  She is the only deaf person to win an Academy Award for Best Actress.  At the age of 21, she was also the youngest woman in history to win.  She won for her part in Children of a Lesser God.  In addition to her acting work, she also works with the National Association of the Deaf.  She is known for her work on television shows such as Reasonable Doubts, Desperate Housewives, The West Wing, and Switched at Birth.

